Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2017 DSM at a glance Nutrition DSM Nutritional Products and DSM Food Specialties form our Nutrition business. DSM Nutritional Products provides solutions for animal feed, food and beverages, pharmaceuticals, infant nutrition, dietary supplements and personal care. DSM Food Specialties is a leading global supplier of specialty food enzymes, cultures, bio-preservation, hydrocolloids, savory, and sugar reduction solutions. Materials DSM’s Materials business includes DSM Engineering Plastics, DSM Dyneema, and DSM Resins & Functional Materials. DSM is a global player in specialty plastics for the electrical components and electronics, automotive, ﬂexible food packaging and consumer goods industries. The materials portfolio also includes Dyneema®, the world’s strongest ﬁber™, as well as resins for paints, industrial applications and optical ﬁber coatings. Innovation Center DSM Innovation Center accelerates the innovation power and speed of our core businesses. It also has a business development role, focusing on areas outside the current scope of the business groups. The company has three Emerging Business Areas: DSM Biomedical, DSM Bio-based Products & Services and DSM Advanced Solar. Partnerships As part of DSM’s strategic transformation and move away from more commoditized and cyclical areas, we established joint ventures: DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals, Patheon and ChemicaInvest. In 2017, DSM divested Patheon for proceeds of about € 1.5 billion. People Planet 21,054 75% 26% 21% Workforce Employee engagement Greenhouse-gas eﬃciency Purchased electricity (at year-end 2017, index, up 4% from improvement, cumulative from renewable sources, excluding aﬃliates) 2016 versus 2008 (on track) up from 8% in 2016 27/73 17% 21% 3% Female/male ratio Female executives, Innovation sales as % Energy eﬃciency stable versus 20161 up 2% from 2016 of total sales. Target of improvement, cumulative ~20% achieved. verus 2015. Ambition of more than 10% in 2025. 0.36 Frequency Index of 23 Recordable Injuries up Water consumption, up from from 0.33 in 20162 22 in 2016 (in million m3) Brighter Living Solutions 1 The companies that are not integrated into the HR systems (approx. 10% of the total workforce) are not taken into account. 2 Per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees. 62% Sales of Brighter Living Solutions (ECO+ / People+), aiming for 65% by 2020 Climate and energy More than 200 million solar panels contain our solutions. 90% of cars sold today contain our materials. Proﬁt € 8,632 € 1,445 15% Net sales (in millions) Adjusted EBITDA1 Adjusted EBITDA growth up 9% from € 7,920 (in millions) versus versus 2016 € 1,262 in 2016 +190 12.3% € 996 € 546 ROCE growth (in bps) ROCE versus 10.4% Cash provided by operating Capital expenditure versus 2016 in 2016 activities (in millions) versus (cash-based), up from € 1,018 in 2016 € 475 in 2016 (in millions) € 1,781 € 10.07 € 1.85 Net proﬁt (in millions), Net earnings per ordinary Proposed dividend per up from € 629 in 2016 share, versus € 3.52 ordinary share2 for 2017, in 2016 up from € 1.75 in 2016 1 See page 167 for reconciliation. 2 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. Circular and bio-based economy From bio-based resins to fully recyclable carpets, DSM is ﬁnding solutions. Our materials are in virtually every mobile device on the market. Nutrition As the #1 supplier of vitamins, and with a broad portfolio of food ingredients, we support good health at every age. DSM – Bright Science. Brighter Living.™ Our purpose is to create brighter lives for people today and generations to come. We use our unique competences in health, nutrition and materials to create solutions that nourish, protect and improve performance. DSM uses Bright Science to create Brighter Living for people today and generations to come. Based on a deep understanding of key global trends that are driving societies, markets and customers, we create solutions to some of the world's biggest challenges, thus adding to both our own and our customers' success. We believe that DSM's continued success will be driven by our ability to create shared value for all stakeholders, now and in the future. Our customers derive value from being able to offer end-users improved products and services; society and the planet derive value from the impact of more sustainable, longer-lasting, safer, healthier and more nutritious alternatives; and, as a result, DSM and its shareholders derive value from stronger growth and profitability. Finally, our employees feel engaged and motivated both through the contribution they make to a better world and the success this creates for the company in which they work. More information on 'How DSM creates value for its stakeholders' can be found on page 24. DSM – Bright Science. Brighter Living.™ Royal DSM is a global science-based company active in health, nutrition and materials. By connecting its unique competences in life sciences and materials sciences, DSM is driving economic prosperity, environmental progress and social advances to create sustainable value for all stakeholders simultaneously. DSM delivers innovative solutions that nourish, protect and improve performance in global markets such as food and dietary supplements, personal care, feed, medical devices, automotive, paints, electrical and electronics, life protection, alternative energy and bio-based materials. DSM and its associated companies deliver annual net sales of about € 10 billion with approximately 25,000 employees. The company is listed on Euronext Amsterdam. More information can be found at www.dsm.com. © 2018 Royal DSM. All rights reserved. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 www.dsm.com Table of contents 6 Key data 118 Report by the Supervisory Board 125 Remuneration policy for the Managing Board 7 Letter from the CEO 10 DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals 130 Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal DSM 18 Report by the Managing Board 132 What still went wrong in 2017 18 Strategy 2018 24 How DSM creates value for its stakeholders 134 Information about the DSM share 26 Stakeholders 34 People 137 Sustainability statements 46 Planet 52 Profit 151 Consolidated financial statements 151 Summary of significant accounting policies 68 Review of business 158 Consolidated financial statements 68 Nutrition 164 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 82 Materials of Royal DSM 90 Innovation Center 96 Corporate Activities 215 Parent company financial statements 97 Partnerships 217 Notes to the parent company financial statements 98 Financial and reporting policies 229 Other information 98 Financial policy 229 Independent auditor's report 99 Reporting policy 234 Assurance report of the independent auditor 236 Special statutory rights 101 Corporate governance and risk management 236 Important dates 101 Introduction 104 Dutch Corporate Governance Code 237 DSM figures: five-year summary 104 Governance framework 108 DSM Code of Business Conduct 240 Explanation of some concepts and ratios 112 Risk management 117 Statements of the Managing Board 243 List of abbreviations Forward-looking statements This document may contain forward-looking statements with respect to DSM's future (financial) performance and position. Such statements are based on current expectations, estimates and projections of DSM and information currently available to the company. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements made or implied about the company's strategy, estimates of sales growth, financial results, cost savings and future developments in its existing businesses as well as the impact of future acquisitions, and the company's financial position. These statements can be management estimates based on information provided by specialized agencies or advisors. DSM cautions readers that such statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and therefore it should be understood that many factors can cause the company's actual performance and position to differ materially from these statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, macro-economic, market and business trends and conditions, (low-cost) competition, legal claims, the company's ability to protect intellectual property, changes in legislation, changes in exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates, pension costs, raw material and energy prices, employee costs, the implementation of the company's strategy, the company's ability to identify and complete acquisitions and to successfully integrate acquired companies, the company's ability to realize planned divestments, savings, restructuring or benefits, the company's ability to identify, develop and successfully commercialize new products, markets or technologies, economic and/or political changes and other developments in countries and markets in which DSM operates. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the 'Risk Management' chapter. As a result, DSM's actual future performance, position and/or financial results may differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations set forth in such forwardlooking statements. DSM has no obligation to update the statements contained in this document, unless required by law. The English language version of this document is leading. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 5 www.dsm.com Key data Key data1 20172 20162 People Workforce at 31 December (headcount) 21,054 20,786 Female/male ratio3 27/73 27/73 Total employee benefits costs (in € million) 1,768 1,752 Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries (per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees) 0.36 0.33 Employee engagement — favorable score (in %) 75 71 Planet Energy use (in petajoules) 23.6 22.6 Energy Efficiency Improvement (in %, baseline 2015) 3 2 Greenhouse-gas emissions, market-based (in CO2 equivalents x million tons) 1.5 1.4 Greenhouse-gas efficiency improvement (in %, baseline 2008) 26 23 Water consumption (x million m3) 23 22 Brighter Living Solutions (as % of net sales) 62 63 Profit (in € million) Net sales 8,632 7,920 Adjusted EBITDA, continuing operations4 1,445 1,262 EBITDA, continuing operations 1,348 1,174 Adjusted operating profit, continuing operations (EBIT)4 957 791 Operating profit, continuing operations (EBIT) 846 685 Net profit 1,781 629 Cash provided by operating activities 996 1,018 Capital expenditure, cash based 546 475 Dividend for DSM shareholders (based on profit appropriation)5 331 310 Net debt 742 2,070 Shareholders' equity 6,962 6,072 Total assets 12,802 12,958 Capital employed 7,766 7,889 Market capitalization at 31 December6 14,454 10,334 Per ordinary share in € Net earnings 10.07 3.52 Dividend 1.855 1.75 Financial ratios (%) Sales to high growth economies / net sales 44 44 Innovation sales / net sales 21 22 Adjusted EBITDA margin4 16.7 15.9 Average working capital / annualized net sales 18.4 18.6 ROCE 12.3 10.4 Gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt) 9.5 25.1 Equity / total assets 55.2 47.5 Cash provided by operating activities / Adjusted EBITDA 4 68.9 80.7 1 For definitions see 'Explanation of some concepts and ratios' on page 240. 2 Key data presented relate to total DSM (= continuing operations + discontinued operations), unless explicitly stated otherwise. 3 For the indexes based on age, nationalities, gender, inflow and outflow, the companies that are not integrated into the HR systems (approx. 10% of the total workforce) are not taken into account. 4 In presenting and discussing DSM’s financial position, operating results and cash flows, DSM (similar to many other publicly listed companies) uses certain Alternative performance measures (APMs) not defined by IFRS, and referred to as 'Adjusted'. These APMs are used because they are an important measure of DSM’s business development and DSM’s management performance. A full reconciliation of IFRS performance measures to the APMs is given in the 'Alternative performance measures (APMs)' on page 165. 5 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. 6 Source: Bloomberg. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 6 www.dsm.com Letter from the CEO Dear reader, proudly engaged and fiercely passionate about making the planet a better place for all and this is appreciated by our In almost all aspects 2017 has been a very rewarding year for thousands of customers who appreciate the value we provide our company. via sustainable solutions. Additionally, we are grateful to our dozens of partners across the public and private sector, Strategy and purpose together with whom we can make this happen. We are well ahead with the implementation of our three-year At the heart of this lies our purpose and core value, strategy we set in 2015 for the period till end 2018. This sustainability. Together with many stakeholders, especially strategy, 'Driving Profitable Growth', followed the significant with our customers, DSM creates brighter lives for people transformation of DSM and adjustments to our portfolio of today and generations to come. We are working hard to make business activities in the period 2005/2010 to 2015. In 2015, a real difference in health & nutrition, climate & energy, and the we deliberately entered a next phase in which we decided to circular and bio-based economy. We understand the interhold further portfolio transformation and larger acquisitions related nature of these three domains, and this is where our and/or divestments and to focus strongly on (organic) growth, business portfolio and competences align particularly well with operational and financial performance, demonstrating the full our sustainability focus. Not only does our science and potential of our promising future-oriented portfolio previously innovation deliver value for society, it delivers value for our developed. customers and our shareholders at the same time. That is why we are proud of our Triple P approach — creating value on We are very pleased that in terms of growth and financial three dimensions simultaneously: People, Planet and Profit. performance we already achieved the targets set for 2018 in We see that this approach has also led to increased employee 2017 and completed the divestment of our non-core motivation, engagement, and pride, as well as a better position participation in Patheon ahead of schedule and at an attractive in the labor market. value. We also plan to monetize the two remaining non-core participations (DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals and Delivery and growth ChemicaInvest). Our performance in 2017 yet again exceeded expectations. With an integral stakeholder approach including our As in 2016, we over delivered on our two main financial targets, customers, our employees, our shareholders, and society at achieving 15% annual Adjusted EBITDA growth — versus a large, we have built strong businesses. Our growth platforms high single-digit percentage target — and achieving a 190 are addressing the main important societal trends and have basis point improvement in Return On Capital Employed especially a strong alignment with five of the 17 United Nations (ROCE) — versus a high double-digit basis point target. Our Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs also referred to as total sales increased by 9% to € 8.6 billion, mainly through an global goals), which set out the strategy for the world. In this organic growth of 9%, ahead of plan and outpacing market way, we ensure that the growth and success of DSM benefits growth in all our businesses. all stakeholders. We achieved an Adjusted EBITDA of € 1,445 million (versus It is rewarding to see that the portfolio we created over the € 1,262 million in 2016) and a total net profit of € 1,781 million, years has so much growth potential. To ensure this continues, the latter enhanced by the divestment of Patheon, which we further focused our innovation program on a smaller created a gain on disposal of € 1,250 million in 2017 and over number of bigger projects (such as Clean Cow, Green Ocean, € 2 billion in total proceeds over the years (€ 1.5 billion in Niaga®, Solar), providing interesting opportunities from 2017). 2019/20 and onwards. In this Integrated Annual Report, you will find information about these and other innovation projects. Both our Nutrition and Materials businesses contributed to this successful step-up in financial performance, and the new Our focus on aligning our strategy and innovation programs operating model that was introduced in 2015, enabled cost with global societal trends is increasingly recognized. In 2017 and profit improvements that supported our results, achieving Fortune, the world-renowned business magazine, named total savings with a run rate of about € 195 million at the end DSM among the top three companies that are Changing the of 2017 compared to the 2014 baseline. World . This was both encouraging and humbling for our company. Founded as a Dutch coal mining company more As a global company, we are well-represented in all major than 115 years ago, transformed into a (bulk) chemical growth areas in the world: 44% of our total sales are from company and then once more into a science-based global emerging economies, in line with our stated balanced leader in health, nutrition, and materials, we are now ambition. At the same time, we continue to build our innovation recognized as an important contributor to improving the world. pipeline with specific projects that resulted in 21% of our sales This is important to all our employees worldwide, who are coming from (recent) innovations, above our target of 20%. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 7 www.dsm.com We feature many examples of growth, delivery and innovation opened its first factory in Rwanda. The factory sources corn areas throughout this report, as well as more information on and soy from almost 10,000 mostly female smallholders and the full financial performance in 'Profit' on page 52. produces locally nutritious, healthy food for the local market. The Government of Rwanda has entered into a joint venture Sustainability and business with AIF to improve the nutritional status of its population and make Rwanda (and other African countries later on) more selfSustainability is fully integrated in our strategy, business and supporting. We work on expanding this model further in the operations, and we ensure that our solutions are better for region together with, among others, the United Nations people and/or planet. In 2017, 62% of our current sales came Scaling Up Nutrition (SUN) movement and other partners. from products which have a better environmental (ECO+) and/ or social (People+) impact compared to mainstream solutions Many of the above-mentioned achievements are being — our Brighter Living Solutions (see 'Planet' on page 46 and recognized externally as well, resulting in leading positions in, 'Review of business' on page 68 of this Report). Our target among others, CDP, the non-profit global environmental is 65% of sales by 2020. Meanwhile, our innovation pipeline is disclosure platform, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) very strong, with over 80% classified as Brighter Living and Sustainalytics. Solutions and therefore we remain firmly on track. The growth and margins of these products are above average, confirming Science and innovation that the market embraces these sustainable solutions, proof that societal gain and business gain can go hand in hand. At DSM, we believe science can change the world. In fact, we are the living proof. As a science-based company, one of the At the same time, we've succeeded in taking a more pillars supporting our success is our ability to develop new, sustainable approach to our own operations. For example, we more sustainable solutions. As well as our own innovations, use an internal carbon price of € 50 per ton of CO2 to help we salute scientists, the unsung heroes who work tirelessly, guide our investments and operational decisions, and we are often anonymously, on breakthroughs that make life better for making progress toward our target of 50% purchased billions of people. This year, DSM and partners invited electricity from renewable sources by 2025. In 2017, we researchers, changemakers and innovators from all over the reached already 21% by among others several agreements world to take center stage in our Bright Minds Challenge, a with wind parks in Europe and in the US and the installation of competition for projects that can help mitigate climate change solar panels at our sites are supporting this progress. by accelerating the transition to 100% renewable energy. Professor Ernesto Calvo from Argentina accepted the grand Not only do we reduce our own environmental footprint and prize during the final in Amsterdam. Recognizing that lithiumenable our customers to do the same with our innovative ion batteries are critical for renewable energy storage, he led solutions, we also advocate on the issues that define our a team of researchers who designed a quicker, cleaner lithium times. DSM continues to be a positive voice, shaping extraction technique that is powered by the sun. Now, with discussions with organizations like the CEO Climate DSM's support, his team is scaling up their efforts in Latin Ambassadors of the World Economic Forum, the Carbon America. Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC, convened by the World Bank, supported by the UN, IMF and OECD) and We Mean Further evidence of our commitment to science, technology Business. and innovation was the opening of DSM's new state-of-theart biotechnology center in Delft (Netherlands). Building on a Beyond climate and energy, DSM also contributes to the solid history of fermentation and biotechnology innovation in circular and bio-based economy. Prime examples are the region, our scientists in Delft create solutions for societal improvements to solar energy yields via our proprietary solar challenges including the need to provide all people with panel coatings, our bio-based solutions and fuels and the healthy, nutritious food. Early in 2017, we opened a new state circular, fully recyclable carpets based on DSM-Niaga of the art Materials Science Center in Sittard-Geleen technology. (Netherlands). Improved nutrition is another focus area for DSM. We work Our people and leadership hard to help reduce levels of sugar, salt and fat in food and make it healthier. In 2017, we also took another step in All this happens because of the brain power, will power and providing access to nutritious food for malnourished mothers passion of our employees, who say with pride that working at and children while stimulating the local economy in Africa. After DSM is about Doing Something Meaningful. Our people feel ten years of our successful partnership with the UN World more inspired and committed than ever. The results of our Food Programme, supporting over 30 million people annual employee engagement index jumped from 71% to an worldwide with essential nutrients, we expanded our exciting level of 75% in 2017, despite the significant approach with our Africa Improved Foods (AIF) project, which Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 8 www.dsm.com Letter from the CEO operational transformation and focus on operational efficiency improve the performance and sustainability of our company across the company these past two years. and help others do the same as nobody can be successful or even claim to be successful in a world that fails. Our next step To support our growth ambitions, we trained all our executives will be to update our strategy so that we can continue to create in our Lead & Grow program on how to navigate this Volatile, brighter lives for people today and generations to come. And Uncertain, Complex and Ambiguous (VUCA) world, on how to not just for a privileged few, but for all. In the meantime, thank deal with dilemmas and find creative solutions to everyday you to everyone who contributed to a great year. I am thankful problems, while working even more closely together with our for the loyalty of our customers, the trust of our shareholders customers. and the passion of our people. I also thank my colleagues of the Executive Committee and we all look forward to building We also continued to focus on improving on inclusion and on this momentum in 2018. diversity. Today, more nationalities are represented across DSM and there is a better gender balance in management and executive positions. At leadership level, the composition of our Supervisory Board also reflects our desire to be more gender balanced, international, inclusive and diverse. Special thanks to the Supervisory Board for their support in 2017, their advice and challenges, supporting us to set the correct path to deliver on our strategic, financial and societal promises. We thank Pierre Hochuli very much for his great contribution over so many years and we welcome our new members, Frits van Feike Sijbesma Paasschen and John Ramsay. CEO/Chairman Managing Board Royal DSM Last year, we also had to say a final farewell to our friend and former colleague, Peter Elverding. Peter devoted more than 20 years of his illustrious career to DSM, and led our company as CEO and Chairman of the Managing Board from 1999 to 2007. His vision, leadership, warmth, and humility, as well as appreciation of the importance of a long-term view were instrumental in the transformation DSM underwent in those years, thus preparing the ground for DSM to become the company it is today. We worked on further improving our safety performance in 2017 and thousands of people dedicated their time and talent to make DSM a safer place to work, every single day. However, it has not yet always been as successful as we want it to be. We report with deep sadness, that in September one of our contractors, Steven Gonsalves lost his life in a tragic incident at our site in Augusta (Georgia, USA). Two other workers were also injured. We very much realize we can never let our attention slip and must further improve safety at DSM. Even though there are fewer incidents today than there were 10 years ago, there is no question — we need to give even more attention to our own safety and that of our colleagues, and we will. For more on this, please see 'What still went wrong in 2017' on page 132. Looking to the future As we look to 2018 and beyond, one thing that's certain is change. Just as Darwin taught us, adaption is a prerequisite for success. We have to shape our own destiny by futureproofing our company and businesses. We must continue to Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 9 www.dsm.com DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals “ The United Nations Nutrition • SDG 2: Zero hunger Sustainable Development • SDG 3: Good health and well-being Today millions of people go hungry, nearly two billion are Goals set out the global malnourished and yet billions more are overweight or obese. At DSM, we are helping people get the nutritious food they strategy for the world in order need to live healthier lives. At the same time, we recognize that food production has an impact on the environment so to tackle some of the most we develop solutions that are better for the planet. challenging issues. At DSM Climate and energy G ordable and clean energy we proudly take a leading role • SDG 13: Climate action Human activity is causing climate change. The world must in advancing the SDGs as reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and accelerate the part of our business strategy.” transition to a low-carbon economy. At DSM we reduce our own emissions, enable the low-carbon economy through our products and services, and advocate for climate action. Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Managing Board Circular and bio-based economy • SDG 12: Responsible consumption and production The world’s resources are limited. Instead of continuing Throughout this report, we describe our contributions to to make waste, people must reuse, repair, repurpose and each of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals or SDGs. recover resources. At DSM, we are innovating to support a We highlight how our health, nutrition and materials solutions more circular, bio-based economy. are aligned with speciﬁc goals and how our activities with customers, partners and other stakeholders contribute in a he ﬁnal goal, G 1 Partnerships for the Goals, is positive way. equally important to us. DSM works together with partners across the public and private sectors. Our partners include All 17 goals are important. While we engage on every single agencies like the World Food Programme (WFP) and one, we especially address ﬁve Gs across our three UNICEF. We also work with the World Business Council for growth areas: nutrition, climate and energy, and circular and Sustainable Development, non-governmental organizations bio-based economy. and other companies. To learn more about DSM and the SDGs, keep reading and look for the colorful icons throughout this Report. For more about our partnerships see ’Stakeholders’ on page 26. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 10 www.dsm.com DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals Through our partnerships, we contribute Our Inclusion & Diversity policy addresses to agricultural learning and economic inequalities in our value chain. We foster development in developing countries. •• inclusive employment in local communities through local programs. •• Our initiatives in the Nutrition Improvement We support philanthropic initiatives that Program, frica Improved Foods and contribute to local communities. • many of our partnerships lead our approach in improving nutrition. ••• Our product o erings in utrition, aterials We collaborate with external partners on and Biomedical address health issues. sustainable sourcing. Our portfolio o ers The safety and health of our employees products using bio-based feedstocks, and contractors is a high priority. ••• addressing food waste and demonstrating circular concepts. ••• We provide learning and development We collaborate with like-minded opportunities to our employees. Through organizations on climate action and WFP, we contribute to agricultural carbon pricing. We address impact on learning. • climate in our own operations and our product o erings. We aspire to increase female Our products contribute to aquaculture representation in the management of through netting and animal feeds. Our DSM. We collaborate with partners to partnership with The Ocean Cleanup foster female participation. •• helps to address marine waste. •• Water is managed using a local, riskWe monitor areas of high biodiversity based approach with mitigating actions as near our sites. We see sustainable required. • biomass as an alternative raw material to petrochemicals. • Our product portfolio includes materials for Our Code of Business Conduct is core biofuels and renewable energy production. to our approach to ethical business and We are increasing the use of renewable good corporate governance. • energy within the company. ••• Africa Improved Foods demonstrates our We partner with like-minded organizations role in developing countries. We contribute to amplify our contributions to all the to the economic growth of the countries in goals. These partnerships are described which we operate. •• throughout this Report. ••• Innovation is essential to DSM’s business success and our impact on society. Our R&D has a global footprint. •• DSM’s engagement: • = Minor •• = Moderate ••• = Major Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 11 www.dsm.com Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 12 www.dsm.com DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals @NootriAfrica Happy ational elﬁe ay #NootriMama Kigali, Rwanda Good nutrition is a human right. That’s why DSM is working together with stakeholders like the Government of Rwanda in a partnership called Africa Improved Foods ( IF). In 201 , IF opened a factory that sources maize and soy from local smallholder farmers and makes fortiﬁed porridge. Selling under the brands NootriMamaTM and NootriTotoTM, the porridge will help people – especially mothers and children – get the nutrients they need. It also creates steady income for thousands of people, including many women, in the region. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 13 www.dsm.com @TheOceanCleanup This is the stomach content of a single sea turtle found last year. Microplastics will increase dozens of times unless we clean it up. Oceans are critical for sustaining life. They regulate the climate and oxygen in our atmosphere, and are a source of food. DSM is a proud partner of The Ocean Cleanup, a non-proﬁt organi ation developing advanced technologies to rid the world’s oceans of ﬂoating plastic. In 2017, The Ocean Cleanup performed o -shore prototype tests to prepare for the launch of a ﬁrst full-scale cleaning system from the US west coast in 2018. DSM supplies Dyneema®, the world’s strongest ﬁber™ used in multiple applications of this ambitious program. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 14 www.dsm.com DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 15 www.dsm.com Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 16 www.dsm.com DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals @Davos How can we strengthen publicprivate cooperation to accelerate development weﬁmpact Partnerships are a way of working at . Perhaps nowhere is this more apparent than at the World Economic Forum (WEF) where DSM CEO Feike Sijbesma advocates for partnerships to achieve the SDGs. In 2017, he and other DSM executives met with world leaders, signed agreements and spoke on key issues at WEF events around the world. In addition, through his role as Co-Chair of the High Level Assembly of the Carbon Pricing eadership Coalition convened by the World Bank, he urges business and government to support carbon pricing. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 17 www.dsm.com Strategy 2018 Driving profitable growth Demonstrating the full potential of our promising future-oriented portfolio, which we have developed. Our strategy All SDGs are important but we especially address the following: addresses what we see happening in the world – issues around health and wellness, climate and energy, circular and bio-based economy, and global shifts and digital transformation. We consider People, Planet, Profit in all that we do 75% 62% € 1,445 12.3% +9% Positive employee Sales of Brighter Adjusted EBITDA ROCE Organic engagement Living Solutions actual 2017 actual 2017 sales growth index +4% (ECO+ / People+), (in millions) +15% + 190 bps up from 2016 up from 2016 working toward up from 2016 up from 2016 65% by 2020 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 18 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board — Strategy 2018 At DSM our mission is to create brighter lives for people today 2015, acknowledging that climate change is linked to human and generations to come. To do this in a sustainable way, we activity and that stopping it should be an international priority. have to consider what we call the Triple P — People, Planet The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals also help and Profit — in all that we do. This approach is clearly defined drive climate action and the shift to a more circular and bioin the way DSM creates value for all of our stakeholders and it based economy. The circular economy is a system in which forms the basis of our strategy reviews. products are renewable by design so that people can use them again and again instead of using things once and then DSM has been transformed into a truly global company that throwing them away. The bio-based economy means using provides innovative, sustainable solutions in health, nutrition renewable resources like the sun, wind and biomass in a and materials. After a period of significant portfolio changes, sustainable way rather than relying on finite fossil fuels like oil. in late 2015 DSM launched Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable For DSM, the circular and bio-based economy concepts are Growth focused on capturing the full potential of the business mutually reinforcing. portfolio that has been created and translating this into improved financial results. In the period 2016-2018, our aim is Health and wellness to step up our financial performance while pursuing our Billions of people are living longer and more active lives thanks ambitions in the area of sustainability and expanding our to better medicine, healthcare and nutrition. Still, health and positive impact on the world around us. wellness remain concerns, especially as people grow older. Nutrition also presents a challenge. While two billion people A strategy designed around megatrends suffer from micronutrient and protein deficiencies, three billion are overweight or obese. Sometimes people suffer from People, economies and markets worldwide are being micronutrient deficiencies and obesity at the same time. As a impacted by a number of fundamental societal trends. These result, many people are not reaching their full potential. From megatrends — predominantly driven by demographic stunted growth to non-communicable diseases like heart changes as populations grow (including a shift to the fasterdisease and type-2 diabetes, there is an opportunity for growing countries in Asia and Africa) and as people become companies like DSM to support better nutrition, health and older, more urbanized, wealthier and more connected — are wellness, as well as more sustainable food systems. exerting increased pressure on resources and the food chain. In addition, they are leading to new patterns of consumption and impacting the environment. Moreover, there is increased attention on health and well-being. These trends present clear challenges, but also offer opportunities to profitably grow our businesses by supporting customers in developing sciencebased, sustainable solutions to meet current and future needs. DSM's strategy and solutions offering addresses three crucial megatrends. Global shifts and digital transformation Demographic shifts and technology are driving change worldwide. The population is growing, people are living longer and living standards are increasing. Global populations are generally older, wealthier, increasingly living in urban areas and increasingly connected through technology and global supply chains. At the same time, the gap between rich and poor is becoming wider. These trends put pressure on resources and impact the environment. New technology has implications as well. The massive amount of data that people generate, and that is available to companies, academics, governments, and other parties, is changing daily life — and business — in unprecedented ways. Climate and energy People around the world are working together to reduce The DSM Managing Board (from left to right): Dimitri de Vreeze, greenhouse-gas emissions and transition to a low-carbon Geraldine Matchett (CFO) and Feike Sijbesma (CEO/Chairman). economy. Almost 200 nations signed the Paris Agreement in Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 19 www.dsm.com With our strategy, we pursue opportunities derived from these megatrends across our entire portfolio and on a global scale. We continue to work together with customers and other partners to create sustainable, science-based solutions that help tackle some of the world's biggest challenges. Stepping up DSM's financial performance and sustainability aspirations Building on these trends, and combined with disciplined focus on performance, we established and implemented our three-year strategic plan for the period 2016-2018 called Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth with two headline financial targets: high single-digit percentage annual Adjusted EBITDA growth and high double-digit basis point annual ROCE growth. Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth Two headline High single-digit percentage High double-digit basis point financial targets annual Adjusted EBITDA annual ROCE growth growth Clear actions identified to Businesses aim to outpace € 250-300m cost reduction and Consistent improvements in achieve targets market growth in all segments efficiency improvement capital efficiency programs Additional items Stepping up sustainability Global organizational and Extract value from Pharma & underpinning strategy aspirations operational adjustments Bulk Chemicals joint ventures To deliver on these targets, we defined clear actions, including Another key part of the strategy, besides the financial outpacing market growth, cost reduction and efficiency outcome, is to continue to strengthen our commitment to improvements, and making a continuous push for consistent sustainability by: improvements in capital efficiency. reducing our own environmental footprint; We initiated extensive cost-reduction and improvement enabling other stakeholders, especially our customers, to be programs to deliver € 250-300 million in cost savings versus more sustainable; and the 2014 baseline. All of these well-identified programs advocating on key areas of competence by actively raising progressed as planned and are on track to deliver the targeted awareness and sharing knowledge. benefits. By doing so, we help achieve progress on the Sustainable Timing of cumulative costs savings 1 Development Goals, especially SDG 2 (Zero Hunger), SDG 3 (x € million) (Good Health and Well-being), SDG 7 (Affordable and Clean Realized Energy), SDG 12 (Responsible Production and Consumption) Forecast and SDG 13 (Climate Action). See 'DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals' on page 10 and throughout this Report. ~270-280 300 Of course, our people are the ones who have made and ~195 200 continue to make the strategy work. DSM's People Strategy ~110 2018 was at the heart of our success in recent years. We 100 continue to hire and develop thousands of talented people ~25 who are encouraged to challenge the status quo and help us 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 grow. While driving profitable growth throughout the company via 1 Versus 2014 baseline. the execution of our Strategy 2018, we continually monitor, In support of our targets, we also adjusted our global assess and strive to respond appropriately to societal, organizational and operating model to create a more agile, macroeconomic and segment-specific developments as they commercially focused and cost-efficient company. During this occur. Our approach to managing both opportunities and risks strategic period we refrain from large acquisitions and are in DSM's businesses is embedded in our operating and instead focusing on delivering value from the current portfolio governance model and risk management approach. For more and extracting value from the monetization of our joint venture information see 'Corporate governance' on page 101 and partnerships. 'Risk management' on page 112. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 20 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board — Strategy 2018 implementation of the growth initiatives continued to drive organic growth, both in Animal Nutrition & Health and Human “ Sustainability is what our x Nutrition & Health. business is all about. This is Animal Nutrition & Health delivered an exceptionally strong 11% organic growth in 2017, of which 9% was volume growth, what we do. The world is albeit against an easy comparative base. Our animal nutrition business continued to benefit from the ability to address a looking for sustainable wide range of species, as well as from a diversified geographical presence covering all major growth areas. The solutions and that is why we business also continued to benefit from a strong forwardare growing. ” integrated premix position. Markets in animal feed were favorable and supportive in 2017. Prices were on average Philip Eykerman, DSM Executive Committee slightly above 2016. Progress in 2017 Human Nutrition & Health continued to deliver good volume Total DSM financial results growth, despite ongoing softness in some of its end markets. DSM delivered excellent financial results in 2017. Adjusted The 7% organic sales growth in 2017 was driven mainly by 6% EBITDA grew by 15% to € 1,445 million, far ahead of the high higher volumes, outperforming its markets. Food & beverage single-digit growth target we originally set with Strategy 2018. markets are being addressed successfully through tailored Overall Adjusted EBITDA margin (Adjusted operating profit premixes. Sales excellence programs as well as the before depreciation and amortization as a percentage of net introduction of new solutions resulted in above-market growth sales) was 16.7%, an increase of 80 basis points versus the for both multi-vitamins and omega-3 solutions. The i-Health 15.9% of 2016. In the first two years of Strategy 2018, we have business continued its double-digit growth while early life increased our Adjusted EBITDA by € 370 million or 34%. nutrition remained a strong performer. Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) was also well ahead of Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients as well as Food Specialties target, up 190 basis points to 12.3% in 2017 versus 10.4% in continued to perform well in 2017, although growth in Food 2016. Since we kicked off our successful Strategy 2018, Specialties was hampered by some capacity constraints in ROCE is up 470 basis points versus the end of 2015. enzymes. DSM reported net sales of € 8,632 million, an increase of 9% Adjusted EBITDA for Nutrition was € 1,053 million, up 13% versus 2016. Group organic sales growth was 9%, mainly driven by the successful execution of our sales growth driven by strong 7% volume growth, clearly above market. All programs in combination with the impact of the cost-saving businesses, both in Nutrition and Materials, contributed well and efficiency improvement programs. This increase in to this growth. Prices were overall slightly up, partly offset by Adjusted EBITDA equals the very strong growth in 2016, when somewhat weaker currencies. Adjusted EBITDA also grew by 13%. Adjusted EBITDA margin further improved in 2017 and was 18.9%, compared with 18.0% in 2016, well within our aspired range of 18-20%. See Financial targets 2016-2018 Realization page 68 for more on the Nutrition cluster's performance. 2017 2016 Materials financial results High single-digit percentage Our Materials cluster also had strong financial performance in annual adjusted EBITDA growth 15% 17% 2017. Volumes were up 7% and prices were up 6%, fully High double-digit bps annual reflecting higher input costs. Strong growth in specialties was ROCE growth 190 bps 280 bps the main driver behind above-market growth. All three businesses in Materials — Engineering Plastics, Resins & Functional Materials and Dyneema — contributed to the 13% For all detailed information on DSM's group financial results in organic growth in 2017 by each posting double-digit organic 2017, see 'Profit' on page 52. growth. Nutrition financial results Total Adjusted EBITDA of our Materials cluster increased by Our Nutrition business performed very strongly, with 8% 12% in 2017, driven by strong volume growth in higher-margin organic growth in 2017, clearly outpacing market growth. specialties. The Adjusted EBITDA margin of Materials was Volumes were up 7% and prices were up 1%. The successful stable at 17.3%, as pricing and group-wide cost-saving and efficiency improvement programs offset higher input costs and Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 21 www.dsm.com negative currency effects. This robust financial performance We are increasingly recognized for our leadership in this area. demonstrates the improvements achieved in the quality of In 2017, the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index named returns in Materials over the years. For more on the Materials DSM among the leaders in its industry for the fourteenth cluster, see page 82. consecutive year. This ranking means we will continue to have RobecoSAM Gold Class status in 2018. DSM was one of only Innovation results 28 companies globally to score an A-rating for both climate The DSM Innovation Center has multiple functions within and water by CDP, the non-profit global environmental DSM, including accelerating the innovation power of our core disclosure platform, which is strong recognition for the way we businesses and extracting value from our Emerging Business manage environmental risks, reduce emissions and enhance Areas (EBAs). At DSM, we want at least 20% of our sales to water stewardship. We were also assessed as an ESG come from innovation sales, which we define as sales from (Environmental, Social and Governance) leader within the products and solutions introduced in the last five years. chemicals industry by Sustainalytics, ranking number one out of 130 companies. In 2017, we made good progress with our focused innovation programs. With 21% innovation sales we continued to deliver on our ambition. The DSM Innovation Center reported € 9 Sustainability aspirations 2020 Realization 2017 million in Adjusted EBITDA in 2017, compared to € 1 million in 2016. Our three EBAs — DSM Biomedical, DSM Bio-based Dow Jones Sustainability World Index Products & Services and DSM Advanced Solar — continued Top ranking (RobecoSAM Gold Class) Gold class to progress well, delivering € 17 million in Adjusted EBITDA in Brighter Living Solutions 2017 versus € 16 million in 2016. For more information on 65% ECO+/People+ (running business) 62% innovation and R&D, see 'Innovation Center' on page 90. GHG Efficiency Improvement 40-45% (2008-2025) 26% Energy efficiency improvement 2017 2016 >10% (2015-2020) 3% Purchased electricity from renewables Innovation sales 21% 22% 50% by 2025 21% High-growth economies 44% 44% Employee Engagement Index Toward 75% favorable 75% Safety Balanced global footprint 0.25 Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries 0.36 Sales growth was strong among all regions, with favorable Diversity high single-digit growth in Western Europe as well as in North 25% Female executives 17% and Latin America. We performed well in Brazil, despite the 60% Executives from under-represented disruption caused by the meat scandal that impacted the nationalities 56% market for beef and poultry exports, and against a backdrop of economic uncertainty. Double-digit sales growth was achieved in China, India as well as in Eastern Europe. To read more about our environmental performance, see 'Planet' on page 46. More information on our Brighter Living All high-growth economies together currently represent 44% Solutions is available throughout this Report, particularly in of DSM's sales (45% when Africa is included), in line with 2016. 'Review of business' starting on page 68. The share of sales in these economies as a proportion of DSM's total sales gives us a well-balanced global Organization and culture geographical spread of our sales. We are well on track with the adjustments to our global organizational and operating model to support DSM's growth. Sustainability results To achieve our strategy, we set targets around employee Sustainability is our core value. We continue to further embed safety, engagement and diversity. sustainability across all of our business activities, both in recognition of our responsibility to reduce our environmental Employee engagement jumped from 71% to 75% according footprint and to help our supply chain, customers and partners to the Employee Engagement Index, which indicates how our do the same. We especially focus on the areas of nutrition, employees feel in terms of commitment, pride, advocacy and climate and energy, and the circular and bio-based economy. satisfaction. With this boost we have already met our mid-term In 2017, our Brighter Living Solutions were 62% of total sales, goal of 75% engagement, which we had aimed to reach by on track towards our ambitious aspiration of 65%. 2020. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 22 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board — Strategy 2018 DSM has also made progress on inclusion and diversity, areas In 2017, DSM extracted significant value with the sale of the that will remain a focus in the years to come. In 2017, the remaining stake in Patheon to Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., percentage of female executives increased from 15% to 17% bringing the total cash proceeds from the exit from our former on our way to 25% by 2020. For more information, see pharma custom manufacturing activities to approximately 'People' on page 34. € 2 billion over the years. The remaining two partnerships, DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals and ChemicaInvest, both In 2017, safety performance was a concern. The Frequency showed solid results in 2017. For more information, see Index of all DSM Recordable Injuries deteriorated from 0.33 to 'Partnerships' on page 97. 0.36 bringing us further away of our 0.25 target in 2020. There were serious incidents, including a tragic fatal accident at our Regular strategy review process for the period beyond 2018 plant in Augusta (Georgia, USA) on 27 September 2017. The In 2017, we delivered for the second year in a row well ahead root causes of this incident, as well as the lack of further of our original ambitions, set for the three-year strategic period improvement versus last year's performance, have been 2016-2018, having achieved EBITDA growth rates and thoroughly investigated. Lessons learned and improvement improvements in return on capital double the original targets actions are being implemented. For more information, see set. All businesses delivered on their ambitious growth 'What still went wrong in 2017' on page 132. initiatives and are making good progress with their focused innovation programs. We are also well on track with our cost Extracting value from our partnerships reduction and efficiency improvement programs. Furthermore, In the years preceding Strategy 2018, DSM established joint we have successfully divested Patheon ahead of schedule, venture partnerships for our former pharma activities (DSM realizing total proceeds of approximately € 2 billion over recent Sinochem Pharmaceuticals and Patheon) and for the years. remaining bulk chemical businesses (ChemicaInvest) in order to complete the transformation of our portfolio. These With all of these developments ahead of plan, we brought partnerships were created with a view to ultimately exit and forward our regular strategy review process for the period monetize these businesses. beyond 2018. The members of the Executive Committee (from left to right): Philip Eykerman (Strategy and M&A), Judith Wiese (People & Organization), Chris Goppelsroeder (Nutritional Products), Feike Sijbesma (CEO/Chairman), Geraldine Matchett (CFO), Dimitri de Vreeze (Materials) and Rob van Leen (R&D and Innovation). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 23 www.dsm.com How DSM creates value for its stakeholders Capital inputs DSM’s business Value outcomes People Mission People • Employees • Safety & health ps Su • Training & development grou pp • Brighter Living Solutions • Stakeholder engagement & s or • Engaged workforce es Public-Private Partnerships Bu s • Skills & employability • Philanthropy & sponsoring sin tion • Employee benefits nc t fu • Improved nutrition Organizational and Planet Operating model Planet • Raw materials • Reduced environmental footprint (including renewables) Fun • Brighter Living Solutions ns cti • Energy (including renewables) gio o • Enabling the transition to a more e • Water Re llenc circular and bio-based economy xce • Safer ingredients & materials lE na Profit Strategy Profit • Shareholder equity • Financial performance • Borrowings (Adjusted EBITDA & ROCE growth) • Partnerships & open innovation • Dividend • Purchased goods & services • Contribution to business success • Manufacturing asset base for customers & suppliers • Contribution to civil society via tax • Patents & royalties Societal & Human capital relationship capital Natural capital Financial capital DSM employs skilled and DSM engages with DSM recognizes that the Providers of capital – talented people from various stakeholders to world is an interconnected shareholders and diverse backgrounds. ensure close alignment system of resources. bondholders, banks and DSM strives to provide between the company’s For DSM this represents the financial markets – employees with a safe aims and societal needs. a responsibility and a supply funds that DSM and inspiring workplace DSM generates value for business opportunity. uses in its business to as well as with the tools stakeholders outside its DSM aims to reduce the create value, driving and training they need to direct value chains of environmental impact of growth and delivering be effective and to employees, suppliers, its supply chain, sustainable returns. develop their abilities. customers and end-users; operations and products DSM rewards employees these include employees’ and services, while with competitive benefit families, governments, developing innovative packages. local communities and solutions that deliver civil society. sustainability benefits to customers and beyond. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 24 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board — How DSM creates value for its stakeholders The diagram here is based on the International Integrated Reporting Council's Integrated Reporting <IR> framework and gives an overview of how DSM creates value for stakeholders Impact Impact SDGs based on six capital inputs: Human capital ••Better Betterfedfed&&healthier healthierindividuals individualsandand communities communities Societal & relationship capital Natural capital ••More Moreprosperous prosperousand andresilient resilient Financial capital employeesfor employees forthe companyand thecompany andininits its Intellectual capital value valuechain chain Manufactured capital Since 2002, we have reported on our performance in terms of ••More Moresustainable sustainableuse useofofresources, resources,for for People, Planet and Profit, and so the six capitals shown here thecompany the companyand itsvalue andininits valuechain chain continue to be clustered accordingly. ••Products Productsthat thatcontribute contributetotosafer, safer, healthier healthierworking working&&living livingenvironments environments DSM's organizational and operating model is made up of market-facing business groups focused on the primary business functions (Innovation and R&D, Direct Sourcing, Manufacturing & Operations, and Marketing & Sales), global ••Driving DrivingProfitable Growththrough ProfitableGrowth through support and functional excellence departments, and regional science-based science-basedsustainable sustainablesolutions solutions organizations. ••Sustainable Sustainablereturns returnstotoinvestors investors We seek to minimize risk and take advantage of the ••Positive Positivecontribution contributiontotoeconomic economic opportunities around megatrends, thereby transforming the growth growthininthethecountries countries&&markets marketsinin capital inputs into value and positive impact. A key part of our which whichDSM DSMoperates operates strategy, aside from our financial targets, is to continue to strengthen our commitment to sustainability. We especially try to have a positive impact through our engagement related to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). DSM engages on all 17 SDGs, especially on the five shown in this figure. For more information, see 'DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals' on page 10 and throughout this Report. Intellectual Intellectualcapital capital Manufactured Manufacturedcapital capital DSM DSMmanufactures manufacturesand and DSM DSMhas hasunique unique distributes distributeshigh-quality high-quality competences competencesininlife life products productsand andservices services sciences sciencesand andmaterials materials safely, safely,efficiently efficientlyandand sciences sciencesand andconnects connects responsibly responsiblyand andstrives strivestoto these thesetotodeliver deliverinnovative innovative develop developvaluable, valuable, solutions solutionsthat thatnourish, nourish, collaborative collaborativeand and protect protectand andimprove improve long-term long-termrelationships relationships performance. performance. with withcustomers customersand and suppliers. suppliers.DSM DSMpursues pursues open openinnovation, innovation,connectconnecting ingand andcollaborating collaboratingwith with partners partnersand andinvesting investinginin start-ups. start-ups. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 25 www.dsm.com Stakeholders Stakeholders DSM works with stakeholders that operate within our value chain, such as customers, employees and suppliers, as well Scientific as stakeholders outside our value chain including investors, institutions governments and civil society. We have regular open discussions about topics that are relevant to our operations Governments NGOs and our impact on society. These conversations shape how DSM Value Chain we execute our strategy, including risk management, materiality and new business opportunities. The needs and 7 Suppliers Employees Customers End-users values of our stakeholders must be balanced with our own objectives. Customers Our customers are key stakeholders. They drive our business. We work extensively with customers to strengthen our Civil society Local communities commercial and strategic relationships. For information on DSM's business and customers, see 'Review of business' Investors starting on page 68. Employees Local communities DSM's employees represent 100 nationalities, working at It is important that DSM fosters a strong relationship with the more than 200 sites and offices in 46 countries worldwide. We communities where we operate. We engage and inform our aim to provide a healthy, diverse and safe working local stakeholders through open days, news bulletins, social environment for all our employees, including contractors. For media and other initiatives. information on how DSM engages employees, see 'People' on page 34. Governments Engaging with governments is increasingly important, Suppliers especially considering DSM's commitment to the Paris DSM's supply chain consists of more than 34,000 suppliers. Agreement and the SDGs. We engage with governments Suppliers are important partners in achieving our sustainability directly as well as through coalitions and trade associations. goals, and we work closely with them through our Supplier As stated in our Code of Business Conduct, we do not make Sustainability Program. political donations. Investors Civil society DSM actively communicates with investors and with the In addition to the engagements we have with society through analysts advising them. We provide quality information about NGOs, local communities and other initiatives, DSM also developments at DSM, ensuring that relevant information is engages in philanthropic events and sponsorship activities. equally and simultaneously provided and accessible to all See 'Philanthropy and sponsorships' on page 150. interested parties. For more information on how DSM engages with each of these Scientific research institutions stakeholders, see 'Stakeholder engagement' on page 139. DSM openly collaborates with renowned universities and science institutes such as the European Knowledge and Materiality Innovation Communities, the University of Ulster in Coleraine (United Kingdom), and MIT in Boston (Massachusetts, USA). Materiality is a way for companies to identify and analyze the We provide funding and also share knowledge, research and topics that could have significant social, environmental, facilities. financial or reputational impact on their business, and which are important to the company's stakeholders. These topics NGOs are called material topics. DSM regularly reviews the material DSM engages with NGOs and other organizations to work topics that could impact us. We chart these in a materiality toward solutions for the world's societal challenges. matrix, which is refreshed annually. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 26 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board — Stakeholders Our refresh in 2017 included a big data study that analyzed As a result of the review process, some topics have been the public disclosures of thousands of relevant stakeholders. adjusted: This study was supplemented with desk research as well as interviews with key stakeholders. The 2017 topics and matrix 'Product Stewardship' was identified as a new topic. were further refined during an internal workshop with DSM 'Taxation' and 'Transparency & reporting' were moved employees from various disciplines and later fine-tuned under the umbrella of 'Responsible business practices'. through interviews with the Executive Committee and 'Advocacy & reputation' was renamed 'Advocacy & discussions with the Sustainability Leadership Team. The stakeholder engagement'. matrix was compared with the Corporate Risk Assessment The subtopic of overweight/obesity is now included in procedure to make sure that all relevant subjects were 'Health & wellness' rather than 'Malnutrition & nutrition addressed from a materiality and/or risk perspective. Finally, it security'. was approved by the Managing Board. 'Malnutrition & nutrition security' focuses on the insufficient intake of (micro)nutrients and access to food that is Changes in 2017 calorically and nutritionally sufficient. The layout of the materiality matrix was improved in 2017 to increase clarity. The new matrix is consistent with 2016, however, it does not correspond one on one. The matrix has For more information on DSM's positions on relevant six areas that represent the range of societal interest in each societal issues, see the company website. topic and potential business impact. Materiality matrix 2017 Society Environment Malnutrition Health & wellness Business enablers & nutrition Climate High Governance security change & renewable Geopolitical energy tensions & Resource inequalities scarcity/ Water security Circular & bio-based Open economy innovation Societal intetest Sustainable Digital food Biodiversity transformation systems Responsible business Emerging practices economies Product Product & Stewardship food safety Advocacy & stakeholder Careers & engagement employment Low Bioethics Trade barriers Moderate Significant Major Business impact For more information on Materiality, see 'Management approach for material topics', on page 144. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 27 www.dsm.com Collaborative platforms and networks Within the Low Carbon Technology Partnerships initiative (LCTPi) — a multi-stakeholder platform led by the WBCSD that DSM collaborates with like-minded peers through platforms presents the opportunities of large-scale development and and networks that align with our sustainable growth areas: deployment of low-carbon technologies — we were in the nutrition, climate and energy, and circular and bio-based Leadership Group of the global campaign 'below50'. The economy. Through these collaborations, we develop new campaign unites companies that produce, use and/or invest social and environmental measurement and performance in fuels that are at least 50% less carbon-intensive than fossil standards, help shape the business community's fuels. The aim is to promote the best sustainable fuels that can contributions to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) achieve significant carbon reductions and to scale up their and act as advocates on material topics such as 'Climate development and use. change & renewable energy', 'Malnutrition & nutrition security' and 'Resource scarcity / Circular & bio-based economy'. In Toward the end of 2017, DSM joined the WBCSD's new this section, we describe some of the most significant circular economy program, Factor10, as a founding member. initiatives. This new program will kick-off in 2018. As co-chair of the program, we will focus on circular metrics, as well as World Economic Forum (WEF) developing circular blueprints for the built environment, DSM is a strategic partner of WEF and we attended their automotive and bio-economy sectors. The term built meetings throughout 2017, including the Annual Meeting in environment refers to human-made surroundings. Davos. We further strengthened our presence at regional meetings, including in Africa and Latin America as well as Asia, Accounting for Sustainability (A4S) to highlight key partnerships and initiatives concerning Our CFO Geraldine Matchett continued her active role as Conutrition and climate change. We participated in many projects Chair of the A4S CFO Leadership Network. This network and initiatives of WEF, including the Compact for Responsible brings together leading CFOs to help embed the management and Responsive Leadership, the New Vision for Agriculture of environmental and social issues into business processes and the Responsible Battery Alliance. and strategy, particularly through the finance function. She is a signatory to the A4S CFO statement of support for the Our CEO Feike Sijbesma co-chaired the inaugural Sustainable Taskforce for Climate-related Financial Disclosures Development Impact Summit in New York in September. This recommendations. summit provided a new platform for strengthening publicprivate engagement to advance creative solutions and deliver DSM contributed in particular to the A4S Culture project, on the ambitions of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable which aims to create a shift in the culture of the finance Development. He also co-chaired the Consumer Governors profession in organizations that already have a strong focus and the CEO Climate Alliance (formerly WEF CEO Climate on sustainability. This includes showing finance professionals Leaders). why and how they can play a part in delivering sustainability initiatives by motivating, empowering and inspiring them to World Business Council for Sustainable Development make the changes required. (WBCSD) DSM is a member of WBCSD and participates in a number of Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC) convened by the its working groups and coalitions. DSM is one of the founding World Bank members of Food Reform for Sustainability and Health In April, our CEO Feike Sijbesma's role as Co-Chair of the High (FReSH), a coalition between WBCSD and EAT, a foundation Level Assembly of the CPLC was extended for a second year. focused on food systems. With 40 companies, FReSH aims The CPLC's long-term objective is for carbon pricing to be to transform global food systems so that all people can have applied throughout the global economy. In addition to healthy diets from food that is produced responsibly and with facilitating leadership dialogues, the CPLC is also mobilizing respect for the planet. DSM is a member of the Program Board business support to put an internal price on carbon. DSM and co-leads a number of workstreams, applying our science applies an internal carbon price of € 50 per ton CO2eq when and business insights to help shape the direction of this reviewing large investments. In January, Mr. Sijbesma was coalition. appointed, together with Kofi Annan and Christiana Figueres (former Executive Secretary of UNFCCC, the UN's climate As a member of the WBCSD working group called Reporting organization), a 'Climate Leader' by the World Bank Group. Matters, DSM contributed to the development and launch of The Reporting Exchange platform. This platform provides a At various high-level events throughout the year, such as New one stop shop for non-financial mandatory and voluntary York Climate Week and the UN Climate Conference COP23, reporting provisions from around the world and will be Mr. Sijbesma shared DSM's experience with carbon pricing. community managed. At launch, more than 1,600 provisions He called on other businesses to implement an internal carbon were already listed. price and advocated for embedding a price on carbon in global Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 28 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board — Stakeholders financial systems. He reinforced this message at the One collaborated on the International Business Declaration that Planet Summit in Paris organized by President Macron in was launched at the One Planet Summit and continued to December, where Mr. Sijbesma joined heads of government work together on the Carbon Pricing Corridors project, led by and leaders in public and private finance, and was invited to CDP, CPLC and We Mean Business. This project aims to address the summit. enable large market players to define the carbon prices needed for industry to meet the Paris Agreement. We also worked on a number of advocacy and communications activities around 'below50' and renewable energy. Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition (DSGC) DSM continues to engage with DSGC. Together we have a clear shared roadmap for engaging with the SDGs and working on the scale up of innovations under development. The DSGC also acted collectively and responsibly to share its views on climate policy with the incoming Dutch government. Catalyst Catalyst, Inc. is a non-profit organization that promotes inclusive workplaces for women. DSM sponsors Catalyst through the role of our CEO Feike Sijbesma on the Board of Directors and our CFO Geraldine Matchett on the European DSM CEO Feike Sijbesma at the One Planet Summit in Paris. Advisory Board. In 2017, Mr. Sijbesma was recognized as a Catalyst CEO Champion for Change for his efforts to support Ellen MacArthur Foundation positive change in the areas of gender balance, diversity and We continued our engagement with the Foundation and inclusion. DSM supported Catalyst's global communications CE100. CE100 is the Foundation's global platform that brings campaign launched on International Women's Day. The together companies, emerging innovators, universities and campaign raised awareness and promoted progress on issues cities to accelerate the transition toward a circular economy. related to women in the workplace. In November, the Catalyst In 2017, we collaborated on a CE100 project with Essity, IKEA Europe Advisory Board visited DSM to discuss advancing and Tetra Pak to promote the role of renewable materials in a women in business. circular economy. We also offered targeted employees an online circular economy training through the CE100 and UN World Food Programme (WFP) University of Bradford School of Management (UK). In place since 2007, the DSM-WFP partnership 'Improving Nutrition, Improving Lives' aims to improve the nutritional value Circle Economy of the food that WFP distributes through product innovations We renewed our membership with Circle Economy, a social such as fortified rice and a product aimed at people living with enterprise that emphasizes practical and scalable solutions in HIV/AIDS. Together, DSM and WFP make a difference to the transition, and joined their Built Environment program to millions of people. work with construction partners in the value chain. In 2016, WFP reached 31.1 million beneficiaries with food that RE100 was improved by the DSM-WFP partnership. Additionally, Our engagement with RE100, the world's leading campaign DSM and WFP collaborate on training and development to scale corporate sourcing of renewable power, continued initiatives and on employee fundraising campaigns. throughout 2017. We participated in the learning opportunities, conferences and advocacy opportunities UNICEF offered to DSM in the EU, US and increasingly in China. As The DSM-UNICEF partnership has been in place since 2013. part of our RE100 commitment, we shared our insights In 2017, DSM signed an agreement with UNICEF and the through webinars, presentations and other engagements on humanitarian nutrition think tank Sight and Life to deliver better our long-term commitment with fellow RE100 members nutrition to about 400,000 children, starting with the AkzoNobel, Google and Philips to jointly source power from micronutrient powder pilot in Nigeria, including Bauchi in the wind energy projects in the Netherlands. More information on North East and Kebbi in the North West. The partners will also renewable energy can be found in 'Planet' on page 46. advocate on the global level for microsupplement intervention in other places where people suffer from malnourishment. The We Mean Business partnership continues its capacity support of the African We Mean Business activates hundreds of companies and Nutrition Leadership program. investors to commit to low-carbon initiatives. In 2017, we Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 29 www.dsm.com World Vision Scaling Up Nutrition DSM signed an agreement in January 2017 with World Vision The SUN Business Network (SBN) represents the private International and Sight and Life for 'Joining forces for last mile sector in the Scaling Up Nutrition (SUN) Movement. The nutrition'. The parties have worked on improving the raw Network recruits and supports companies who pledge to material quality and access in Rwanda for Africa Improved contribute to the improvement of global nutrition. DSM's CEO Foods and has also initiated project EGGciting, focusing on Feike Sijbesma is a member of the Lead Group of the SUN eggs as an important nutrition source. Movement and Co-Chair of the Advisory Group of the Network. DSM's VP of Nutrition in Emerging Markets and At DSM, we leverage our scientific excellence, technical Public Private Partnerships, Fokko Wientjes, is on the expertise and large customer base to facilitate the executive board of the SUN Business Network. development and supply of innovative nutrition, formulation and fortification. Via the network, as well as the WFP partnership, DSM supported a number of SBN projects in Zambia, Zimbabwe Partners in Food Solutions and Malawi. DSM advocates for business to take a leading role Partners in Food Solutions is a multi-sector partnership on this important issue. between the companies DSM, General Mills, Cargill, The Hershey Company, Bühler and Ardent Mills, working in For information about other nutrition initiatives and partnership with USAID, TechnoServe and Root Capital to partnerships, such as Africa Improved Foods, Nutrition serve more than 600 small and growing food companies Improvement Program, and Sight and Life, see 'Nutrition' on throughout Africa. page 68 and 'Philanthropy and Sponsorships' on page 150. Partners in Food Solutions realized additional growth in West Africa. DSM volunteers from Latin America, Europe and India continued to dedicate their technical and business expertise to improving the performance of food processors and millers in Africa. Africa Improved Foods' Aline Batamuliza (left) and DSM's Fokko Wientjes (right) working together with the World Food Programme to deliver Super Cereal Plus, the fortified food that DSM developed for malnourished children in Africa. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 30 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board — Stakeholders External recognition We are proud when our efforts are recognized by others. Below is a selection of some awards and recognition that DSM received from NGOs and trade organizations, customers, suppliers and academia in 2017. A full list of our recognitions can be found on the company website. Organization Recognition In May, DSM was presented with the 2017 BioEconomy Leadership Award at the 39th Symposium on Biotechnology for Fuels and Chemicals. This fairly new award recognizes the companies or NGOs that have significantly advanced the development of a renewable resource-based fuels and chemicals economy. Being selected as an early recipient speaks volumes about how influential DSM has been in developing bio-based products and advancing the bio-based economy. In July, DSM was assessed as an ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) leader within the chemicals industry by Sustainalytics, ranking number 1 out of 130 companies. In September, DSM was named among the world leaders in the Materials industry group in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index in recognition of the company's consistent and longstanding commitment to sustainability. DSM has been among the global leaders for the past 14 years and number one in the sector seven times. In September, DSM was listed in 2nd place in Fortune Magazine’s 3rd annual Change the World list, which recognized 56 companies that have had a positive social impact through activities that are part of their core business strategy. In October, the World Resources Institute (WRI) honored DSM's CEO Feike Sijbesma at its 2017 Courage to Lead dinner in New York City, recognizing his bold leadership to solve global challenges. According to WRI, Mr. Sijbesma has been an outspoken champion of reimagining the economic system and corporate responsibility to go beyond profit and incorporate people and planet in value creation. In October, DSM was awarded a position on the 2017 A List for climate and water by CDP, the non-profit global environmental disclosure platform. At DSM, we report our climate actions to CDP and we are one of only 28 companies to score an A for both climate and water, in recognition of our actions in the reporting year to manage environmental risks, cut carbon emissions and enhance water stewardship. In November, DSM China was named in the ‘2016-2017 Most Respected Companies in China’ list organized by The Economic Observer, one of the major economic-focused newspapers in China. The award recognizes companies that have demonstrated excellence in areas including financial performance, operations and management, innovation and corporate social responsibility. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 31 www.dsm.com Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 32 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board — Stakeholders @Oray_31 Oreofe Odunsi‫‏‬ Just registered for the O WColombia Proud to see @DSM as one of the sponsors!!! Bogotá, Colombia DSM is committed to inspiring and developing talented people. We are building a company culture of diversity and equality. In 2017, more than 20 DSM employees from across the globe participated in One Young World in Colombia, where leaders and young people came together to advance progress on important societal issues. We also sent 20 women and men to the Women’s International Networking Conference in Norway. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 33 www.dsm.com People Engaging our employees 75% of employees feel good about working at DSM according to our engagement survey, a 4% jump versus 2016. We are building an inclusive culture where each employee feels he or she can contribute to a much larger global conversation. 27/73 17% 71% 0.36 Ratio female/male Female Inclusion Frequency Index of stable versus executives +2% Index up from Recordable Injuries, 2016 up from 2016 70%1 in 2016 a performance decline versus 0.33 in 2016 (per 100 DSM employees and contractors) 1 Restated. See 'Careers & employment' for more information. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 34 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board — People DSM aspires to a high-performance culture that supports the performance as described in the DSM Responsible Care Plan delivery of our targets and aspirations. We seek to attract and 2016-2020. We report our occupational and process safety retain original thinkers and doers who can further our performance with frequency indexes. For a full description of company's capabilities while actively developing their own these indexes, see 'Explanation of some concepts and ratios' credentials and careers. Above all, we aspire to be an injuryon page 240. and incident-free organization. Occupational safety In 2017, DSM's Executive Committee welcomed Judith In 2017, the Frequency Index of all DSM Recordable Injuries Wiese. Mrs. Wiese officially replaced Peter Vrijsen, EVP DSM increased from 0.33 to 0.36, bringing us further away from our Group People & Organization (P&O) as of January 2018. She 2020 target of 0.25. The Frequency Index of Lost Workday has held a number of leadership positions in various regions Cases for DSM employees was 0.16 in 2017 versus 0.14 in of the world and within different sectors, focusing on P&O, 2016. talent management and organizational development. The Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries among Our People Strategy 2018 supports the company's overall contractors improved from 0.56 in 2016 to 0.46 in 2017. This strategy by focusing on three pillars: 1) agile employees, 2) can be attributed in part to the enhanced effectiveness of our skilled employees, and 3) accountable employees. These company's Life Saving Rules, especially those related to work three pillars reinforce the most relevant material topics for our permits. people: Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries Health & wellness 12-month moving average Careers & employment REC-rate, DSM all Responsible business practices Rate for Lost Workday Cases (LWC), DSM-own 1.0 For more information about our People performance, see 'Sustainability Statements People' on page 137. See also 0.8 'How DSM creates value for its stakeholders' on page 24 and 0.6 'Stakeholders' on page 26. 0.4 0.36 Health & wellness DSM Target FI REC All 2020: 0.25 0.2 0.16 0 Aspiration 2017 2016 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 Occupational safety Frequency Index REC 0.25 in 2020 0.36 0.33 Despite the improvements in contractor safety, overall safety Frequency Index LWC 0.16 0.14 performance in 2017 was a concern. Several incidents early Process safety in the year triggered us to host a safety workshop in June. PSI Rate 0.15 Thirty-five executives from across DSM gathered to reflect and in 2020 0.19 0.28 build momentum for better safety awareness and Occupational health performance. As a result, a new program called Living Safety cases 14 6 'I care, We care' was rolled out globally to emphasize the importance of: Occupational and process safety visible leadership by all employees; Employee health includes safety at work. We strive to be an safety knowledge and skills; and incidentand injury-free company. At the end of the day, increased communication about safety. people should leave work exactly as they came, if not better. So it is with deep regret that we report a fatal accident that DSM designed a new onboarding course for executives to occurred at our DSM Resins & Functional Materials site in further emphasize safety as a company value and, in addition, Augusta (Georgia, USA). our leadership teams are participating in a series of workshops called How to Live Safety. DSM is also developing a more Both occupational and process safety are extremely important standardized approach for certain high-risk activities. to us. Occupational safety is the safety of people (employees and contractors). Process safety is the safe operation of Tragically, and despite these initiatives, there was a fatal facilities. We set targets, define actions and monitor safety accident at our DSM Resins & Functional Materials site in Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 35 www.dsm.com Augusta (Georgia, USA) in September 2017. One contractor our approach to health and fitness, as well as our Safety, was fatally injured, another was severely injured and a third Health and Environment policies. suffered less severe injuries in the same incident. The root causes have been thoroughly investigated and the lessons DSM is encouraging a culture of health with our Vitality@DSM learned are being implemented. We are committed to the program. Vitality@DSM is a voluntary program that helps safety of all workers and will continue to pay close attention to employees track and assess their physical, social and mental contractor safety. DSM is supporting the affected families. well-being. More than 1,000 people participated in 2017. Sixty-seven percent of the participants reported low lifestyleProcess safety related risks. Others indicated moderate to high risks, mostly Process safety incidents are rare but can have a major impact because of stress and lack of exercise. Participants received on people and the environment. Since 2015, process safety customized advice to help improve their overall well-being, has been measured by DSM according to the International support early intervention before disease and maintain Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) standards, with a employability. In 2017, compared to 2016, the productivity target for 2020 of 0.15. gains attributable to the program reached approximately € 120,000 according to the group report. Frequency Index of Process Safety Incidents DSM FIT | Worklife Center was created from the integration of 12-month moving average the Occupational Health Center, the Employability Center and 0.4 the Mobility Center to improve the vitality and employability of people during their careers at DSM. This addresses two 0.30 0.3 0.28 New baseline concerns: our responsibility for our employees and fostering a 2015: 0.30 vital workforce that is best able to support our company goals. 0.2 0.19 We believe in brighter you, brighter us . Target 2020: 0.15 In addition, DSM continued our Global Corporate Challenge, 0.1 a team-based approach to better health. In 2017, 360 0 employee teams participated, up from 83 teams in 2016. 2015 2016 2017 Seventy-seven percent of the 2,520 participants achieved the recommended daily levels for physical effort of 10,000 steps per day. Based on this success, DSM will roll out an even more The Process Safety Incident rate improved from 0.28 in 2016 comprehensive health promotion program in 2018. to 0.19 in 2017. Most incidents were related to the unintentional release of substances from plants or storage Local wellness initiatives are on the rise. For example, DSM facilities and were remediated without further consequence. Nutritional Products in Dalry (United Kingdom) received an There was a small number of other incidents, which are award from the Chemical Industries Association for their described in the chapter 'What still went wrong' on page commitment to health leadership. 132. Occupational health cases DSM's safety planning focuses most on incidents and Even with these programs, sometimes work negatively situations that pose the highest risk and the steps we can take impacts employees. In 2017, there were 14 occupational to avoid them. Our 12 Life Saving Rules reflect those risks and health cases reported with a clear link to physical working serve as a standard for safe day-to-day operations. They are conditions. Two cases were related to sensitization to certain included in the internal auditing system, which is applied at all chemical/biological substances and two were related to levels of the organization — corporate, business groups and hearing loss due to noise in the workplace. The remaining sites. cases were mainly related to ergonomics at the workplace. At the DSM Jiangshan (China) site, which we acquired in 2015, Employee health 14 people have indications of hearing loss. We discovered this Like all people, DSM employees deserve good working in December 2017 as part of the site's integration program, conditions. We use an Occupational Health Module based on during which improved medical checks are performed. This three pillars: prevention, primary care and promotion. issue is still under investigation and therefore not yet included in the reported figure. Our approach to the prevention of safety and health issues is through employee training on industrial hygiene, including Another area of concern is stress. High stress levels, whether physical hazards and exposure. Primary care includes our from work or private life, can negatively impact personal emergency preparedness, first aid and our site-based medical health, well-being and employability. Stress sometimes goes professionals. Promotion of good health is addressed through unacknowledged by the affected person or the company and Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 36 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board — People therefore it may not be fully captured in our occupational health agreeing with the sentiment I believe DSM has a promising reporting. future versus 78% in 2016. Privacy concerns or cultural factors may influence employees' The company has also improved people management, willingness to report and discuss personal health issues, so according to the results. For example, 64% of employees some occupational health cases may go unreported. DSM agreed My manager has invested time and effort in my growth continues to raise awareness about stress and other and development , up from 59% in 2016 after a drop from occupational health risks and encourages transparency. 63% in 2015. We were encouraged to see that respondents feel inspired by our managers and that employees perceive Careers & employment that more time and effort was spent on development in 2017. These elements, among others, are key for the personal growth and satisfaction of all employees. Still, there is room Aspiration 2017 2016 for further improvement and we will continue to develop our Employee Engagement 75% people managers. by 2020 75% 71% Inclusion & Diversity Female executives 25% “ Our people make all the x by 2020 17% 15% Under-represented 60% difference. Providing space nationalities by 2020 56% 53% Inclusion Index 1 71% 70% to learn, grow and make a Learning and Development meaningful contribution is Training hours per employee2 19 25 key to our people's 1 The Inclusion Index is based on a different mix of questions in the 2017 Employee engagement and DSM's success. ” Engagement Survey in comparison to previous years. The Inclusion Index figure for 2016 has been recalculated to reflect this change in the mix of questions (resulting in a change for the 2016 Inclusion Index from 73% to the above mentioned 70%). 2 As of 2017, development training hours/employee is partly measured using a new system with a stricter definition. Figures of previous years cannot be recalculated Judith Wiese, DSM Executive Committee according to the new definitions. As a result, the 2017 figure cannot be compared to the figures of previous years. While we see an increase in questions relating to development, we see that the satisfaction on career opportunities is slightly Workforce engagement decreasing. Going forward, we need to make sure our An engaged workforce is essential for DSM. The DSM employees feel that the effort that is put into their development Employee Engagement Survey, run annually since 2007, helps results in better career moves, especially for our early career us understand how employees feel at work and where we talent. need to improve. The goal is to ensure that people are proud to work at DSM and that they can excel. The survey measures We are very proud to see the increase in engagement. It shows four attributes: commitment, pride, advocacy and satisfaction. us our employees' optimism and recognition that we are on the right path, both in terms of business as well as people Since 2015, we alternate every other year between the practices. comprehensive version and what we call a 'pulse' survey — a shorter version that still collects essential information about Inclusion & Diversity safety, engagement, inclusion and other key themes. The twoDSM's Inclusion & Diversity activity focuses on two main year cycle gives teams more time to make meaningful change. topics: The 2017 survey, which was a 'pulse' survey, was sent to all Increasing representation of women and under-represented employees and was available in 21 languages. It had an 82% nationalities at executive level and throughout our response rate. The Engagement Index jumped 4% to a score management pipeline in order to fuel innovation and growth of 75%. With the solid results in 2017, we have already in every country where we operate reached our target of 75% by 2020. Creating an inclusive work environment where each employee contributes 100% The results showed encouraging movement in key areas. Employees confirmed their trust in our strategy, with 82% Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 37 www.dsm.com We aim to have 25% female executives and for at least 60% a broad online communication and awareness campaign for of our executives to come from under-represented more than 2,000 people managers, and the participation of nationalities by 2020. We achieved our short-term target of an about 20 female and male employees in the Women's improvement in each by 2% in 2017 thanks to a renewed International Networking Conference in Oslo (Norway). In focus and commitment of all businesses and functions. The addition, employees shared stories about what inclusion percentage of executive women in 2017 reached 17%, while means to each of them in our internal, employee-led 'I for the number of under-represented nationalities at executive Inclusion' digital campaign. level reached 56%, just a few points away from our long-term aim. DSM's inclusion efforts are monitored on a yearly basis via the Employee Engagement Inclusion Index, which improved over In 2017, new targets were also added to increase the diversity the past year, moving from 70% in 2016 to 71% in 2017. This of the DSM pipeline below executive level. These targets focus consistent improvement suggests that progress is being made both on gender and nationality mix, and were defined in the in creating and maintaining inclusive environments across the Inclusion & Diversity aspirations of our major business groups company. and functions. Both measures saw a positive trend across all of our businesses and functions, with representation growing Going forward, DSM will also continue to address the an average of 2% and 3% respectively versus 2016. geographical distribution of executives and other key functions keeping a keen eye on nationality balance, as this remains an In line with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the essential aspect to foster at this stage. Supervisory Board drafted a diversity policy for the Executive Committee, Managing Board and Supervisory Board. This Learning and development at DSM policy aims for a 30% gender balance and, for the Executive Learning and development grows our employees and leaders, Committee and Supervisory Board, no more than 50% of which in turn facilitates our company's growth. members from one nationality. For more detail see 'Corporate governance' on page 101. Our employees are curious people and we encourage a culture of continuous learning through a 70:20:10 approach: With the mid-year appointment of Judith Wiese in 2017, our Executive Committee's gender and nationality diversity is 29% 70% learning through experiences, like guided on-the-job and 57% respectively. Our Managing Board, consisting of one assignments female and two male members, is fully aligned with the 30% 20% through other people, like peer learning opportunities prescribed by Dutch legislation in terms of gender balance. and mentoring Our Supervisory Board is also well balanced, in terms of both 10% more formal learning through classroom training and gender and nationalities, and is in line with Dutch legislation in digital learning this regard. More than one third of the members are women. Furthermore, in the Supervisory Board of DSM Nederland With this approach, people learn from experience, feedback, B.V., a subsidiary of Royal DSM, one of the three members is reflection, experiments and mistakes in addition to training female. courses. On average, the DSM employees who are registered in our training portal had 19 hours of developmental training in Gender balance will continue to require attention and our 2017. Executive Committee has devoted considerable energy to this topic in order to stimulate change. Our CEO Feike Sijbesma DSM works in close cooperation with leading international signed a commitment as one of the Catalyst CEO Champions business schools and global learning content providers such For Change, signaling the company's active support for as Duke Corporate Education, Ashridge Executive Education, gender equality. In 2017, we ran several external outreach Vlerick Business School, and CrossKnowledge, to design and campaigns, such as 'It's the balance that makes us stronger', deliver high-quality learning activities for employees around the which celebrated the company's achievements on gender world. diversity. Centered around social media, it features unscripted, personal video profiles of DSM's senior women leaders and We are making it easier to access learning opportunities directs viewers to a LinkedIn hub that offers a place for women through a more user-friendly platform. A new global Learning all over the world to connect. In addition, we are building a Management System that is part of DSM's integrated Talent strong, diverse internal talent pipeline to drive our future Suite system is replacing legacy systems. This way, growth aspirations. employees have a one-stop shop for all company learning activities, including development and mandatory training. Inclusion has been a central focus area in 2017. Several steps Processes for approval, registration, cancellation, evaluation were taken to begin meaningful conversations and raise and reporting on learning and development are now simpler awareness around this topic such as training for all executives, and consistent worldwide. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 38 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board — People Additionally, in April 2017, DSM extended access to our online Developing and managing our talent platform, called Bright Learning, to all employees. A new Talent acquisition smartphone app improved the user experience. Now people In 2017, DSM continued to strengthen the Global Talent can learn anytime, anywhere. This platform will be integrated Acquisition organization, including some external hires in our with the new Learning Management System. Preparations and own regional recruitment teams, and global functional testing are underway. expertise groups working around the world. Standardized processes and systems were implemented and a focus on Bright Mentoring emerging technologies has dramatically reduced DSM's Bright Mentoring is a DSM program that connects people reliance on external agencies. Our regional recruitment teams across the organization to encourage mentorship and learning have closed more than 1,000 recruitments while reducing time through others. Benefits include: to hire and focusing on quality hiring in line with our desire for diversity, inclusion and learning agility. Further social media more cross-business networking; outreach allowed us to become more proactive through a better connection and understanding of the company dedicated campaigns, such as the campaign that featured strategy and different businesses; some of our senior female leaders and helped build awareness accelerated employee development and exposure; and of gender balance at DSM. mutual learning for mentor and mentee. Talent management There are about 300 employees in mentoring relationships In 2017, the new talent management approach implemented across DSM. in 2016 was further leveraged and we were able to see positive progress in the key areas of identifying and developing future Developing leadership and people management talent, strengthening succession for leadership positions, and Developing our leaders and people managers is a priority. upgrading our overall talent pipeline. Launched in 2012, the DSM Leadership Model specifies the behavior we expect from our leaders and people managers. Identifying and developing future talent The model provides a common vision and language on One of the 2016 action points was to identify a broader pool leadership at DSM, which is now fully embedded in our key of emerging leaders — early career talent who could be processes to hire, develop, evaluate and manage talent across stretched into faster career development. Thanks to a the organization. modified approach, in 2017 we were able to define a deeper, more diverse pool of talents, almost doubled in size, and better We recognize that throughout their careers, leaders go representing our businesses, geographies and job levels. through several transitions. Our leadership programs support Within our senior talent group, we were glad to see retention development through each transition: leading self, leading rates above 80%, as well as very good career movements, others, and leading leaders. In 2017, most of the design and including some cross-business shifts, which are key to helping development work took place, as did the first pilot sessions. us develop broader senior leaders. Going forward, we will We expect these programs to fully roll out in 2018. continue to focus on career development, an area where we have not yet seen the acceleration we expect despite our In addition, we continued People Manager 2018, the monthly progress, and where our Engagement Survey results still show virtual campaign that highlights relevant topics for people frustration among the wider employee group. managers specific to that time of year. In 2017, we enhanced this program with 32 in-person 'Meet, Share and Learn' Strengthening succession for leadership positions sessions at key locations around the world. These three-hour Overall succession strength for our business and functional trainings on challenging topics allow people managers to leadership teams has improved. A fewer number of positions connect face to face with peers and role models, exchange show significant gaps. However, focus on this topic will experiences, learn and grow. With these sessions, we offered continue throughout 2018, particularly considering the growth training to more than 420 people managers in goal-setting, objectives we have for our businesses going forward. talent and performance reviews, and development Regarding the DSM Leadership team, clear efforts were made conversations. to accelerate the development of the talent identified for these positions. All of them went through an executive development To support Strategy 2018, DSM collaborated with Duke assessment and more than two-thirds of the identified Corporate Education to create the DSM Lead & Grow program employees took a developmental role in 2017. for our top 300 executives. Piloted in 2016 and rolled out in 2017, the program encourages our leadership to think and act Upgrading our overall talent pipeline differently, fully understand macro-economic trends, use Overall actions were taken to continuously upgrade our talent creative and dilemma solving techniques to address pipeline, through a good inflow of new hires and internal roadblocks, and engage and develop our best talent. promotions, bringing increased breadth and diversity, as well Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 39 www.dsm.com as careful management of underperformers. In 2018, we Good progress was made in implementing the new operating intend to initiate specific intake programs at junior and senior models for the various support functions, enabling them to levels to accelerate our progress in this area. deliver better service at lower cost. The Finance, IT and Purchasing shared services were integrated in the new DSM Accountability for performance shared services organization with a global service center in Accountability for performance plays an important role in India and a satellite in China. People & Organization followed achieving DSM's Strategy 2018. Over 13,000 employees have at the end of 2017. access to the digital evaluation tool for performance reviews. All other employees participate in performance evaluations on Additional efforts were made in internal communication paper or with other local systems. Our approach to targetconcerning organizational change and company culture. More setting focuses on 'Fewer, Bigger, Better Goals' that are than 60 two-day workshops were organized for the employees measurable, relevant and challenging. In 2017, the in all support functions. These were aimed at creating a better development plan was added to the performance review to understanding of the new operating model and encouraging link achievements, experiences and key learnings to future the mindset and behavior necessary to make the new development activities. organizational set-up a success and to support DSM's ambitions. Total rewards DSM continued with the Total Rewards Strategy in 2017. This DSM provides fair severance compensation and supports strategy supports business objectives with monetary and nonredundant employees in their search for new employment. We monetary rewards and is the reference for compensation and apply a clear, objective and transparent process in benefits plans across the organization. It is designed to: determining which positions and employees are, regrettably, impacted. We align with employee representation bodies Pay for performance that supports business objectives; where applicable and we actively engage with works councils. Help attract, engage and retain the right employees and reinforce desired behavior; ONE DSM Culture Agenda Ensure consistency and fairness in our reward programs The ONE DSM Culture Agenda aims to support the across employee segments and geographies; and company's strategic objectives and to equip employees to Optimize and sustain DSM's investments in talent. respond to the needs of an ever-changing world. We took steps in 2017 to align and standardize salary structures on a global scale based upon the Total Rewards Strategy. This included rolling out a more streamlined approach to benchmarking. DSM now has a better understanding of competing employers and we can set target pay levels that drive performance across all areas and geographies. We also implemented a new global technology platform for a unified approach to salary adjustments. External Accountability Together, these steps have given us a more consistent Orientation for Performance external-facing approach for better competitiveness and (and Learning) strengthened internal equity (comparable pay for comparable job levels). New organizational and operating model DSM continued to implement the new organizational and operating model as part of Strategy 2018. This focuses on creating a more agile and cost-effective organization. It allows DSM's businesses to focus on growth and leverages the Collaboration with Inclusion & Diversity support functions on a global level. The program has delivered Speed and Trust the targeted benefits contributing to the total cost savings of about € 195 million (the high end of the targeted range) and a In 2017, we evaluated the current state of our culture agenda reduction of approximately 950 FTEs in staff and support through interviews with more than 50 leaders and 100 talents functions (both against the baseline of 2014). About 55% of across the world to get a better understanding on where these were in the Netherlands. See also 'Strategy 2018' on emphasis is required. page 18. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 40 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board — People In the area of 'External Orientation', we have intensified our maintains dialogues with employees and representative focus on customer requirements and best practices in the bodies to enable this. markets. We collect insights across business groups and use these to become more customer-facing. Regarding Human rights 'Collaboration with Speed', changes to our target operating With our mission to create brighter lives for people today and model improved our capability to leverage across business generations to come , DSM believes that respecting human groups. The areas of 'Accountability for Performance' and rights is fundamental to delivering a more sustainable society. 'Inclusion & Diversity' are discussed elsewhere in this chapter. The basic rights and freedoms to which all people are entitled The Managing Board supports and drives these values should be understood, respected and promoted by through leading by example. companies as a cornerstone of being a socially responsible business. Continuous improvement in operations One of the ways in which we drive organizational performance DSM has a longstanding commitment to international is by fostering a culture of continuous improvement across declarations and instruments to safeguard them. These manufacturing sites and supply chain environments. This include: mindset is driven by the DSM Integral Continuous Improvement (DICI) journey, which is currently running in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights; approximately 65% of DSM's Manufacturing and Supply the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Chain organizations. The premix locations and some recent (the Ruggie Framework); acquisitions are currently excluded from the DICI scope. the ILO International Labour Standards; and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. We focus on empowering our people so they can make the many small improvements that can have a significant impact We have been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since on operations and on our employee engagement. This journey 2007. is being executed together as ONE DSM, which enables us to share and learn across sites and businesses much faster than DSM's commitment to human rights is defined in our position before. paper on the company website. The discussions around the development of our Human Rights Policy help embed the In Pune (India), the DICI journey has played a role in responsibility to respect human rights into the programs, establishing a self-propelling continuous improvement culture. policies and daily operations of all business functions and We empower shop floor operators to set standards, identify regions. DSM's global whistleblower policy (DSM Alert) is in deviations and initiate their own problem solving. By working place so employees and external stakeholders can report any with local leadership, who coach and facilitate this process, perceived violations of human rights as well as violations of we have achieved increased output and a significant step up laws and regulations. DSM has mapped the potential human in Safety, Health and Environment results. rights impacts of the company's business activities through a global risk assessment. This assessment has shown that the The local team in Lalden (Switzerland) observed that categories of human rights most relevant and applicable to changeover time was causing considerable performance DSM are employees' working conditions, our supply chain and issues. To address this, the team defined a new standard way compensation. We conduct regular reviews of our rewards of working and agreed on an ambitious target of 40% time framework to make sure it meets the standards of our Total reduction for changeovers. Times were measured and Rewards Strategy. published. The target was achieved within a few changeover cycles. This improvement required no investment and resulted Beyond our own operations, potential labor and human rights in an increase in production volume. This delivered an annual impacts are handled through our Supplier Sustainability cost benefit of CHF 600,000. Program (SSP). We screen suppliers for potential human rights issues through sustainability assessments and audits. Read Responsible business practices more about our SSP and how we manage potential human International Labour Standards rights impacts within our supply chain on page 140. DSM applies the International Labour Standards of the ILO. DSM respects the role of works councils and collective bargaining, and works with these groups in the countries and regions in which they are present. We develop social and severance programs in the event of significant reorganizations, such as in our current reorganization (see 'New organizational and operating model' in this chapter). DSM promotes employee empowerment and human rights protection and Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 41 www.dsm.com Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 42 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board — People @MIMcBurney It’s a HUGE turnout for #marchforscience in Chicago. @DSM On Earth Day, millions of people around the world joined the March for Science to promote science-based public policies including policies related to climate change. Hundreds of DSM employees joined the non-partisan rallies in cities like Washington, .C. ( ), Chicago (Illinois, ), aastricht ( etherlands) and elsewhere. DSM also signed the letter “We’re Still In”, acknowledging that public and private actors, including the business community, are still committed to achieving the Paris Agreement on climate change. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 43 www.dsm.com @DSMNederland Four go by bike to isseln (CH), bringing spades to start building the new Biomass generator #greenpower & heat Heerlen, The Netherlands DSM operates more and more on renewable energy. We took another step forward in 2017 when our Sisseln facility in Switzerland broke ground on a new onsite biomass cogeneration plant that will reduce our carbon footprint by 48,000t CO2eq a year. When the plant comes online at the end of 2018, it will produce steam from biomass locally sourced through certiﬁed sustainable forestry. Some of DSM’s employees even rode by bike from the Netherlands to Switzerland to bring the spades for the groundbreaking. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 44 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board — People Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 45 www.dsm.com Planet There’s only one Earth 62% Sales of Brighter Living Solutions (ECO+ / People+), working toward 65% by 2020 At DSM we reduce our environmental impact, enable our customers to do the same, and advocate for climate action. 21% 26% 3% A-rating Purchased GreenhouseEnergy efficiency CDP Climate and electricity from gas efficiency improvement Water. Ranks no.1 renewable sources, improvement cumulative versus Sustainalytics and up from 8% in cumulative versus 2015. Ambition of Gold Class DJSI. 2016. 2008. Compared to more than 10% in 23% in 2016. 2025. Target 40-45% by 2025. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 46 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board — Planet Sustainability is our core value. It is what makes us different DSM is committed to addressing climate change by reducing from other companies and drives our business. We lead by the impact of our operations and our supply chain, enabling example, so we look for opportunities to improve our our customers to reduce their impact with solutions for a lowenvironmental footprint and the footprint of our supply chain. carbon economy, and advocating climate action. We also work closely with customers to deliver goods and services that are better for people and/or the planet. Our We reduce our own greenhouse-gas (GHG) emissions by: portfolio of Brighter Living Solutions — products with benefit to society and/or the environment compared to mainstream sourcing more electricity from renewable sources; and solutions — now accounts for 62% of our net sales. improving the energy efficiency of our existing operations. Our operating network spans more than 100 commercial To encourage investments in low-carbon or carbon-free production facilities in over 40 countries. The DSM technologies we use an internal carbon price of € 50/t CO2eq Responsible Care Plan 2016-2020, an essential part of our in the valuations of large investment projects. company strategy, describes our environmental targets and what actions we are taking. Our approach supports the DSM's climate change strategy received an A-rating from CDP Sustainable Development Goals, especially SDG 7 (Affordable in 2017 for the second year in a row. Still, we continue to and Clean Energy), SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and search for improvements. We have reviewed our GHG Production) and SDG 13 (Climate Action). These align well with emissions within the context of the Paris Agreement. Based several topics from our materiality matrix, see 'Materiality' on on this review, we are defining new plans so that DSM page 26: continues to be a leader on the topic of climate change. Climate change & renewable energy Scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions Resource scarcity / Circular & bio-based economy Driven by our business growth, the scope 1 + 2 market-based Water security GHG emissions increased from 1.4 to 1.5 million tons of Biodiversity CO2eq in 2017. For definitions, see 'Explanations of some Product Stewardship concepts and ratios' on page 240. For more detailed information about our Planet performance, DSM's GHG efficiency improved further from 23% in 2016 to see 'Sustainability statements − Planet' on page 138. See 26% in 2017 versus our 2008 baseline1. Most of the efficiency also 'How DSM creates value for its stakeholders' on page improvement results are due to a greater use of electricity from 24 and 'Stakeholder Engagement' on page 139. renewable sources as well as the success of our energy efficiency program. Changes in GHG calculation Climate change & renewable energy methodologies can positively or negatively influence the reported performance. In 2017, part of the improvement can be explained by better insights into how to determine certain Aspiration 2017 2016 contributions to our GHG emissions. Greenhouse gas (GHG) GHG efficiency Scope 3 GHG emissions improvement 40-45% DSM's scope 3 emissions amounted to about 21 million tons cumulative versus 2008 in 2025 26% 23% of CO2eq in 2017, which is around 1 million tons higher than GHG emissions scope 2016. This figure is based on calculations using global 1 + 2 market-based emission factors, estimates, extrapolations and assumptions. (million tons) 1.5 1.4 GHG emissions scope The main scope 3 categories are purchased goods and 1 + 2 location-based services and end-of-life-treatment of sold products. For both (million tons) 1.6 1.5 categories the calculated emissions went up in line with the Energy higher production volumes and associated spend. The Primary energy use (PJ) 23.6 22.6 investments category increased due to an exchange rate Energy efficiency impact. At DSM, we try to sustainably reduce our carbon improvement > 10% footprint across the value chain, for example, through the DSM cumulative versus 2015 in 2025 3% 2% Supplier Sustainability Program. % Purchased electricity 50% from renewable sources in 2025 21% 8% 1 For 2017, the GHG efficiency improvement is based on market-based emissions. For the period before 2017, market-based emissions were not measured, so the GHG efficiency improvement is based on location-based emissions. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 47 www.dsm.com Scope 3 GHG Emissions site through the hot summer period at high production in CO2eq, million tons capacity to build up stock for a planned turnaround in 2018, ■ Purchased goods & services ■ Investments which led to an increased use of energy. ■ Other upstream categories ■ Other downstream categories In 2017, we continued our energy efficiency program to help ■ End-of-life-treatment reduce emissions and energy costs. The program has a dedicated annual investment budget to support those projects that have a longer payback period than typical business 12 projects. In 2017, there were about 30 energy efficiency 9.9 10.0 projects. Typical projects were LED lighting, steam trap 7.9 improvements and better motor efficiency. These should 8 7.3 deliver approximately 90TJ energy savings and 6,200t CO2eq reduction per year. A more ambitious energy efficiency 4 1.9 program was developed and approved for 2018. 1.7 0.8 0.9 0.25 0.25 0 2016 2017 Renewable energy DSM is a member of the Climate Group's RE100 — leading companies that have committed to sourcing 100% of their We also develop products for the circular and bio-based electricity from renewable sources at the earliest possible economy to further reduce scope 3 emissions. See opportunity. Our commitment is to source 50% of our 'Stakeholder engagement − Suppliers' on page 140 and electricity from renewable sources by 2025 and 100% at the Resource scarcity / Circular & bio-based economy elsewhere earliest possible opportunity. in this chapter. We are making excellent progress against our intermediate Avoided emissions target. Purchased electricity from renewable sources Most of the benefits of our Brighter Living Solutions with increased from 8% in 2016 to 21% in 2017. Much of this environmental benefits happen in the application or use phase. progress is the result of DSM Nutritional Products' Swiss That means they contribute to avoided emissions downstream manufacturing sites, which source approximately 50% in the value chain. electricity from renewable sources as of 2017, and two new Power Purchase Agreements to participate in two wind parks, For example, mooring ropes made with Dyneema® are one in the US and one in the Netherlands. When fully approximately 80% lighter than traditional steel cables. They constructed, the participation in the US will deliver an are also stronger and last longer. Their lighter weight makes estimated 125 GWh of wind power to DSM. The Windpark mooring faster, leading to significant fuel and GHG emission Bouwdokken together with the earlier contracted Windpark savings over the seven-year lifetime of a rope. Roughly 4,900t Krammer will, once fully operational, deliver approximately CO2eq are avoided when using a 100m-long mooring rope 105 GWh. Additionally, we signed a contract which will bring made with Dyneema®. the share of purchased electricity from renewable sources for the Netherlands to 100% in 2018. Our solutions for brewing beer reduce the energy required during the production process, saving money and reducing We also look for opportunities to replace fossil fuels used in GHG emissions. Brewers Clarex® is a stabilization technology our own processes. The biomass plant at our DSM Nutritional that eliminates the cold stabilization process, and our Brewers Products site in Sisseln (Switzerland), which is currently under Compass® removes the need for consistently high-quality construction, is the first major success in this area so far. The malt, replacing it with unmalted alternatives. In 2017, these project was initiated to avoid further investment in the life time two products contributed estimated avoided emissions of extension of DNP's natural gas-fired cogeneration plant dating approximately 82,000t CO2eq. from the 1960s-1970s. To address this, a partnership has been developed with ENGIE and EWZ that will build, own, Energy transition operate and maintain the biomass cogeneration plant. DSM's energy efficiency improvement is on track, increasing to 3% in 2017 versus our baseline 2015. The annual improvement was 0.6%, lower than our aspiration of 1% improvement per year. Our DSM Nutritional Products site in Jiangshan (China) impacted the overall result due to a product portfolio shift toward more energy intensive products and lower efficiency of the powerplant. Exceptionally, we ran the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 48 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board — Planet Other emissions to air components, and materials at their highest utility and value at all times (Ellen MacArthur Foundation) through the large-scale recovery and re-use of materials. Aspiration 2017 2016 Air emissions efficiency improvement versus 40% by Aspiration 2017 2016 2015 2020 41% 25% Renewable raw materials Air emissions (x 1,000 Renewable raw materials 15.4% 16.5% tons) Waste VOC 6.6 8.9 80-90% NOx 0.7 0.8 Waste recycled in 2020 84% 83% SO2 0.28 0.33 Non-hazardous waste (kt) Recovered 104 113 Incineration1 12 11 Our continuous improvements, especially at our Landfill 20 18 manufacturing sites, helped to enhance our air emission Hazardous waste (kt) efficiency by 21% in 2017 compared to 2016 and by 41% Recovered 40 33 versus our baseline of 2015. Especially for our sites in China, Incineration1 23 22 reducing air emissions is a key topic. As a result, they delivered Landfill 3 1 most of the reported improvement. Although we achieved the target set forth in our Responsible Care Plan 2015-2020, we 1 Includes incineration with and without heat recovery. initiated several new projects to move to closed systems that prevent emissions, and to install off-gas treatment systems in 2018 to further reduce VOC emissions. The bio-based economy is one that obtains its raw materials from nature (biomass) to produce materials, chemicals, energy and fuel. “ Climate change is both a x For DSM, these concepts are mutually reinforcing and provide challenge and an incredible opportunities for increased productivity, improved sustainability and innovation. We adopt a multi-faceted value business opportunity. It's chain approach, and try to embed these concepts into our sourcing, operations, innovation and portfolio, and to advance time to seize that opportunity 'closed-loop' solutions via partnerships. — to create a new lowCircular economy carbon economy and leave Renewable our children and energy grandchildren a healthy ct s ts uc d planet. ” semble disas o Technosphere Biosphere pr pro (recycle & re-use) (decomposition e& & enrichment) a ss e m ble Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Managing Board du Resource scarcity / Circular & bio-based economy & lect uc od With the rapid growth of the world's population, the total Co l Pr demand for resources is expected to reach 130 billion tons by 2050 according to Accenture. That is more than 400% overuse of the earth's total capacity. At DSM, we are committed to securing the future availability of natural resources and unlocking more value from the limited resources we have. The circular economy is one that is restorative and regenerative by design, and aims to keep products, Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 49 www.dsm.com We focus on exploring ways to: Water security reduce the use of critical resources; Managing our water utilization in a sustainable way is an replace scarce, hazardous, and potentially harmful important part of DSM's daily operations. We have supported resources; the UN CEO Water Mandate since 2011. In 2017, we received extend the lifetime of products; an A-rating from CDP for our water governance and enable recycling and redesign with smart materials; and management strategy. recover waste streams. Renewable raw materials Aspiration 2017 2016 Sustainable resources are essential to securing resource Sustainable water availability into the future and reducing GHGs by putting management carbon back 'in the loop'. The renewable raw materials we use Water risk include waste from the agricultural industry, yeasts and assessments 90% enzymes, carbohydrates, and natural oils and acids. In 2017, completed in 2020 100% 67% the share of spend on renewable raw materials decreased to Water risk assessment in 15.4% versus 16.5% in 2016. This was despite an overall mitigating actions progress increase in the absolute amount. For more on sustainable Water consumption biomass, see our position paper on the company website. (million m3) 23 22 Water use (million m3) 114 104 One of our applications for renewable raw materials is Emissions to water Decovery®, our novel plant-based resin technology platform COD (kt) 2.5 2.4 for high-performance paints, coatings and inks. This platform uses a variety of renewable building blocks such as sugars, starches, natural oils and materials from trees and agricultural We believe that water risks are local by nature, so we focus on waste that do not compete with the food chain to produce local water risk assessments and thorough follow-up. In 2017, high-performance resins, typically comprising 30-50% biowe updated our water risk assessment methodology to the based content. Sigma Air Pure, a bio-based wall paint based latest standards. We incorporated the screening for water on Decovery®, also enhances the indoor air climate by stress using 'WRI Aqueduct' and 'WWF-DEG Water Risk reducing up to 70% of the formaldehyde in indoor air. Filter' to determine which DSM sites are in areas of water stress and carried out the new updated water risk assessment Waste at all relevant sites. The main identified water risks are related One aspect of enabling the circular economy involves reducing to water quality, changing local regulations and limitations in and recovering waste. DSM recycles as much as possible. local infrastructure. The risk exposure to water scarcity has Landfilling is our last resort. been found as very limited in the regions where we operate. Mitigation actions are currently being defined and will be Our definition of waste recycled is the percentage of total followed up in the coming period 2018-2020. waste related to normal operations that is recycled or, if this is not possible, incinerated off site with heat recovery. In 2017, 84% of DSM's waste was recycled, which is 1% up compared Water security continues to be a concern for the world's to 2016. Maintaining the recycling performance was a growing population, with many areas already under challenge given the fact that we lost a large waste stream stress of scarcity or pollution, or areas that suffer damage recovery outlet from DSM Nutritional Products' Dalry site from natural disasters. We treat water security as a (United Kingdom) for use in land restoration. The loss was material topic with a management approach that focuses compensated by various new recycling opportunities that on water at the local level. Via this report, we report our have been successfully implemented. progress on water security toward the UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate. For example, at DSM Nutritional Products in Mairinque (Brazil) we found an excellent opportunity to recover material. Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Managing Board Extensive analysis proved that a certain waste stream, which until now had been landfilled, contains ideal nutrients for organic compost which can be used as plant fertilizer. We expect this to reduce our landfill by an estimated 900 tons per year. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 50 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board — Planet To strengthen our water management in the coming years, a Our coating resin NeoPac™ PU-580 is an example of how new corporate water management standard was defined in DSM addresses Product Stewardship. The quality of air in a line with the Alliance for Water Stewardship standard and the freshly painted room is affected by components that are UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate. This will be rolled emitted from paints. DSM Resins & Functional Materials out at our sites in water-stressed areas and other selected developed a breakthrough technology to replace one of the facilities. toxic substances in paints and coatings. The original substance is volatile and leads to health problems if it comes Compared to 2016, water consumption increased to 23 into contact with skin or the respiratory system. The market million m3. The increase was driven by higher production has long needed a replacement, but the search always failed volumes at various manufacturing sites. due to the inadequate performance of available alternatives. Based on a novel mechanism, DSM developed a nextDSM's water pollution reduction programs aim to reduce total generation binder which meets all the requirements for water pollution, mainly through reductions in Chemical Oxygen labeling, volatile organic compounds, and indoor air quality Demand (COD). Total COD increased slightly from 2.4kt in without compromising on performance. This development 2016 to 2.5kt in 2017. Waste water treatment improvement was commercialized as NeoPac™ PU-580 early in 2017. projects executed at the DSM Nutritional Products sites in Grenzach (Germany) and Sisseln (Switzerland) successfully lowered their COD emissions. However, various manufacturing sites reported higher COD emissions due to higher production volumes that offset the achieved improvements. Biodiversity 2017 2016 Sites near high biodiversity 61% 60% We identify and monitor protected areas near our sites and our impact on them. Sixty-one percent of our sites have been identified as being located in, or adjacent to, areas of high biodiversity value. In all cases, the relevant production sites operate within applicable limits as defined by local authorities. See also 'Stakeholder engagement' on page 139 and DSM's position paper on Biodiversity on the company website. Product Stewardship An important pillar within our sustainability and SHE strategy is Product Stewardship. This is defined as the responsibility to control and minimize all possible safety risks and adverse effects on human or animal health and on the environment that could be caused by (the substances present in) our products throughout the value chain. DSM's Global Product Stewardship Network continues to develop our position regarding Substances of (Very) High Concern. We strive to phase out these compounds from our portfolio. This excludes substances that are defined as 'essential to life' (in small quantities) and therefore cannot yet be substituted. We also recognize that certain ingredients are required for functionalities for which no feasible alternatives are currently available. In all cases, we ensure that scientific and risk-based controls are in place. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 51 www.dsm.com Profit Delivering profitable growth +15% +190 Adjusted EBITDA growth ROCE growth (in bps) versus 2016, to € 1,445 million versus € 2016, to 12.3% +9% 21% 44% Organic sales growth Higher-margin innovation Sales to highup from 2016 sales, meeting our 20% growth economies, ambition providing a well-balanced € 546 € 2 billion geographical spread in line with our aspiration Capital expenditure Proceeds from the sale of (cash-based), up from Patheon over recent years € 475 (in millions) € 1,781 € 1.85 Total net profit including Proposed dividend per gain on Patheon disposal ordinary share for 20171, of € 1,250 up from € 629 up from € 1.75 for 2016 (in millions) 1 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 52 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board — Profit Overall financial results 370 million or 34%. Overall Adjusted EBITDA margin for 2017 Within the Profit dimension of DSM's Triple P approach, DSM was 16.7%, an increase of 80 basis points versus the 15.9% aims to deliver a sustainable financial return. This ensures of 2016. business continuity and allows the company to grow, while at the same time providing shareholders the opportunity to invest Income statement in a company whose purpose drives sustainable abovemarket growth at higher returns. x € million 2017 2016 Change We established and implemented our three-year strategic plan Net sales 8,632 7,920 9% for the period 2016-2018 called Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth with two headline financial targets: high Adjusted EBITDA 1,445 1,262 15% single-digit percentage annual Adjusted EBITDA2 growth and EBITDA 1,348 1,146 18% high double-digit basis point annual ROCE growth. To deliver on these targets, we defined clear actions, including outpacing Adjusted operating market growth, cost reduction and efficiency improvements to profit 957 791 21% deliver € 250-300 million in cost savings versus the 2014 Operating profit 846 657 29% baseline, and making a continuous push for consistent improvements in capital efficiency. Adjusted net profit 706 520 36% In support of our targets, we also adjusted our global APM adjustments 1,075 109 organizational and operating model to create a more agile, commercially focused and cost-efficient company. We Net profit 1,781 629 183% refrained from large acquisitions and focused instead on Net profit attributable to delivering value from the current portfolio and extracting value equity holders of from the monetization of our joint venture partnerships. Koninklijke DSM N.V. 1,769 621 185% This chapter includes an overview of the key financial metrics ROCE (in %) 12.3 10.4 of the company and our performance in 2017. Adjusted EBITDA margin, (in %) 16.7 15.9 In 2017, DSM delivered strong financial results again as we significantly exceeded our financial targets. Our focus on driving above-market sales growth, while relentlessly pursuing Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) was also well ahead of cost and efficiency improvement initiatives as well as target, up 190 basis points to 12.3% in 2017 versus 10.4% in maintaining capital discipline, continued to deliver strong 2016. Since the kick-off of our successful Strategy 2018, results in both Nutrition and Materials. ROCE is up 470 basis points versus end of 2015. DSM reported net sales of € 8,632 million, an increase of 9% Capital efficiency is a key driver of cash generation. One of our versus 2016. Group organic sales growth was 9%, mainly key focus areas continued to be the improvement in our driven by a strong volume growth of 7%, clearly above market. working capital as percentage of total sales. At the end of All businesses, both in Nutrition and Materials, contributed well 2017, total working capital was 17.2%, compared to 18.4% to this growth. Prices were overall slightly up, partly offset by end of 2016 and clearly better than our aspiration of 'below somewhat weaker currencies. 20%'. Adjusted EBITDA grew by an impressive 15% to € 1,445 Innovation plays an important role in driving both top-line and million, far ahead of the high single-digit growth target we bottom-line growth. With 21% innovation sales in 2017, which originally set with Strategy 2018. Strong EBITDA growth in the we define as sales from products and solutions introduced in business was also supported by our cost-reduction and the last five years, we are delivering against our ambitious efficiency improvement programs, which progressed as aspiration of 20%. In 2017, DSM also made progress on planned and are on track to deliver the targeted benefits. DSM promising innovation projects that could have a wider societal achieved run-rate cumulative gross cost savings of about impact and drive future growth. These include the Clean Cow € 195 million by the end of 2017. In the first two years of project, the Green Ocean partnership (now called Veramaris), Strategy 2018, we have increased our Adjusted EBITDA by € Stevia and Niaga®. 2 In presenting and discussing DSM's financial position, operating results and cashflows, DSM uses certain Alternative performance measures (APMs) not defined by IFRS. These APMs are used because they are an important measure of DSM's business development and DSM's management performance. A full reconciliation of IFRS performance measures to the APMs is given in the 'Alternative performance measures' on page 165. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 53 www.dsm.com During 2017, we strengthened our portfolio through smaller growth compared to 2016. Exchange rate fluctuations had a acquisitions, including Twilmij (Dutch feed premix company), negative impact of 1%, balancing out a 1% positive effect from UP4® brand (probiotics for consumer health), Inner Mongolia acquisitions and consolidations. Rainbow Biotechnology (majority stake in hydrocolloid solutions for human nutrition), BioCare (probiotics for Sales growth was strong among all regions, with favorable consumer health), Sunshine (solar photovoltaic backsheet high-single digit growth in Western Europe as well as in North technology) and Amyris' production facility in Brazil (for bioand Latin America. We performed well in Brazil, despite the based farnesene). Furthermore, DSM made an equity disruption caused by the meat scandal that impacted the investment in Amyris, Inc. (USA) and entered into a market for beef and poultry exports, and against a backdrop development arrangement for bio-based nutritional of economic uncertainty. ingredients. Double-digit sales growth was achieved in China, India and During the year, DSM also extracted significant value with the Eastern Europe. All high-growth economies together currently sale of the remaining stake in Patheon to Thermo Fisher represent 44% of DSM's sales (45% when Africa is included), Scientific Inc., bringing the total cash proceeds from the exit which is in line with 2016. The share of sales in these from our former pharma custom manufacturing activities to economies as a proportion of DSM's total sales gives us a approximately € 2 billion over the years. The remaining two well-balanced global footprint. partnerships, DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals and ChemicaInvest, both showed solid results in 2017. Adjusted EBITDA (Adjusted operating profit before depreciation and amortization) increased by 15% or € 183 Net sales and Adjusted EBITDA million, from € 1,262 million in 2016 to € 1,445 million in 2017. At € 8,632 million, net sales in 2017 were 9% higher than in 2016 (€ 7,920 million). Organic growth was 9%, driven by both Adjusted EBIT (Adjusted operating profit) rose from € 791 Nutrition and Materials. Volume development accounted for a million in 2016 to € 957 million in 2017, up 21%. 7% increase, while price/mix had a 2% positive effect on Net sales Adjusted EBITDA x € million 2017 2016 % change 2017 2016 % change DSM 8,632 7,920 9% 1,445 1,262 15% Nutrition 5,579 5,169 8% 1,053 931 13% Materials 2,825 2,513 12% 488 435 12% Innovation Center 169 167 1% 9 1 Corporate Activities 59 71 (105) (105) Net sales bridge 2017 Adjusted EBITDA margin in % x € million 8,632 ■ 2016 ■ 2017 -1% 1% 2% 20 18.9 18.0 17.3 17.3 15.9 16.7 15 7% 10 5 7,920 0 Nutrition Materials Total 2016 Volume Price/mix FX Other 2017 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 54 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board — Profit Net sales by destination Net sales by origin in % in % ■ Netherlands ■ China ■ Netherlands ■ China ■ Rest of Western Europe ■ India ■ Rest of Western Europe ■ India ■ Eastern Europe ■ Japan ■ Eastern Europe ■ Japan ■ North America ■ Rest of Asia ■ North America ■ Rest of Asia ■ Latin America ■ Rest of the world ■ Latin America ■ Rest of the world 10 3 4 10 3 4 11 3 1 11 3 1 12 25 11 25 3 3 2 24 2 25 7 8 13 12 2017 2016 2017 2016 7 6 18 17 12 12 30 31 22 2 2 23 Net sales by business segment Net sales by end-use market in % in % ■ Nutrition ■ Innovation Center ■ Food & Beverages ■ Metal/building & construction ■ Materials ■ Corporate Activities ■ Dietary Supplements ■ Automotive/transport ■ Early Life Nutrition ■ Electrical/electronics ■ Personal Care ■ Packaging ■ Animal Nutrition ■ Other 21 21 10 14 10 15 6 6 33 32 5 10 5 10 2017 2016 7 2017 7 2016 6 6 6 5 64 65 4 4 32 31 Net profit Net profit attributable to equity holders of DSM increased by € 1,148 million to € 1,769 million. This increase was mainly a result of the higher Adjusted EBITDA (up € 183 million) and the sale of DSM's share in Patheon (€ 1,250 million) and other differences in APM adjustments (-€ 175 million), see below. Expressed per ordinary share, net earnings amounted to € 10.07 in 2017 (2016: € 3.52). Financial income and expense decreased by € 29 million year over year to € 104 million mainly caused by higher results on derivatives and on other participating interests. The reported effective tax rate over Adjusted taxable result 2017 was 16.8% (2016: 18.3%). This decrease was mainly caused by a one-time benefit from the US tax reform. Adjustments made in arriving at DSM's Alternative performance measures (APM adjustments) Total APM adjustments for the full year amounted to a profit of € 1,075 million, consisting of a profit regarding associates and joint ventures of € 1,158 million (mainly due to the gain of € 1,250 million on the sale of the shares of Patheon N.V. and impairments at associated companies of € 95 million), offset by € 60 million in restructuring costs related to the ongoing cost-reduction programs, € 26 million relating to demolition, site closure and relocation cost, € 14 million of impairments and € 11 million of acquisition/ divestment-related and other costs, with a tax benefit of € 28 million. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 55 www.dsm.com Cash flow statement x € million 2017 2016 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 604 665 Cash flow provided by operating activities 996 1,018 Cash from / (used in) investing activities 689 (1,194) Cash from / (used in) financing activities (1,344) 113 Effect of exchange differences (46) 2 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 899 604 Cash flow provided by operating activities consists of the EBITDA for the year (€ 1,348 million) less various cash-out items including income tax of € 66 million and defined benefit plans of € 61 million, and changes in working capital of € 237 million. Our focus on cash flow resulted in a full-year operating cash flow of € 996 million, which is slightly below the comparative period in 2016, fully due to operating working capital (OWC) development as a result of higher net sales. See also 'Consolidated financial statements' on page 151. The cash from investing activities included the sale of the shares of Patheon N.V. (€ 1,535 million), partly offset by capital expenditures (€ 547 million) and various acquisitions (€ 242 million). The cash used in financing activities consisted mainly of the repayment of long-term loans (€ 818 million), dividend paid (€ 200 million), interest paid (€ 135 million) and repurchase of shares (€ 297 million). For the full cash flow statement, see 'Consolidated cash flow statement' (Note 26) on page 162. Balance sheet The balance sheet total (total assets) reached € 12.8 billion at year-end (2016: € 13.0 billion). Equity increased by € 885 million compared to the position at the end of 2016. This increase was mainly due to the result on the sale of the shares of Patheon N.V. of € 1,250 million, offset mainly by net foreign exchange differences of € 637 million. Equity as a percentage of total assets increased from 48% to 55%. Compared to year-end 2016, net debt decreased by € 1,328 million to € 742 million. The gearing at year-end was 10%, a significant decrease compared to 25% at year-end 2016. Capital expenditure on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment amounted to € 586 million in 2017 (€ 546 million on a cash basis), which was 17% higher than the level of amortization and depreciation in support of the high organic growth. Total working capital amounted to € 1,499 million compared to € 1,481 million at year-end 2016, which represents 17.2% as a percentage of annualized fourth quarter 2017 sales (2016: 18.4%), comfortably below our aspiration of 20%. Cash-wise, the OWC increased by € 195 million related to organic growth. In absolute terms OWC was stable in 2017, as the increase of OWC related to organic growth (9%) was largely compensated by the weakening of mainly USD and CHF. The OWC percentage improved from 23.9% at year-end 2016 to 22.3% of annualized sales at year-end 2017. Cash and cash equivalents came to € 899 million at the end of the year; including current investments, this came to € 1,853 million (2016: € 1,548 million). Next to the regular cash flow, this increase was mainly attributable to the sale of the shares of Patheon N.V. (€ 1,535 million), partly offset by the repayment of long-term loans (€ 818 million) and the various acquisitions (€ 242 million). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 56 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board — Profit Balance sheet profile 2017 2016 x € million in % x € million in % Intangible assets 3,058 24 3,188 24 Property, plant and equipment 3,313 26 3,325 26 Other non-current assets 999 8 1,404 11 Cash and cash equivalents 899 7 604 5 Other current assets 4,533 35 4,437 34 Total assets 12,802 100 12,958 100 Equity 7,065 55 6,180 48 Provisions 204 2 182 1 Other non-current liabilities 3,358 26 3,492 27 Other current liabilities 2,175 17 3,104 24 Total equity and liabilities 12,802 100 12,958 100 Outlook 2018 DSM expects to deliver full-year 2018 results above the targets “ It is great to see how much x set in Strategy 2018, with an Adjusted EBITDA growth somewhat up from high single-digit to double-digit and a impact our growth initiatives, ROCE growth above 100 basis points. The expected substantial negative foreign exchange effects, based on as well as our cost-saving current rates, will be more than offset by a positive pricing environment in Nutrition, part of which is temporary in nature and efficiency improvement and expected to be heavily weighted towards the first half of the year. programs, have had since 2015. In 2018 we’ll focus on anchoring the new organization and delivering the full benefits. ” Geraldine Matchett, CFO Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 57 www.dsm.com Key business figures at a glance DSM's activities are grouped in three clusters: Nutrition, Materials and Innovation Center. We report separately on Corporate Activities. Results presented in this section (and elsewhere in this Report) relate to consolidated activities only (therefore nonconsolidated partnerships are excluded). Net sales Adjusted operating profit (EBIT) x € million 2017 2016 x € million 2017 2016 Nutrition 5,579 5,169 Nutrition 770 645 Materials 2,825 2,513 Materials 361 311 Innovation Center 169 167 Innovation Center (30) (24) Corporate Activities 59 71 Corporate Activities (144) (141) Total 8,632 7,920 Total 957 791 Adjusted EBITDA Capital employed at 31 December x € million 2017 2016 x € million 2017 2016 Nutrition 1,053 931 Nutrition 5,420 5,537 Materials 488 435 Materials 1,786 1,807 Innovation Center 9 1 Innovation Center 562 576 Corporate Activities (105) (105) Corporate Activities (2) (31) Total 1,445 1,262 Total 7,766 7,889 Adjusted EBITDA margin ROCE in % 2017 2016 in % 2017 2016 Nutrition 18.9 18.0 Nutrition 14.1 12.0 Materials 17.3 17.3 Materials 20.0 17.6 Total 16.7 15.9 Total 12.3 10.4 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 58 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board — Profit Capital expenditure x € million 2017 2016 Nutrition 407 331 Materials 124 106 Innovation Center 43 32 Corporate Activities 12 16 Total, accounting based 586 485 Non-cash items (39) (9) Customer funding (1) (1) Total, cash based 546 475 R&D expenditure (including associated IP expenditure) x € million as % of net sales 2017 2016 2017 2016 Nutrition 219 205 3.9 4.0 Materials 130 124 4.6 4.9 Innovation Center 75 75 44.4 44.9 Corporate Activities 20 22 33.9 31.0 Total 444 426 5.1 5.4 Workforce at 31 December headcount 2017 2016 Nutrition 13,676 13,260 Materials 4,635 4,460 Innovation Center 685 619 Corporate Activities 2,058 2,447 Total 21,054 20,786 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 59 www.dsm.com Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 60 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board — Profit @h.sobue It was delicious #ramennoodle2017 Japan Eggs are an excellent source of nutrition because they are packed with protein and vitamins. DSM helps farmers around the world produce high-quality eggs in a more sustainable way thanks to our nutritional expertise and range of vitamins, carotenoids, enzymes and eubiotics. Healthy hens produce eggs with a strong shell, an attractive yolk and higher nutrient content. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 61 www.dsm.com @FollowTheLita No more “so-called” energy products for me! @Culturelle Pro-Well® gives me sustained energy & is packed with vitamins! New York | Los Angeles, USA Culturelle® from DSM’s i-Health brand of probiotics became the bestselling probiotic supplement in the US in 2016 and, in 2017, the number one in the world. An example of the way DSM is increasingly close to consumers, Culturelle® supports gut health, a healthy immune system and energy1. We want people to feel their best and have a healthy lifestyle. 1 These statements have not been evaluated by the US Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 62 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board — Profit Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 63 www.dsm.com Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 64 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board — Profit @snreisewelt #australia2017 #beach #travel Cape e Grand ational Park, Australia Roughly two-thirds of Australians will be diagnosed with skin cancer by the time they are 70 and about half of all Americans will develop it by the age of 65. o ers the broadest range of ﬁlters in the world and we’re promoting sun protection to help people stay healthy. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 65 www.dsm.com @thewholefooddiary Countryside bound with an oatmilk decaf cappuccino in my @keepcup and a treat ham and gruyere croissant for Clayton Clapham Junction, UK People want to be healthy and they want to en oy what they eat. t , we o er a range of solutions for better nutrition. For example, ’s new Prevent e® helps stop the formation of acrylamide in foods like bread. When bread is baked at high temperatures acrylamide can form. Acrylamide is a known carcinogen. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 66 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board — Profit Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 67 www.dsm.com Nutrition Everyone wants to be healthy #1 DSM is the world’s largest supplier of vitamins, carotenoids, nutritional lipids, enzymes and other nutritional ingredients. We supply enough Quali®-A (vitamin A) to deliver the sufficient daily dose to more than 750 million people. Antioxidants like vitamin A are vital to good health and longevity. They benefit eye health, boost immunity and foster cell growth. € 5,579 +8% 18.9% Net sales (in millions) Organic sales growth Adjusted EBITDA up from € 5,169 up from 2016 margin up from 18.0% in 2016 in 2016 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 68 www.dsm.com Review of business — Nutrition Nutrition cluster performance x € million 2017 2016 Net sales bridge 2017 Net sales: x € million DSM Nutritional Products: 5,579 0% 0% Animal Nutrition & Health 2,660 2,399 1% Human Nutrition & Health 1,939 1,823 Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients 353 337 7% Other1 86 74 5,038 4,633 DSM Food Specialties 541 536 5,169 Total 5,579 5,169 Organic sales growth (in %) 8 5 2016 Volume Price/mix FX Other 2017 Adjusted EBITDA 1,053 931 Adjusted operating profit 770 645 Capital expenditure 407 331 Nutrition is outperforming the aspirations outlined in Strategy Capital employed at 31 2018. The business continued strong momentum, clearly December 5,420 5,537 delivering above-market growth with an increasingly higherROCE (in %) 14.1 12.0 value portfolio of feed and food solutions. The nutrition Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %) 18.9 18.0 improvement programs, covering cost reductions, operational R&D expenditure 219 205 and sales excellence, continued to underpin ongoing progress. Workforce at 31 December (headcount) 13,676 13,260 Full year 2017 sales increased by 8% organically when compared to 2016, led by volumes up 7% and prices up 1%. 1 Other covers pharma and custom manufacturing & services activities. The successful implementation of the growth initiatives continued to drive organic growth, both in Animal Nutrition and Human Nutrition, clearly outpacing market growth. Business Full year 2017 Adjusted EBITDA was € 1,053 million, up 13% DSM Nutritional Products and DSM Food Specialties form our driven by organic sales growth in combination with the impact Nutrition cluster. This cluster provides solutions for animal of the cost-saving and efficiency improvement programs. This feed, food and beverages, pharmaceuticals, infant nutrition, increase in Adjusted EBITDA equals the very strong 2016, dietary supplements and personal care. DSM is positioned in when Adjusted EBITDA also grew by 13%. The Adjusted all steps of the feed and food value chains: the production of EBITDA margin of 18.9% further improved in 2017 compared pure active ingredients, their incorporation into sophisticated with 18.0% in 2016. forms and the provision of tailored premixes and forward solutions. Our unique portfolio of products and services is Trends global and highly diversified, serving customers and other stakeholders across various end-markets around the world. Pressure on our food systems is increasing because of More information is available in the DSM Factbook on the population growth, climate change, resource scarcity, company website. government policies and rising political tensions. DSM is committed to delivering nutritional solutions that help keep both people and planet healthy. Urbanization and higher living standards continue to drive demand for food that is fresh, convenient, healthy, perceived as more natural, and sourced in an ethical and sustainable way. Of course, it also has to be safe. As people have more disposable income, they look for healthier options, including food with less added sugar and salt. Generally, the growing middle classes are also eating more meat (i.e. animal protein). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 69 www.dsm.com DSM works with customers and other stakeholders to deliver with WFP, we also raise awareness of the importance of more sustainable solutions that have less impact on the nutrition, particularly micronutrients, both for individual health environment, especially in Animal Nutrition & Health. For as well as the foundation for a healthy, economically example, our enzymes help animals improve digestion and successful society. Today, DSM reaches more than 30 million extract more nutritional value from feed. That way, they still people each year with improved nutrition through the grow well even when they eat less. As a result, fewer natural partnership. DSM also partners with the UN Children's Fund resources, such as land and water, are needed for protein (UNICEF) and other organizations around the world to directly production. address malnutrition. People around the world are also living longer because of rising In addition to our work on hunger, malnutrition, health and incomes and higher living standards. Aging people have well-being, DSM's innovations are increasingly focused on different nutritional needs than children and other adults. DSM improved sustainability throughout the product lifecycle and can offer tailored solutions to support health and well-being at the value it brings to customers and society at large. For every stage of life thanks to our expertise in food fortification example, in 2017 we continued our work on Project Clean and dietary supplementation. Cow to develop a feed solution that helps reduce methane emissions from cows. Methane is a very potent greenhouse Despite higher living standards around the world and a gas that contributes to climate change. Ruminants, such as growing focus on health, there are still many people who do cows, are responsible for ~27% of anthropogenic methane not have access to the food and nutrients they need to live to emissions globally. We also made progress on more planttheir full potential. About 800 million people go hungry and two based solutions, including Project Green Ocean (see 'Animal billion are malnourished. Climate change and geopolitical Nutrition & Health' on page 71) and alternatives to animal tensions that lead to more refugees and migrants are protein such as CanolaPRO™ (see 'DSM Business Incubator' exacerbating the problem. DSM is committed to ending on page 94). hunger and malnutrition. Through our Nutrition Improvement Program (NIP), we support better nutrition for some of the Governments around the world are increasingly focused on world's most vulnerable people, especially mothers and the environmental footprint of domestic industry. In recent children in places like Africa, India and areas of southern Asia. years, China in particular stepped up enforcement of its Science shows that good nutrition during the first 1,000 days environmental regulations, also known as the government's of life — from conception to a child's second birthday — is 'Blue Skies' policy. This policy addresses air, soil and water critical for growth and development. Inadequate nutrition at pollution and sets significantly higher standards, including this stage has irreversible negative consequences that can last higher standards for the many small and medium-sized vitamin a lifetime, including reduced cognitive ability. Women of childmanufacturers. The result is a more level playing field for these bearing age, as well as pregnant and lactating mothers, need manufacturers versus Western competitors. DSM has been a special support. Fortified foods and supplements can play a very reliable player in the market and able to support valuable role where available diets are inadequate. customers through this era of uncertainty, while at the same time being a frontrunner in compliance. In India, approximately 470 million people suffer from malnutrition. DSM's Project MANDI (Making A Nutrition Strategy Difference to India) aims to build a socio-commercial business model that will be able to deliver innovative local product The Nutrition cluster has unparalleled access to customers solutions including fortified food and staple products, thanks to our global footprint and our ability to customize especially rice, as well as vitamin and mineral supplements. formulations for local markets. The cluster is active in more The model also aims to facilitate community education to help than 60 countries. Our strategy accelerates growth by solve the issue of malnutrition in India, especially for children focusing on four key areas: and pregnant women. Expanding our core Sustainability & Innovation Adding new products and solutions Expanding in new segments and regions Sustainability is one of the key drivers of DSM's Nutrition New business models cluster. Our nutrition businesses support many of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), especially SDGs We have been expanding our core by adding new premix 2, 3, 12 and 13. facilities to our global network, including a new animal premix facility in China as well as the acquisition of Twilmij B.V., a At DSM, we are proud of our strategic partnership with the UN nutritional feed solution provider in the Netherlands. The World Food Programme (WFP). We help improve the acquisition of BioCare Copenhagen A/S (Denmark) in nutritional content of the food distributed by WFP. Together December further expanded our offering in human gut health Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 70 www.dsm.com Review of business — Nutrition ingredients with probiotics, an attractive market segment in Animal Nutrition & Health nutritional ingredients. Another example of our strategy in action is the new products Highlights 2017 and solutions we will develop through our cooperation with Amyris, involving vitamins and other nutritional ingredients. Strong organic growth DSM made an equity investment in Amyris, Inc. in the US in New facility within the China network mid-2017. At the end of the year, we also acquired Amyris' Acquisition of Twilmij B.V. in the Netherlands production facility in Brazil and intellectual property related to Strengthened organization of the global commercial farnesene, a bio-based key intermediate for many applications headquarters for food, feed and personal care. Strong progress on innovation projects Expanding into new segments and regions is also a key part of the nutrition strategy. DSM's investment in hydrocolloids with the acquisition of a majority equity stake in Inner Mongolia The Animal Nutrition & Health business achieved sales of Rainbow Biotechnology Co., Ltd. is one such example. € 2,660 million in 2017 versus € 2,399 million in 2016. Sales were exceptionally strong, with 11% organic growth, driven by Our fourth growth area, new business models, mainly 9% higher volumes, albeit against an easy comparative base. represents our drive to move further down the value chain, The business continued to benefit from its strategy to address closer to consumers and farmers. In 2017, we stepped up the a wide range of species, as well as from its diversified expansion of our branded, direct-to-consumer dietary geographical presence, covering all the major growth areas in supplement business (i-Health) into the Asian market, the world, and its strong forward-integrated premix position. especially in China. Also in China, we significantly broadened Markets in animal feed were favorable and supportive in 2017, our branded, direct-to-farmer feed solutions, a strategy that except for Latin America, where weak economic conditions has provided us with extensive access to the relatively impacted domestic demand. Prices were 2% above 2016, fragmented local farming community. owing to higher premix and vitamin prices. In 2017, we reorganized some parts of our nutrition business, DSM Animal Nutrition & Health serves the global feed industry namely Human Nutrition & Health, by market segment (e.g. with innovative and sustainable nutritional solutions. A pioneer dietary supplements, food & beverage, early-life nutrition, NIP). since the earliest days of feed additives, we draw on the latest In addition to the regional geographic focus, these global science to provide a unique portfolio that runs from vitamins market segments have been designed to drive even greater through carotenoids to cutting-edge eubiotics and feed customer intimacy and growth, while at the same time enzymes. providing insights to key innovation needs for the future. Growing population and growing incomes are driving demand As we pursue opportunities across the Nutrition cluster, DSM for animal protein. Our products help producers of animal feed takes a balanced view. We consider potential risks to our and meat, including farmers, raise animals more efficiently and business and make an effort to mitigate these, including longsustainably. Products that boost efficiency are supporting term changes in food preferences and food systems, demand DSM's organic growth, while solutions for more sustainable for dietary supplements, commoditization of nutritional production present new business opportunities now and in the ingredients, the spread of infectious diseases in animals, and future. the effects of geopolitical and macroeconomic developments. For more information on how DSM manages risks, see 'Risk Greater interest in where food comes from and how it is management' on page 112. produced is driving some of this change. For example, concerns about antimicrobial resistance are leading to DSM Nutritional Products consumer and regulatory pressure to reduce antibiotic use in animal nutrition. DSM anticipated this development and has DSM Nutritional Products has three market-facing entities: worked over the last ten years to position our broad and Animal Nutrition & Health, Human Nutrition & Health and proven portfolio of eubiotics as the solution. In 2017, we Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients. DSM Nutritional Products stepped up our gut health strategy for antibiotic-free animal had total sales of € 5,038 million in 2017, a 9% increase production and rolled it out globally. As a result, sales of compared to the € 4,633 million in 2016. eubiotics for gastrointestinal functionality grew by 20% versus 2016. CRINA® Poultry Plus performed particularly well. This patented formulation of benzoic acid and essential oils is an innovative eubiotic solution for broiler chickens. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 71 www.dsm.com In 2017, the core portfolio also had strong growth with the DSM's innovation pipeline is broadening our portfolio of radical reinforcement of our Hy-D® positioning in the vitamin D breakthroughs for more sustainable production of animal segment. Used worldwide, Hy-D® is a vitamin D3 metabolite protein. Project Clean Cow is an excellent example. Trials that specifically supports bone development, muscle show a greater than 30% reduction in methane emissions from formation and immune response in poultry and swine. cows fed with our new feed solution. Clean Cow is scheduled to launch after 2019. In China, we continued to expand our core with the growth of premix solutions. This year in Shandong, we opened our sixth Another example is Project Green Ocean, now branded as Chinese premix facility. The country is the largest feed Veramaris. Veramaris is a joint venture of DSM and Evonik to producer in the world and one of the most dynamic markets produce omega-3 fatty acids from natural algae for animal for Animal Nutrition & Health. Over the last five years our nutrition in the aquaculture and pet food segments. This business in China grew by double digits. Food consumption Brighter Living Solution is a breakthrough innovation that will trends remain strong and continue to be led by coastal cities. enable cost-effective production of omega-3 fatty acids (DHA However, the densely populated inland regions increasingly and EPA) without using fish oil from wild caught fish, a finite present opportunities thanks in part to the development of resource. Together, DSM and Evonik are investing USD 200 e-commerce including Alibaba, an important sales channel for million in a manufacturing facility, which is under construction our business. Our growth in China is bolstered by our ability in Blair (Nebraska, USA) and scheduled to open in 2019. to reliably access, supply and support a relatively fragmented market through our direct-to-farmer business model. Human Nutrition & Health Highlights 2017 Organic growth from business-to-business and directto-consumer solutions Culturelle® becomes world's top branded probiotic supplement Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient applications gain momentum Africa Improved Foods plant opening Acquisition of BioCare Copenhagen A/S in Denmark Opening of the Shandong premix facility in China in September. Human Nutrition & Health had sales of € 1,939 million in 2017 In Europe, we also expanded our core business with the versus € 1,823 million in 2016, led by 7% organic growth. After acquisition of Twilmij B.V., a Dutch nutritional solutions a significant step-up in organic growth in 2016, the business company in the animal feed sector. Twilmij's geographic maintained its positive momentum with 6% volume growth location in the Netherlands strengthens our foothold in and a slightly positive price development, despite ongoing Northwest-European markets, bringing us closer to softness in some of its end-market segments. The growth customers and allowing better service levels. initiatives embarked on under Strategy 2018 resulted in this above-market growth. In Latin America, domestic demand was impacted by weak economic conditions and then exacerbated by a meat scandal Human Nutrition & Health provides solutions for the food & in Brazil that was unrelated to DSM. Beef and poultry exports beverage, dietary supplements, early-life nutrition, medical were impacted but both recovered quickly in the third quarter, nutrition and Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) markets. leading to a strong overall performance in the second half of We serve these industries with vitamins, nutritional lipids, the year. carotenoids, nutraceuticals and custom nutrient premixes. In 2017, the organization of the global headquarters of Animal Our ability to deliver at a global scale while fostering local Nutrition & Health was strengthened. This included reinforcing customer intimacy continues to support above-market marketing and sales capabilities that will further support our growth. In fact, Human Nutrition & Health had strong organic growth strategy. growth of 7% in 2017 with all reporting units and strategic customer segments showing strong performance. By strengthening our innovation pipeline in each market segment, we are positioning ourselves for continued above-market growth opportunities in the near future. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 72 www.dsm.com Review of business — Nutrition regional and global partners to develop solutions like custom micronutrient interventions and fortified foods. “ Our organization is now fit for x In May, DSM opened a plant in Rwanda for Africa Improved purpose. We are better Foods (AIF), a joint venture with the Government of Rwanda and other international partners. In Rwanda, nearly 40% of positioned to serve each children under the age of five have stunted growth, a condition that is caused by malnutrition and often goes hand in hand market segment with with impaired cognitive development and other serious, sometimes lifelong health issues. AIF's mission is to address targeted solutions. ” micronutrient deficiencies. The new plant employs 260 people Chris Goppelsroeder, DSM Executive Committee who produce fortified cereals and porridges. AIF sources and President & CEO DSM Nutritional Products maize and soy from more than 9,000 local farmers. For more information about AIF and other initiatives that address hunger Human Nutrition & Health is moving closer to the consumer. and malnutrition, see 'Collaborative platforms and networks' More than 40% of the revenue comes from custom nutrient on page 28 or visit the company website. premixes, retail-ready solutions and consumer products that address areas of health such as cardiovascular, eye, cognitive In December, DSM acquired BioCare Copenhagen A/S and gut health. Our consumer products unit, i-Health, (Denmark). This acquisition expands our offering in gut health continued double-digit growth in 2017 and expanded ahead ingredients with probiotics, an attractive market segment in of expectations globally. Its star brand, Culturelle®, became nutritional ingredients, growing an estimated 7% per year. the world's top-selling probiotic in 2017. The omega-3 business also grew across several regions thanks to Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients innovations like MEG-3® Ultra. Following the North America launch of the MEG-3® Ultra in late 2016, DSM helped successfully convert the US omega-3 dietary supplement Highlights 2017 category towards concentrates throughout 2017 and further escalated growth of the omega-3 business in other regions. Continued growth in both personal care and aroma MEG-3® Ultra products leverage our new 3C technology that ingredients delivers highly-concentrated and customizable combinations Improved cost competitiveness in UV filters of EPA and DHA while providing peace of mind through a Now offering largest portfolio of UV filters in the world consistent supply chain. It provides brand owners with the Further organizational integration of the two versatility to innovate tailored health-focused products to meet businesses consumer needs across a lifetime and to eliminate key consumption barriers of omega-3 supplements such as capsule size. Sales were € 353 million in 2017, up from € 337 million in 2016. DSM's business in API applications continued to gain momentum in 2017. The trend for higher levels of vitamins, Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients offers solutions for omega-3 and carotenoids in pharmaceutical applications customers in the personal care, home care and fine fragrance supported growth. DSM is still the only company that holds markets. Our extensive portfolio includes aroma ingredients, CEPs (Certificate of Suitability of Monographs of the European vitamins and natural bio-actives, as well as UV filters, peptides Pharmacopoeia) and the US Drug Master Files for all 13 and polymers. DSM's solutions support the health and beauty essential vitamins. This means that pharmaceutical needs of an aging population with various skin and hair types companies working with DSM can get products to market around the world, and the increasing concerns around global faster. public health issues like air pollution and skin cancer. Our Human Nutrition & Health business also plays an This business grew well in 2017 thanks to an optimized supply important role in achieving SDG 2 (Zero Hunger) and SDG 3 chain and product mix as well as accelerated innovation and (Good Health and Well-being). The nightmare of hunger stronger customer relationships. We improved cost continues for 800 million people around the world and two competitiveness in certain segments like sun care and billion more suffer from micronutrient deficiencies, or hidden satisfied high, sustained demand for aroma ingredients. New hunger. That means they receive enough calories to survive, innovations boosted performance in our skin and hair care but not enough nutrients to thrive. Children are especially segments. We also continued expansion into make-up and vulnerable. DSM works with a range of stakeholders including body care with sensory modifiers and new performance ingredients. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 73 www.dsm.com Sun care was a highlight for the personal care business in constraints and therefore not able to fully benefit from strong 2017. We are on track with our ambitions in the UV filters demand. Initiatives to expand capacity and optimize supply market. Thanks to a new partnership with Nanjing Cosmos are underway. Savory Ingredients had a strong year driven by Chemical Co., Ltd., DSM now has the world's largest portfolio strong demand for its portfolio of yeast extracts, process of UV filters with the broadest range of protection across UVB, flavors, and taste modulators to provide an enjoyable taste UVA and blue light. The partnership will deliver two new UV experience in low-sugar, low-salt, and low-fat applications. filters, PARSOL® Max and PARSOL® Shield. The agreement also improves our supply chain and our ability to expand. DSM Food Specialties is a leading global supplier of specialty food enzymes, cultures, bio-preservation solutions, We expect demand for sunscreen to increase. For example, hydrocolloids, savory ingredients and solutions for sugar only 14% of men and 30% of women in the US use sunscreen reduction. Our ingredients and solutions are widely used to daily. Skin cancer rates are rising and sunscreen is proven to create a broad range of food products from grocery favorites reduce incidence of skin cancer. DSM and our customers are like yogurt, cheese and soups to specialized products like creating awareness around this issue. In 2017, we launched gluten-free bread or beer, meat substitutes, lactose-free milk a skin cancer prevention initiative and started offering and sugar-reduced beverages. With nearly 150 years of customers the DSM Sunscreen Optimizer™, a free online tool experience in biotechnology and fermentation for the food that helps them develop and fine-tune sunscreen formulations industry, the business group aims to enable better food for before costly, time-consuming SPF testing. DSM is also everyone, helping make existing diets healthier and more raising awareness around the issue of blue light from both the sustainable, and giving increasing numbers of people around sun and electronic devices. With the launch of PARSOL® Max, the world access to affordable, quality food. DSM was the first to offer solutions that protect skin against oxidative stress from blue light. There are five main market trends driving demand for our products: sugar reduction, enhanced taste experience, DSM's ALPAFLOR®, a successful range of organic bioimproved health and wellness, bio-preservation and food actives, is a great example of innovating for the natural trend chain efficiency. At DSM we are fully committed to delivering and was eagerly picked up by customers. Equally, aging innovative solutions that enable food producers to capture the populations provide opportunities for growth in the anti-aging opportunities presented by these trends, providing valuable segment, where DSM's SYN®-AKE, a small synthetic peptide, consumer and market insights alongside our innovative is a successful ingredient. specialty ingredients. Toward the end of the year, the more centrally organized We opened a new state-of-the-art biotechnology facility at our Aroma Ingredients were further integrated into the regionallysite in Delft (Netherlands) in April 2017, further expanding our driven Personal Care organization, while retaining strong R&D capabilities for applications in food and nutrition, feed, global key account management and connection to the core fuel, pharma and bio-based materials. manufacturing facility in Lalden (Switzerland). In food enzymes, our market-leading lactase enzyme, DSM Food Specialties Maxilact®, is increasingly popular for its natural sweetening properties, which allow dairy producers to reduce the amount of sugar used in products such as yogurts and flavored milks. Highlights 2017 Pending legislation in Europe drove demand for PreventASe®, an enzyme that reduces the levels of acrylamide New product introductions supporting health & in baked goods and snacks. wellness trends Solid growth especially in savory ingredients We further expanded our dairy portfolio with the introduction Acquisition of Inner Mongolia Rainbow Biotechnology of Delvo®Guard, a new range of protective cultures that in China for hydrocolloids reduce food waste in dairy. Effectively combating yeast and Grand opening of the state-of-the-art biotechnology mold growth, Delvo®Guard helps producers who are looking center in Delft (Netherlands) for clean-label solutions to reduce losses and increase product shelf life. Solutions such as DSM's ModuMax™ enable producers of In 2017, sales for DSM Food Specialties amounted to € 541 foods and beverages to deliver an enjoyable taste experience million, compared to € 536 million in 2016. Organic growth of in low-sugar, low-salt, and low-fat applications, by creating a 3% was driven by a solid performance in hydrocolloids, savory fuller mouthfeel and masking negative off-notes. ModuMax™, ingredients, bio-preservation, food & crop protection, cultures which was made widely available during the year, is also dairy and enzymes. The latter was hampered by some capacity Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 74 www.dsm.com Review of business — Nutrition allergen-free, suitable for vegetarian foods, and certified natural according to EU and US regulations. DSM's development program for fermentation-derived steviol glycosides, the sweet tasting, zero-calorie molecules from the stevia plant, remained well on track in 2017. Targeted major customers were engaged in prototyping and sampling during the year, with commercial availability expected in 2018. Another growth platform in specialty food ingredients is hydrocolloids — thickeners and stabilizers that dissolve, disperse or swell in water to provide a broad range of critical functionalities and physical attributes including gelling, texture, mouthfeel, viscosity and suspension. Demand for hydrocolloids, especially our natural hydrocolloids, is driven by three underlying consumer trends: The quest for affordable nutrition in the form of dairy and protein products The trend toward clear labeling Recognition of the benefits of probiotics and prebiotics Our hydrocolloids are primarily delivered in the form of pectin and gellan gum. Both are used as gelling and stabilizing agents in a variety of foods and beverages. DSM's natural hydrocolloids are enjoying strong sales growth especially versus synthetic and animal derived products. In 2017, we acquired a majority equity stake in Inner Mongolia Rainbow Biotechnology Co., Ltd. in China, further expanding our global hydrocolloids business. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 75 www.dsm.com Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 76 www.dsm.com Review of business — Nutrition @yazalpizar Almost there! #roadtrip #sunset Spain People rely on their cars for everything from road trips to work. DSM is driving the future of transportation together with major automotive OEMs. Our materials include lightweight, durable materials that can replace metal in various components. That helps vehicles get better fuel economy and lower tailgate emissions. We’re also working on solutions for more integrated electronics, so cars (and drivers) can be more connected and safer. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 77 www.dsm.com @missionarctic What’s in our Fo’csle? These awesome ropes from Atlantic Braids! Thanks to @ablrope we have ropes we need for our expedition. #dyneema #atlanticbraids The crew of Mission Arctic, an Arctic research expedition, chose gear made with Dyneema®, the world’s strongest ﬁberTM. Ropes from DSM customer Atlantic Braids help keep the crew safe and successful as they navigate uncharted territory revealing the e ects of climate change. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 78 www.dsm.com Review of business — Nutrition Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 79 www.dsm.com Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 80 www.dsm.com Review of business — Nutrition @jen_jiggs The other helper got kicked out for putting her paws in the paint #babyroompainting California New parents want the best for their babies. Now they can welcome their little ones home to a nursery painted with igma ir Pure, a bio-based paint that puriﬁes the air. igma ir Pure is based on DSM’s Decovery® resins. Made from renewable resources like sugar, natural oils and starch, Decovery® is a safer, healthier and more sustainable alternative to conventional resins, while o ering the quality and performance people expect. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 81 www.dsm.com Materials High performance and eco-friendly Materials for more connected, convenient, 100% 90% of mobile of cars sustainable living. devices currently currently sold sold contain contain our DSM material solutions 15x 55% stronger than of all internet steel: Dyneema®, traffic goes the world’s through DSM strongest fiberTM protected fiber optic cables € 2,825 +7% 17.3% Net sales (in millions) Volume growth Adjusted EBITDA up from € 2,513 in 2016 up from 2016 margin, same as 2016 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 82 www.dsm.com Review of business — Materials Full year 2017 Adjusted EBITDA increased by 12% versus x € million 2017 2016 2016, driven by higher volumes. The Adjusted EBITDA margin was stable at 17.3% as pricing and group-wide cost-saving Net sales: and efficiency improvement programs offset higher input costs DSM Engineering Plastics 1,448 1,312 and negative foreign currency effects. This robust financial DSM Dyneema 332 297 performance demonstrates the improvements achieved in the DSM Resins & Functional quality of returns in Materials over recent years. Materials 1,045 904 Total 2,825 2,513 “ Our differentiated growth x Organic sales growth (in %) 13 (1) strategy has delivered a Adjusted EBITDA 488 435 Adjusted operating profit 361 311 major step-up for the Capital expenditure Capital employed at 31 124 106 Materials cluster. ” December 1,786 1,807 Dimitri de Vreeze, DSM Managing Board ROCE (in %) 20.0 17.6 Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %) 17.3 17.3 Net sales bridge 2017 R&D expenditure 130 124 x € million 2,825 Workforce at 31 December -2% 1% (headcount) 4,635 4,460 6% Business DSM's Materials cluster consists of DSM Engineering Plastics, DSM Dyneema and DSM Resins & Functional Materials. DSM is a global player in specialty plastics for the electrical 7% components and electronics, automotive, flexible food packaging and consumer goods industries. The materials portfolio also includes Dyneema®, the world's strongest 2,513 fiber™, as well as resins for paints, industrial applications and optical fiber coatings. For more information on DSM's Materials cluster, see the DSM Factbook on the company website. 2016 Volume Price/mix FX Other 2017 Materials cluster performance Trends The Materials cluster delivered another year of strong financial The trend to replace traditional materials by more sustainable performance, continuing the excellent progress made since alternatives continues. Customers want materials that improve the start of Strategy 2018. The 'silent transformation' of the the environmental footprint of their own operations and across materials portfolio through a differentiated approach focusing their value chains, especially in the areas of energy use and on specialty products, provides a clear framework to outpace emissions. This trend is driven by concerns over climate market growth and supported the cluster's performance again change, higher expectations from end-users and stricter in 2017. Growth continued to be driven by demand for more government policies. sustainable, innovative, lightweight, environmentally friendly, safer and higher performing solutions. A better environmental footprint cannot be achieved at the expense of performance, however. On the contrary, DSM's Full year 2017 sales were up 12% versus the same period last materials must perform better than ever and sometimes in year. Strong growth in specialties was the main driver behind entirely new ways. Today our products are lighter, tougher, the 13% organic growth, of which 7% was volume growth. harder or softer, more durable, more versatile or more The 6% price effect reflected increased input costs. All three recyclable to meet the demands of designers, process businesses in Materials delivered a double-digit percentage engineers and manufacturers whose ambitions keep rising. organic growth. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 83 www.dsm.com Additionally, people everywhere are increasingly aware of Increasingly our innovation projects address solutions for a safety, including safe manufacturing and product safety. For more circular economy. According to the Ellen MacArthur example, DSM Engineering Plastics and DSM Resins & Foundation, the circular economy is one that is restorative Functional Materials offer solutions that eliminate or reduce the and regenerative by design, and which aims to keep products, use of hazardous substances in plastics and paints. The safety components and materials at their highest utility and value at trend also includes a greater focus on personal safety. all times . DSM-Niaga is an excellent example. For more Dyneema®, the world's strongest fiber™, is ideal in information on Niaga®, see DSM Resins & Functional applications such as protective apparel for sports, outdoor Materials. recreation and law enforcement. The recent opening of our Materials Science Center, a crossSustainability & Innovation company platform for state of-the-art know-how, has increased our innovation capabilities. The center has also The main growth drivers of our Materials cluster are improved collaboration, especially with DSM Biomedical and sustainability and the shifts in demand that are happening DSM Advanced Solar, two of DSM's Emerging Business worldwide as a result of megatrends. Our high-performance Areas that offer attractive growth prospects in the longer term. specialty products are designed to help customers be more sustainable while offering benefits that go beyond traditional Another exciting development for Materials innovation in 2017 materials. For example, the future of transportation will require was the technology partnership agreement with Toyota higher performing and more complex materials for new Motorsport GmbH. Toyota Motorsport is a high-performance autonomous, lightweight and more energy-efficient development, testing and manufacturing company that offers automotive designs. Materials are also playing a role in other a wide range of technical services as well as its affiliation with areas such as renewable energy generation and storage, 3D various motorsports. Through the agreement, they will printing, more sustainable packaging and advanced develop and pilot new engineering solutions using DSM's healthcare applications both in and outside of the body. range of high-performance materials and products for the automotive sector including engineering plastics, Dyneema®, additive manufacturing (3D printing) and other technologies. High Accelerated growth Strategy 2018 aspirations Functional Materials • High single-digit percentage High-Performance Plastics annual Adjusted EBITDA growth Growth Advanced Solar 1 • High double-digit basis point 7 annual ROCE growth PA6 Injection molding Biomedical 1 Market growth Dyneema® Fiber Solutions Maximize returns • EBITDA margins Specialty Coating Resins > 15% over the period PA6 HV Film & extrusion • Above-market sales growth (at stable prices) Powder Coating Resins Dyneema® Life Protection Low Low DSM’s capabilities to extract value High DSM Engineering Plastics DSM Dyneema DSM Resins & Functional Materials Emerging Business Areas 1 1 While not part of the cluster, the Emerging Business Areas of DSM Biomedical and DSM Advanced Solar are also related to Materials and represent promising growth platforms for the longer term. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 84 www.dsm.com Review of business — Materials Strategy DSM Engineering Plastics addresses key market trends in automotive and electronics. About 90% of cars and virtually all In 2017, we continued with our differentiated growth strategy. mobile devices currently sold contain our materials. During For our relatively new portfolio of innovative high-performance 2017, we continued to shift our portfolio toward higher-value, plastics, functional materials and high-performance fiber specialty materials with advanced grades and improved solutions, we are accelerating growth. For our established properties. portfolio of specialty resins, engineering plastic compounds, and solutions for life protection, we are targeting stable The quest for new forms of mobility is one of the main trends growth. For our more mature portfolio of PA6 polymers and currently driving our business. We create products that help extrusion resins, our aim is to maximize returns by efficient reduce the weight of vehicles, lower the friction generated by product and process management. moving vehicle parts and support the transition from petrol/ diesel to electric automotive power. Thanks to the consistent implementation of this strategy, our businesses targeting Growth and Accelerated Growth are The other key trend shaping our business is the accelerating growing at above-average rates for their respective markets demand for connectivity between products, devices and and delivering above-average profitability (see figure 'Strategy applications. For example, vehicles today require more 2018 aspirations'). electronic components and are increasingly connected to the digital world. DSM has a proven history in both the consumer Additionally, in November, DSM announced a new, integrated electronics industry and the automotive industry. approach for our additive manufacturing (AM) activities. We aligned all AM activities in one dedicated business unit within Driven by these trends, as well as a strong global economy, the DSM Materials cluster effective January 2018. there was strong demand and strong volume growth for highperformance and engineering plastics across various We take a balanced view of our Materials business, and industries and regions. Higher feedstock prices successfully therefore as we seize opportunities we also manage risks. translated into higher plastic prices, significantly increasing These include: DSM Engineering Plastics' revenue in 2017. Our success was further supported by a more balanced market environment for feedstock price volatility (especially oil and its derivatives); our PA6 high viscosity extrusion polyamide compounds. developments in disruptive technologies (e.g. 3D printing); changes stemming from new legislation and new product Our high-performance polymer ForTii® Ace, which was and process requirements; launched in late 2016, was well received in the market place the commoditization of existing materials or market in 2017. A versatile, next-generation polyphthalamide, segments; ForTii® Ace is ideal for metal replacement in the automotive our own ability to develop, bring to market, and manage sector in transmission components, structural oil pans, front products that serve society's rapidly evolving needs; and engine covers and other thermoplastics applications. In 2017, the influence of geopolitical and macro-economic we started a number of metal-to-plastic conversion projects developments. with various tier one customers and OEMs. For more information on how DSM manages risks, see 'Risk DSM specialties showed good volume growth across the management' on page 112. various industries and regions. Responding to strong customer demand in consumer electronics and automotive DSM Engineering Plastics markets, we expanded our production capacity for highperformance plastics such as Stanyl® (PA46), ForTii® (PA4T) and EcoPaXX® (PA410). Highlights 2017 A new grade of PA46 Stanyl® HGR2 was validated for usage Continued strong volume growth in high-performance on Ford vehicles. This low-friction, high wear-resistance plastics material is used in chain tensioner arms in the Ford F-150 and Good acceptance of ForTii® Ace in market place Mustang's iconic and innovative 5.0-liter engine, and will soon New grade of PA46 Stanyl® HGR2 validated for usage be implemented across various Ford vehicles globally. on Ford vehicles In addition to serving the automotive and electronics sectors, DSM Engineering Plastics provides solutions to specialized industries that address a range of evolving consumer and DSM Engineering Plastics had total sales of € 1,448 million in societal needs. For example, DSM's EcoPaXX® PA410 is a 2017 compared to € 1,312 million in 2016. bio-based polymer that can be used to support safer drinking Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 85 www.dsm.com water. Ideal for faucet components, EcoPaXX® PA410 innovative, unique and patent-protected technologies. prevents leakages, increases reliability and serves as a safe Examples include: alternative to old lead-based systems. Dyneema® Force Multiplier Technology for comfortable, Favorable market conditions and effective business steering ultra-light-weight ballistic protection; delivered good volume growth for our PA6 HV extrusion Dyneema® Diamond Technology, which offers increased polyamide compounds, especially in Asia and Russia. cut protection and comfort for heavy-duty gloves; and Dyneema® Max Technology for offshore deep-water crane DSM Dyneema ropes and synthetic chains. In 2017, this business also saw strong growth in demand for Highlights 2017 applications in aquaculture nets. Designed to keep fish in and predators out, nets made with Dyneema® are easier and safer Continued strong growth in the personal protection to handle than traditional nets and support more sustainable market with Dyneema® Force Multiplier Technology fishing techniques. Strong growth in aquaculture Launch of Dyneema® Carbon in sports, and increasing Our markets for maritime and offshore applications, showed number of partnerships to develop sports and signs of slow recovery. Meanwhile, progress was made in our automotive applications applications for the renewable energy and craning markets. In the renewable energy market, for example, Dyneema® is used in ropes and lifting slings for constructing and operating onshore and offshore wind farms. Its soft, lightweight DSM Dyneema booked total sales of € 332 million in 2017 characteristics make it ideal for use around delicate blades compared to € 297 million in 2016. and can speed up installation. Faster installation lowers costs and makes offshore wind energy more competitive. This business is driven by our customers' and end-users' needs for lightweight, sustainable solutions that offer extreme The launch of new form factors and applications during 2017 durability as well as improved safety and ergonomics. provided opportunities for DSM Dyneema to capture Dyneema® products typically replace traditional materials additional value in many markets. These included Dyneema® such as steel and aramid. Flexible Composites for light-weight fabrics with increased tear, puncture and abrasion performance. The year under Dyneema®, the world's strongest fiber™, is 15 times stronger review saw growth in outdoor applications for this product than steel on a weight-for-weight basis, 40% stronger than range, plus the launch of a Dyneema® fabric for protective aramid and floats on water. This combination of extreme apparel for law enforcement personnel. strength, lightness and high durability makes it suitable for a wide and expanding range of applications. Additionally, in the Launched in 2016, Dyneema® Carbon hybrid composite for majority of its applications, Dyneema® is a Brighter Living improved impact resistance and vibrational dampening in Solution. Products made with Dyneema® are more sports and automotive applications showed good uptake sustainable than those made with traditional materials during 2017. because Dyneema® is lighter in weight, less of the material is needed, it requires less energy in processing and in use, and DSM is also supporting The Ocean Cleanup, an ambitious it gives products a longer lifetime. It is also safer and easier in mission to rid the world's oceans of plastic. The Ocean use, especially in heavy-duty applications. Cleanup is designing and deploying floating barriers that collect plastic debris. We share our facilities, knowledge and DSM Dyneema has a well-established fiber business for networks, and we supply Dyneema®, an excellent material for personal protection as well commercial marine and sports tough marine environments. applications. This business delivered double-digit growth in 2017, outgrowing the market as a whole with innovative solutions in both existing and new markets. Continued strong growth was especially noticeable in personal protection solutions, which have replaced vehicle protection as a core focus of our portfolio. During 2017, we continued our strategy of expanding into new market segments and applications by offering a range of Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 86 www.dsm.com Review of business — Materials DSM Resins & Functional Materials Niaga® is a design philosophy. We redesign products from scratch so that all materials can easily be recovered and used again and again. In early 2017, DSM-Niaga partnered with Highlights 2017 Mohawk, the second-largest flooring maker in the US, to commercialize Niaga® technology for Air.o™, the world's first Continued strong growth in fiber optics fully recyclable carpets. In late 2017, DSM-Niaga announced First recyclable carpet with Niaga® commercialized by a new partnership with Auping, a bed manufacturer, to create Mohawk and new DSM-Niaga partnership with fully recyclable mattresses. mattress company Auping Launch of bio-based wall paint from PPG using In August 2017, DSM acquired the outstanding 49% of shares Decovery® resins platform in the DSM-AGI joint venture, thereby gaining sole ownership Expanded 3D printing offering of this Taiwan-based supplier of innovative, high-quality and environmentally-friendly UV-curable resins and other specialty chemicals. DSM originally acquired a 51% stake in DSM-AGI in July 2011 to strengthen our UV-curing technology platform. DSM Resins & Functional Materials reported sales of € 1,045 million in 2017 compared to € 904 million in 2016. In October 2017, global paint maker PPG launched Sigma Air Pure, a new bio-based wall paint targeting the high-end DSM is a global leader in the development and production of professional interior decoration market. Based on DSM's waterborne, UV and powder coating resins. These products Decovery® bio-based technology, which was launched in offer clear sustainability advantages over the solvent-borne 2016, Sigma Air Pure has an air purification effect. The paint resins traditionally used in paints and coatings. In functional enhances the indoor air climate of homes, offices and schools materials, DSM is the global leader in fiber-optic coatings. In by removing up to 70% of the harmful formaldehyde from the additive manufacturing (i.e. 3D printing), DSM offers highly indoor air and neutralizing it. Decovery® makes an important efficient and effective prototyping technologies which help the contribution to the EU's target to make the European paint industry to accelerate the pace at which new products are industry 30% bio-based by 2030. designed and brought to market. DSM's 3D printing offering was expanded in 2017 with the We are helping to build a more sustainable future together with introduction of SOMOS® Taurus, a Brighter Living Solution our customers and value chain partners. As legislation and the latest innovation in our portfolio of stereolithography continues to reduce the use of harmful substances such as (SLA) materials. SOMOS® Taurus is the first durable SLA volatile organic compounds (VOCs), our growth comes from material to withstand elevated temperatures. anticipating changing end-user preferences and offering innovative waterborne, powder and UV resins to replace solvent-borne products. Aside from the technical benefits of the new solutions we bring to market, we ensure that our products help reduce greenhouse-gas emissions in the value chain. DSM Resins & Functional Materials took a significant step forward during 2017 in a challenging business environment that was affected by raw material shortages in our key technologies as well as natural disasters impacting the southern US. We strengthened our position in core markets such as industrial coatings, architectural coatings and printing inks. Growth in fiber optic materials continued to be driven by demand for ever-increasing broadband speeds and strong uptake of 4G and 5G cellular networks. Strong key account management, high acceptance of powder coatings globally, and of waterborne coatings in Europe and China, are driving current growth. In China especially, a marked increase in environmental awareness is fueling demand for more sustainable coatings, benefiting our resins business. We are also working on new Brighter Living Solutions for the circular economy, such as Niaga®. More than a product, Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 87 www.dsm.com Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 88 www.dsm.com Review of business — Materials @BeABrightMind The WINNER of the #BrightMinds Challenge is INQUIMAE!! 500hrs of invaluable support to fastforward our transition to 100% #renewableenergy! Professor Ernesto Calvo from the institute INQUIMAE in Argentina was the winner of the 2017 Bright Minds Challenge, a contest co-hosted by DSM to accelerate the transition to 100% renewable energy. His winning project proposes a new and more sustainable way to extract lithium, a key material for batteries that store energy from renewable sources like solar. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 89 www.dsm.com Innovation Science can change the world DSM delivers innovation with our three Emerging Business Areas Every 9 seconds a DSM Every day about one Every week we ship biofuel biomedical device is million solar panels are from the POET-DSM plant implanted in a patient. installed and right now in Iowa (USA). DSM Biomedical 200 million use our DSM Bio-based anti-reflective coating. Products & Services DSM Advanced Solar 21% Accelerating the innovation power of our core businesses with breakthroughs like: innovation • Clean Cow project: feed additives for reduced sales, methane emissions in cattle • Veramaris joint venture with Evonik: achieving algae-based omega-3 for sustainable our ~20% aquaculture target • Plant-based proteins for human nutrition • Niaga® technology for fully recyclable carpets Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 90 www.dsm.com Review of business — Innovation DSM Innovation Center Creating opportunities for future earnings growth through innovation In 2017, innovation sales across DSM were 21%, above our x € million 2017 2016 aspiration of 20%. Through innovation, we are preparing for even more growth beyond 2018. We further focused our Net sales 169 167 innovation program on a smaller number of bigger projects, providing interesting opportunities for 2019-2020 and Organic sales growth (in %) 3 6 onward. Examples include: Adjusted EBITDA 9 1 Adjusted operating profit (30) (24) The Clean Cow project for feed additives that reduce Capital expenditure 43 32 methane emissions in cattle Capital employed at 31 The Green Ocean partnership with Evonik (now called December 562 576 Veramaris) for algae-based omega-3 for sustainable R&D expenditure 75 75 aquaculture The fermentative stevia sweetener platform Workforce at 31 December Plant-based proteins for human nutrition (headcount) 685 619 Sustainable biological solutions for crop protection in agriculture Niaga® technology for fully recyclable carpets The DSM Innovation Center has two functions. The first is to ForTii® high-performance plastics help develop new business, focusing on areas outside the Dyneema® carbon composites current scope of the company's business groups. It identifies and invests in new and innovative growth options, initially Enabling DSM's Bright Science through the DSM Business Incubator and then by developing The ability to deliver innovative products and solutions is and extracting value via the company's Emerging Business essential to DSM's business success and positive impact on Areas (EBAs). The second function is accelerating the society. The Innovation Center plays a central role in guiding, innovation power and speed of our core businesses. In this enabling and accelerating innovation and R&D across the role, the Innovation Center supports all businesses through the company. Excellence in Innovation Program, DSM Venturing and the IP & Licensing department. In addition, the Chief Technology R&D is instrumental to the realization of DSM's innovation Officer, through the DSM Science & Technology Department, strategy. Most of our expenditure in this area is directed ensures the quality of the total R&D competence base and toward business-focused programs that underpin our adds adjacent technologies for growth through DSM's science-based, sustainable solutions. Corporate Research Program. R&D expenditure (including associated IP expenditure) The Innovation Center made good progress over the year, delivering on its Strategy 2018 goals to extract value from the x € million 2017 2016 Emerging Business Areas, the acceleration of large innovation projects, while simultaneously supporting the Nutrition and Nutrition 219 205 Materials business with their growth initiatives. Materials 130 124 Innovation Center 75 75 Full year 2017 sales in the main Emerging Business Area DSM Corporate Activities 20 22 Biomedical showed a strong underlying growth, largely offsetting the gradual discontinuation of a large contract during Total 444 426 the year. DSM Advanced Solar delivered good growth in antiTotal as % of net sales 5.1 5.4 reflective coatings and through the new backsheet activities Staff employed in R&D activities for solar panels which were added in 2017 through the (total DSM) 1,920 2,055 Sunshine acquisition. Full year 2017 Adjusted EBITDA increase was largely driven by one-time positive effects from restructurings in DSM Advanced Solar, which had a positive EBITDA effect due to releases of liabilities, whereas the redundancy of certain assets related to these restructurings led to an impairment loss impacting the EBIT negatively. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 91 www.dsm.com DSM has seven scientific competence areas. These are in analytical, biological, chemical, engineering, macromolecular, “ Our innovation portfolio really x materials, and nutritional sciences. All seven are key to the company's continued success. The Science & Technology reflects the choices we've Department ensures that DSM has the right combination of skills, capabilities and partners to maintain and deliver on these made and defines the competence areas. company we want to be. Our internal science network consists of more than 1,900 people, including 25 professors and academic associates, Today the overwhelming who are spread across the globe. These employees comajority of our innovation operate extensively with external R&D institutions, both in academic collaborations and in broader public-private pipeline is based on partnerships, such as the Bio-based Industries Consortium. sustainability. ” In line with this Open Innovation approach, DSM also regularly connects with its international Scientific Advisory Board. Rob van Leen, DSM Executive Committee Acting under the supervision of the Chief Technology Officer, the Board provides valuable different perspectives and Marcus Remmers joined DSM in April 2017 as Chief insights, challenges and reviews our scientific work and gives Technology Officer. A transformational leader and teamadvice on trends and upcoming disruptive technologies. It builder with a wide-ranging international background, Marcus comprises five internationally recognized experts in the fields has extensive experience in polymer and life sciences R&D, of materials, biotechnology and nutrition from leading business operations, business development, strategy, and universities in the US and Europe. change management. Scientific Advisory Board Member Background Professor of Advanced Biotechnology in the Department of Biological Engineering at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (US). He is the Co-Director of the Synthetic Biology Center at MIT and the Co-Founder of the MIT-Broad Foundry. He is also Editor-in-Chief of ACS Chris Voigt (m) Synthetic Biology. Nationality: American. Chairman of the Board of Forschungszentrum Jülich (Germany), Vice-President of the Helmholtz Association, and Coordinator of the Research Field Key Technologies. He also cofounded AixCAPE e.V., a technology transfer platform in the field of computer-aided process engineering, and its spin-off S-PACT GmbH. He has more than 350 ISI-listed publications. Wolfgang Marquardt (m) Nationality: German. Professor of Nutritional Immunology at the University of Southampton (UK). He has won many internationally recognized awards for his work, and is also Chair of the Scientific Committee of the European Society for Clinical Nutrition and Metabolism (ESPEN) and President of the Nutrition Philip Calder (m) Society. Nationality: New Zealand. Regents Professor of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science at the University of Minnesota (US). His research involves the thermodynamics and dynamics of polymers and polymer mixtures. He has co-authored more than 400 publications and over 20 patents. Nationality: Frank Bates (m) American. Director of the California Nanosystems Institute, Dow Materials Institute, Facility Director of the Materials Research Lab and Heeger Professor for Interdisciplinary Science at the University of California, Santa Barbara (US). He has co-authored over 500 scientific papers and holds more Craig Hawker (m) than 70 US patents. Nationality: Australian. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 92 www.dsm.com Review of business — Innovation DSM's new Materials Science Center in Sittard-Geleen Emerging Business Areas (Netherlands) was established in 2017 to better service the current and future science needs of our Materials businesses. DSM's EBAs provide strong long-term growth platforms in Joining forces across the Materials R&D organization will promising end-markets that are based on the company's core boost innovation and competitive positioning of businesses competences. DSM has three EBAs: that draw on materials science. DSM Biomedical April 2017 saw the grand opening of a new state-of-the-art DSM Bio-based Products & Services biotechnology center at our site in Delft (Netherlands) to DSM Advanced Solar accelerate our biotechnology research and development capabilities for applications in food and nutrition, feed, fuel, The EBAs delivered a total of € 17 million in Adjusted EBITDA pharma and bio-based materials. The facility has been named in 2017 (2016: € 16 million). the Rosalind Franklin Biotechnology Center in honor of pioneering scientist Rosalind Franklin (1920-1958), whose DSM Biomedical extraordinary work during a tragically short life and career DSM Biomedical is a trusted partner to the global medical significantly contributed to our understanding of the structure device industry, enhancing the quality and delivery of of DNA, effectively creating the basis for modern healthcare, and shaping the future of biomaterials and biotechnology. By honoring Rosalind Franklin, DSM pays regenerative medical devices. Every nine seconds, a patient tribute to all female heroes of science. The biotechnology somewhere in the world receives a medical device containing center forms the heart of Biotech Campus Delft, an initiative of a DSM biomedical solution. DSM Delft, Delft University of Technology, the City of Delft and the Province of South Holland to enhance the city's standing With global reach backed by a leading research and as a world-leading location for biotechnology development. distribution network based in the US and the Netherlands, our product portfolio, technologies and expertise enable medical DSM Venturing device companies to advance care across a wide range of medical specialties. These products address key global trends DSM Venturing invests in innovative companies in areas in medicine, from treating an aging global population to strategically relevant to DSM's current and future businesses. supporting more active lifestyles, while at the same time Our portfolio comprises 25 active investment companies. answering the need for safer, less invasive and more costEach year, DSM Venturing reviews well over 500 new effective procedures. candidates. Through our investment in research and our state-of-the-art In 2017, we entered into a number of new venturing capabilities, we create, develop and produce innovative investments and completed one significant financial exit. We materials for our partners, as well as components, subalso continued our involvement in the SunRISE TechBridge assemblies and full medical devices. Our technology portfolio Challenge see 'Innovation partnerships' on page 95. of high-quality advanced healing solutions includes biomedical polyurethanes and polyethylenes, resorbable polymers, For more information on DSM Venturing, see the company bioceramics, collagens, extracellular matrices, device website. coatings, and cellular therapy platforms. These are used in applications in some of the world's most attractive highIP & Licensing growth markets, including orthopedics, soft tissue, cardiology, diabetes management, and general and reconstructive IP & Licensing is a global group of qualified IP professionals surgery. who protect DSM innovations with patents and trademarks. This group also includes certified licensing professionals who Key trends shaping the global medical device industry in 2017 offer expertise for intellectual property-intensive deals across included: all DSM businesses, including joint development agreements, technology acquisitions and sales, as well as in-, outand the shift toward value-based reimbursement with market cross-licensing deals. success for products that have proven clinical and health economic outcomes; In 2017, DSM filed 282 patents, somewhat below our longlarge-scale industry consolidation of medical device term average. This reflects our changed business portfolio and companies and attendant supply chain rationalization; and a greater focus on fewer innovation projects with higher the quest for proven, largely de-risked products and potential for business impact. concepts that can be developed into innovative, finished medical devices. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 93 www.dsm.com DSM Biomedical made good progress in 2017. Assisted by Bio-succinic acid growth from product innovations in medical devices for The Reverdia joint venture between DSM and Roquette selected therapeutic areas, DSM Biomedical outpaced its operates its Biosuccinium® plant in Cassano (Italy), where it attainable market while capturing higher-value business. produces high-quality bio-succinic acid. Reverdia had a successful operational year in 2017, which exceeded the DSM Bio-based Products & Services1 original targets for its low-pH yeast fermentation technology. As the world increasingly seeks alternatives to fossil resources In April, Biosuccinium® S grade was approved as 100% and progresses toward a more sustainable, bio-renewable natural by ECOCERT. In June, Bonderalia Italia launched a economy, significant commercial opportunities are presenting new natural and multifunctional emulsifier for use in the themselves in advanced biofuels and renewable chemical cosmetics industry based on Biosuccinium® S and organic building blocks such as bio-based succinic acid. pumpkin seed oil, while in July, VAUDE launched a range of high-end trekking footwear containing Biosuccinium®. DSM Bio-based Products & Services pioneers advances in Reverdia invested substantially in market and application biomass conversion and seeks to demonstrate the development in 2017 and saw customers increase by 30% in commercial viability of sustainable, renewable technologies in the period from 2016-2017. collaboration with strategic partners in the value chain. In particular, DSM has developed patented bioconversion DSM Advanced Solar technologies (yeast and enzymes) for various feedstocks and Solar photovoltaic (PV) capacity is growing faster than any processes (including starch-based and cellulosic) in the other fossil or renewable power source. DSM Advanced Solar biofuels industry. DSM's strategy is to deliver unique and aims to accelerate the uptake and effectiveness of solar differentiating technologies that enable biofuel plant operators energy by focusing on the development and to optimize their processes and maximize their yield and cocommercialization of technologies and materials that increase product creation. This helps make the production of biofuels the efficiency of solar modules. Increased efficiency reduces even more sustainable. the cost of energy delivered. Starch-based bio-ethanol Coatings are one area of expertise. Today more than 50 GW DSM developed a proprietary yeast which has demonstrated of solar modules have been produced using DSM coating a significant ethanol yield increase. The product is under technologies. In 2017, we expanded our anti-reflective coating extensive market testing and evaluation. Full-scale market leadership position and launched a new product, DSM commercial launch in the US ethanol market is planned in Anti-Soiling coating. Solar modules treated with this new 2018. coating soil less quickly, are easier to clean and maintain better power output. Cellulosic bio-ethanol The POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels joint venture operates a We also developed a new Brighter Living Solution — commercial-scale production facility for cellulosic bio-ethanol innovative conductive backsheets for use with back-contact in Emmetsburg (Iowa, USA). This facility processes corn-crop cells. Back-contact cell technology offers better efficiency and residues through a bioconversion process that uses enzymatic value for photovoltaics, and lowers the levelized cost of energy hydrolysis followed by fermentation. DSM's biotechnology has see 'Explanation of some concepts and ratios' on page 240. demonstrated its unique proposition and performance. In the To complement our offering, we acquired and integrated first quarter of 2017, significant improvements to the reliability Chinese-based company Suzhou Sunshine New Materials of the process were made, including the redesign of the preTechnology Co., Ltd. in 2017. Sunshine brings hightreatment set-up, which resulted in improved performance. performance, innovative non-fluorinated backsheet products The delays in the start-up together with the pre-treatment rewith a proprietary technology base. design led to an impairment of € 65 million in the third quarter of 2017. Since then, bio-ethanol production volumes have New solar energy projects in China, the US and India drove improved month on month, and POET-DSM is now shipping demand throughout the year. DSM's focus on being first to to customers on a weekly basis. As a result of the improved market for anti-reflective coating technology in India led to an process reliability, POET-DSM is building an enzyme especially strong position with leading manufacturers of solar production plant at the Emmetsburg site that will be integrated PV modules. Furthermore, DSM is supporting the transition to into the process and forms a key component of the technology improved and more sustainable backsheet technology with package. companies like Vikram Solar in India. DSM Business Incubator The DSM Business Incubator explores potential future 1 DSM's interest in the net result of the joint ventures POET-DSM and Reverdia business opportunities in areas with a close link to DSM's is reported as part of 'Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures'. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 94 www.dsm.com Review of business — Innovation technologies and competence base. Platforms are created Bright Minds Challenge within the scope of securing society's food, health and energy requirements, in close collaboration with industry partners and In 2017, DSM together with several partners from the public existing and potential customers. DSM's Business Incubator and private sector sparked a movement to help fast forward feeds our new product pipeline with opportunities that address the 100% renewable energy revolution. The Bright Minds unmet customer needs. Challenge mobilized scientists, governments, businesses and civil society. We called on people from around the world to In 2017, the DSM Business Incubator worked on three key submit their projects and ideas for solar energy and energy ventures. In the Canola venture, we produce a high-quality storage. We received 55 submissions from 22 countries plant protein for food & beverage applications from biomass across five continents. The three most promising solutions derived from rapeseed, also known as canola. were awarded with expert support from DSM and partners to A demonstration unit is now up and running, pre-marketing help them scale up as quickly as possible. volumes are being developed for application development, and market interest in our CanolaPRO™ solution was very The first prize in the Bright Minds Challenge was won by strong in 2017. In our energy storage project, meanwhile, a Professor Ernesto Calvo (Argentina), who invented a new way number of potential leads were explored, generating interest of extracting lithium that is powered by solar energy and is on the part of several battery/separator companies. The third quicker and cleaner than any existing technology. venture is our partnership with Syngenta (see next section, 'Innovation partnerships'). Innovation partnerships DSM's ongoing R&D partnership with Syngenta develops and commercializes biological solutions for agriculture. Our aim is to accelerate the delivery of a broad spectrum of products based on naturally occurring micro-organisms for preand post-harvest applications. The project has a long-term focus and high potential. Our cooperation made excellent progress in 2017 as we worked to accelerate the development of these solutions. DSM has several other partnerships as well. For example, in 2017, we ran the SunRISE TechBridge II challenge together with Fraunhofer TechBridge and Greentown Labs, building on the success of the inaugural challenge in 2016. Once again it allowed us to evaluate opportunities for collaboration and investment that could accelerate innovation in our solar business. There were 56 applications and four early-stage companies were announced as winners in 2017. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 95 www.dsm.com Corporate Activities Share-based payments Any consolidated activities that are outside the three reporting Executives participate in the Long-Term Incentive (LTI) clusters are reported as Corporate Activities. These comprise scheme linking their reward to longer-term stakeholder operating and service activities, as well as a number of costs interests and providing an attraction and retention vehicle. As that cannot be allocated to the clusters. While this segment shares / share units have become more prevalent in the reports net sales from its service units to third parties, it market, the switch from stock options to shares / share units normally has a negative operating result. was made in 2017, resulting in better alignment with the LTI vehicle in place for the Managing Board and Executive Corporate Activities includes various holding companies, Committee and aiming for an even closer alignment with the regional holdings and corporate overheads. The most interests of DSM's stakeholders. Because of this switch, the significant cost elements are corporate departments and the company has reduced its hedge obligations. For detailed share-based compensation for the company. information, see Note 27 of the 'Consolidated financial statements' on page 210. Corporate Activities x € million 2017 2016 Net sales 59 71 Adjusted EBITDA (105) (105) Adjusted operating profit (144) (141) Capital expenditure 12 16 R&D operating expenditure 20 22 Workforce at 31 December (headcount) 2,058 2,447 DSM Insurances The company retains a limited part of its material damage and business interruption and (product) liability risks via DSM's captive insurance company. In 2017, the total retained damages were € 23 million. Corporate Research The Corporate Research Program (CRP) is aimed at developing key Science & Technology competences. The CRP, which falls under the responsibility of the Chief Technology Officer, typically funds competence development programs with a longer time horizon than those run by the business groups, and focuses on competences that have a broader relevance for DSM. The CRP also supports Science & Technology programs that are carried out with external parties and programs covering relevant new trends. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 96 www.dsm.com Review of business — Partnerships Partnerships As part of DSM's strategic transformation and move away treatment plants at all manufacturing sites in combination with from more commoditized and cyclical areas, we established antimicrobial activity testing. joint ventures for the pharma activities (DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals for anti-infectives in 2011 and Patheon for DSP works with partners across the entire value chain to buy, contract development and manufacturing services in 2014) use and sell responsibly made antibiotics. Its approach and for the bulk chemical businesses in Polymer Intermediates includes taking a proactive stance on antimicrobial resistance and Composite Resins (ChemicaInvest in 2015). (AMR). DSP is a signatory company to the UN Industry Roadmap on combating AMR and member of the The results of these joint ventures are reported under 'Share Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative. In 2017, DSP joined of profit of associates and joint ventures' and 'Other results the AMR Industry Alliance as a member of the Board and related to associates and joint ventures' in the Consolidated several working groups. This alliance brings together over 100 income statement on page 158. See also 'Associates and research-based pharmaceutical, generics, biotech and joint ventures' on page 183. diagnostic companies and associations, to drive and measure the life sciences industry's progress in curbing antimicrobial These joint ventures were created with the intention of resistance. ultimately exiting these businesses and maximizing value. Patheon DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals Patheon was formed in 2014 as part of a USD 2.6 billion transaction between JLL Partners and DSM, which combined x € million (100%) 2017 2016 the businesses of DSM Pharmaceutical Products and Patheon, Inc. The company is a leading global provider of Net sales 440 431 outsourced pharmaceutical development and manufacturing services ranging from formulation development to clinical and Adjusted EBITDA 73 62 commercial-scale manufacturing, packaging, and lifecycle Adjusted operating profit 42 34 management. In 2017, DSM divested Patheon. Cash Capital employed at 31 proceeds were about € 1.5 billion. Together with the December 323 223 approximately € 0.5 billion in cash that DSM already received in recent years, including the proceeds from the Initial Public Offering of Patheon, the total cash proceeds from the DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals (DSP) continued to deliver divestment of DSM's custom manufacturing activities in strong growth over the year as its sustainability-driven Pharma amount to approximately € 2.0 billion. antibiotics platforms are increasingly valued by the market. Sales growth was partly offset by negative foreign currency ChemicaInvest effects. DSP is a 50/50 joint venture between DSM and Sinochem Group, a Fortune 500 company. DSP is the global leader in sustainable antibiotics, next-generation statins and x € million (100%) 2017 2016 anti-fungals. DSP develops, produces and sells intermediates, active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and drug products. Net sales 1,933 1,802 DSP is at the forefront of technological and process developments for anti-infectives and cholesterol-lowering Adjusted EBITDA 205 107 molecules, using environmentally-friendly technologies such Adjusted operating profit 156 (36) as fermentation and enzymatic conversions to replace Capital employed at 31 chemical processes. Headquartered in Singapore, the group December 454 556 has manufacturing sites and sales offices in China, India, Egypt, the Netherlands, Spain, the US and Mexico. ChemicaInvest is a global leader in the production and supply Sustainable antibiotics of caprolactam and a leading European supplier of acrylonitrile DSP takes a leading role in making and promoting sustainable and composite resins. DSM has a 35% shareholding in the antibiotics. Its high-quality APIs, called PureActives®, are company. ChemicaInvest showed a good financial recovery in manufactured using enzymes rather than chemicals. This 2017 driven by favorable conditions in the caprolactam and process emits much less CO2. Additionally, DSP sites acrylonitrile markets and continued growth in the composite worldwide have implemented requirements for clean and resins market, combined with an improved cost structure and sustainable production. It operates dedicated waste water lean operational management. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 97 www.dsm.com Financial and reporting policies Financial policy innovative growth acquisitions, although the sustainability requirement will be upheld at all times. As a basis for and contribution to effective risk management and to ensure that the company is able to pursue its strategies, DSM's policy in the various sub-disciplines of the finance even during periods of economic downturn, DSM aims to function is strongly oriented toward solidity, reliability and retain a strong balance sheet and limit its financial risks. protection of cash flows. The finance function plays an important role in business steering. DSM's Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth has ambitious strategic and financial targets, which are outlined from page For detailed information on DSM's tax policy, see 'Taxation at 18 onwards. Within the context of this strategy, DSM aims to DSM' on the company website. maintain a strong investment grade long-term credit rating. Most of DSM's external funding needs are financed through long-term debt. Debt covenants are not included in the terms and conditions of outstanding bonds and financing arrangements. DSM aims to spread the maturity profile of outstanding bonds in order to have adequate financial flexibility. An important element of the company's financial policy is the allocation of cash flow. DSM primarily allocates cash flow to investments aimed at strengthening its business positions and securing the dividend payments to its shareholders. Remaining cash flow is further used for acquisitions and partnerships that strengthen DSM's competences and market positions in health, nutrition and materials. DSM aims to provide a stable, and preferably rising, dividend. Dividends are paid out in cash or in the form of ordinary shares at the option of the shareholders, with a maximum of 40% of the total dividend amount available for stock dividend. In order to cover our commitments under the dividend policy and under management and employee option and share plans, DSM buys back shares insofar as this is necessary and feasible. In the year, 4,500,000 shares were repurchased to meet these obligations (2016: 5,200,000 shares). It is company policy to hedge 100% of the currency risks resulting from sales and purchases at the moment of recognition of trade receivables and payables. Additionally, under strict conditions, operating companies may opt to hedge currency risks from firm commitments and forecasted transactions. The currencies giving rise to these risks are primarily USD, CHF, JPY and GBP. The risks arising from currency exposures are regularly reviewed when appropriate. A business or partner that is targeted for acquisition should add value to DSM in terms of technological or market competences. Acquired companies are in principle required to contribute to DSM's cash earnings per share from the very beginning and to earnings per share from the second year. In addition, they are required to meet the company's profitability, sustainability and growth requirements. However, such requirements may not be appropriate in the case of small, Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 98 www.dsm.com Financial and reporting policies — Reporting policy Reporting policy UN Global Compact DSM has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since Reporting policy and justification of choices made 2007 and commits to annually report on progress in In this Report, DSM reports for the calendar year 2017. The implementing the UN Global Compact's 10 Principles in the company reports on People, Planet and Profit information in areas of human rights, labor, the environment and antisuch a Report on an annual basis. The previous DSM corruption. This Report is DSM's Communication on Progress Integrated Annual Report was published on 2 March 2017. 2017, submitted to the UN Global Compact Office. Our Code of Business Conduct, our Sustainability, Human Resources, In the Report by the Managing Board, we explain our vision and Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) policies, and our and policy with respect to sustainability practices and report Supplier Sustainability Program are the foundations on which on our activities in this field during 2017. In addition to DSM applies the standards of the Global Compact. disclosing data and developments in the categories of People, Planet and Profit, we also report on the global societal We have also aligned our strategy with the Sustainable megatrends that drive our strategy, sustainability governance Development Goals (SDGs). DSM is familiar with the framework, stakeholder engagement activities, and opportunities and responsibilities that the SDGs represent for management approach on material topics. DSM proactively DSM's business. Based on our mapping, we believe that we seeks out the views of key stakeholders on issues of material contribute to all of them, and have chosen to focus on the importance to the company. goals which most closely align with our strategic ambitions. In this Report, we continue to include the SDGs into our reporting process, for example by mapping SDG reporting priorities in our value creation model, our material topics, and the solutions that we highlight. Principles of the UN Global Compact1 DSM Code of Business Conduct (page 108 page 111) and relevant page(s) in the Integrated Annual Report 2017 Principle 1 Support of human rights page 41, page 140, page 148 Principle 2 Exclusion of human rights violation page 41, page 140, page 148 Principle 3 Observance of the right to freedom of association page 41 Principle 4 Abolition of all forms of forced labor page 41 Principle 5 Abolition of child labor page 41 Principle 6 Elimination of discrimination page 10 to page 11, page 37 to page 38, page 41 Principle 7 Precautionary environmental protection page 10, page 46 to page 51 Principle 8 Specific commitment to environmental protection page 46 to page 51, page 145 to page 146 Principle 9 Diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies page 10 to page 11, page 46 to page 51, page 68 to page 75, page 82 to page 87, page 90 to page 95, page 139 Principle 10 Measures to fight corruption page 112 to page 116, page 148 1 In 2017, DSM once again renewed its commitment to the UN Global Compact's CEO Water Mandate; see 'Planet' on page 50. Global Reporting Initiative Report, is provided on the company's Integrated Annual At DSM we base our sustainability reporting on international Report website. non-financial reporting guidelines. We frequently assess to what extent sustainability aspects become material to our Integrated Reporting Framework company and our stakeholders. In case specific indicators DSM aligns with the recommendations of the International become relevant to the company's sustainability performance, Integrated Reporting Council <IR> Framework where appropriate actions are taken that allow the necessary data to possible. The intention of the <IR> Framework is to provide be collected so as to be able to disclose progress in the future. additional guiding principles and content elements for an integrated report. Aligning with the framework allows us to This Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI better identify and communicate how the company creates Standards: Comprehensive option. A detailed overview of how value for stakeholders in People, Planet and Profit, as well as DSM reports according to the GRI Standards comprehensive the interconnection between these three dimensions. indicators, including a reference to relevant sections in this Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 99 www.dsm.com The Taskforce for Climate-related Financial Disclosures on waste and external energy) and estimates based on expert In 2017, the Taskforce for Climate-related Financial knowledge. Disclosures (TCFD) released its recommendations for a set of voluntary, climate-related financial disclosures for use by Reporting units have direct insight into their performance companies to provide information to their stakeholders. DSM compared to previous years and are required to provide is among the first companies to commit to implementing, as justifications for any deviations above the threshold. For most fully as practicable, these recommendations over the next parameters, the threshold is set at 10%. The year-on-year three years as outlined in the TCFD's implementation path. comparability of the data can be affected by changes in our DSM is investigating how to implement these portfolio as well as by improvements to measurement and recommendations and will provide more information on this in recording systems at the various sites. Whenever impact is subsequent reports. relevant, this is stated in the Report. Details for the regions, as well as the methodology and calculations, are published on Selection of topics the company website, together with an explanation of the The topics covered in this Report were selected on the basis definitions used. of input from internal and external stakeholders and the related materiality analysis, which assessed the relevance and impact People methodology of selected topics for DSM and various stakeholders. On the People data are collected per business group and basis of the principle of materiality (using the GRI Standards), consolidated at corporate level. DSM distinguishes between topics whose importance warrants publication in this Report (relevant to both DSM and Brighter Living Solutions stakeholders), and topics whose importance warrants For a definition of Brighter Living Solutions, see 'Explanation publication on the company website only (topics important to of some concepts and ratios' on page 240. DSM reports either DSM or stakeholders). DSM reports on external twice a year the percentage of Brighter Living Solutions within recognition in 'Stakeholders' on page 31. Other examples of the running business portfolio. external recognition can be found on the company website. The sustainability assessments to support the qualification for Scope Brighter Living Solutions are required to be made by internal The People and Brighter Living Solutions data in this Report Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) experts and reviewed using the cover all entities that belong to the scope of the Consolidated four-eyes principle with at least one internal, independent financial statements, provided that DSM also has operational senior LCA consultant. The financial data are validated with control. As such, three small units have been excluded from the Corporate Sustainability department and consolidated as the scope. Planet reporting covers manufacturing units where DSM Brighter Living Solutions KPI performance and reviewed commercial production by DSM occurs. by Group Control & Accounting. Acquisitions and divestments The People data for newly acquired companies are reported from the first full month after the acquisition date. The Safety, Health (People), Environment (Planet) and Brighter Living Solutions data for newly acquired companies are reported at the latest in the year following the first full year after acquisition, because these companies' reporting procedures first have to be aligned with those of DSM. In the case of divestments, safety data are consolidated until the moment of divestment, People data to the end of the month of divestment, and Planet data are reported to the last full year at DSM. Planet methodology Our progress on the key environmental performance indicators is re-evaluated annually. Data on these indicators are collected twice a year for all DSM sites. The data are based on these sites' own measurements and calculations, which in turn are founded on definitions, methods and procedures established at corporate level. The site managers of reporting units are responsible for the quality of the data. Data are collected using measurements and calculations in the production processes, information from external parties (e.g. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 100 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management Introduction deployment of human capital and financial capital resources, the company's risk management system, the company's Koninklijke DSM N.V. (Royal DSM) is a company limited by financial performance, and its performance in the area of shares listed on Euronext Amsterdam, managed by a sustainability. It is hence also the Managing Board that is Managing Board together with an Executive Committee, and accountable to the Supervisory Board for the company's an independent Supervisory Board. Members of the Managing strategy and management. To this end, the full Managing Board and the Supervisory Board are appointed (and, if Board attends the Supervisory Board meetings, whereas the necessary, dismissed) by the General Meeting of other Executive Committee members attend those (parts of) Shareholders. Supervisory Board meetings that are specifically relevant to their area of responsibility. The company is governed by Dutch law and by its Articles of Association, which can be consulted on the company The Managing Board consists of three or more members, to website. The General Meeting of Shareholders decides on any be determined by the Supervisory Board. The current amendment to the Articles of Association by an absolute composition of the Managing Board can be found in the majority of the votes cast. A decision to amend the Articles of chapter 'Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal DSM' Association may only be taken at the proposal of the Managing on page 131. Since the introduction of the Dutch Corporate Board, subject to approval of the Supervisory Board. Governance Code in 2004, members of the Managing Board have been appointed for a period of four years. DSM fully informs its stakeholders about its corporate objectives, the way the company is managed, and the The members of the Managing Board are collectively company's performance. Its aim in doing so is to pursue an responsible for the management of the company. open dialogue with its shareholders and other stakeholders. Notwithstanding their collective responsibility within the Managing Board, certain tasks and responsibilities for DSM has an organizational structure built around business business clusters and functional areas, as well as regional groups that are empowered to carry out all short-term and responsibilities, have been assigned to individual members. long-term business functions, in which activity they are This distribution of tasks is published on the company assisted by support and corporate functions, as well as by website. regional organizations. The remuneration of the Managing Board members is Managing Board and Executive Committee determined by the Supervisory Board based on the Since 2015, DSM's management structure has been remuneration policy approved by the General Meeting of strengthened by the establishment of an Executive Shareholders. The remuneration policy for the Managing Committee. The Executive Committee was installed to enable Board can be found in the 'Report by the Supervisory Board' faster strategic alignment and operational execution by under 'Remuneration policy for the Managing Board' on page increasing focus on the development of the business, 222. innovation and people. The members of the Executive Committee are the Managing Board members as well as four The functioning of and decision-making within the Managing senior managers with respective responsibility for DSM Board and Executive Committee are governed by the Nutritional Products (Chris Goppelsroeder), Corporate Regulations of the Managing Board, which are in accordance Strategy & Acquisitions (Philip Eykerman), the DSM Innovation with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and can be found Center (Rob van Leen), and Group People & Organization on the company website. (Peter Vrijsen, who was succeeded by Judith Wiese as of 1 January 2018). The latter four managers are appointed by the In 2017, the Managing Board had nine formal meetings and Chairman of the Managing Board after consultation with the 41 Executive Committee meetings, some of them by Supervisory Board. The Executive Committee focuses on teleconference. No Managing Board member had to be topics such as the company's overall strategy and direction, excused from meetings during the year. In three Executive review of business results, functional and regional strategies, Committee meetings, a member was excused due to other budget-setting, and people and organization. The statutory commitments. In all cases, members who were unable to responsibilities of the Managing Board remain unchanged. attend provided any input they had to the meeting in advance in writing or via other members. The Managing Board is ultimately responsible for the company's strategy, its portfolio management, the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 101 www.dsm.com Supervisory Board Diversity The Supervisory Board comprises at least five members. The DSM strongly values diversity and endeavors to reflect this in current composition of the Supervisory Board can be found in its Board memberships. The Supervisory Board has drafted the chapter 'Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal diversity policies for the Supervisory Board, the Managing DSM' on page 130. Members of the Supervisory Board are Board and the Executive Committee. These policies strive for appointed for a period of four years and may then be a balanced composition of the respective body, taking into reappointed for a period of four years. A Supervisory Board account gender, age, knowledge, experience, and nationality / member may then subsequently be reappointed for a period cultural background. In addition, for the composition of the of two years, which appointment may be extended by at most Supervisory Board, the board tenure is taken into account. In two years. For reappointment after an eight-year period, terms of gender diversity, DSM strives for a composition of its reasons must be provided in the report of the Supervisory Supervisory Board, Managing Board and Executive Board. Committee, whereby at least 30% of the positions are held by women and at least 30% by men, which is in line with Dutch All current members of the Supervisory Board are independent legislation. In order to ensure a balanced composition in terms in accordance with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. of nationality / cultural background, DSM's aim is not to have The remuneration of the Supervisory Board members is more than 50% of the members of its Supervisory Board or determined by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The Executive Committee representing one nationality. While a functioning of and decision-making within the Supervisory diverse composition in terms of nationality / cultural Board are governed by the Regulations of the Supervisory background is also taken into account in the composition of Board, which are in accordance with the Dutch Corporate the Managing Board, no quantitative aim is set here, given the Governance Code and can be found on the company relatively small number of Managing Board members. website. The diversity policies are implemented by applying them to The Supervisory Board supervises the policy pursued by the nominations for (re)appointment of Supervisory Board and Managing Board, the Managing Board's performance of its Managing Board members as well as to appointments of managerial duties, and the company's general course of Executive Committee members. In 2017, two Supervisory affairs, taking the interests of all the company's stakeholders Board members were appointed, strengthening the diversity into account. Since the inception of an Executive Committee, within the Supervisory Board in terms of age, knowledge and the Supervisory Board has also had the responsibility to experience. With the appointment of Frits van Paasschen, a ensure that the checks and balances that are part of the twomember with a broad business background, including tier system are still taken into account, paying specific knowledge of disruptive business models and digital attention to the dynamics between Managing Board and technology, was added. In view of Tom de Swaan stepping Executive Committee. The Supervisory Board is enabled to do down at the 2018 AGM, the continuity of the financial and so through the information provided to it by the Managing accounting experience and knowledge within the Supervisory Board. Board was ensured with the appointment of John Ramsay. The same holds for the reappointment of Dimitri de Vreeze as The annual financial statements are approved by the member of the Managing Board: this ensured the diversity in Supervisory Board and then submitted to the Annual General experience and knowledge within the Managing Board, more Meeting of Shareholders (AGM) for adoption, accompanied by specifically the continuity of experience and knowledge with an explanation by the Supervisory Board of how it carried out respect to Materials. The diversity in terms of gender and its supervisory duties during the year under review. nationality / cultural background in DSM's Executive Committee was strengthened with the appointment of Judith In line with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the Wiese, who succeeded Peter Vrijsen as head of DSM's Group Supervisory Board has established from among its members People & Organization as of 1 January 2018. All in all, both an Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee, and a DSM's Supervisory Board and Managing Board were well Remuneration Committee, besides which there is also a balanced in 2017 in terms of gender, with 38% (rising to 43% Sustainability Committee. after the 2018 AGM, with Tom de Swaan stepping down) and 33% women respectively, which is in line with Dutch legislation The task of these committees is to prepare the decisionin this regard. With the appointment of Judith Wiese, the making of the Supervisory Board. These committees are gender diversity within DSM's Executive Committee will rise to governed by charters that have been drawn up in line with the 29% women, coming very close to the target of 30% of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and can be found on the positions being held by women and at least 30% by men. The company website. composition of both DSM's Supervisory Board and the Executive Committee are in line with the target of not having more than 50% of the members representing one nationality. Furthermore, in the Supervisory Board of DSM Nederland Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 102 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management — Introduction B.V., a subsidiary of Royal DSM, one of the three members is The AGM and, if necessary, other General Meetings of female. Shareholders are called by the Managing Board or the Supervisory Board. The agenda and explanatory notes are General Meeting of Shareholders published on the company website. The main powers of the General Meeting of Shareholders relate to: According to the Articles of Association, shareholders who, individually or jointly, represent at least 1% of the issued capital the appointment, suspension and dismissal of members of have the right to request to the Managing Board or the the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board; Supervisory Board that items be placed on the agenda. Such approval of the remuneration policy of the Managing Board; requests need to be received in writing by the Chairman of the approval of the remuneration of the Supervisory Board; Managing Board or the Supervisory Board at least 60 days the adoption of the annual financial statements and before the date of the General Meeting of Shareholders. declaration of dividends on ordinary shares; release from liability of the members of the Managing Board The AGM was held on 3 May 2017. The agenda was to a and the Supervisory Board; large extent similar to that of previous years. Additional topics issuance of shares or rights to shares, restriction or were the appointment of John Ramsay and Frits van exclusion of pre-emptive rights of shareholders and Paasschen as members of the Supervisory Board and the repurchase or cancellation of shares; reappointment of Dimitri de Vreeze as member of the amendments to the Articles of Association; and Managing Board. The Articles of Association were amended decisions of the Managing Board that would entail a to reflect a change in the way the dividend percentage on the significant change in the identity or character of DSM or its Cumulative Preference Shares A is calculated. Further details business. can be found on the company website. The AGM is held within six months of the end of the financial Control effectiveness and continuity assumption year in order to discuss and, if applicable, adopt the annual report, the annual accounts, any appointments of members of The 'Statements of the Managing Board' are reported on page the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board, and any of 117. These conform with the Dutch Corporate Governance the other topics mentioned above. Code best practice 1.4.3 on 'Board Statements'. Continuously Managing Board’s impacting ‘in control’ statement Top-down guided Corporate Management Internal Representation Operational Corporate Creating upward Risk reporting & Control letter compliance Operational transparency Management corporate Framework Audit control Internal environment COSO-ERM elements Risk assessment Control activities Information & communication Monitoring Control Effectiveness and Continuity Assumption DSM visualized its control environment as a 'house' that and reporting risks. The elements of COSO (the Committee of includes the internal control process areas with control Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission) measures related to the strategic, operational, compliance provide a framework for identifying the DSM activities that are Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 103 www.dsm.com executed to ensure the control environment is adequately address the challenges of nutrition & health, climate & energy structured. Finally, to ensure a learning curve is achieved, and resource scarcity. More information on how long-term monitoring activities include sharing findings, experiences, and value creation is fundamental to our strategy and culture can control measures across the supporting pillars. be found in the Strategy and People sections of this annual report, as well as on page 24 (which describes how we create DSM has a three lines of defense structure to manage risks, value for all our stakeholders) and on page 10 (which describes see also 'Risk management' on page 112. Corporate how DSM engages with the SDGs). Operational Audit (COA) is in the third line of defense. The scope and frequency of the COA audits is set according to the With respect to the appointment of members of the Managing ranking of the auditable units by the magnitude of risk, based Board for a period of at most four years (Best Practice 2.2), it on a limited number of defined characteristics. should be noted that DSM has adhered to this Best Practice since the introduction of the Dutch Corporate Governance COA assesses the operation of risk management activities by Code in 2004. Since DSM respects agreements made before the units as well as the design of the risk management and the introduction of the said code, the current Chairman of the internal control systems by performing risk-based audits Managing Board will remain appointed for an indefinite period. looking at the key processes and activities for the specific units. With these audits, COA closes the risk management Any substantial change in the corporate governance structure cycle and provides additional assurance to the Managing of the company and in the company's compliance with the Board on the effectiveness of the design and operation of the code shall be submitted to the General Meeting of risk management and internal control systems. Shareholders for discussion under a separate agenda item. COA reports its audit results twice a year to the Managing All documents related to the implementation of the Dutch Board. It also shares an overview with the Audit Committee of Corporate Governance Code at DSM can be found in the the Supervisory Board and communicates the executive 'Corporate Governance' section of the company website. summary of each audit report to the CFO and CEO. Governance framework In 2017, COA executed 51 audits. In general, findings are considered improvement opportunities as part of a healthy Organizational & operating model learning culture. In about 5% of the audited areas (e.g. Business groups are the main building-blocks of DSM's operations, finance, SHE, commercial) significant organization; they have integral long-term and short-term management attention was needed to come to the DSM business responsibility, and have at their disposal all functions standard. In the rare event of insufficient follow-up of a finding, that are crucial to their business success. As the primary the Director of COA escalates the finding to the CEO. organizational and entrepreneurial building-blocks, they focus on four primary business functions: Innovation and R&D, Dutch Corporate Governance Code Direct Sourcing, Manufacturing & Operations, and Marketing & Sales. Intra-company product supplies are contracted by DSM supports the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, which the business groups on an arm's-length basis. was most recently amended in 2016 and is applicable as of the financial year 2017. The Dutch Corporate Governance The business groups are organized into clusters, thus ensuring Code can be found on coherence of operations and the leveraging of resources www.commissiecorporategovernance.nl. within each cluster. The clusters are the main organizational entities for external strategic and financial reporting. This DSM ensures its continued compliance with the Dutch structure ensures flexibility, efficiency and speed of response Corporate Governance Code, and has worked on to market changes. In order to ensure sufficient independence implementing the amendments in its internal regulations and with regard to financial management, the Chief Financial practices where applicable. The last step in this process will Officer (CFO) has no business groups reporting to her. be the amendment of DSM's Articles of Association, for approval by the 2018 General Meeting of Shareholders. DSM's business groups receive services from global support functions and functional excellence departments, and are Long-term value creation is embedded in both DSM's supported by the regional organizations. This set-up enables Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth and the company's DSM to create a global high-performing organization focused culture: our mission is to create brighter lives for people today on meeting its targets and achieving its ambitions. The support and generations to come. Sustainability is at the core of how functions and functional excellence departments are paid for we fulfill that mission, and to achieve this, DSM considers the services they supply by the users, which are for the greater People, Planet and Profit in all we do. With our Strategy 2018, part the business groups and to a lesser extent other DSM we drive our business and innovation strategies in order to Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 104 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management — Governance framework units. Corporate departments are paid from a corporate budget. Shareholders Articles of Association Support functions provide those services that can be delivered more efficiently (in terms of total cost of ownership for DSM) • Regulations of the Supervisory Board by leveraging them across the company, thus capturing scale • Charter of the Audit Committee Supervisory benefits and delivering higher quality at lower cost, rather than Board • Charter of the Nomination Committee having them arranged in each business group separately. • Charter of the Remuneration Committee • Charter of the Sustainability Committee Within support functions, centers of expertise provide specialist support, while shared service centers provide standard transactional support. Business partnering is the • Regulations of the Managing Board concept that acts as the interface between the business Managing • Management Framework for the Board / groups and the support functions. Business partners Corporate corporate level • DSM Code of Business Conduct consequently have a second reporting line in the business. In order to ensure that the functional policies sufficiently reflect regional requirements, the support functions work closely with Operational Management Framework for the regional organizations and integrate their advice. Each units operational units support function reports to a Managing Board member. There are support functions in the areas of Finance, People & Organization, Legal, Indirect Sourcing, Communications, and ICT. Corporate functions (small, high-level groups) supporting For the sake of clarity, a short summary of the main aspects the Managing Board and Executive Committee are also seen of the framework at Managing Board / corporate level and as support functions. Corporate departments are: Corporate operational level is given here: Strategy & Acquisitions, Corporate Operational Audit, Corporate Risk Management, Corporate Sustainability, The Managing Board and Executive Committee adhere to Corporate Investor Relations, and Corporate Affairs. the Regulations of the Managing Board. The Managing Board and Executive Committee work Functional excellence departments are mandated by the according to the Management Framework for the corporate Managing Board to help the businesses to achieve excellence. level. This implies, among other things, that they adhere to They cover the areas of Operations & Responsible Care, the DSM Code of Business Conduct and applicable Marketing & Sales, and Science & Technology. Functional corporate policies and requirements. The Management excellence departments support businesses in improving their Framework for the corporate level further provides a performance and provide guidance in setting aspiration levels description of the most important (decision-making) and targets. processes, responsibilities and 'rules of the game' at Managing Board, Executive Committee, functional and Governance framework regional levels, and includes the governance relations with The following figure depicts DSM's overall governance the immediately superior levels (Supervisory Board and framework and the most important governance elements and shareholders) and the operational units. regulations at each level. The company's strategic direction and objectives are set by means of a Corporate Strategy Dialogue. In November 2015, DSM presented the outcome of the latest Corporate Strategy Dialogue: 'Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth', which is described in detail in DSM's Integrated Annual Report 2015 and on the company website. As we delivered well ahead of this strategy for the second year in a row in 2017, we brought forward our regular strategy review process for the period beyond 2018. The operational units conduct their business within the parameters of the Management Framework for operational units. This implies, among other things, that they: comply with the DSM Code of Business Conduct, Corporate Requirements and Directives; Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 105 www.dsm.com establish the strategy, objectives and operational targets of Feike Sijbesma oversaw sustainability as a key responsibility their business according to the Business Strategy Dialogue, and company value as well as a business growth driver. He aligned with the Corporate Strategy Dialogue, in which also oversaw DSM's engagement with organizations various scenarios and related risk profiles are investigated, including the United Nations and the World Bank, the and report on the achievement thereof; strategic partnership with the World Economic Forum, implement risk management actions according to an Annual nutrition related initiatives including the WFP partnership, Risk Management Plan and in line with corporate policies; and chaired the Inclusion & Diversity Council; execute DSM-wide standards for support functions Geraldine Matchett integrated sustainability into financial (systems, processes, vendors, etc.); and decision making and represented DSM in the Accounting execute the annual functional improvement plans, monitor for Sustainability (A4S) CFO Leadership Network. She also the effectiveness of the risk management and internal oversaw our efforts and commitment towards the Taskforce control system by process risk assessments and internal for Climate-related Financial Disclosures recommendations; audits, and regularly discuss the findings with the and responsible Executive Committee member. Dimitri de Vreeze was responsible for Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) and also oversaw DSM's Supplier Independent audits for all operational units are conducted by Sustainability Program and the sourcing of electricity from the Corporate Operational Audit (COA) department. The renewable sources in his responsibility for the Sourcing Director of COA reports to the CFO and has access to the function. Chairman of the Managing Board, the external auditor and the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board Director of COA acts as the compliance officer with regard to DSM's Supervisory Board has appointed its own Sustainability inside information and is the secretary of the Disclosure Committee to oversee progress against targets and report on Committee, as well as being chairman of the DSM Alert the embedding of sustainability across the organization. For Committee, which is responsible for the DSM whistleblower more details see 'Supervisory Board report' on page 122. policy, systems and processes. Chaired by the CFO, the Disclosure Committee ensures the timely and accurate External Sustainability Advisory Board disclosure of share-price-sensitive information related to the Comprising a diverse international group of thought leaders, company and is responsible for the implementation of the DSM's Sustainability Advisory Board acts as a sparring partner DSM rules on the holding and execution of transactions in for the Managing Board and senior executives, to help sharpen DSM financial instruments, among other things. A third their focus on strategic issues, deepen their understanding of committee at corporate level is the Fraud Committee, which external stakeholder needs, conduct advocacy and handle was installed to ensure structural follow-up of fraud cases with dilemmas. This board met twice in 2017 together with the the aim of reducing fraud exposure. Relevant corporate Managing Board and a number of senior executives. Subjects functions participate in the Fraud Committee under the discussed included DSM's corporate sustainability strategy, chairmanship of the CFO. innovation project updates, climate strategy, circular and biobased solutions, and a feedback session on the Bright Minds Sustainability Governance Framework Challenge and possible next steps. They also had the Managing Board opportunity to visit the new Rosalind Franklin Biotechnology Sustainability falls under the responsibility of the Managing Center in Delft (Netherlands). At the same time, Jessica Fanzo Board. While CEO/Chairman of the Managing Board Feike who joined in late 2016 and Robin Chase who joined in 2017 Sijbesma is the primary point of contact, other members also were welcomed to the Sustainability Advisory Board by Feike chair sustainability topics and initiatives. In 2017: Sijbesma. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 106 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management — Governance framework Sustainability Advisory Board Member Background Robin Chase (f) Co-founder and former CEO of Zipcar, co-founder of Veniam, board member of the World Resources Institute, and Tucows, and serves as an informal advisor to many cities, national governments, and transport agencies on the transition to shared automated vehicles. Nationality: American. Jessica Fanzo (f) Bloomberg Distinguished Associate Professor of Ethics and Global Food & Agriculture at the Johns Hopkins Berman Institute of Bioethics, the School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS), and the Bloomberg School of Public Health, Department of International Health, Director of the Global Food Ethics and Policy Program and co-chair of the Global Nutrition Report. She has previously held positions in nutrition advisory, advocacy and research organizations in the US, Rome (Italy) and Kenya. Nationality: American. Paul Gilding (m) Social entrepreneur, author and corporate strategy advisor. Fellow at the University of Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership (UK). In 2011, he published his book 'The Great Disruption'. In the 1990s, he was executive director of Greenpeace International. Nationality: Australian. David King (m) Partner at SYSTEMIQ since 2017. Special representative for climate change of the UK government from 2013 to 2017. From 2008 to 2012, he served as the founding director of the Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment at the University of Oxford (UK). Chief Scientific Advisor to the UK government 2000-2007. Nationality: British. Ndidi Nwuneli (f) Social entrepreneur and Founder of LEAP Africa and co-founder of AACE Food Processing & Distribution Ltd. (AACE Foods), an indigenous agro-processing company in Lagos (Nigeria). She is also a partner at Sahel Capital, an advisory and private equity firm focused on the agribusiness and manufacturing sectors in West Africa. Nationality: Nigerian. Ye Qi (m) Cheung Kong professor of Environmental Policy and director of Brooking-Tsinghua Center for Public Policy at Tsinghua University in Beijing (China). Before he joined Tsinghua, he taught at Beijing Normal University, and the University of California at Berkeley (California, USA). Nationality: American. Global network The DSM Operations & Responsible Care department is At a corporate level, sustainability is steered by the responsible for all corporate issues related to SHE. The Senior Sustainability Leadership Team, a group of senior executives Vice President DSM Operations & Responsible Care reports representing the business groups and contributing corporate directly to the Managing Board. SHE managers provide functions, which is chaired by the Vice President Sustainability. support at business group level. The DSM SHE Council, which He leads the Corporate Sustainability department and reports includes all business group SHE managers, is instrumental in directly to CEO Feike Sijbesma. The aim of the Corporate sharing experiences and developing best practices and Sustainability staff is to be a business-oriented center of communications on SHE issues. excellence and partner on sustainability, internally and externally. The Sustainability Leadership Team meets quarterly to monitor the progress of sustainability across the company, with particular emphasis on steering the company's business and innovation portfolio on key drivers. Regional operational sustainability networks are in place in China, India, Latin America and North America. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 107 www.dsm.com DSM Code of Business Conduct Introduction The DSM Code of Business Conduct ('the Code') serves as Our corporate Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth builds an umbrella for several other DSM regulations and forms the on this foundation. Additionally, we made the Code's ebasis for the company's ethical business behavior. In 2017, learning course more user-friendly. It is shorter, customized for we updated the Code to emphasize the importance of longthe main business functions and includes a simple refresher term value creation and our company culture as well as to align for long-term employees. it more closely with daily operations. This included: All DSM employees are expected to follow the Code, which is Strengthening our sustainability ambitions by anchoring available in seven languages. The full text also appears on the Brighter Living Solutions into our mission and adding new company website. The Managing Board holds DSM's unit business principles on low-carbon innovations and water management accountable for compliance. security; Simplifying existing business principles by reducing the number of principles from 31 to 17; and Clearly outlining our aspired company culture, which is supported by the 'ONE DSM Culture Agenda' (see page 40) and the 'DSM Leadership Model' (see page 39). DSM Code of Business Conduct and values training program Mission Core Value: Sustainability Code of Business Conduct: 17 principles Certification via e-learning for: All employees Code of Business Life Saving Key Security Basic Course Conduct Rules Behaviors Responsible Care Specific target Competition Global Trade Anti-Bribery Unlawful Harassment Privacy audiences Law Controls & Corruption Prevention Dilemma Workshops The DSM values training program contains several e-learning most important rules that must be followed by all employees courses on these regulations for all employees or, for certain to prevent incidents. subject matter, target groups. In 2017, many e-learnings were improved by providing shorter, more inspiring, and targeted The Unlawful Harassment Prevention e-learning emphasizes content. When DSM acquires a business, integration and the importance of the cultural, diversity and non-discrimination compliance plans are rolled out to make sure new employees aspects of the Code and focuses on effective employee are trained. relations, communications, and non-discriminatory practices. DSM's regulations cover the three dimensions of People, The DSM Privacy Code for Employee Data and the DSM Planet and Profit, of which the most important are listed here: Privacy Code for Customer, Supplier and Business Partner Data prescribe mandatory training for Privacy Officers, HR People: To support DSM's ambition to create an incident-free employees, legal counsels and employees who regularly work and injury-free workplace, the Life Saving Rules specify the 12 with personal data. Anticipating the new European General Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 108 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management — DSM Code of Business Conduct Data Protection Regulation that comes into force in 2018, business conduct when these parties act on behalf of DSM or privacy procedures were reviewed and adjusted in 2017. The deal with DSM products further down the value chain. corresponding Privacy e-learning was adjusted accordingly. Training and awareness A Human Rights position paper is available on the company website. For more information, see 'Human rights' on page Employees must regularly refresh their DSM values training. 41. The implementation of this training program continues to progress well. In 2017, a new learning management system Planet: The Basic Course Responsible Care addresses the has been rolled out globally, see 'Learning & Development at elements of the Responsible Care Program: Safety, Health, DSM' on page 38. More than 2,000 employees previously and Environment; Product Stewardship; Security and using classroom training now have online access to all eSustainability. learning courses, greatly increasing efficiency. Profit: DSM has e-learnings for Global Competition Law At year-end, most employees had completed or refreshed Principles and Practices and Global Trade Controls. their training (excluding employees of some recently acquired Compliance is embedded in DSM's systems and processes. businesses). Certain elements of the program are offered to DSM master data is screened to check customers and selected contractors as well as to employees in DSM's joint suppliers against embargoes and lists of sanctioned parties. ventures. The DSM Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) Policy and A Review Team, chaired by the Vice President Corporate Risk Compliance Manual is shared with selected employees in Management, monitors implementation of the DSM values commercial and business roles. When needed, we have training program. This team also monitors internal and external translated this into local language to facilitate better developments around corporate ethics in order to promote understanding. For example, a Chinese translation of the DSM and safeguard the company's values and reputation. ABC Policy and Compliance Manual, an easy-to-use ABC checklist, and ABC classroom training are available (integrated Employees for whom competition laws are most relevant must into the Competition Law classroom program). The ABC due confirm their compliance with the rules set out in the DSM diligence program for agents and distributors was further Competition Law Compliance Manual. In this statement, they implemented during 2017. confirm that they are not aware of any violation of competition laws by DSM. Sign-off levels are excellent. Alleged breaches The Security e-learning covers DSM's seven Key Security are reported to, and discussed with, Group Legal Affairs. In Behaviors. To complete the e-learning, employees are 2017, no breaches were reported. required to read and sign off on the DSM Code of Conduct for Information Security. Even with training, sometimes employees may come across dilemmas when they put the Code into practice. Employees DSM also has rules in place on the holding of and execution can request dilemma workshops to calibrate 'what is right' and of transactions in DSM financial instruments and certain other 'what is wrong'. These workshops build on DSM's company financial instruments related to trading in DSM shares, and culture, which is based on openness, fairness, and trust. This where applicable, shares and related financial instruments in helps continuously improve business integrity in daily other companies. These apply to all relevant employees, operations. including the Executive Committee, the Managing Board, and the Supervisory Board. Letter of Representation Value chain At the end of each year, the management of all 33 operational units sign off on a Letter of Representation. With this, they The business principles most relevant to the supply chain are confirm the compliance of the unit and its employees with brought together in the Supplier Code of Conduct and are also applicable laws and regulations, the Code and related values structured along the three sustainability dimensions of People, training, and DSM's corporate policies and requirements (see Planet and Profit. The Supplier Code of Conduct, available on 'Risk management' on page 112). the company website in eight languages, is signed off by suppliers in framework contracts, confirming their Consequence management commitment to sustainability, among other things. DSM applies zero-tolerance consequence management to For distributor and agent contracts, the ABC Policy is being violations of the Code. Under our whistleblower procedure translated into terms and conditions that ensure ethical (DSM Alert), most Code incidents are reported to and dealt with by local line management. Where this is not considered Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 109 www.dsm.com appropriate, complaints are made directly to the DSM Alert Code can result in dismissal or other forms of consequence Officer. In all cases, consequence management practices (e.g. management. In line with this policy, 36 employees were official warning, temporary suspension, dismissal) are in place dismissed in 2017 because of breaches of the Code or other to support compliance with the Code. The DSM Alert Officer legal or local company regulations. In addition, 88 cases were reports to the Managing Board and reports independently to reported that have led to other kinds of consequence the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board twice a year. management (official warning or suspension). Overall this is at Non-DSM employees wishing to voice a concern regarding approximately the same level as in 2016. violations of the Code can also contact the DSM Alert Officer via the company website. People: Most of the cases in the People dimension are related to violations of the Life Saving Rules or inappropriate behavior. In 2017, 24 Alert cases (reports of potential violations of the Safety and health in the workplace has a priority for the Code) were received, two of which were reported by an company and incident-reporting channels are well known. external person or party. This is at the same level as in previous years. There were two potential bribery and corruption cases Planet: There was one violation of the Code reported in the reported. One case has been investigated, but the report Planet dimension in 2017 due to irresponsible behavior by an could not be substantiated. The other case is still under employee. This violation did not lead to a serious investigation. environmental incident. The table on the following page gives an overview of all Profit: Most of the cases that were reported in the Profit reported Code violations, with a breakdown per Triple P dimension were related to the incorrect registration of working dimension and per region. Proven serious violations of the hours, conflicts of interest and fraudulent expense claims. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 110 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management — DSM Code of Business Conduct Implementation of the DSM values 2017 2016 Training and awareness e-learning: % of targeted employees trained General Code of Business Conduct 90% 97% People Life Saving Rules 97% 99% Unlawful Harassment Prevention 88% 98% Data Privacy Knowledge 96% 90% Planet Basic Course Responsible Care 100% 98% Profit Global Trade Controls 96% 92% Anti-Bribery and Corruption 98% 93% Security 96% 97% DSM Competition Law: % of targeted employees signed off DSM Competition Law compliance annual statement 99% 99% Violations of the Code: Number of dismissals / other consequence management Triple P breakdown People 28/79 20/58 Planet 0/1 3/5 Profit 8/8 9/13 Regional breakdown Europe & Africa 18/21 13/31 Americas 13/61 14/37 Asia-Pacific 5/6 5/8 Total 36/88 32/76 Alert cases (whistleblower procedure): 24 24 Number substantiated / not substantiated / under investigation Triple P breakdown People 1/9/2 11/10/0 Planet 0/0/0 0/0/0 Profit 3/7/2 2/1/0 Regional breakdown Europe & Africa 2/4/2 2/2/0 Americas 1/7/1 7/9/0 Asia-Pacific 1/5/1 4/0/0 Total 4/16/4 13/11/0 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 111 www.dsm.com Risk management The Managing Board is accountable for risk management associated with DSM's strategy and activities. To that end, adequate risk management and internal control systems should be in place. The responsibility for identifying and managing risks lies within the DSM units, supported by the Corporate Risk Management (CRM) department and regularly assessed by the Corporate Operational Audit (COA) department both reporting directly to the CFO and COA having direct access to the CEO and the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. DSM Risk Management Cycle Core Value Sustainability, the Code + other training, Corporate Requirements CSD, BSD, Risk appetite Mission / Internal environment Strategy / Objective setting Design and effectiveness Enterprise Risk of Risk Management and Close the loop Management Internal Control verified by COA audits Audit Committee Monitoring and control Risk assessment activities and response Information and communication Letter of Representation CRA, BRA, PRA, others Internal Control Mitigating actions Internal/external audit Emerging risks Annual Report, RM system, plan, website, training, RM meetings The Managing Board has in place a well-embedded risk Mission / Internal environment management, internal control system and organization in all company units. The approach is based on the COSO-ERM Values and business principles are key elements of the internal framework1. This chapter is structured accordingly (see figure environment for risk management and form the starting point 'DSM Risk Management Cycle'). of the risk management cycle. DSM's core value is sustainability, which is directly related to the company's A full description of DSM's risk management system and mission to create brighter lives for people today and process, together with a description of the identified risks, is generations to come. All DSM employees receive regular available on the company website. These descriptions are to training on values and business principles per the framework be considered an integral part of this Report. requirements. This starts with overarching training on the DSM Code of Business Conduct. It is the responsibility of the business groups, support functions, functional excellence departments and regions (the In 2017, DSM introduced a new global risk management units) within DSM to set up, maintain, operate and monitor an operating model to improve the agility, effectiveness and appropriate risk management and internal control system efficiency of its risk management activities. Risk managers will within their area of responsibility. This responsibility includes have dual reporting lines: the management, monitoring, reporting and controlling of risks. The units are supported in this by risk managers. COA A functional reporting line to guarantee the quality of risk closes the loop with regular assessments of the design and management and continuous improvement operational effectiveness of the risk management and internal Business reporting lines to safeguard close connection to control systems. business goals and operations 1 Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission Enterprise Risk Management-Integrated Framework. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 112 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management — Risk management We have made it easier for employees to follow DSM's Risk assessment and response Corporate Requirements by clearly communicating who exactly needs to understand and adhere to specific An important precursor to risk assessments is the company's requirements. This included updates to our risk management overall risk appetite, which is defined and updated annually by website, which was improved in 2017. the Executive Committee. In 2017, the overall risk appetite has remained the same as in the previous year (see figure below). Strategy / Objective setting DSM's Corporate Risk Management supports the Executive Committee, business groups, and functions at the global and regional levels to deliver on the company's strategy. DSM’s risk appetite Averse Minimalist Cautious Open Hungry Generic/strategic (e.g.: Innovation, People/organization/culture, Intellectual property, Raw materials/energy, Price/availability, Acquisitions and partnerships, Divestments, Brand) Operational (e.g.: Reputation, Customer, Project management, Production process, (Information-) Security, Business continuity, Product liability, Safety, Health and Environment) Financial and reporting (e.g.: Liquidity and market, Reporting integrity, Pensions, Financial risks (e.g. credit, tax)) Legal and compliance (e.g.: Legal non-compliance, Non-compliance with DSM Requirements) Risk assessments and mitigation plans are carried out at the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board annually (see various levels in the organization. DSM has a standard but table of top risks on page 115). flexible, six-step approach to risk assessments: Business Risk Assessments Preparation DSM's business groups also conduct assessments. Business Identification Risk Assessments (BRAs) and their equivalents for business Analysis units, functions and regions are carried out with crossEvaluation functional teams. These include experienced facilitators as Treatment well as experts who can challenge assumptions to help Monitoring and reviewing improve the quality of these risk assessments. Risk assessments focus on various categories including Process Risk Assessments material, non-material and reputational risks. In 2017, we DSM conducts Process Risk Assessments (PRAs) which are identified additional opportunities for improving how we intended to make our processes as robust, business-specific facilitate, challenge, define and monitor mitigation efforts. As and fraud-proof as possible. a result, we will also update the risk assessment training program. Project Risk Assessments At the project level, risk assessments are performed on an Corporate Risk Assessment ongoing basis to secure successful delivery of project DSM conducts a Corporate Risk Assessment (CRA), which is objectives and value creation for the company. the responsibility of the Managing Board. As part of the assessment, the Executive Committee reviews and agrees on Monitoring activities top risks facing DSM, as well as emerging and other important risks. They also agree on how to mitigate and monitor these. DSM has various means of monitoring and related reporting. The outcome of the CRA is reported to, and discussed with, These include monitoring of events, Letters of Representation (LoR), external/internal audits, compliance checks, and Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 113 www.dsm.com functioning of the common controls. Monitoring and reporting them in its use. In addition to the many initiatives from 2016, is discussed in risk management committees in order to the main deliverable in 2017 was the further development, evaluate and manage the status of the risk profile. improvement and updating of the risk management training curriculum and the risk management training program. The most important types of risks for DSM's units, as well as any incidents, are annually reported and reviewed mid-year Assessment of the design and effectiveness of the risk through the LoR, which all reporting units are required to sign. management and internal control system This 'bottom-up' report is checked against the risks reported by the CRA, as well as with the findings from the internal and DSM has three lines of defense to manage risks: external audits. Line management within the units DSM's risk managers also support internal audits to check the Risk management and internal control (on unit and effectiveness of the internal controls, compliance status and corporate level) risk mitigations, and incident repairs. COA The consolidated overview of all aforementioned monitoring is The effectiveness of the risk management activities by the first the basis for this risk section and the statements of the line of defense is assessed by internal audits, coordinated by Managing Board at the end of this section. the risk managers of the units being the second line of defense. Control activities In addition to that, independent audits, some unannounced, are conducted by COA (third line of defense) in a program that Control activities are carried out by appointed unit risk was agreed with the Executive Committee and the Audit managers and unit risk management committees, who Committee of the Supervisory Board. regularly review: The 2017 internal audits have not indicated any material compliance with training implementation, segregation of failings in the design and effectiveness of the internal risk duties, and follow-up of audits of various stakeholders; management and control systems of the company. execution, follow-up and quality of the relevant set of risk assessments; and Risks best practices from internal and external sources to further strengthen DSM's risk management cycle as well as to The preliminary outcome of the CRA was reported to and ensure appropriate risk management awareness and discussed with the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board relevant training for DSM employees. in the meeting of December 2017. This 'top-down' outcome corresponded very well with the 'bottom-up' risks and During 2017, DSM implemented a standard approach to incidents as reported by all the individual units in their Letter of monitoring ERP access controls, user provisioning and Representation, as well as with the findings from the internal privileged user management for the majority of the company's and external audits. This final risk profile was reported to and units. DSM started to bring relevant key controls for its main discussed with the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board supporting processes into an overarching Internal Control in February 2018 and forms the basis for the main risks and Framework. Relevant function leads are currently mapping responses as reported in the table. their key controls, and this will enable DSM and its stakeholders to have a comprehensive oversight of all Internal Top risks Controls in scope. A pilot, as proof of concept, is planned for 2018. The table on the next page shows the four most important risks that might prevent DSM achieving the targets defined in Information and communication Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth. It also describes the mitigating actions. Top risks have a potential impact on DSM's Continuous efforts are made to inform employees about the EBITDA of an indicative € 30 million or more, or have a large DSM risk management system and to support and/or train non-financial impact such as on reputation. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 114 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management — Risk management Top risks and related mitigating actions Description of risks Mitigating actions Market environment and competition DSM has created a streamlined and simplified business The existing strength of the portfolio, as a result of continued portfolio and a good platform for growth, as 2017's results investments made in innovation, has resulted in a broadening have shown. Nonetheless the risk remains of facing of DSM's product, application and customer base. increased competition for some product-market Nonetheless, improvements to marketing and sales combinations, especially from low cost/margin players, while management programs (customer centricity, agility) will DSM actively needs to also manage capacity expansions for continue to increase/protect the value captured, while the selected products. company plans timely capacity expansions and/or external sourcing to manage growth. Operational continuous improvement programs also secure maximum output from existing installations. People, organization and culture In order to continue to deliver above-market growth and DSM has adjusted its operating model and has strengthened retain strong operational efficiency, DSM requires a highits top leadership to enhance accountability for performance. quality pipeline for talents and good people development. All executives attended in 2017 a specifically designed 'Lead Although good progress has been made with the introduction & Grow' leadership program focused on managing rapid of a new talent management program, further improvements change and uncertain business conditions. The monitoring of may be required to fully embed a culture of agility and costprogress in the talent pipeline will continue focusing on the consciousness to support the organization in its growth need to further enhance diversity. ambitions. Operating in a digital world Despite a good track record and having procedural and DSM is strengthening its governance structure around cyber system controls in place, cyber crime constantly needs security, with particular attention to production plants and R&D attention to protect our assets and information. This risk is laboratory systems. Monitoring to detect security incidents and exacerbated by the accelerating pace of digitalization. In incident response is in place. The company is also accelerating addition, if DSM does not progress fast enough, delays in the deployment of digital initiatives following a full IT and digital digitalization is in itself a risk, impacting future transformation that took place in 2017, with the view to embed competitiveness. a digital mindset in all parts of the organization. Product portfolio and innovation-driven growth The quality and relevance of the current DSM portfolio of Product portfolio management has led to more focus in terms products is fully reflected in the above-market growth rates of capital allocation and project prioritization. Top projects are achieved in all businesses. To sustain this strong market closely monitored, with a well-established stage-gate position DSM is investing in innovations for which the time to approach and regular status reviews with the Executive market is uncertain. Delays in key projects constitute a risk to Committee. Where possible, time-to-market is shortened via mid-term sustainable growth and the company's ability to customer and/or innovation alliances. maintain highly relevant product offerings. The top risks as defined in 2017 relate largely to the same The risk of 'Program and Project Management' has topics as those identified in 2016. The main changes versus decreased and is not a top risk anymore due to the good 2016 are: progress made in 2017 on the cost reduction and productivity improvement programs. Although still a risk, 'Geopolitical, global financial and The existing 2016 risks related to operating in a digital world economic developments' has dropped out of the top risks have increased and are now combined into a top risk. list as the global economic outlook has improved compared The 2016 emerging risk relating to some longer-term DSM to 2016 and related mitigation actions such as geographical Innovation projects is now reflected in the top risk 'Product diversification are working. portfolio and innovation driven growth'. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 115 www.dsm.com Emerging risks Enhancement of the risk management system The following two emerging risks have been identified by the During 2017, considerable effort was spent on the Executive Committee. They are being carefully monitored so development and design of a new global risk management that DSM can take action or use them as new opportunities in operating model, including dual reporting lines for risk a timely manner. managers to ensure quality of risk management and close connection to business goals and operations. Implementation 1. DSM's Nutrition and Materials markets may be disrupted by started in January 2018. longer-term changes such as: Other improvements to the risk management framework: new food preferences / food systems; potential impact of climate and health trends on animal Long-term value creation and the company culture we protein; aspire has been included in the update of the Code, in line innovations such as 3D printing; with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. replacing fossil fuels by energy from renewable sources; and Further simplification of several Corporate Requirements, new mobility and transport options. the Code, the corresponding training program (shorter, more inspiring, and targeted content in e-learnings and a This could create a risk if the speed of change in the world is new global learning management system has significantly higher than DSM's speed of adaptation to it. increased the efficiency of risk management. A project to update our Internal Control Framework has 2. DSM may not be able to adjust its environmental footprint been started because of changes in DSM's portfolio, or respond to climate change related disruption in its endredesign of operating models, audit findings and the update markets fast enough. of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. At the same time, these two emerging risks will also offer new As a standard practice, the Audit Committee of the opportunities for DSM's Brighter Living Solutions. Supervisory Board was given in-depth insight into the status of the DSM risk management system. This ensured that this Other important risks committee remained fully involved and aware of the status of, and developments in, enterprise risk management and how Besides the top risks reported in the previous table and other this has the potential to help achieve DSM's strategic emerging risks that need to be taken into account, the CRA objectives. has identified some other important (sometimes more operational) risks. These include business continuity, product liability, intellectual property and tax risks. The company's risk management and internal control system has been designed to monitor and respond to the maximum extent possible. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 116 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management — Statements of the Managing Board Statements of the Managing Board It should be noted that the above does not imply that these systems and procedures provide absolute assurance as to the The Managing Board is responsible for the design and realization of operational and strategic business objectives, or operation of the internal risk management and control that they can prevent all misstatements, inaccuracies, errors, systems. In discharging this responsibility, the Managing fraud and non-compliances with legislation, rules and Board has made a systematic assessment of the effectiveness regulations. Nor can they provide certainty that we will achieve of the design and operation of the internal control and risk our objectives. management systems. In view of all of the above, the Managing Board confirms that, On the basis of this report and in accordance with best to the best of its knowledge and belief, the financial statements practice 1.4.3 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code of give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial December 2016, and Article 5:25c of the Financial Supervision position and profit or loss of the company, and that the Act, the aforementioned assessment and the current state of management report includes a fair review of the position at the affairs, to the best of its knowledge and belief, the Managing balance sheet date and the development and performance of Board confirms that: the business during the financial year, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the the internal risk management and control systems of the company faces. company provide reasonable assurance that financial reporting does not contain any material inaccuracies; there have been no material failings in the effectiveness of Heerlen, 27 February 2018 the internal risk management and control systems of the company; The Managing Board there are no material risks or uncertainties that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Managing Board on the continuity of DSM's operations in the coming twelve Geraldine Matchett, CFO months; and Dimitri de Vreeze there is a reasonable expectation that DSM will be able to continue its operations and meet its liabilities for at least twelve months, therefore it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial reporting. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 117 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Introduction by the Chairman discussions with organizations like the CEO Climate Ambassadors of the World Economic Forum, the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC, convened by the World “ Our focus during 2016 had x Bank, supported by the UN, IMF and OECD) and We Mean Business. been on delivery, and we fully Our CEO Feike Sijbesma showed great leadership in this area maintained this in 2017, with during 2017 especially regarding advocacy on climate action. In recognition of the substantial role he played in supporting positive results on many the Paris Agreement (COP21) and in many other climaterelated negotiations and meetings since that historic fronts. ” agreement, Mr. Sijbesma was invited to be an official speaker Rob Routs, Chairman Supervisory Board and share the stage with heads of state at the One Planet Summit organized by French President Macron in December. For DSM, 2017 was again a year of strong delivery. DSM During the summit, many countries announced the exceeded the targets set out in Strategy 2018: Driving introduction of carbon pricing — a significant breakthrough for Profitable Growth. The strong focus on delivery that we Mr. Sijbesma who co-chairs the Carbon Pricing Leadership witnessed in 2016 continued in 2017 and is now clearly Coalition together with Mrs. Catherine McKenna, the anchored throughout the company. Canadian Minister of Environment. We also successfully divested our remaining stake in Patheon This year, the site visits of the Supervisory Board took place in bringing total cash proceeds at about € 2 billion, the US, where we visited a range of different businesses demonstrating our commitment to monetize the significant across DSM including DSM Venturing, i-Health, DSM value within our associates. Biomedical, DSM-POET and DSM-Niaga. The US visit helped my colleagues on the Supervisory Board to deepen their Being well ahead of the ambitions of Strategy 2018 and having understanding of some of the smaller businesses within DSM, received the significant cash proceeds of Patheon earlier than their various business models, and respective growth and anticipated, the Supervisory Board fully supports the innovation opportunities. It also allowed us to interact with Managing Board's intention to accelerate the regular strategy management and other talent in North America. review process for the period beyond 2018, while remaining firmly in delivery mode. Overall, 2017 was a very good year for DSM. On behalf of my colleagues on the Supervisory Board, I would like to thank our During the second half of 2017, the Supervisory Board employees and DSM's leadership for their hard work and dedicated several sessions to this strategy review process, commitment. I would also like to thank the many stakeholders discussing also how to maintain the company's current who continue to place their trust in DSM. growth momentum and fully leverage the results of recent improvement programs and investments in talent development. Safety has been the subject of serious discussion. There was a tragic fatal accident at one of our plants in the US in 2017, which came as a great shock. The Supervisory Board pays close attention to both personal and process safety; these have been recurring topics at our meetings. We remain committed to the safety of all employees and contractors and our goal is for DSM to be an incidentand injury-free company. DSM continued to deliver well on its ambitious sustainability goals as part of Strategy 2018. Sustainability is our core value and a key business driver for the growth of the company. Not only do we reduce our own environmental footprint and enable our customers to do the same with our innovative solutions, we also advocate on the issues that define our times. DSM continues to be a positive voice, shaping Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 118 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Report nominations (of the Supervisory Board and Managing Board), remuneration (of the Supervisory Board and Managing Board), This Report provides further information on the way the and sustainability. Information on these committees is given Supervisory Board performed its duties in 2017. This concerns elsewhere in this chapter. The charters of the committees are supervising the policy pursued by the Managing Board, the published on the company website under 'Corporate Managing Board's performance of its managerial duties, and Governance'. the general course of affairs within DSM and its businesses, as well as assisting the Managing Board with advice, either The Supervisory Board furthermore regularly receives upon request or proactively. Finally, these duties also include information on relevant topics from senior leaders and experts assessing the Managing Board's performance and ensuring within DSM during committee meetings, full Supervisory that their remuneration is in line with that performance and that Board meetings, annual site visits and as part of their ongoing it provides the appropriate incentives. Since the inception of professional education. In 2017, this was the case with an Executive Committee, the Supervisory Board has also been respect to the revision of the Dutch Corporate Governance responsible for ensuring that the checks and balances that are Code, the Clean Cow and Green Ocean projects, the part of the two-tier system are still taken into account, paying achievement of DSM's Group Sourcing function, the progress specific attention to the dynamics between the Managing of the POET-DSM joint venture, talent development, and IT Board and the Executive Committee. and cyber security. During its annual site visit, the Supervisory Board actively takes the opportunity to interact with The responsibility of supervising the policy pursued by the employees at different levels within the company, from the Managing Board includes evaluating the way the Managing shop floor to senior leadership, thus collecting valuable Board implements DSM's strategy for long-term value information and insights from various sources within DSM. creation, and promotes a culture aimed at that value. Since the company's mission is to create brighter lives for people Relationship and stakeholder management today and generations to come, long-term value creation is embedded both in DSM's Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable In performing its duties, the Supervisory Board acts in Growth and in the company culture. This is described in the accordance with the interests of the company and the chapters 'Strategy' on page 18, 'People' on page 34 and business connected with it, taking into consideration the 'Corporate governance' on page 101. interests of the company's stakeholders. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board is in regular close contact with the CEO/ Composition of the Supervisory Board Chairman of the Managing Board, as is the Chairman of the Audit Committee with the CFO. The composition of the DSM Supervisory Board is diverse in gender, nationality, background, knowledge and experience. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board regularly interacts with There are five men and three women. Three members are members of the Executive Committee who attend parts of Dutch, two American, one Dutch-American, one British and Supervisory Board meetings and participate in elements of the one Singaporean. The Board's current members are Rob yearly site visit of the Supervisory Board that are relevant to Routs (Chairman), Tom de Swaan (Vice Chair), Victoria their specific area of responsibility. Haynes, Eileen Kennedy, Pauline van der Meer Mohr, Frits van Paasschen, Pradeep Pant and John Ramsay. For detailed The Supervisory Board interacts with DSM employees on information on their backgrounds, see 'Corporate various occasions and in various settings. Direct, one-on-one Governance' on the company website and page 130 of this contact between Supervisory Board members and Managing Report. Board members generally follows naturally from topics discussed in the Supervisory Board meetings and matches the Following best practice 2.1.10 of the Dutch Corporate members' respective fields of expertise. In view of that Governance Code, the Supervisory Board establishes that its expertise, Managing Board members also seek the advice of members are able to act critically and independently of one Supervisory Board members on specific matters. The same another, the Managing Board and any particular interests goes for contact with other employees. For example, involved. To safeguard this, the Supervisory Board is Supervisory Board member Pradeep Pant, has extensive composed in such a way that all its members are independent knowledge of Asian markets, and is in regular contact with our in the meaning of best practice 2.1.8 of the Dutch Corporate senior management in that region. In another example, Governance Code. Supervisory Board member Pauline van der Meer Mohr, who has a clear HR profile, was one of the keynote speakers at an The targeted profile of the Supervisory Board is reflected in its internal DSM event about mentoring. The Chairman of the regulation, which is published on the company website under Sustainability Committee, Eileen Kennedy, attended one of the 'Corporate Governance'. The Supervisory Board has four meetings of DSM's Sustainability Advisory Board. Our new committees to cover key areas in greater detail: auditing, members John Ramsay and Frits van Paasschen had Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 119 www.dsm.com numerous one-on-one meetings and visited several sites as business. This includes shareholders' perceptions. The part of their introduction program. Supervisory Board is informed of the position of other DSM stakeholders by the Managing Board. In addition, the The Supervisory Board has an active interest in maintaining a Supervisory Board collects such information through its own good understanding of DSM's stakeholders and their network. positions on various topics related to the company's areas of Meeting attendance of the DSM Supervisory Board Member Supervisory1 Audit Nomination Remuneration Sustainability Board Committee Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings Rob Routs (Chairman) 100% n.a.2 100% 100% n.a.2 Tom de Swaan (Deputy Chairman) 100% 100% n.a. 100% n.a. Victoria Haynes 86%3 100% n.a. 100% n.a. Pierre Hochuli4 100% 100% n.a. n.a. 100% Eileen Kennedy 86%3 n.a. 100% n.a. 100% Pauline van der Meer Mohr 100% n.a. 100% 100% n.a. Frits van Paasschen4 100% n.a. 100% 100% n.a. Pradeep Pant 100% 100% n.a. n.a. 100% John Ramsay4 100% 100% n.a. n.a. n.a. 1 Attendance is reflected for the seven Supervisory Board meetings held in 2017. In three out of the four additional Supervisory Board calls that were also held in 2017 the decision making had been delegated by the Supervisory Board to the Chair of the Board and the Chair of the Audit Committee, who both attended all the calls. During the fourth additional Supervisory Board call, that pertained to the mandate to acquire Amyris Brasil Ltda and establish a long-term manufacturing partnership for Amyris' high-volume products, Eileen Kennedy and Pauline van der Meer Mohr were unable to attend due to prior commitments and the short notice at which this call had to be planned. 2 The Chair has a standing invitation and has attended 100% of the meetings. 3 Victoria Haynes had to miss the additional, seventh Supervisory Board meeting which was planned in the course of 2017 following the decision to bring forward the regular strategy review process. That meeting conflicted with a prior commitment of Victoria Haynes. Due to very bad weather circumstances Eileen Kennedy could not travel nor dial in to one of the Supervisory Board meetings. 4 Pierre Hochuli retired as member of the Supervisory Board as from the 2017 General Meeting of Shareholders. Frits van Paasschen and John Ramsay became members of the Supervisory Board following their appointment at the 2017 General Meeting of Shareholders. Supervision and advice In 2017, the Supervisory Board was actively involved in DSM's strategy review process including the assessment as to the The Supervisory Board performs its duties of supervising and extent DSM is on track with the execution of Strategy 2018. advising the Managing Board with respect to both recurring Working sessions were held to identify relevant trends, risks standard agenda items for Supervisory Board meetings and and opportunities as input for the strategy review process. to specific topics that become relevant at a given point in time. DSM's approach to the opportunities and threats presented by the 'digital revolution' as expressed in the Digital Strategy The most prominent regular agenda item is an update on were reviewed together with the 'digital aiming points' that set business, financials and treasury topics. As part of this agenda out measurable goals to be achieved through the application item, the Supervisory Board tracks DSM's financial of digital technologies in the coming years. performance, approves the annual Finance Plan, and deliberates on any additional treasury topics as needed. In Site visits 2017, the Supervisory Board discussed and approved the share buy-back program to cover the company's Each year, the Supervisory Board takes a number of days to commitments under existing management and employee visit DSM sites in a particular region. This fosters interaction option plans and its stock dividend policy. With input from the with employees across different areas of the company and Audit Committee, the Supervisory Board also discussed provides Supervisory Board members with opportunities for DSM's policy for foreign exchange risk management. continuing education. This year's visit took the Supervisory Furthermore, the amendment of the dividend arrangements of Board to North America. DSM's cumulative preference shares A was discussed with the Supervisory Board prior to the 2017 General Meeting of Shareholders, where this amendment was approved. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 120 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board The DSM Supervisory Board (from left to right): John Ramsay, Frits van Paasschen, Pauline van der Meer Mohr, Tom de Swaan (Deputy Chairman), Victoria Haynes, Rob Routs (Chairman), Eileen Kennedy, Pradeep Pant. Whereas in 2016 the site visit was designed in such a way that During the North America visit, the Supervisory Board traveled the Supervisory Board followed the manufacturing chain of to two facilities. The first was DSM's Biomedical facility in DSM Nutritional Products in Switzerland, the site visit of 2017 Exton (Pennsylvania, USA). The visit to Exton provided insights gave an overview of a wide range of different businesses and into the technologies applied and the innovation opportunities activities in North America. The visit to North America of DSM Biomedical, the largest of the company's three deepened the Board's understanding of several of the Emerging Business Areas. The second visit was to the company's smaller businesses, such as i-Health and DSM Advanced Biofuels facility of the POET-DSM joint venture in Biomedical, offering additional insights into their business Emmetsburg (Iowa, USA). This visit included interactions with models, growth potential and innovation opportunities. employees and with DSM's North American leadership, as well as participation in a townhall meeting. The townhall The North America visit began with a general overview of meeting was broadcast live across all DSM's North American DSM's business in the region as well as relevant political and sites. economic developments. The Board then received an update on Venturing, a small team operating as part of DSM's Finally, time was taken to reflect on the site visit, with the Innovation Center in North America. DSM Venturing takes participating Executive Committee members. Supervisory minority investments in start-ups, creating opportunities for Board members shared their impressions and offered specific DSM's businesses. advice pertaining to the applied business models, technologies and the talent development process. The Supervisory Board were briefed in-depth on two specific business models within DSM — the i-Health business and the In December, the Supervisory Board also visited the Rosalind DSM-Niaga joint venture. Given the importance of customerFranklin Laboratory in Delft (Netherlands) and learned more centricity, the briefing on DSM-Niaga was combined with a about the biotechnology capabilities of DSM. presentation by and discussion with representatives of Mohawk, the second-largest flooring maker in the US. Under the brand name Air.o™, Mohawk sells recyclable carpets made from DSM-Niaga material. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 121 www.dsm.com Supervisory Board meetings and performance evaluation already dealt with regularly, the Supervisory Board would be pleased to spend even more time on major market In 2017, the Supervisory Board held its six regular meetings in developments, DSM's external operating environment, and the presence of the Managing Board, as well as one additional lessons learned from major investments and acquisitions. meeting in the presence of the Managing Board, in order to be able to dedicate sufficient time to the strategy review process. Committees The Supervisory Board also held four additional conference calls. These were held to assess the procedure carried out The Supervisory Board has four committees to cover key between the publication of DSM's full-year results 2016 and areas in greater detail: nominations, remuneration, the publication of its 2016 financial statements; to approve the sustainability, and auditing. These are described in more detail external auditor's fee for 2018; to approve the amendment of below. the Articles of Association to adjust the way the dividend percentage on the cumulative preference shares A is Board nominations calculated; and, finally, to give a mandate for the divestment Members of the Nomination Committee are Rob Routs of Patheon and for the acquisition of Amyris Brasil Ltda. (Chairman), Eileen Kennedy and Pauline van der Meer Mohr. Information on attendance of Board and Committee meetings Feike Sijbesma and Peter Vrijsen, Executive Vice President can be found on page 120. Group People & Organization, were also involved in the discussions of the Committee. As of October 2017, Judith The Supervisory Board also convenes in the absence of the Wiese, who succeeded Peter Vrijsen as of 1 January 2018 Managing Board, which usually happens before each meeting. participated as part of her on-boarding. The Committee met five times in 2017. The recommendations and minutes of all An evaluation of the Supervisory Board is performed once Nomination Committee meetings were shared with the entire every three years by an external advisor; this was the case in Supervisory Board. This feedback included advice and 2016. In the other two years, the evaluation of the Supervisory recommendations regarding topics to be approved by the full Board is performed by means of a self-assessment consisting Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board also has access to of a written questionnaire, followed by in-depth, one-on-one all the meeting materials posted for the Nomination Committee interviews between the Chairman and individual Supervisory meetings. Board members. In 2017, nomination discussions were focused on succession As part of this evaluation, not only the collective performance planning for both the Managing Board and the Supervisory of the Supervisory Board and its Committees, but also that of Board. With respect to the Managing Board, the discussions individual Supervisory Board members, was evaluated and were focused on the talent pipeline available for succession of received feedback in the interviews conducted by the Managing Board members. The Nomination Committee also Chairman. Furthermore, the Vice Chair interacted with all discussed the proposed nomination for reappointment of Supervisory Board members to assess the performance of the Geraldine Matchett, whose first term as Managing Board Chairman. The outcome of the evaluation was presented to, member will end in 2018. The nomination for reappointment and discussed with, the Supervisory Board in December, in was fully endorsed by the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory the absence of the Managing Board. While the Managing Board concluded that DSM greatly benefitted from Mrs. Board's performance is also assessed as part of the Matchett's first tenure on the Managing Board, her qualities evaluation, this happens throughout the year as part of the as a well-rounded and international CFO, and her extensive discussions on succession planning in the Nomination experience with external stakeholders. Committee, and particularly when the performance appraisals of the Managing Board members are discussed. The The Supervisory Board established that the composition of the Nomination Committee reports back on these discussions to Managing Board is diverse in nationality (with two Dutch the full Board. citizens, and one member with joint Swiss, British and French citizenship), gender (two men, one woman), background, The overall feedback from the evaluation in 2017 was that the knowledge and experience, and that it provides a good Supervisory Board members work well together, and that foundation to support all clusters and business groups in discussions are open and candid. The diversity of thinking achieving their targets and thus to contributing to the company within the Supervisory Board and the willingness to engage strategy to drive profitable growth. For detailed background and challenge within the Supervisory Board and between information on all Managing Board members, see Supervisory Board and Managing Board are much the company website under 'Corporate Governance' and appreciated. The composition of the Supervisory Board is page 131 of this Report. viewed as balanced, and also its size of seven to eight members works well. Key areas of strategy, business Taking into account the Supervisory Board profile as laid down performance and risk management are well covered. Although in the Supervisory Board regulations, the Nomination Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 122 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Committee continued discussions on the overall composition comprises Eileen Kennedy (Chairman), Pierre Hochuli (until the of the Supervisory Board and discussed succession planning Annual General Meeting of 2017), Pradeep Pant and, as of the for the Supervisory Board. It concluded that no specific profile Annual General Meeting of 2017, Frits van Paasschen. The is currently lacking within the Board. With Tom de Swaan Chairman of the Supervisory Board has a standing invitation, reaching the maximum tenure as a member of the Supervisory and participated in all meetings. The recommendations and Board (with effect from the 2018 Annual General Meeting of minutes of these meetings were shared and discussed with Shareholders), John Ramsay was appointed at the Annual the entire Supervisory Board during its meetings with the General Meeting of Shareholders of 2017 to ensure a smooth Managing Board. The Supervisory Board also has access to transfer of the chairmanship of the Audit Committee in all the meeting materials posted for the Sustainability particular. Based on the advice of the Nomination Committee, Committee meetings. The feedback from the Committee to the Supervisory Board also agreed to nominate Rob Routs for the full Board included advice and recommendations reappointment to the 2018 General Meeting of Shareholders regarding topics to be approved by the Supervisory Board, in for a two-year term. This nomination for reappointment is particular the sustainability reporting in this Report. Taking into founded on his extensive international experience, his consideration the 'Assurance report of the independent knowledge of the petrochemical industry, his broad auditor' on the sustainability information' by KPMG on page experience in the management of corporations, and his 234 of this Report, the full Supervisory Board approved the qualities as Chairman of DSM's Supervisory Board, as reporting in these sections in its meeting on 27 February 2018. demonstrated during the past eight years. The on-going The Sustainability Information complies with the Standards of regular strategic review and the fact that the Vice Chair will be the Global Reporting Initiative and the internal reporting criteria stepping down with effect from the 2018 Annual General of DSM, which are included in this Report, and is also aligned Meeting are additional reasons to safeguard continuity in the with the international Integrated Reporting Council <IR> Chairman's role, especially given the much-valued way in Framework where possible. which Rob Routs has fulfilled this role. During the year, a recurring topic was DSM's performance on Board remuneration its People and Planet aspirations with a focus on Brighter The Remuneration Committee had five meetings and one Living Solutions, Responsible Care and Inclusion & Diversity. conference call in 2017. Pauline van der Meer Mohr Through these discussions, the Sustainability Committee (Chairman), Victoria Haynes, Rob Routs and Tom de Swaan followed up on the progress made with the implementation of are members of this committee. Recommendations and the sustainability and safety aspirations set by the company minutes of the Remuneration Committee meetings were as part of its Strategy 2018. Deep dives were made into shared with the full Supervisory Board and used to determine several topics. One of them was the way DSM monitors and the final remuneration of the members of the Managing Board. manages possible issues that can arise with DSM products. The Supervisory Board also has access to all the meeting As an example, DSM's positioning on industrial biotechnology materials posted for the Remuneration Committee meetings. was discussed with the Committee. Another in-depth For more information on the remuneration policy see discussion took place on the Brighter Living Solutions, 'Remuneration policy of the Managing Board' on page 125 specifically, on the way this key performance indicator is and implementation of that policy in 2017, see 'Remuneration impacted by new innovations entering the market and the of Managing Board and Supervisory Board' on page 222. effect of product / market mix performance fluctuations caused by changing markets and changing mainstream Discussions were focused on the performance and the related reference solutions. Time was also spent discussing the remuneration of the members of the Managing Board, in actions being undertaken to further future-proof DSM by respect of both company and individual performance in 2017, reducing the company's climate impact and climate risk as well as concerning the way the current remuneration policy exposure, by enabling a low-carbon economy, and by should be applied, given the targets set as part of Strategy advocating action externally and internally. 2018: Driving Profitable Growth. The performance and remuneration of the Executive Committee members were also Furthermore, the Committee was updated on DSM's discussed with the Remuneration Committee. Feike Sijbesma performance in the various Environmental, Social and and Peter Vrijsen were also partly involved in these Governance indices such as CDP, Sustainalytics, Fortune's discussions, and, as of October 2017, so was Judith Wiese, 'Change the World' list and the Dow Jones Sustainability as part of her on-boarding. Mrs. Wiese succeeded Peter World Index. Vrijsen as of 1 January 2018. Financials and auditing Sustainability The activities of the Supervisory Board in the area of financials The Sustainability Committee prepares the Supervisory and auditing are prepared by the Audit Committee. The Audit Board's discussions on sustainability topics. The Sustainability Committee met five times in 2017, of which three times via Committee met three times in 2017. This Committee conference call. Tom de Swaan (Chairman), Victoria Haynes, Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 123 www.dsm.com Pierre Hochuli until the 2017 Annual General Meeting, Pradeep Financial statements 2017 Pant, and, both as of the 2017 Annual General Meeting, John Ramsay and Frits van Paasschen are members of the Audit The Report by the Managing Board and the financial Committee. All Supervisory Board members have a standing statements for 2017 were submitted by the Managing Board invitation to attend Audit Committee meetings; in 2017, they to the Supervisory Board, in accordance with the provisions used this standing invitation for the regular conference calls in of Article 30 of the Articles of Association, and subsequently which the financial developments and interim results for the approved by the Supervisory Board on 27 February 2018. The first and third quarter were discussed, as these are not financial statements were audited by KPMG, who issued an followed by a full Board meeting. The Chairman of the unqualified opinion, see the 'Independent auditor's report' on Supervisory Board participated in all meetings and calls. page 229. The Supervisory Board established that the Whenever relevant, managers responsible for corporate external auditor was independent of DSM. control, internal audit, risk management and compliance were invited to explain developments in their areas to the Audit The Supervisory Board will submit the 2017 financial Committee. statements to the 2018 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, and will propose that the shareholders adopt DSM's external auditor KPMG and the CFO also participated them and release the Managing Board from all liability in in the Audit Committee's meetings and calls. The CEO respect of its managerial activities and release the Supervisory participated in the Audit Committee meetings and the call in Board from all liability in respect of its supervision of the which the half-year results were discussed. At least once a Managing Board. The profit appropriation as proposed by the year, the Audit Committee meets with the external auditor Managing Board and approved by the Supervisory Board is without the Managing Board being present. Two such presented in the Profit section of this Report, starting on meetings took place in 2017. The highlights and the minutes page 52. of all Audit Committee meetings were shared with the full Supervisory Board. This feedback included advice and recommendations regarding topics to be approved by the full Supervisory Board. All Supervisory Board members also have access to all the meeting materials posted for the Audit Committee meetings. The Committee had in-depth discussions on the company's financials; the financing and guarantee plan; the capital expenditure plan; dividend proposals; the financial statements; accounting policy changes; internal risk management and control systems; potential risks (including Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) and security risks); compliance with recommendations and observations made by internal and external auditors, and on the role and functioning of COA, including the endorsement of its proposed audit plan for 2018, which was subsequently approved by the full Board. As part of the Corporate Risk Assessment, the company's main risks and their mitigation were discussed. The Committee also discussed and evaluated cases submitted under DSM's whistleblower policy (DSM Alert), fraud cases, and on-going litigation. All these discussions included mitigating actions to prevent recurrence. Discussions were held with KPMG about the management letter, the audit report and the financial statements for 2017. In 2017, the Audit Committee formally evaluated the external auditor, and discussed the reappointment of KPMG. Other specific topics addressed during the Audit Committee meetings in 2017 were cyber security, DSM's foreign exchange risk management, and the foundation for the broadened in-control statement included on page 117 of this Report. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 124 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board — Remuneration policy for the Managing Board Remuneration policy for the Managing No adjustments to the remuneration policy for the Managing Board Board in 2017 There were no adjustments to DSM's remuneration policy in This chapter outlines the remuneration policy as approved by 2017. The policy was last adjusted in 2013. the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in 2013. Details of the actual remuneration in 2017 as prepared by the The approved adjustments at that time did not change the Remuneration Committee and approved by the Supervisory overall remuneration model for the Managing Board. This Board can be found in Note 13 of the 'Parent company model is based on providing fair compensation approaching financial statements' on page 222. Every year the Supervisory the median, and consists of a base salary and a well-balanced Board elucidates the recent remuneration developments at mix of Short-Term and Long-Term Incentives. Both the Shortthe Annual General Shareholders Meeting. Term Incentive (STI) and the Long-Term Incentive (LTI) consist of two equal parts, one of which is linked to financial targets Remuneration policy and the other to sustainability plus – for STI only – individual The objective of DSM's remuneration policy is to attract, targets. The policy will be reviewed again in 2018, to be reward, motivate, incentivize and retain qualified and expert presented at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in individuals that the company needs to achieve its strategic and 2019. operational objectives, with the right organizational set-up, while acknowledging the societal context around Labor-market peer group remuneration and recognizing the interests of DSM's To be able to recruit the right caliber of people for the stakeholders. The following elements are taken into Managing Board and to secure long-term retention of the consideration: current Board members, DSM takes external reference data into account in determining adequate remuneration levels. For The remuneration policy reflects a balance between the this purpose, a specific labor-market peer group has been interests of DSM's main stakeholders as well as a balance defined, which consists of a number of Dutch and European between the company's short-term and long-term strategy. companies that are more or less comparable to DSM in terms As a result, the structure of the remuneration package for of size, international scope and the complexity of their the Managing Board is designed to balance short-term business portfolio. The Supervisory Board regularly reviews operational performance with the mediumand long-term this peer group to ensure that its composition is still objective of creating sustainable value within the company, appropriate. This review was conducted in the fourth quarter while taking into account the interests of its stakeholders. of 2017 and did not lead to a change in the current DSM sets a clear strategic direction and executes this with composition of DSM's labor-market peer group. agility. DSM strives for high financial performance, as well as in the field of sustainability and aims to maintain a good The labor-market peer group for 2017 consisted of the balance between economic gain, respect for people and following 16 companies (eight of which are peers on the concern for the environment, in line with the DSM values and Amsterdam stock exchange, the other eight being European business principles as reflected in the DSM Code of industry peers): Business Conduct. To ensure that highly skilled and qualified senior executives can be attracted, motivated and retained DSM aims for a AkzoNobel KPN total remuneration level that is comparable to levels ASML LANXESS provided by other (Dutch and European) multinational Clariant Lonza companies that are similar to DSM in terms of their size and Covestro Philips (Health Tech) complexity. Evonik Randstad The remuneration policies for the members of the Managing Givaudan Relx (Reed Elsevier) Board and for other Executive Committee members, as well Heineken Solvay as for other senior executives of DSM, are aligned. Johnson Matthey Wolters Kluwer In designing and setting the levels of remuneration for the Managing Board, the Supervisory Board also takes into account the relevant statutory provisions and the provisions As part of its remuneration policy DSM will benchmark its of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, societal and remuneration package against the packages offered by the market trends, and the interests of stakeholders. labor-market peer group once every three years, potentially DSM's policy is to offer the Managing Board a total direct leading to adjustments. In addition, the company may apply a compensation approaching the median of the labor-market yearly increase to the base salary based on the 'general peer group. increase' (market movement) for DSM executives in the Netherlands. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 125 www.dsm.com The remuneration policy was benchmarked against the peer between Short-Term and Long-Term Incentives for (on target) group in the fourth quarter of 2017. DSM aims to offer performance aims to achieve a proper balance between shortManaging Board members a total direct compensation term result and long-term value creation. The parameters approaching the median of the labor-market peer group. The relating to the various elements of the variable income part of Supervisory Board of DSM has determined that the the remuneration are established and, where necessary remuneration level of the CEO during the past years was adjusted by, and at the discretion of, the Supervisory Board, clearly lower than the median of the predetermined peer group taking into account the general rules and principles of the (first, lowest quartile). This is due to the conservative approach remuneration policy itself. Distribution of variable income (onof the CEO regarding his own remuneration. The remuneration target): of the other members of the Managing Board is between first quartile and median level. A: Short-Term Incentive (STI) Total Direct Compensation (TDC) (50% base salary) 50% The total direct compensation of the Managing Board consists B: Long-Term Incentive (LTI) of the following components: (50% base salary)1 50% (I) Base salary Total variable income as % of base salary 100% (II) Variable income Performance-related STI (Deferral and Share Matching 1 LTI at discounted fair value. Plan) Performance-related LTI (Restricted Share Plan) Short-Term Incentive (STI) In addition to this total direct compensation, members of the Managing Board members are eligible to participate in an STI Managing Board participate in the Dutch pension scheme for scheme. The scheme is designed to reward short-term DSM employees in the Netherlands, and are entitled to other operational performance with the long-term objective of benefits, such as a company car and representation creating sustainable value, taking into account the interests of allowance. all stakeholders. Value as percentage of Total Direct Compensation (on target): The STI opportunity amounts to 50% of the annual base salary for on-target performance (100% in the case of excellent overperformance). Half of the STI opportunity (i.e. 25% of base A: Base salary 50% salary at on-target performance) is related to financial targets, B: Variable income (STI + LTI)1 50% the other half to sustainability and individual (partly also financial) targets. Total Direct Compensation (TDC) 100% Target areas Total Shared Individual 1 LTI at discounted fair value. Financial 25% 25% 0% Base salary Sustainability and On joining the Board, Managing Board members receive a individual 25% 15% 10% base salary approaching the median of the labor-market peer group. Base salary levels are reviewed based on a three-year Total 50% 40% 10% remuneration benchmark. In addition, the company will, when appropriate, apply a yearly increase to the base salary taking into account the 'general increase' (market movement) for STI linked to financial targets DSM executives in the Netherlands, as well as the general The part of the STI that is linked to shared financial targets movements of the labor-market peer group. Adjustment of the (25% of base salary at on-target) consists of elements related base salary is at the discretion of the Supervisory Board. In to the company's focus on delivering the financial targets of July 2017, a salary increase of 2.2% was granted to the CEO, its Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth. These are: and an increase of 2.5% to the other Managing Board Adjusted EBITDA, which represents an opportunity at target members. performance of 12.5%; gross free cash flow, with an opportunity of 10%; and organic net sales growth, with a 2.5% Variable income opportunity. The variable income part of remuneration consists of the Short-Term and Long-Term Incentives. The distribution Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 126 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board — Remuneration policy for the Managing Board The company does not disclose the actual targets, as these Target areas On-target pay-out qualify as commercially sensitive information. However, full (% of base salary) transparency will be given on target areas and definitions. The Financial targets external auditors performed agreed-upon mandate Adjusted EBITDA 12.5 procedures on target-setting and realization. For detailed Gross free cash flow 10.0 information, see Note 13 of the 'Parent company financial Organic net sales growth1 2.5 statements' on page 222. Total 25.0 Mandatory and voluntary deferral of STI A mandatory proportion (25%) and a voluntary proportion (up 1 Excluding currency fluctuations, acquisitions and divestments. to a total maximum of 50% of the total gross STI) of the STI amount earned in a year is deferred into DSM shares with a three-year holding period. This is linked to a one-for-one STI linked to sustainability and individual targets matching award on the total deferred amount under the The part of the STI that is linked to non-financial targets (25% condition that predefined performance targets and measures of base salary at on-target) relates to shared sustainability as are met at the end of the three-year vesting period. The well as to individual targets. Further refinement/adaptations of performance measures are equivalent to the measures under performance measures in the area of sustainability and their the Long-Term Incentive Plan. The Deferral and Share relative weight may take place following proper evaluation. Matching Plan thus provides an additional link between Managing Board remuneration and long-term sustainable The following shared measures linked to sustainability are value creation. applicable for the STI: Long-Term Incentives (LTI) Brighter Living Solutions (BLS): percentage of running The Managing Board members are eligible to receive business that meets ECO+ and People+ criteria performance-related shares. Under the performance share Employee Engagement Index: related to the High plan, shares will conditionally be granted to Managing Board Performance Norm in industry members. Vesting of these shares is conditional on the Safety Performance: defined as Frequency Index for achievement of certain predetermined performance targets at Recordable Injuries. the end of a three-year period. Definitions of these elements can be found in 'Explanation of The following four performance measures are applicable in concepts and ratios' on page 240 and 'People' on page 34. equal measure for the calculation of the vesting of LTI performance shares: In addition to shared sustainability targets (15%), a limited number of individual non-financial targets (10%) will apply. Relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance versus a peer group Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) growth Target areas On-target pay-out Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI) (% of base salary) Greenhouse-gas Emissions (GHGE) Efficiency Improvement Non-financial targets Sustainability (three targets with an equal The LTI performance targets can be defined as follows: weight of 5% each; BLS, Employee Engagement and Safety) 15 Relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) Individual 10 This is used to compare the performance of different companies' stocks and shares over time. It combines share Total 25 price appreciation and dividends paid to show the total return to shareholders. The relative TSR position reflects the market perception of overall performance relative to a The targets are determined each year by the Supervisory reference group. Board, based on historical performance, the operational and Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) growth strategic outlook of the company in the short term, and the This is the operating profit as a percentage of weighted expectations of the company's management and average capital employed. stakeholders, among other things. The targets contribute to Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI) the realization of the objective of long-term value creation. This is the reduction of the amount of energy that is used per unit of product (known as energy efficiency) on a threeyear rolling average basis. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 127 www.dsm.com Greenhouse-gas Emissions (GHGE) Efficiency mergers and acquisitions) that determine the appropriateness Improvement of the composition of the performance peer group. This is the reduction of the amount of greenhouse-gas emissions per unit of product. The definition of greenhouse ROCE growth as a performance measure gases (GHG) according to the Kyoto Protocol includes ROCE growth counts for the vesting of 25% of the carbon dioxide (CO2), methane, nitrous oxide (N2O), sulfur performance shares. hexafluoride, hydrofluorocarbons and perfluorocarbons. The scope for calculation of GHGE reduction is as follows: EEI as a performance measure (I) DSM's direct emissions (on-site or from DSM assets) EEI counts for the vesting of 25% of the performance shares. mainly comprise CO2 (scope 1). (II) DSM's indirect emissions (emissions created on behalf GHGE Efficiency Improvement as a performance measure of DSM in the generation of electricity or the delivery of GHGE Efficiency Improvement in percentage points (over a energy via hot water or steam) relate to electricity from three-year period) is used as a basis for the vesting of 25% of the grid. DSM relies on local suppliers (scope 2). the performance shares. In determining the number of shares to be conditionally Performance incentive zones granted, the Supervisory Board takes into account the face The following vesting scheme has been established to reflect value of the DSM share instead of the discounted fair value. DSM's sharpened, challenging targets for the strategy period This is in line with best practice and provides total 2016−2018: transparency to shareholders. The policy for the value of the LTI is set at 100% of base salary when on target and 150% in the case of excellent performance (face value). The number of TSR vesting scheme GHGE vesting scheme conditionally granted shares is set by dividing the policy level % of DSM GHGE reduction in % of at maximum (150% of base salary) by a share price at the shares that % points shares beginning of the year of the conditional grant. The annual grant vest (3-year average that vest level will fluctuate as a consequence of this mechanism. improvement) Granting date 1 100 ≥ 8.25 100 The grant date of the conditional performance shares will be 2 97 7.75 < 8.25 83 the last trading day of March. 3 93 7.25 < 7.75 67 4 87 6.75 < 7.25 50 TSR as a performance measure 5 80 6.25 < 6.75 33 TSR counts for the vesting of 25% of the performance shares. 6 73 5.75 < 6.25 17 DSM's TSR performance is compared to the average TSR 7 67 < 5.75 0 performance of a set of predefined peer companies. 8 50 9 33 10-15 0 The TSR peer group for the 2017 performance period consists of the following 14 companies: ROCE and EEI targets and vesting schemes are not disclosed, AkzoNobel Evonik given their business-sensitive nature. Arkema Givaudan BASF Kerry Up to and including the 2014 grant (i.e. shares vesting up to Christian Hansen LANXESS and including 2017, depending on the fulfilment of Clariant Lonza Group performance criteria), the vesting scheme for the part of the Croda International Novozymes grant related to GHGE performance was based on DSM's DuPont Solvay reduction of GHGE over volume-related revenue as set out in the tables in the DSM Integrated Annual Report for 2013 and 2014. The TSR peer group reflects the relevant market which DSM's Supervisory Board considers to be suitable benchmarks for The retention period for performance shares expires five years DSM. after the three-year vesting period or at termination of employment, if this occurs earlier. The final TSR performance The peer group is verified and updated by the Supervisory of DSM versus its peers will be determined and validated by a Board each year based on market circumstances (such as bank, and agreed-upon mandate procedures are performed by the external auditor at the end of the vesting period. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 128 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board — Remuneration policy for the Managing Board Pensions payment took place on the basis of incorrect information on The members of the Managing Board participate in the Dutch the fulfilment of the incentive targets or the conditions for pension fund Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland (PDN). payment of the incentive. In addition, it is enacted that in the This pension scheme for the Managing Board is equal to the case of a change-of-control event, a related increase in value pension scheme for the employees of DSM Executive Services of the securities that have been granted to a board member B.V. and DSM employees in the Netherlands. as part of his/her remuneration will be deducted from the remuneration to be paid to that board member at the time of Contractual arrangements selling these securities or when his/her board membership Term of employment ends. Managing Board members who joined DSM prior to 1 January 2013 are engaged on the basis of an individual employment Share ownership agreement for an indefinite period of time. Managing Board The Supervisory Board encourages the Managing Board to members joining the company after 1 January 2013 are hold shares in the company to emphasize its confidence in the engaged on the basis of a Management Services Agreement strategy and performance of the company. with a four-year term, to be renewed at reappointment. Minimum shareholding guidelines for the members of the Term of appointment Managing Board are applicable, equivalent to three times the Members of the Managing Board appointed before 1 January base salary in the case of the CEO and one time the base 2005 are appointed for an indefinite period of time. Managing salary for the other Managing Board members. These Board members appointed after 1 January 2005 are shareholdings can be built up over five years. For more appointed for a period of four years, after which they are information, see the position paper 'Royal DSM's position on eligible for reappointment by the Annual General Meeting of Board Member shareholdings in the company' on the Shareholders. company website. Notice period Loans Resignation by a member of the Managing Board is subject to DSM does not provide any loans to members of the Managing three months' notice (six months in case of a Management Board. Services Agreement). A notice period of six months applies in the event of termination by the company. Scenario analysis The Dutch Corporate Governance Code requires that the Severance arrangement Supervisory Board 'shall analyze possible outcomes of the There are no specific contractual exit arrangements for variable income components and the effect on Managing members of the Managing Board appointed before 1 January Board remuneration'. Within DSM, this analysis is conducted 2005. Should a situation arise in which a severance payment at least every three years. is appropriate for such a Board member, the Remuneration Committee will recommend the terms and conditions. The Supervisory Board will decide upon this, taking into account Heerlen, 27 February 2018 usual practices for these types of situations, as well as applicable laws and corporate governance requirements. The Supervisory Board Rob Routs, Chairman Members of the Managing Board appointed after 1 January Tom de Swaan, Deputy Chairman 2005 are covered by a severance provision in accordance with Victoria Haynes the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, which is set at a Eileen Kennedy maximum of one annual base salary. Pauline van der Meer Mohr Frits van Paasschen Claw-back / change-of-control Pradeep Pant Legislation entered into force regarding the revision and clawJohn Ramsay back of bonuses and profit-sharing arrangements of board members of Dutch listed companies as of January 2014. Part of this legislation was already covered in comparable rules of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and consequently already included in the employment contracts of the members of the Managing Board. This regards in particular the possibility (1) to revise an incentive prior to payment, if unaltered payment of the bonus/incentive would be unreasonable and unfair, and (2) to claw back an incentive, if Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 129 www.dsm.com Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal DSM Supervisory Board Rob Routs (1946, m), Chairman Tom de Swaan (1946, m), Deputy First appointed: 2010. End of current term: Chairman 2018. Nationality: Dutch. Nomination First appointed: 2006. End of current term: Committee (Chair), Remuneration Committee 2018. Nationality: Dutch. Audit Committee (member). Last executive position held: (Chair), Remuneration Committee (member). Executive Director Downstream and member Last executive position held: member of the Board of Royal Dutch Shell plc. Managing Board and CFO/CRO ABN AMRO. Supervisory directorships/other positions: Supervisory directorships/other positions: Chairman Supervisory Board of Aegon N.V.; Chairman Board of Zurich Insurance Group; member Board of Directors of AECOM; ATCO Chairman Board of Trustees of Netherlands Group Ltd. and A.P. Moeller-Maersk Group. Cancer Institute-Antoni van Leeuwenhoek Hospital; Chairman of the Board of the Dutch National Opera & Ballet Fund. Victoria Haynes (1947, f) Eileen Kennedy (1947, f) First appointed: 2012. End of current term: First appointed: 2012. End of current term: 2020. Nationality: American. Audit Committee 2020. Nationality: American. Sustainability (member), Remuneration Committee Committee (Chair), Nomination Committee (member). Last executive position held: (member). Position: Professor Nutrition President and CEO of the Research Triangle Friedman School of Nutrition Science and Institute International. Supervisory Policy at Tufts University in Boston (USA); directorships/other positions: member Board Supervisory directorships/other positions: of Directors of PPG and Nucor. High Level Panel of Experts on Food Security and Nutrition of the UN Committee on World Food Security. Pauline van der Meer Mohr (1960, f) Frits Dirk van Paasschen (1961, m) First appointed: 2011. End of current term: First appointed: 2017. End of current term: 2019. Nationality: Dutch. Remuneration 2021. Nationality: Dutch and American. Audit Committee (Chair), Nomination Committee Committee (member), Sustainability (member). Last executive position held: Committee (member). Last position held: CEO President Executive Board of Erasmus Starwood Hotels and Resorts. Supervisory University Rotterdam. Supervisory directorships/other positions: Chairman directorships/other positions: independent Supervisory Board Apollo Hotels (NL), nonnon-executive Director HSBC plc.; member executive board member Williams Sonoma Supervisory Board of ASML N.V.; Chair (US), non-executive board member Convene Supervisory Board of EY Netherlands; director (real estate enhancement company) (August Hollandsche Maatschappij van 2017) member Board of Advisors Rutberg & Wetenschappen; Chair Board of Trustees Company (US), CEO and Founder, The Nederlands Danstheater and member of the Disruptor's Feast Advisory, Advisor to selection and nomination committee of the CitizenM Hotels (NL), private equity firm TPG Supreme Court of the Netherlands. (September 2017) and to MobGen (NL). Pradeep Pant (1953, m) John Ramsay (1957, m) First appointed: 2016. End of current term: First appointed: 2017. End of current term: 2020. Nationality: Singaporean. Audit 2021. Nationality: British. Audit Committee Committee (member), Sustainability (member), Last position held: Chief Financial Committee (member). Last executive position Officer (CFO) of Syngenta AG. Supervisory held: EVP and President APAC and EMEA of directorships/other positions: non-executive Mondelez International. Supervisory director member of the Board of RHI directorships and other positions: Honorary Magnesita NV (as per 6 October 2017) and Advisor Council Food Industry Asia; member non-executive member of the Board of G4S Advisory Board Lee Kong Chian School of plc (as per 1 January 2018), advisor to Business, Singapore Management University; Clarmondial. non-executive Director Max BUPA Health Insurance Co Ltd. (India), non-executive Director Antara Senior Living Ltd. and Antara Purukul Senior Living Ltd. (India) (until Oct. 2017); President Pant Consulting Pte. Ltd. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 130 www.dsm.com Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal DSM Managing Board Feike Sijbesma (1959, m), CEO/Chairman Position: CEO/Chairman Managing Board since May 2007; member Managing Board since July 2000. Nationality: Dutch. Supervisory directorships/other positions held: Non-executive Director of Unilever; Member Supervisory Board Dutch Central Bank (DNB); Member Global CEO Council (GCC) Chinese People's Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries (CPAFFC); Climate leader for the World Bank Group; Co-Chair of the High Level Assembly of the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC), convened by the World Bank. e-mail: feike.sijbesma@dsm.com Geraldine Matchett (1972, f), CFO Position: member Managing Board since August 2014 and CFO since December 2014. End of current term: 2018. Nationality: British, French, Swiss. Supervisory directorships/other positions held: Board member of Catalyst Europe; Co-Chair of A4S (Accounting 4 Sustainability) CFO Leadership Network. e-mail: geraldine.matchett@dsm.com Dimitri de Vreeze (1967, m) Position: member Managing Board since September 2013. End of current term: 2021. Nationality: Dutch. Supervisory directorships/other positions held: Chairman Supervisory Board DSM Netherlands; Board member CEFIC (European Chemical Industry Council); Board member ChemicaInvest; Board member DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals (DSP); Board member 'Fonds voor de topsport' (NOC*NSF; Dutch Olympic Committee Fund for top sport); member Supervisory Board Sanquin; member Advisory Board ECP (Electronic Commerce Platform Netherlands); board member Young Captain Foundation. e-mail: dimitri.vreeze-de@dsm.com Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 131 www.dsm.com What still went wrong in 2017 DSM is always trying to improve, but sometimes things still go At DSM Dyneema in Heerlen (Netherlands), an employee wrong. Here we share the most significant incidents of 2017 broke his ankle by falling down the stairs in a hotel where he across all three dimensions of People, Planet and Profit. This attended a training. includes health, safety, environment, and security incidents as well as what we have learned from business that has not Incidents involving forklift trucks developed as planned. At DSM Nutritional Products in Grenzach (Germany), a pallet truck ran over the top of an operator's shoe. The operator's Preventing repeat problems means understanding each foot was broken in several places. incident to the best of our ability. When a problem occurs, DSM first tries to repair any damage, take care of injuries and At DSM Nutritional Products in Campo Grande (Brazil), a act with compassion. We also trigger an improvement cycle contractor was struck by a moving forklift. He sustained (see 'Health & wellness' on page 35). This includes fractures and a small displacement to an ankle. investigating root causes and trying to eliminate them. We put new requirements or operating procedures in place as At DSM Engineering Plastics in Togliatti (Russia), an operator needed. For example, in DSM Nutritional Products, in stepped backwards and his foot was broken by the wheel of response to the incidents with forklifts in 2017, a new business a forklift. group standard on internal transport was developed and introduced. Incidents with allergic reactions At DSM Nutritional Products in Ueberlandia (Brazil), an DSM applies zero tolerance to violations of the DSM Code of employee had an allergic reaction during venom extraction Business Conduct (see page 108). DSM does not disclose any resulting from sensitization. personal details in cases involving individuals. At DSM Nutritional Products in Sisseln (Switzerland), an In line with our reporting policy, this overview includes operator who worked for four years in the Rocephin plant had incidents and some serious near-misses. Near-misses are an acute allergic reaction during shutdown revision work. The cases that did not result in injury, illness or damage but could operator's allergy has been confirmed by extensive allergy have done so. Even when crisis is averted, it is our testing. responsibility to learn and do better. Other safety incidents People At DSM Nutritional Products in Village-Neuf (France), hot water Fatal incidents spilled onto an operator's abdomen, resulting in a secondTragically, in September 2017 there was a fatal incident at our degree burn. site in Augusta (Georgia, USA). One contractor passed away, another was severely injured and a third suffered less severe At DSM Nutritional Products in Sisseln (Switzerland), a sample injuries in the same incident. The root causes have been exploded in the lab due to overpressure. A lab technician thoroughly investigated and the lessons learned are being suffered an eye injury despite wearing safety glasses. implemented. We are committed to the safety of all workers and will continue to pay close attention to contractor safety. At DSM Engineering Plastics in Geleen (Netherlands), a DSM is supporting the affected families. contractor employee got his finger caught between the door handle and the steel pillar of the building wall, leading to a Incidents involving falls permanent impairment. At DSM Nutritional Products in Sisseln (Switzerland), an operator missed his footing on the top step of a four-step At DSM Nutritional Products in Jaguaré (Brazil), an employee ladder. He landed on his back, which resulted in swelling. He performing a repair inside a mixer was almost engulfed by also landed on the back of his head, causing a slight hundreds of kilograms of product, because the right headache. At the same place but in a different incident, a procedures for safeguarding equipment before starting the contractor came down a ladder and lost his balance on the work (lock-out/tag-out/try-out) had not been followed. second to last step. He stumbled backwards, and hit the top Fortunately, the employee did not have any injuries. of a hand lever of a valve, resulting in a serious flesh wound. At DSM Nutritional Products in Lalden (Switzerland), a closed At DSM Nutritional Products in Liaocheng (China), a contractor ammonia cylinder in an experimental laboratory set-up fell from a 1.8 m-high molding rack while climbing a scaffold exploded due to overpressure, caused by failure of an of an office building that was being constructed. The electrical heating element (uncontrolled overheating). The contractor suffered severe head injuries. incident resulted in only physical damage. Fortunately, no one was injured because the failure occurred overnight when nobody was present in the laboratory. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 132 www.dsm.com What still went wrong in 2017 Privacy incidents At DSM Nutritional Products at Village-Neuf (France), a dispute In November, some employees received an unexpected email with employees concerning the calculation of working hours from Uber. Many reported it as a phishing attempt. An was resolved by ruling of the industrial court of Mulhouse, investigation revealed that access to the travel and expense resulting in an additional payment of wages. system was shared with Uber by a DSM employee in the US. DSM and Uber had agreed upon an exchange of data of US Several employees received emails that were supposedly sent employees; however, the DSM employee accidentally by the CEO, urgently asking them to transfer money to an provided access to data for all employees. Immediate actions external bank account. Thanks to the alertness of these were taken to close the link and Uber confirmed it deleted the employees, no other action was required after reporting these DSM data immediately. Actions have been taken to prevent mails to our Information Security office. such a disclosure in the future. The breach was reported to the Dutch Privacy Authority, as well as one other incident A regional outbreak of avian flu in China caused people to eat related to phishing. less poultry meat than usual, resulting in temporarily lower market demand for the animal nutrition business of DSM Planet Nutritional Products in China. At our site shared by DSM Nutritional Products and DSM Food The animal nutrition business of DSM Nutritional Products in Specialties in Xinghuo (China), one of our production plants Brazil experienced the consequences of a serious third party had to be stopped for three months because of odor reputation incident in the downstream value chain, often complaints from a nearby residential area. An off-gas referred to as the 'weak meat' scandal. treatment system is currently being installed. In the meantime, the plant is running at reduced capacity. DSM Nutritional Products (Personal Care business) suffered a production loss of several days caused by a 'force majeur' at DSM experienced several minor incidents that led to a loss of an important raw material supplier. primary containment from our installations. For example, at our DSM Food Specialties site in Delft (Netherlands) nitric acid was released from the installation during maintenance work and at our DSM Dyneema site in Heerlen (Netherlands) the hazardous content of a vessel leaked on the floor due to a valve failure. In all cases, an immediate cleanup prevented any impact to the environment or harm to people. Profit At DSM Food Specialties in Seclin (France), a contamination was identified that required cleaning of the production line, causing a loss of production volume for several days. After cleaning the plant was restarted without further problems. DSM Resins & Functional Materials incurred higher supply costs globally, caused by shortage of raw material. At DSM Resins & Functional Materials in Waalwijk (Netherlands), raw material quality problems caused the loss of three days' production volume. At DSM Nutritional Products in Brazil, a quality complaint has resulted in a financial compensation for the customer. Due to the decision to shut down a power plant at DSM Nutritional Products in Jiangshan (China), employees stopped operations to protest against this decision. This caused a loss of production of several days. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 133 www.dsm.com Information about the DSM share Shares and listings Shareholders of 3 May 2017 this power was extended up to Ordinary shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V. are listed on the and including 3 November 2018, on the understanding that Euronext stock exchange in Amsterdam (Netherlands) (Stock this authorization of the Managing Board is limited to a number code 00982, ISIN code NL0000009827). Options on ordinary of ordinary shares with a nominal value amounting to 10% of DSM shares are traded on the European Option Exchange in the issued capital at the time of issue, and to an additional 10% Amsterdam (Euronext.liffe). In the US, a sponsored unlisted of the issued capital at the time of issue if the issue takes place American Depositary Receipts (ADR) program is offered by within the context of a merger or acquisition within the scope Deutsche Bank Trust Co. Americas (Cusip 780249108), with of DSM's strategy as published on the company website. The four ADRs representing the value of one ordinary DSM share. issue price will be determined by the Managing Board and shall as much as possible be calculated on the basis of the Besides the ordinary shares, 44.04 million cumulative trading prices of ordinary shares on the Euronext Amsterdam preference shares A (cumprefs A) are in issue, which are not Stock Exchange. listed on the stock exchange; these have been placed with institutional investors. The cumprefs A have the same voting Distribution of shares rights as ordinary shares, as their nominal value of € 1.50 per Under the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act, share is equal to the nominal value of the ordinary shares. shareholdings of 3% or more in any Dutch company must be Transfer of the cumprefs A requires the approval of the disclosed to the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Managing Board, unless the shareholder is obliged by law to Markets (AFM). According to the register kept by the AFM the transfer his shares to a previous shareholder. following shareholders had disclosed that they have a direct or indirect (potential) interest between 3% and 10% in DSM's The average number of ordinary shares outstanding in 2017 total share capital on 31 December 2017: was 174,794,656. All shares in issue are fully paid. On 31 December 2017, the company had 174,643,475 ordinary ASR Nederland N.V. shares outstanding. BlackRock, Inc. Capital Research and Management Company and Capital Reset dividend on Cumulative Preference Shares A Group International Inc. As it is DSM's policy to offer a fair dividend to all its NN Group N.V. shareholders by providing a stable, and preferably rising Rabobank Nederland Participatie B.V. dividend, it was proposed to, and approved by the AGM in May 2017 to modify the Articles of Association such that the Repurchase of own shares dividend percentage of the Cumulative Preference Shares A The company may acquire paid-up own shares by virtue of a every year will be based upon the dividend yield of the ordinary decision of the Managing Board, provided that the par value shares in the preceding year (dividend as a percentage of the of the acquired shares in its capital amounts to no more than average share price). This percentage may be increased or one tenth of the issued capital. Such a decision is subject to decreased by a markup or discount of no more than one the approval of the Supervisory Board. In the Annual General hundred (100) basis points, to be determined by the Managing Meeting of Shareholders of 3 May 2017 the Managing Board Board in consultation with the Supervisory Board. The basis was authorized to acquire own shares for a period of 18 of computation of the dividend on the Preference Shares months from said date (i.e. up to and including 3 November remained fixed at € 5.2942 (Article 32 section 3 of the Articles 2018), up to a maximum of 10% of the issued capital, provided of Association). This amendment aligns the interests of the that the company will hold no more shares in stock than at Preference Shareholders with the interest of ordinary maximum 10% of the issued capital. shareholders in terms of dividend yield. DSM repurchased a number of its own shares during 2017 for Issue of shares the purpose of covering the company's commitments under The issue of shares takes place by a decision of the Managing existing management and employee option plans, share (unit) Board. The decision is subject to the approval of the plans and stock dividend. Two programs were run for this Supervisory Board. The scope of this power of the Managing purpose during the year, the first from 13 March to 13 July Board shall be determined by a resolution of the General 2017 and the second from 14 August to 14 November 2017. Meeting of Shareholders and shall relate to at most all In total DSM repurchased 4,500,000 shares for a combined unissued shares of the authorized capital, as applicable now consideration of € 297 million. or at any time in the future. In the Annual General Meeting of Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 134 www.dsm.com Information about the DSM share Development of the number of ordinary DSM shares 2017 2016 Issued Repurchased Outstanding Outstanding Balance at 1 January 181,425,000 6,423,334 175,001,666 174,923,027 Changes: Reissue of shares in connection with exercise of option rights (2,238,144) 2,238,144 3,243,102 Repurchase of shares 4,500,000 (4,500,000) (5,200,000) Dividend in the form of ordinary shares (1,903,665) 1,903,665 2,035,537 Balance at 31 December 181,425,000 6,781,525 174,643,475 175,001,666 DSM share prices on Euronext Amsterdam (€ per ordinary share): Highest closing price 81.66 64.18 Lowest closing price 57.20 41.40 At 31 December 79.67 56.96 Market capitalization at 31 December (€ million)1 14,454 10,334 1 Source: Bloomberg. Geographical spread of DSM shares outstanding DSM share price development versus AEX and Dow Jones Euro StoXX Chemical Index, 2017 in % (excl. cumprefs A) 2017 2016 (Rebased versus DSM share price) x€ North America 37 39 DSM United Kingdom 18 17 AEX Index Netherlands 15 16 Dow Jones Euro StoXX Chemical Index France 9 7 Germany 5 4 85 Switzerland 4 5 Asia-Pacific 4 4 80 Other countries 8 8 75 70 65 60 55 01/17 02/17 03/17 04/17 05/17 06/17 07/17 08/17 09/17 10/17 11/17 12/17 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 135 www.dsm.com Trading volume DSM shares 2017 x million shares as reported by Euronext Amsterdam 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 January February March April May June July August September October November December Article 10 of Directive 2004/25 Dividend With regard to the information referred to in the Resolution of DSM's dividend policy is to provide a stable and preferably article 10 of the EC Directive pertaining to a takeover bid which rising dividend. DSM proposes to increase the dividend to is required to be provided according to Dutch law, the € 1.85 per ordinary share for 2017. This will be proposed to following can be reported: the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 9 May 2018. An interim dividend of € 0.58 per ordinary share Information on major shareholdings can be found above having been paid in August 2017, the final dividend would then (Distribution of shares). amount to € 1.27 per ordinary share. The dividend will be There are no special statutory rights attached to the shares payable in cash or in the form of ordinary shares at the option of the company. of the shareholder, with a maximum of 40% of the dividend There are no restrictions on the voting rights of the amount available for stock dividend. If more than 40% of the company's shares. When convening a General Meeting of total dividend is requested by the shareholders to be paid out Shareholders, the Managing Board is entitled to determine in shares, those shareholders who have chosen to receive a registration date in accordance with the relevant their dividend in shares will receive their stock dividend on a provisions of the Dutch Civil Code. pro-rata basis, the remainder being paid out in cash. Dividend The applicable provisions regarding the appointment and in cash will be paid after deduction of 15% Dutch dividend dismissal of members of the Managing Board and the withholding tax. The ex-dividend date is 11 May 2018. Supervisory Board and amendments to the Articles of Association can be found in the chapter 'Corporate Dividend per ordinary share in € 2017 dividend subject to approval by Annual General Meeting of Shareholders governance' on page 101. The powers of the Managing Board regarding the issue and repurchase of shares in the company can be found in the 2 sections Issue of shares and Repurchase of own shares 1.85 1.75 above. 1.65 1.65 1.65 Other information can be found in the 'Notes to the 1.45 1.50 1.35 consolidated financial statements' (16 'Equity', 19 1.20 1.20 'Borrowings', 27 'Share-based compensation'). 1 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 136 www.dsm.com Sustainability statements Sustainability statements – People 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Total workforce 21,054 20,786 20,796 21,351 23,485 Female/male ratio 27/73 27/73 28/72 27/73 26/74 % by age category1 <26 years 6 6 5 6 6 26-35 years 26 25 26 25 24 36-45 years 28 28 30 29 30 46-55 years 25 27 27 28 28 >55 15 14 12 12 12 % non-Dutch1 Executives 56 53 49 51 50 Management 70 67 68 64 65 Other 85 81 82 77 78 % female 1 Executives 17 15 15 12 11 Management 27 26 27 24 23 Other 28 29 29 28 27 % executive hires1 Non-Dutch 95 88 79 88 75 Female 43 13 38 25 23 % new hires by region 1 Netherlands 11 5 11 11 10 Rest of Europe 26 23 22 19 23 North America 20 27 16 26 26 China 16 20 18 18 16 Rest of Asia-Pacific 11 8 13 18 19 Rest of the world 15 17 22 8 6 Total number new hires (excluding acquisitions) 2,203 1,730 2,171 1,997 1,834 Acquisitions 247 46 1810 169 199 Outflow of employees Voluntary resignations 766 585 1,153 1,011 1,043 Dismissed 895 781 647 411 224 Reorganization 157 208 230 221 408 Retirements 112 143 170 167 259 Deceased 13 12 12 11 34 Total outflow (excluding divestments) 1,943 1,729 2,212 1,821 1,968 Divestments 42 57 2,324 2,479 78 Voluntary resignations (% total workforce) 4.1 2.8 5.5 4.7 4.4 Total resignations (% total workforce) 10.2 8.3 10.6 8.5 8.4 Development training in hours per employee 19 25 29 25 25 Net sales per employee (x € 1,000) 420 386 374 409 401 Safety Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries (per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees) 0.36 0.33 0.41 0.47 0.38 1 For the indexes based on age, nationalities, gender, inflow and outflow, the companies that are not integrated into the HR systems (approximately 10% of the total workforce) are not taken into account. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 137 www.dsm.com Sustainability statements – Brighter Living Solutions 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Brighter Living Solutions sales as % of net sales 62 631 1 2016 was the first year of reporting; consequently, there are no comparative figures for the previous years. Sustainability statements − Planet 2017 2016 20151 20141 20131 Energy and greenhouse gases Energy use (in petajoules) 23.6 22.6 20.9 39.1 41.1 Energy efficiency improvement (in %) versus 2015 3 22 Greenhouse-gas emissions scope 1 + 2, location-based (in CO2 equivalents x million tons) 1.6 1.5 1.1 4.2 4.2 Greenhouse-gas emissions scope 1 + 2, market-based (in CO2 equivalents x million tons) 1.5 1.42 Emissions to air Volatile Organic Compounds (x 1,000 tons) 6.6 8.9 3.1 4.2 4.3 Nitrogen oxide (NOx) (x 1,000 tons) 0.7 0.8 0.4 1.5 1.6 Sulfur dioxide (SO2) (x 1,000 tons) 0.28 0.33 0.04 0.08 0.07 Discharges to water and landfill Chemical Oxygen Demand discharges to surface waters (x 1,000 tons) 2.5 2.4 2.1 3.9 4.8 Waste recycled (in %) 84 832 (Landfilling) Non-hazardous waste (x 1,000 tons) 20 17.5 12.9 18.2 22.7 Water Water consumption (x million m3) 23 222 Water use (x million m3) 114 104 101 118 150 Raw materials Renewable raw materials (in %) 15.4 16.5 16 10.8 9.9 Biodiversity Sites in or adjacent to protected areas (in %) 61 60 58 52 40 Fines (in € ) 128,400 27,900 35,600 62,500 62,300 Non-monetary sanctions 4 2 5 4 4 Environmental incidents 101 109 3 257 297 261 Environmental complaints 35 21 31 56 42 1 DSM completed several material acquisitions and divestments over the period 2013-2015. The figures presented here are not restated for the effect of this activity and so do not accurately represent our environmental trends. For year on year comparison, please see 2016-2017 data. For more information on our environmental footprint please visit the company website. 2 2016 was the first year of reporting; consequently, there are no comparative figures for the previous years. 3 As of 2016, the Loss of Primary Containment of non-hazardous substances is no longer included in this number. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option. The GRI content index is provided on the company website. DSM aligns with the recommendations of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Framework where possible. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 138 www.dsm.com Sustainability statements Stakeholder Engagement Feedlot Tour is a strong example of a program to address this. It is a circuit of annual technical meetings occurring during the In the following pages, we present some examples of how we dry season in Brazil. At these gatherings, DSM shares engage with external stakeholders, including the partners in knowledge and training on the latest technology in animal our value chain. For an overview of all our stakeholders, please nutrition worldwide. These Feedlot Tours are organized see 'Stakeholders' on page 26. For information on how we together with our customers, and we actively demonstrate the engage with our employees, see 'Workforce engagement' in impact of our solutions, from the dietary ingredients and 'People' on page 37. additives to the zootechnical and economic results. Partners like the economic research center, CEPEA, at ESALQ (Luiz de Customers Queiroz College of Agriculture, University of São Paulo, Brazil) support us. Customers are the driving force behind our business. They are our most important partners for realizing both our strategic A key driver to increase customer loyalty is the ease of doing growth ambitions and our vision to improve the lives of people business with DSM. This requires a genuinely customertoday and for generations to come. For more information on centric approach. In many business groups, we are deepening our businesses and our relationships with customers, see our understanding of customer journeys and customer 'Review of business' starting on page 68. touchpoints. These outcomes are used to improve our online and offline customer interactions and will result in easier and Providing value to customers stronger interaction. The 24/7 EngineerConnect program Although our bright science-driven solutions are not always developed by DSM Engineering Plastics was created to make immediately visible to consumers, they are of strategic it easier to do business with DSM. Engineers in the automotive importance to our customers and recognized as such. Our industry strive for faster time-to-market and first-time-right solutions enable our customers to differentiate and solve products and solutions. They want to understand in an early consumer needs. Our unique products and innovations not stage of development what the available possibilities and only ensure a strong loyalty from our customers, they are also solutions might be. 24/7 EngineerConnect is a digital platform driving our growth. that gives our customers' engineers access to the latest innovations, concepts, materials and technology. Through To bring value to our customers, we not only focus on the artificial intelligence and our extensive knowledge, they can products we bring today; we also deepen our understanding connect with the right expert at the right time and collaborate of the total ecosystem in which our customers operate to on new design projects at the earliest stage. anticipate future consumer needs. Through our consumer and customer insights, we aim to become a stronger strategic Personal interaction with our customers is important and our partner for our customers and to increase their loyalty. It is bright minds and skilled professionals support our customers through this customer-centric approach that we become a to match their needs with the solutions we offer. Therefore, we more valued strategic partner. put continuous effort in educating and training our commercial crew. In 2017, many Marketing & Sales (M&S) colleagues from For example, through this approach we have become a valued all business groups were certified on the key principles in M&S. strategic partner of carpet company Mohawk. Together Through an actionable and inspirational blended learning Mohawk and DSM-Niaga won the Surface Innovation Award program, co-developed with Vlerick Business School (Gent, at the Floor Surfaces Trade Show in Las Vegas (Nevada, USA), Belgium), M&S professionals learn the essentials of customerwhere Mohawk launched the first fully recyclable carpet based centricity. This allows us to better understand the needs of our on our technology. By supporting development and customers and their consumers, and ensure DSM keeps commercialization of 100% recyclable carpet, DSM-Niaga developing relevant solutions. helped Mohawk address society's need for more responsible consumption and production based on the principles of the Brand value circular economy. The combination of a true customer understanding and a smooth customer interaction defines the success of our Customer loyalty customer-centric approach. Our strong brand reflects this and Net Promotor Score (NPS) is our key metric to measure articulates what DSM stands for: 'Bright Science. Brighter customer loyalty. Our ever-increasing awareness around Living.' These values drive our customer relationships and customer loyalty has ensured that all our business groups have form the basis of our growth. in place a robust NPS cycle which provides valuable insight. In 2017, our NPS score reached 39 (2016: 38). We consider our brand an important business asset and we aspire to be a company with a reputation for providing Our business groups create improvement programs to innovative and sustainable solutions that fulfill the needs of our increase customer loyalty based on their feedback. DSM market segments and society. DSM's brand value as Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 139 www.dsm.com assessed by Brand Finance has grown considerably over the enabled us to very clearly define how we choose to do last five years and for 2017 was valued at € 807 million. The business with our suppliers. We have invited suppliers to increase versus prior year was primarily attributable to strong contribute to our competitiveness in areas of sustainability, revenues and forecasts, based on improving financial results. innovation, business growth, security of supply, new business models and strategic alliances. This occurs via our 'better business' projects and other initiatives. DSM Brand Value 1 (x € million) Our assessment of the maturity level of our SSP was 1,000 conducted in 2016 and addressed four dimensions: Strategy/ 807 Plan; Supply Risk & Opportunity; People, Infrastructure & 800 Measurements; and Processes. Those insights were used to 729 650 develop our sourcing strategy and position to meet the 607 600 ambition level for 2020. 400 320 Internal skills and capabilities 275 Internal capability-building regarding supplier sustainability 200 continued in 2017. We have shifted the focus from delivering training toward providing hands-on support and promoting 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 peer learning. The peer learnings offer practical experience and knowledge-sharing on integrating sustainability into the 1 As measured by the Brand Finance valuation methodology daily work of sourcing professionals. The Strategic Sourcing Methodology Award and Best Supplier Innovation Award highlight sustainability as a key topic in selecting the winners. Suppliers Collaboration We engage with approximately 34,000 suppliers through our We work with external partners to enhance collaboration in the Supplier Sustainability Program (SSP) to strengthen our supply supply chain such as the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil chain, reduce risk, lower cost and create value for society and (RSPO) and Together for Sustainability (TfS). our company. Annual supplier sustainability plans and sustainability roadmaps are used to gain insights. The Supplier Our exposure to palm oil is very limited. DSM Nutritional Sustainability Plan 2017 addressed a number of relevant Products is a member of RSPO due to the potential risks to topics for the materiality matrix: 'Resource scarcity / Circular the environment, human rights issues and labor practices in & bio-based economy', 'Responsible business practices' and the palm oil supply chain. DSM Food Specialties has improved 'Climate change & renewable energy'. the sustainability of their sourcing of palm-derived glycerin. For more information, see 'Better business' in this chapter. DSM Supplier Sustainability Program We have 'Friends of the Sea' certification for over 96% of our Supplier Relationship Management fish oil purchases. This helps ensure that the fisheries involved Solutions Better Business in providing fish oil for the production of our omega-3 product Brighter Living Solutions range are sustainable. Supplier Code Compliance Requirements to do business with DSM of Conduct Our approach to compliance is defined in our Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC). Through assessments and audits, we Compliance High Risk – Mandatory Corrective Action Plan / Opportunity check that suppliers act in compliance with external and TfS Medium Risk – Recommended internal norms and values. Where a risk or breach occurs, Assessments & Audits Corrective Action Plan / Opportunity DSM works with suppliers to define and execute an improvement plan. If non-compliance still persists, DSM may Low Risk – Opportunity for value creation choose to terminate the relationship with the supplier. In 2017, 96% of DSM's spend was covered by the SCoC. Supplier Sustainability Program strategy Compliance and Solutions are the two main elements of DSM's SSP. Insights gathered in the compliance program Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 140 www.dsm.com Sustainability statements Supplier Sustainability Program results 2017 2016 Target Achieved Leverage TfS1 Target Achieved Leverage TfS1 pool pool Spend coverage SCoC 95% 96% 91% 96% Sustainability assessments 110 68 1,230 200 200 996 Sustainability audits 21 19 132 20 20 105 Quality audits 343 241 Solutions 35 62 36 50 1 Total number of DSM suppliers assessed by TfS members. We focus on approximately 1,000 critical suppliers, defined as As part of our drive to foster better business through our those that provide critical components, are located in supplier solution projects, DSM's Sourcing organization potentially high-risk countries, supply a high volume of engages in proactive dialogue with suppliers in order to move products or services, are non-substitutable, or have the the business agenda forward on topics such as climate potential to create shared value in areas of innovation and change, food and nutrition security, health, and the circular sustainability. economy. In this context, DSM Sourcing pursues initiatives to create joint value, awareness and engagement using similar Since 2015, we have been actively collaborating with TfS. drivers to those in our Brighter Living Solutions methodology. Founded in 2011, TfS now has 20 members and aims to develop and implement a global audit program to assess and We continued to engage in joint initiatives with suppliers that improve sustainability practices within the chemical industry's led to environmental benefits in the value chain. These supply chain. TfS works with EcoVadis, a recognized provider included in packaging (e.g. the switch to fully recyclable fiber of CSR ratings, to implement the program. The EcoVadis drum solutions) and logistics (e.g. the collaboration platform methodology is aligned with international standards and 'Biceps' in marine transport) resulting in significant reductions supervised by a scientific committee. This collaboration gives in CO2 emissions. Via the CO2 Emission Reduction Initiative, DSM access to assessments and audits which are executed the physical distribution team investigates suppliers' footprints by other TfS members and shared on the TfS platform. It in road transportation, marine, packaging and, as of 2016, enabled DSM to screen approximately 4,700 suppliers in also air transportation to explore opportunities for 2017, resulting in 1.2% being identified as 'suppliers at risk'. improvement. This is a continuation of the Green Tender In line with internal follow-up guidelines, these will be further Initiative that began in 2012 with the aim of achieving a 20% investigated by means of an on-site audit of their facilities so reduction per unit of measurement in emissions associated as to ensure that improvement plans will be made. DSM was with logistics and packaging. Since 2012, over 47% of the able to screen 10% of new suppliers with regard to their attainable global spend on physical distribution has been environmental performance, impact on society, human rights covered by the Green Tender Initiative. The cumulative CO2 and labor practices. The average EcoVadis sustainability emission reduction compared to 2010 reached 18% per unit performance score of DSM's supply base was 54 in 2017, the of measurement at the end of 2016, the latest reporting period. same as in 2016. The average of the supplier performance level indicates that our suppliers are engaged with In Emmen (Netherlands), a project was executed to improve sustainability. Hands on tool time (Hott). This project started by identifying where time is lost in the work permit process. Based on the The collective (potential) supply base of the TfS members has outcome of this, together with the local maintenance been rated by 8,962 EcoVadis assessments and 1,187 TfS department, a new work-permit process and tool were audits. In total, 1,794 sustainability assessments were shared implemented. This project resulted in a 40% reduction in among TfS members and 441 new TfS audit reports were preparation time for work permits, an 80% reduction in permit received by the initiative. mistakes and reduced waiting times by one third. Better business DSM Food Specialties' purchasing team continued to work on While compliance remains the cornerstone for achieving a replacing palm-derived glycerin with glycerin from more sustainable supply base, procurement activities will sustainable sources. Working closely with their suppliers, DSM increasingly focus on so-called 'better business'. succeeded in switching to a number of more sustainable products in 2017. In Asia, we switched to a palm-derived Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 141 www.dsm.com glycerin with RSPO mass balance certification, replacing a at the University of Ulster, Coleraine (United Kingdom). This non-sustainable version. Meanwhile, operations in the US collaboration focuses on understanding the role of vitamin B2 successfully switched altogether from palm-derived glycerin in hypertension in genetically predisposed subjects. The to glycerin derived from rapeseed (also called canola). results so far indicate that optimizing this vitamin's level in the subjects shows promise for managing their high blood Investors pressure. DSM actively maintains contact with current and potential We are a founding member of the world-class nanotechnology shareholders of DSM and with analysts who advise center at MIT in Boston (Massachusetts, USA). Called shareholders. DSM provides quality information to investors 'MIT.nano', the center will provide nano research facilities to and analysts about developments at DSM, ensuring that MIT researchers and students, as well as to industrial partners relevant information is equally and simultaneously provided like us. Nanotechnology drives advances across many of our and accessible to all interested parties. areas of interest, like solar energy and energy storage. We expect that the facility will be ready to move into as of June Relevant information is made available through annual and 2018. quarterly reports, press releases, presentations to investors and the company website. In addition, DSM organizes analyst NGOs conferences, regular road shows for investors and conference calls. Any explanations and discussions are based on DSM works with NGOs and civil society to work towards information that is already in the public domain. DSM engaged solutions for the world's societal challenges. with our investors and their representatives on topics such as the SDGs, climate change, sustainability in supply chain DSM sent a delegation of 23 young professionals, management, natural and social capital, and responsible representing all business groups and all regions, to the One taxation. Young World Summit in Bogotá (Colombia). This global platform brings together the brightest young leaders from In June, we hosted an Environmental, Social and Governance companies, NGOs and academia, empowering them to (ESG) seminar for investors at the Brightlands Chemelot formulate and share innovative solutions to the world's most Campus in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands), providing insights pressing issues such as malnutrition and climate change. On into DSM's ESG performance and our ambitious targets and their return, the delegates champion local sustainability initiatives. initiatives, including coordinating our local Earth Day activities. In September, an Investor Day was hosted in the Netherlands, The Vocational Educational Center ('Centro Educacional with a visit to DSM's new biotechnology center in Delft and a Assistencial Profissionalizante', CEAP) contributes to conference in The Hague (Netherlands) in which DSM gave an educational development in Brazil. Over 6,000 teenagers have overview of the status of the implementation and progress of already benefitted from educational and vocational programs. Strategy 2018. Special attention was given to the growth DSM's partnership with CEAP aims to make a positive profile and aspirations of the Nutrition and Materials contribution to these teenagers' lives through more prepared businesses. and qualified trainings. Scientific Research Institutions In China, we continue to engage with a number of NGOs such as World Wildlife Fund, World Vision China and the Climate DSM provides funding and shares knowledge, research and Group on topics such as climate change, renewable energy facilities with renowned research institutions. and nutrition improvement. We also started engaging with the China National Institution of Standardization on green product DSM is one of the founding partners of EIT FOOD, which is design and life cycle assessment. one of the six European Knowledge and Innovation Communities (KICs) of the European Institute of Innovation In Japan, we hosted the DSM Environmental Forum with and Technology (EIT). The aim of EIT FOOD is to transform the guests from local universities, the UN Environment food ecosystem. By connecting consumers with businesses, Programme Finance Initiative, and industry representatives. start-ups, researchers and students from around Europe, EIT The event was open to the public and included a screening of FOOD supports innovative and economically sustainable the National Geographic documentary 'Before the Flood' in initiatives which improve health, access to quality food, and Tokyo. our environment. DSM Nutritional Products has broadened its successful collaboration with the Biomedical Sciences Research Institute Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 142 www.dsm.com Sustainability statements Local communities Governments DSM engages in the communities in which we operate on Our engagements with governments are increasingly topics that are locally relevant. important considering our commitment to supporting the Paris Agreement and the Sustainable Development Goals. In North America, we worked with the Seafood Nutrition Partnership to develop a community education and We are actively involved in the EU's Horizon2020 Framework awareness platform on the benefits of eating seafood, and on Programme and are participating in a variety of projects the role of omega-3 in healthy diets. ranging from bio-based feedstock for polymers, process control, product safety and various Marie Curie training We engaged in several events, together with the US Chamber networks. of Commerce Foundation on food security and the circular economy, and the Diversity Council to highlight issues relating In China, our CEO Feike Sijbesma engaged with government to gender, race, age and handicap inclusion and diversity. officials, thought leaders and business leaders on topics including the Chinese economy, climate change, carbon In Brazil, we ran several projects to reach out to schools and trading and pricing, and renewable energy. communities. These projects provided opportunities for local students to learn about the job market, educate teachers on and provide training materials about topics like environment, health and work, and to educate communities on the consumption of natural resources and electricity. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 143 www.dsm.com Management approach for material topics In the following tables, we elaborate on the material topics defined in the materiality matrix (see 'Materiality' on page 26) and describe how we manage these topics. Society Health & wellness Management approach Relevant sections The global population is growing and aging. Health and wellness is a key focus for DSM. Our Strategy 2018 People are living longer. Consumer preferences Nutrition strategy targets health and well-being, People are shifting toward healthier diets including food including products addressing sugar and salt Review of business perceived as natural. At the same time, there are levels. Our EBA Biomedical works with the an increasing number of people who are medical industry to provide products that overweight/obese, which is driving higher levels improve health and quality of life and combat of noncommunicable disease like diabetes. disease. Through our Materials strategy, we Businesses are expected to provide safe focus on the elimination of hazardous workplaces. Health and safety issues at home or substances in our supply chain, and offer in the workplace have detrimental effects on products that are safer to use. We strive to offer individuals, businesses and the rest of society. our staff a safe and healthy workplace. This topic aligns with SDG 3 (Good Health and Well-being). Malnutrition & nutrition security Management approach Relevant sections The cost of malnutrition to society is vast. The DSM works closely in partnerships with UN Stakeholders — impact of undernutrition on health and agencies, governments and NGOs to address Collaborative platforms development affects all of society. There are the quality and availability of the food basket in and networks many people who have an insufficient intake of the developing world. Our Nutrition cluster Nutrition micronutrients (vitamins and minerals) and provides nutrition and food solutions that cannot access food that is both calorifically and address both emerging and developed markets. nutritionally sufficient to foster health and wellbeing. This topic aligns with SDG 2 (Zero Hunger). Emerging economies Management approach Relevant sections The emerging economies include what are DSM’s Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Strategy 2018 referred to as the 'BRIC' countries, as well as Growth is central to the management of our Sustainability other economies such as those of South East regional approach and footprint. Our regional statements — DSM Asia, Latin America and Africa. These continue footprint means we are locally represented and Supplier Sustainability to show population and economic growth. We understand local dynamics. We manage our Program also see increasing urbanization and growing global supply chain through our Supplier People — Human rights demand for energy, infrastructure and Sustainability Program and Human Rights discretionary items. Policy. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 144 www.dsm.com Sustainability statements Geopolitical tensions & inequalities Management approach Relevant sections Recent political events, such as elections and We address the potential impact of this topic Stakeholders — referenda, and other events, such as (the threat through stakeholder engagement activities, Collaborative platforms of) terrorist acts, around the world show the such as the World Economic Forum (WEF) and and networks increasing role of tension and inequality on the UN Global Compact (UNGC). Corporate Risk management global stability. These tensions have the Risk Management also monitors developments potential to delay or derail our efforts towards in this area. achieving the SDGs. Environment Climate change & renewable energy Management approach Relevant sections It is widely accepted that human activity is We manage this topic by reducing our own Stakeholders — responsible for climate change. Recent events, carbon footprint. This is done via a range of Collaborative platforms such as repeated coral bleaching, highlight that initiatives, including increasing our use of and networks we need to take this topic seriously. The Paris renewable energy (our Responsible Care Plan Planet Agreement will set the regulatory framework identifies the key metrics that influence this Nutrition within which society needs to navigate to topic); enabling the low-carbon economy Materials achieve a less than 2°C average temperature through innovative solutions in our value chain increase. We see tackling climate change as (our Materials and Advanced Solar businesses both a responsibility and an opportunity for offer solutions that are lighter, more durable, businesses that are prepared to embrace it. better-performing and have lower carbon Renewable energy forms an integral part of this footprints); and advocating action on climate by topic to contribute to a low-carbon future. This engaging with stakeholder groups and climate topic aligns with SDG 7 (Affordable and Clean advocates such as UNGC, the Carbon Pricing Energy) and SDG 13 (Climate Action). Leadership Coalition (CPLC), RE100 and the Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition. We publicly disclose our impact and strategy through, among others, CDP. Resource scarcity / Circular & bio-based Management approach Relevant sections economy The circular economy is one that is restorative The circular and bio-based economy is identified Planet by design. We include in this topic the bio-based as one of DSM's sustainable growth areas and Materials and sharing economies, which help to address plays a central role as a business driver. This Innovation Center growing resource scarcity. We see opportunities topic is a key driver for the strategy and portfolio in product and system design, and to investigate of, among others, our Materials business, our lower-impact business models, including EBA DSM Bio-based Products & Services and sharing models that highlight reusability, our joint venture, DSM-Niaga. We engage with renewability and recyclability. This topic aligns likeminded partners on this topic such as the with SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Ellen MacArthur Foundation and Circle Production). Economy. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 145 www.dsm.com Water security Management approach Relevant sections Water is a global issue that has local impact and We are committed to the responsible use of Planet is growing in importance to society. Many areas water resources. Our approach to water is of the world already face water scarcity and guided by our Responsible Care Plan, and water pollution issues, and the impact of climate addresses water from a regional perspective. change will only make this worse. Water Our management approach focuses our availability and water quality are issues that resources on regions of water scarcity and sites impact on industry and society at large. Water that have a relatively high groundwater security is an operational and reputational consumption or waste water discharge. business risk for companies, including DSM. Through this risk-based approach, we ensure that appropriate measures are taken where they are needed most. DSM is a signatory to the UN CEO Water mandate. We were awarded an Arating for our policy and performance on water by CDP. We address water in our supply chain via the Supplier Sustainability Program. Sustainable food systems Management approach Relevant sections The growing global population is placing DSM addresses food systems through our Nutrition increasing pressure on food systems to produce portfolio of Animal Nutrition & Health. We explore larger quantities of food, and food that is more new opportunities in sustainable proteins such nutritious. These food systems place pressure as our Clean Cow project, the Proteins of the on, and are under pressure from, the Future project (e.g. CanolaPRO™), and the environment. New and sustainable food Green Ocean partnership. DSM Food systems are needed to provide a reliable food Specialties provides innovative food ingredient supply for society. and packaging solutions that address food waste through extended shelf life and more efficient processing. We are a founding member of FReSH where we contribute to its aim to transform global food systems. Biodiversity Management approach Relevant sections Biodiversity refers to the variety and variability of Biodiversity is a locally relevant issue that Planet life on earth and is an important condition for a potentially impacts on our operational locations. Biodiversity position sustainable planet. Biodiversity supports The DSM Responsible Care Plan defines how paper relevant ecosystem services that we require, we monitor and assess the impact of our such as food, water and clean air. operations on these locations. We support the ambitions of the Convention on Biological Diversity and we continue to explore the role the Natural Capital Protocol can play in supporting our decision making. Our position paper on Biodiversity can be found on the company website. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 146 www.dsm.com Sustainability statements Business Enablers Open innovation Management approach Relevant sections Open innovation encourages us to look beyond Innovation is a key growth driver in Strategy Innovation Center our own borders for ideas and knowledge, and 2018: Driving Profitable Growth. We collaborate enables us to pool capabilities and resources with our suppliers, customers and other value with others. Companies that embrace open chain partners to create new solutions in a innovation typically grow faster and generate collaborative way. We employ partnerships, more sales. Open Innovation and new funding and crowd sourcing to foster open technologies will help us deliver on the SDGs. innovation. In 2017, the Bright Minds Challenge drew on the knowledge and resources of scientists around the world to address the challenges of scalable renewable energy solutions, and together with our partners, we supported the scale-up of the three winning solutions. Careers & employment Management approach Relevant sections Employees are one of the most important Our HR strategy and policies define how we find, People —Careers & stakeholder groups for a company, and careers retain and reward our employees. We monitor employment and employment are an important topic to trends in careers and employment to ensure that companies and their stakeholders. Employees our organization is able to adapt to the seek rewarding career opportunities and a challenges that we face, such as the role of healthy work-life balance. They actively seek digitization, and the global footprint of our companies, and engage with employers, that operations and value chains. We apply the share their values. International Labour Standards of the ILO. Advocacy & stakeholder engagement Management approach Relevant sections Companies are playing an increasing role in DSM is a vocal advocate on issues relating to Sustainability contributing to the SDGs. Business leaders are Climate and energy, Circular and bio-based statements — urged to be advocates on issues that are economy and nutrition as we believe these are Stakeholder important to their business activities. important sustainability challenges which we are Engagement Companies should engage with internal and uniquely positioned to influence. We actively Stakeholders — external stakeholders to understand key issues manage our sustainability profile and reputation, Collaborative platforms and the positions they should take. and ensure that we take responsibility for our and networks own operations. Trade barriers Management approach Relevant sections This topic is closely linked to 'Geopolitical The DSM Code of Business Conduct is central DSM Code of Business tensions & inequalities'. It needs specific to our approach on this topic. In our supply Conduct attention due to the potential impact of trade chain, the Supplier Code of Conduct and our barriers on our business, such as trade controls, Supplier Sustainability Program define our sanctions and embargoes, restrictions on approach. Trade Control Compliance is chemicals, and technology. managed through our standard business processes and practices. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 147 www.dsm.com Digital transformation Management approach Relevant sections Digitization is transforming the world we live in Global shifts and digital transformation are Strategy 2018 and the way we do business. The rise (and identified in Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable potential fall) of cryptocurrencies, mobility, social Growth as one of the megatrends to which we media and the sheer scale of data production are responding. We are piloting big data-based are changing the landscape in which we approaches in business applications and operate. We see the influence of digital continue to develop data science competences transformation on business especially in the within our R&D and IT disciplines. Our areas of manufacturing, marketing and sales, Information Security Office and Privacy Policy and careers and employment. Digital guide our approach towards the security of transformation may also disrupt many of our information assets. end-markets, from medical to automotive. Governance Responsible business practices Management approach Relevant sections Responsible business practices now includes We take our responsibilities as a business People 'Taxation', and 'Transparency and reporting'. seriously. Our approach is guided by the Code DSM Code of Business Companies such as ours are expected to do of Business Conduct, and in the supply chain, Conduct business in a responsible way. This topic covers by the Supplier Code of Conduct and Supplier Corporate governance a wide range of sub-topics including taxation; Sustainability Program. Our human rights policy, and risk management corporate governance; human rights; labor HR policies and other policies cover the PeopleTaxation position paper policies; safety, health and environment (SHE); related aspects of this topic. Our tax position is anti-bribery and corruption; and privacy. consistent with the normal course of our business operations and reflects our corporate strategy as well as the geographic spread of our activities. Through this report, and our public statements on the company website, we provide transparency in our reporting. Our position paper on Taxation can be found on the company website. Product & food safety Management approach Relevant sections The importance of product and food safety can We address the importance of product and food Planet — Product be seen through the impact of poor safety safety through the Supplier Sustainability Stewardship standards on employees and consumers. Poor Program and our approach to Product Sustainability product and food safety can cause injury or even Stewardship. Our business processes require statements — Suppliers death. us to have practices in place that address quality Review of business through the production, handling, preparation, storage and use of our solutions. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 148 www.dsm.com Sustainability statements Bioethics Management approach Relevant sections Biotechnology has a strong role to play to We manage this topic through our consultations Biotechnology position provide products and solutions that will address with relevant scientific organizations, industry, paper growing and aging populations, and resource NGOs and governments. We use genetically scarcity. At the same time, biotechnology, such modified micro-organisms (GMMs) in the as genetic modification, is viewed with suspicion production process of some of our products, and concern by some sections of the however we do not sell GMMs or products population. It is important to address these containing GMMs. All GMMs are contained concerns ethically and openly. within our production processes. Our position paper on Biotechnology can be found on the company website. Product Stewardship Management approach Relevant sections Adding Product Stewardship to our Materiality Our Product Stewardship network manages Planet — Product Matrix is a reflection of the increasing regulatory issues relating to Product Stewardship expectations of society that companies take Stewardship and actively monitors and responsibility for their products throughout the participates in discussions relating to this topic. product lifetime. Inherent in this is our We continually update our inventory of responsibility for the hazards presented by our Substances of (Very) High Concern within DSM products and ensuring they are managed in a based on the latest information with the ultimate responsible way. goal of phasing out the use of toxic chemicals throughout our value chains where possible. For all our materials we conduct robust scientific risk assessments of the products and production processes to ensure that we source, make and distribute them in a safe way. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 149 www.dsm.com Philanthropy and sponsorships The Young Professional Project in Mairinque (Brazil) focuses on public school students and gives them insight into the We are recognized for our efforts in our sustainable growth operation of the factory. During the project, students discuss areas of nutrition, climate and energy, and circular and biothe importance of technical and higher education, how to based economy. On top of this, we also engage in choose a job/career, the reality of the labor market, the various philanthropic and sponsorship activities. In 2017, we donated lines of action, opportunities for professional growth and the more than € 5.7 million to a range of initiatives. As outlined in activities carried out in the Mairinque factory. So far, more than our Code of Business Conduct, we do not make political 5,250 students have participated in this project. donations. The full text of the Code can be found on the company website. North America DSM contributed to the Union County College Foundation Asia-Pacific Close the Gap initiative to provide scholarships to help African The Bright Experience event in China was launched together American students complete their degrees, thus closing the with the World Food Programme to raise awareness and funds 'Achievement Gap' in graduation rates between this group to help solve the issue of child hunger and malnutrition. DSM and the general student population. The initiative has realized China has been part of the event since it was first introduced a tripling in graduation rates since the engagement began. in 2007. With this year's theme 'Solve Hunger, Bright Experience', the event attracted DSM employees and their We continued to work with the Global Health Corps to families, as well as partners, from 15 sites in 14 cities including underwrite the cost of two Fellows to 1,000 Days to enable Shanghai and Beijing. advocacy and engagement in early childhood nutrition issues in the US and around the world. Now in its second year, POSHAN, the CSR program in the state of Maharashtra (India) has reached in total 2.3 million Sight and Life women to communicate the importance of good nutrition for The Sight and Life Foundation is a humanitarian nutrition think mothers of child-bearing age. DSM is the partner in this tank delivering innovative solutions to eliminate all forms of program supporting the offline distribution of content. In Pune malnutrition in children and women of childbearing age and (India), our program promoted preventative health care improve the lives of the world's most vulnerable populations. education and vocational skills for children, women and the Through continued support of the Sight and Life Foundation, elderly. DSM furthers the advancement of research, implementation science, innovations, and leadership capacity development in Europe nutrition. In the Netherlands, we focus on sponsorships in knowledge and education, innovation, arts and culture and sports. We are The Sight and Life Foundation engaged in a publicengaged in long-term partnerships, such as the Nemo private partnership in Ghana, known as Affordable Science Museum in Amsterdam; Artis Microbia (Amsterdam), Nutritious Foods for Women (ANF4W), working to establish a the world's first museum of microbes; the Bonnefanten market-based solution to improve the nutritional status of Museum in Maastricht; and Natuurmonumenten, a Dutch women of reproductive age with fortified food products. This association that manages and protects natural resources in included the successful launch of the Obaasima quality seal the Netherlands. identifying fortified products. In Nigeria, DSM announced a new partnership with UNICEF and Sight and Life to deliver In Switzerland, we donated clothes, toiletries, toys and other better nutrition to at-risk children and mothers and advocate items as part of the winter charity collection of the Sovereign on a global scale for micronutrient supplementation. In Order of Malta Switzerland for people in need on the Slovakian addition, Sight and Life continues forces with PATH, a nonborder, and Dyneema® gloves to 'IG der Tauchclubs beider profit organization charged with global health innovation, and Basel', a diving community that cleans the Rhine river in the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health on Basel area. In addition, we sponsored a number of sports systematic reviews of underlying causes of stunting. clubs in the vicinity of our locations. Leadership is important to bring about change, therefore Sight Latin America and Life recognized two inspiring women, Shilpa Bhatte and In Latin America, in-kind sponsorship included campaigns in Ellen Piwoz, with the Sight and Life Leadership Award at the Brazil donating winter clothing and personal hygiene items to SUN Global Gathering in Ivory Coast. With the right mix of local institutions in the vicinity of our Brazilian sites, the funding, knowledge, technology, and enabling policy, Sight donation of MixMe™ sachets to Hai Africa, a Brazilian charity, and Life advocates with its partners the global fight against all that were sent to Nairobi (Kenya), and Project 'New Dreams' forms of malnutrition and micronutrient deficiencies. providing food baskets to vulnerable families in São Paulo (Brazil). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 150 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting acquisition date fair value. For each business combination, policies DSM elects whether it measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree at fair value or at the proportionate share of the Basis of preparation acquiree's identifiable net assets. Any contingent DSM's consolidated financial statements have been prepared consideration payable is measured at fair value at the in accordance with International Financial Reporting acquisition date. Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union and the provisions of section 362-8 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Segmentation The accounting policies applied by DSM comply with IFRS and Segment information is presented in respect to the group's the pronouncements of the International Financial Reporting operating segments about which separate financial Interpretation Committee (IFRIC) effective at 31 December information is available that is regularly evaluated by the chief 2017. operating decision maker. DSM has determined that Nutrition, Materials and the Innovation Center represent reportable Consolidation segments in addition to Corporate Activities. The Managing The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial Board decides how to allocate resources and assesses the statements of Royal DSM and its subsidiaries (together 'DSM' performance of the clusters. Cluster performance is reported or 'group'). As a parent DSM is exposed, or has right to, the and reviewed down to the level of Adjusted EBITDA. The variable returns from its involvement with its subsidiaries and clusters are organized in accordance with the type of products has the ability to affect the returns through its power over the produced and the nature of the markets served. The same subsidiary. The financial data of subsidiaries are fully accounting policies that are applied for the consolidated consolidated. Non-controlling interests in the group's equity financial statements of DSM are also applied for the operating and profit and loss are stated separately. A joint arrangement segments. Prices for transactions between segments are is an entity in which DSM holds an interest and which is jointly determined on an arm's length basis. Segment results, assets controlled by DSM and one or more other venturers under a and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment contractual arrangement. A joint arrangement can either be a as well as those that can reasonably and consistently be joint venture where DSM and the other partner(s) have rights allocated. Selected information on a country and regional to the net assets of the arrangement or a joint operation where basis is provided in addition to the information about operating DSM and the partner(s) have rights to the assets, and segments. obligations for the liabilities to the arrangement. For joint ventures the investment in the net assets is recognized and Foreign currency translation accounted for in accordance with the equity method. For a The presentation currency of the group is the euro. joint operation, assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are recognized in the financial statements of DSM in accordance Each entity of the group records transactions and balance with the contractual entitlement or obligations of DSM. sheet items in its functional currency. Transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency Subsidiaries are consolidated from the acquisition date until are recorded at the spot exchange rates prevailing at the date the date on which DSM ceases to have control. From the of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities acquisition date onwards, all intra-group balances and denominated in a currency other than the functional currency transactions and unrealized profits or losses from intra-group of the entity are translated at the closing rates. Exchange transactions are eliminated, with one exception: unrealized differences resulting from the settlement of these transactions losses are not eliminated if there is evidence of an impairment and from the translation of monetary items are recognized in of the asset transferred. In such cases an impairment of the the income statement. asset is recognized. Non-monetary assets that are measured on the basis of Business combinations historical costs denominated in a currency other than the Business combinations are accounted for using the functional currency continue to be translated against the rate acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as at initial recognition and will not result in exchange differences. the aggregate of the consideration transferred, including liabilities incurred, measured at acquisition date fair value, and On consolidation, the balance sheets of subsidiaries that do the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. not have the euro as their functional currency are translated Acquisition costs incurred are expensed. into euro at the closing rate. The income statements of these entities are translated into euro at the average rates for the As of the acquisition date identifiable, assets acquired, relevant period. Goodwill paid on acquisition is recorded in the liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interest in the functional currency of the acquired entity. Exchange acquiree are recognized separately from goodwill. Identifiable differences arising from the translation of the net investment in assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are measured at entities with a functional currency other than the euro are Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 151 www.dsm.com recorded in Other comprehensive income. The same applies impairment losses. Interest during construction is capitalized. to exchange differences arising from borrowings and other Expenditures relating to major scheduled turnarounds are financial instruments in so far as those instruments hedge the capitalized and depreciated over the period up to the next currency risk related to the net investment. On disposal of an turnaround. entity with a functional currency other than the euro, the cumulative exchange differences relating to the translation of Property, plant and equipment are systematically depreciated the net investment are recognized in profit or loss. over their estimated useful lives. The estimated remaining lives of assets are reviewed every year, taking account of Distinction between current and non-current commercial and technological obsolescence as well as normal An asset (liability) is classified as current when it is expected wear and tear. The initially assumed expected useful lives are to be realized (settled) within 12 months after the balance in principle as follows: for buildings 10-50 years; for plant and sheet date. machinery 5-15 years; for other equipment 4-10 years. Land is not depreciated. Intangible assets Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized over DSM's share in the net fair value of the identifiable assets upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are and liabilities of an acquired subsidiary, joint venture or expected to arise from the continued use or the sale of the associate. Goodwill paid on acquisition of subsidiaries is asset. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is included in intangible assets. Goodwill paid on acquisition of recorded in profit or loss. joint ventures or associates is included in the carrying amount of these entities. Goodwill recognized as an intangible asset is Leases not amortized but tested for impairment annually and when Finance leases, which transfer to the group substantially all the there are indications that the carrying amount may exceed the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, recoverable amount. A gain or loss on the disposal of an entity are capitalized at inception of the lease at the fair value of the includes the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the sold. minimum lease payments. All other leases are operating leases. Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognized at fair value on the date of acquisition and Lease payments for finance leases are apportioned to finance subsequently amortized over their expected useful lives, which charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a vary from 4 to 20 years. constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are included in interest costs. Separately acquired licenses, patents, drawing rights and Capitalized leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of application software are carried at historical cost less straightthe estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term. line amortization and less any impairment losses. The Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense over expected useful lives vary from 4 to 15 years. Costs of the lease term. software maintenance are expensed when incurred. Capital expenditure that is directly related to the development of Associates and joint ventures application software is recognized as an intangible asset and An associate is an entity over which DSM has significant amortized over its estimated useful life (5-8 years). influence but no control or joint control, usually evidenced by a shareholding that entitles DSM to between 20% and 50% of Research costs are expensed when incurred. Development the voting rights. A joint venture is an entity where DSM has expenditure is capitalized if the recognition criteria are met and joint control and is entitled to its share of the net assets and if it is demonstrated that it is technically feasible to complete liabilities. Investments in associates and joint ventures are the asset; that the entity intends to complete the asset; that accounted for by the equity method, which involves the entity is able to sell the asset; that the asset is capable of recognition in the income statement of DSM's share of the generating future economic benefits; that adequate resources associate's or joint venture's profit or loss for the year are available to complete the asset; and that the expenditure determined in accordance with the accounting policies of attributable to the asset can be reliably measured. DSM. Any other results at DSM in relation to associated Development expenditure is amortized over the asset's useful companies are recognized under Other results related to life. Development projects under construction are included associates and joint ventures. DSM's interest in an associate under 'Development projects'. or joint venture is carried in the balance sheet at its share in the net assets of the associate or joint venture together with Property, plant and equipment goodwill paid on acquisition, less any impairment loss. Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less depreciation calculated on a straight-line basis and less any Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 152 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Summary of significant accounting policies When DSM's share in the loss of an associate or joint venture Impairment of assets exceeds the carrying amount of that entity, the carrying When there are indications that the carrying amount of a nonamount is reduced to zero. No further losses are recognized, current asset (an intangible asset or an item of property, plant unless DSM has responsibility for obligations relating to the and equipment) may exceed the estimated recoverable entity. amount (the higher of its value in use and fair value less costs to sell), the possible existence of an impairment loss is Non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities investigated. If an asset does not generate largely independent DSM initially recognizes loans and receivables and debt cash flows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash securities on the date when they are originated. All other generating unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs. In assessing financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recognized the value in use, the estimated future cash flows are on the date when DSM becomes a party to the contractual discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate provisions of the instrument. DSM derecognizes a financial that reflects current market interest rates and the risks specific asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the to the asset. asset expire, or when it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash flows in a transaction in which substantially When the recoverable amount of a non-current asset is less all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are than its carrying amount, the carrying amount is impaired to transferred, or when DSM neither transfers nor retains its recoverable amount and an impairment charge is substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership and recognized in profit or loss. An impairment loss is reversed does not retain control over the transferred asset. DSM when there has been a change in estimate that is relevant for derecognizes a financial liability when its contractual the determination of the asset's recoverable amount since the obligations are discharged or cancelled, or expire. last impairment loss was recognized. Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net All financial assets are reviewed for impairment. If there is amount is presented in the statement of financial position objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more when DSM has a legal right to offset the amounts and intends events after initial recognition, an impairment loss is either to settle them on a net basis or to realize the asset and recognized in the income statement. Impairment losses for settle the liability simultaneously. goodwill and other participations are never reversed. Loans and long-term receivables are measured at fair value Inventories upon initial recognition and subsequently at amortized cost, if Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable necessary after deduction for impairment. The proceeds from value. The first in, first out (FIFO) method of valuation is used these assets and the gain or loss upon their disposal are unless the nature of the inventories requires the use of a recognized in profit or loss. different cost formula, in which case the weighted average cost method is used. The cost of intermediates and finished Other financial assets goods includes directly attributable costs and related Other financial assets comprise loans to associates and joint production overhead expenses. Net realizable value is ventures, other participations, other receivables and other determined as the estimated selling price in the ordinary deferred items. course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. Products Other participations comprise equity interests in entities in whose manufacturing cost cannot be calculated because of which DSM has no significant influence; they are accounted joint cost components are stated at net realizable value after for as available-for-sale securities. These other participations deduction of a margin for selling and distribution efforts. are measured against fair value, with changes in fair value being recognized in Other comprehensive income (Fair value Current receivables reserve). A significant or prolonged decline of the fair value of Current receivables are initially recognized at fair value plus any an equity interest below cost represents an impairment, which directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial is recognized in profit or loss. On disposal, the cumulative fair recognition, they are measured at amortized cost using the value adjustments of the related other participations are effective interest method, which generally corresponds to released from equity and included in the income statement. If nominal value, less an adjustment for bad debts. a reliable fair value cannot be established, the other participations are recognized at cost. The proceeds from Current investments these other participations and the gain or loss upon their Current investments are initially recognized at fair value plus disposal are recognized in profit or loss. any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Deposits with banks with a Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 153 www.dsm.com maturity between 3 and 12 months are classified as current economic benefits will settle the obligation; and 3) a reliable investments. estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Cash and cash equivalents The probable amount required to settle long-term obligations Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at banks and in is discounted if the effect of discounting is material. Where hand and deposits held at call with banks with a maturity of discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the less than three months at inception. Bank overdrafts are passage of time is recognized as interest costs. included in current liabilities. Cash and cash equivalents are measured at fair value. Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognized at fair value of the proceeds Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale received, net of transaction costs. Subsequently, borrowings Non-current assets and disposal groups (assets and liabilities are stated at amortized cost using the effective interest relating to an activity that is to be sold) are classified as 'held method. Amortized cost is calculated taking into account any for sale' if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally discount or premium. Interest expenses are recorded in profit through a sales transaction rather than through continuing or loss. use. The reclassification takes place when the assets are available for immediate sale and the sale is highly probable. Where the interest rate risk relating to a long-term borrowing These conditions are usually met as from the date on which a is hedged through a fair value hedge, and the hedge is letter of intent or agreement to sell is ready for signing. Noneffective, the carrying amount of the long-term loan is adjusted current assets held for sale and disposal groups are measured for changes in fair value of the interest component of the at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. hedged loan. Non-current assets held for sale are not depreciated or amortized. For transparency, non-current assets and disposal Other current liabilities groups that will contribute to joint ventures are reported Other current liabilities are measured at amortized cost, which separately from other assets and liabilities held for sale. generally corresponds to the nominal value. Discontinued operations Revenue recognition Discontinued operations comprise those activities that were Revenues from the sale of goods or the rendering of services disposed of during the period or which were classified as held are recognized upon the transfer of ownership or risk to the for sale at the end of the period, and represent a separate buyer. They are measured at the fair value of the consideration major line of business or geographical area that can be clearly received. Net sales represent the invoice value less estimated distinguished for operational and financial reporting purposes. rebates and cash discount, and excluding indirect taxes. Royal DSM Shareholders' equity Income relating to the sale or licensing of technologies or DSM's ordinary shares and cumulative preference shares are technological expertise is recognized in the income statement classified as Royal DSM Shareholders' equity. This is the case according to the contractually agreed transfer of the rights and for the latter, as there is no mandatory redemption, and obligations associated with those technologies. This income distributions to the shareholders are at the discretion of DSM. is reported in Net sales when the income is part of the ordinary The price paid for repurchased DSM shares (treasury shares) and recurring activities of the business and, if not, in Other is deducted from Royal DSM Shareholders' equity until the operating income. Interest income is recognized on a timeshares are cancelled or reissued. Treasury shares are proportion basis using the effective interest method. Dividend presented in the treasury share reserve. When treasury shares income is recognized when the right to receive payment is are sold or reissued, the amount received is recognized as an established. increase in equity, and the result on the transaction is presented as share premium. Dividend to be distributed to Government grants holders of cumulative preference shares is recognized as a Government grants are recognized at their fair value if there is liability when the Supervisory Board approves the proposal for reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all profit distribution. Dividend to be distributed to holders of related conditions will be complied with. Cost grants are ordinary shares is recognized as a liability when the Annual recognized as income over the periods necessary to match General Meeting of Shareholders approves the profit the grant on a systematic basis to the cost that it is intended appropriation. to compensate. If the grant is an investment grant, its fair value is initially recognized as deferred income in Other non-current Provisions liabilities and then released to profit or loss over the expected Provisions are recognized when all of the following conditions useful life of the relevant asset. are met: 1) there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; 2) it is probable that a transfer of Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 154 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Summary of significant accounting policies Share-based compensation Income tax The costs of option plans are measured by reference to the Income tax expense is recognized in the income statement fair value of the options on the date on which the options are except to the extent that it relates to an item recognized granted. The fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes directly in Other comprehensive income or Shareholders' model, taking into account market conditions linked to the equity. price of the DSM share. The costs of these options are recognized in profit or loss (Employee benefits costs) during Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the the vesting period, together with a corresponding increase in taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted at the Equity in the case of equity-settled options or Other nonbalance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable with current liabilities in the case of cash-settled options (Share respect to previous years. Deferred tax assets and liabilities Appreciation Rights). No expense is recognized for options are recognized for the expected tax consequences of that do not ultimately vest, except for options where vesting is temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as and liabilities and their tax base. Deferred tax assets and vesting, irrespective of whether or not the market condition is liabilities are measured at the tax rates that have been enacted satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date and are met. expected to apply when the related deferred tax assets are realized or the deferred tax liabilities are settled. Deferred tax Performance shares and restricted share units (matching assets, including assets arising from losses carried forward shares) are granted free of charge and vest after three years and tax credits, are recognized to the extent that it is probable on the achievement of previously determined targets. The cost that future taxable profits will be available against which the of performance shares and restricted share units is measured deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses can by reference to the fair value of the DSM shares on the date be utilized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are stated at on which the performance shares and restricted share units nominal value. were granted and is recognized in profit or loss (Employee benefits costs) during the vesting period, together with a Deferred taxes are not provided for the following temporary corresponding increase in equity. differences: the initial recognition of goodwill; the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting Emission rights nor taxable profit; and differences relating to investments in DSM is subject to legislation encouraging reductions in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in greenhouse-gas emissions and has been awarded emission the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax rights (principally CO2 emission rights) in a number of liabilities are offset and presented net when there is a legally jurisdictions. Emission rights are reserved for meeting delivery enforceable right to offset, and the assets and liabilities relate obligations and are recognized at cost (usually zero). Revenue to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority. is recognized when surplus emission rights are sold to third parties. When actual emissions exceed the emission rights Financial derivatives available to DSM, a provision is recognized for the expected The group uses financial derivatives such as foreign currency additional costs. forward contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. Alternative performance measures (APMs) Financial derivatives are initially recognized in the balance DSM uses Alternative performance measures to present and sheet at fair value. Subsequently, financial derivatives, bank discuss DSM's financial results. To arrive at these APMs, balances and deposits in foreign currency are valued against adjustments are made to material items of income and the rates applicable on the balance sheet closing date. expense arising from circumstances such as: Changes in fair value are recognized in profit or loss unless cash flow hedge accounting or net investment hedge acquisitions/divestments; accounting is applied. For the measurement basis, see page restructuring; 203. impairments; and other. Changes in the fair value of financial derivatives designated and qualifying as cash flow hedges are recognized in Other 'Other' APM adjustments can be related to onerous contracts comprehensive income (Hedging reserve) to the extent that and litigation settlements. Other than items related to the hedge is effective. Upon recognition of the related asset or acquisition and integration costs incurred in the first year from liability, the cumulative gain or loss is transferred from the the acquisition date (including non-recurring inventory value Hedging reserve and included in the carrying amount of the adjustments), the threshold is € 10 million. hedged item if it is a non-financial asset or liability. Any ineffective portion of the changes of the fair value of the derivative is recognized immediately in profit and loss. If the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 155 www.dsm.com forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the In 2017, no new or amended standards that had an impact on hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the the financial position, performance or disclosures of DSM had hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, to be applied for the first time. Neither were new or amended or the designation is revoked, then hedge accounting is standards adopted early and applied in 2017 for the first time. discontinued prospectively. If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur then the amount accumulated in Effect of forthcoming accounting standards not yet applied equity is reclassified to profit or loss. If the hedged item is a The following accounting standards are forthcoming but are financial asset or liability, the gain or loss is transferred to profit not yet being applied by DSM. They will be adopted on the or loss. Changes in the fair value of financial derivatives required effective date. designated and qualifying as net investment hedges are recognized in Other comprehensive income (Translation IFRS 9 'Financial Instruments' reserve) to the extent that the hedge is effective and the IFRS 9 will replace IAS 39 'Financial Instruments: Recognition change in fair value is caused by changes in currency and Measurement'. IFRS 9 will mainly impact the classification, exchange rates. Accumulated gains and losses are released measurement, and (de-)recognition of financial assets and from Other comprehensive income and are included in profit financial liabilities; the impairment of financial assets by or loss when the net investment is disposed of. Changes in introducing an expected credit loss model; and DSM's hedge the fair value of financial derivatives designated and qualifying accounting practices. as fair value hedges are immediately recognized in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the The new standard is effective for annual reporting periods hedged assets or liabilities attributable to the hedged risk. beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Pensions and other post-employment benefits Classification and Measurement DSM has both defined contribution plans and defined benefit IFRS 9 contains three principal categories to classify financial plans. In the case of defined contribution plans, obligations are assets: measured at amortized cost, fair value through other limited to the payment of contributions, which are recognized comprehensive income ('FVOCI'), and fair value through profit as Employee benefits costs. In the case of defined benefit and loss ('FVTPL'). As such, IFRS 9 eliminates the existing IAS plans, the aggregate of the value of the defined benefit 39 categories of held to maturity, loans and receivables, and obligation and the fair value of plan assets for each plan is available for sale securities. The categorization under IFRS 9 recognized as a net defined benefit liability or asset. Defined takes place based on the business model for managing the benefit obligations are determined using the projected unit financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics credit method. Plan assets are recognized at fair value. If the of the financial asset. fair value of plan assets exceeds the present value of the defined benefit obligation, a net asset is only recognized to the DSM assessed that the new classification and measurement extent that the asset is available for refunds to the employer requirements mainly affect its other participations, currently or for reductions in future contributions to the plan. Defined reported under 'Other financial assets'. Under its current benefit pension costs consist of three elements: service costs, accounting policies, DSM accounts for other participations as net interest, and remeasurements. Service costs are part of available-for-sale securities measured against fair value, with Employee benefits costs and consist of current service costs. changes in fair value being recognized in OCI or at cost (see Past service costs and results of plan settlements are included 'Other financial assets', page 187). Under IFRS 9, these other in Other operating income or expense. Net interest is part of participations shall initially be measured at FVTPL. However, Financial income and expense and is determined on the basis DSM will use the irrevocable election to present subsequent of the value of the net defined benefit asset or liability at the changes in the fair value, impairment losses, and gains or start of the year, and on the interest on high-quality corporate losses on disposal of these investments in OCI. Given the bonds. Remeasurements are actuarial gains and losses, the limited amount of other financial assets measured at cost the return (or interest cost) on net plan assets (or liabilities) impact of re-measuring these assets to fair value is expected excluding amounts included in net interest and changes in the to be limited. The re-measurement to fair value of those effect of the asset ceiling. These remeasurements are instruments as per 1 January 2018 has not been completed. recognized in Other comprehensive income as they occur and are not recycled through profit or loss at a later stage. For all other financial assets and financial liabilities, DSM assessed that the requirements in IFRS 9 will not significantly Effect of new accounting standards affect their classification and measurement. Financial The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and instruments currently classified as held to maturity and IFRIC have issued new standards, amendments to existing measured at amortized cost will also be measured at standards and interpretations, some of which are not yet amortized cost under IFRS 9; and financial instruments effective or have not yet been endorsed by the European currently measured at FVTPL will continue to be measured on Union. the same basis. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 156 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Summary of significant accounting policies Impairment standard will be immaterial. Also the new requirements under Under IFRS 9, the 'incurred credit loss' model currently applied IFRS 15 will not have a significant impact on revenue will be replaced by an expected credit loss (ECL) model. The recognition compared to the current policy of revenue application of the ECL model will result in the recognition of a recognition. small and therefore insignificant default credit loss risk for loans to third parties and associated parties. For trade receivables, IFRS 16 'Leases' the transition to the new model under the simplified approach IFRS 16 establishes a new model for lessee accounting that will also not have a significant impact on the valuation. requires a lessee to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for the rights and obligations created by leases. Hedge Accounting Additionally, the nature of expenses related to leases will When initially applying IFRS 9, a company may choose as its change, as IFRS 16 replaces the straight-line operating lease accounting policy to continue to apply the hedge accounting expense with a depreciation charge for right-of-use assets and requirements of IAS 39 instead of the requirements in IFRS 9. interest expense on lease liabilities. Furthermore, the DSM has chosen to apply the new requirements of IFRS 9. classification of cash flows will also be affected as operating IFRS 9 requires DSM to ensure that hedge accounting lease payments under IAS 17 are presented as operating cash relationships are aligned with DSM's risk management flows; whereas under the IFRS 16 model, the lease payments objectives and strategy and to apply a more qualitative and will be split into a principal and an interest portion which will forward-looking approach to assessing hedge effectiveness. both be presented as financing cash flows. The new standard IFRS 9 also introduces new requirements on rebalancing is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after hedge relationships and prohibiting voluntary discontinuation 1 January 2019. of hedge accounting. Under the new model, it is possible that more risk management strategies, particularly those involving During 2017, DSM performed a preliminary impact hedging a risk component (other than foreign currency risk) of assessment of IFRS 16 on its consolidated financial a non-financial item, will be likely to qualify for hedge statements, but the company has not yet completed its accounting. detailed assessment. The standard will primarily affect the accounting for DSM's operating leases. The impact Transition assessment performed indicates that the majority of these DSM will apply the new rules under IFRS 9 retrospectively from arrangements will meet the definition of a lease under IFRS 16, 1 January 2018. The group will use the practical expedient and hence DSM will recognize a lease liability and a allowing it not to restate comparative information for prior corresponding right-of-use asset in respect of these leases. periods with respect to classification and measurement Based on the preliminary impact assessment of IFRS 16, DSM changes. expects that the recognition of the leases will result in an impact of around 2% of the balance sheet total. Yet the actual IFRS 15 'Revenue from Contracts with Customers' impact of applying IFRS 16 on the financial statements in the IFRS 15 provides a comprehensive framework for revenue period of initial application will depend on future economic recognition. The main principle underlying this new standard conditions, including DSM's borrowing rate at 1 January 2019, is that revenue is recognized upon the transfer of control of the composition of DSM's lease portfolio at that date, DSM's goods and services to the customer. IFRS 15 replaces the latest assessment of whether it will exercise any lease renewal current accounting standards on revenue recognition, options, and the extent to which DSM chooses to use practical including IAS 11 'Accounting for Construction Contracts' and expedients and recognition exemptions, as well as the IAS 18 'Revenue'. The new standard is effective for annual transition approach. reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. New IFRIC interpretations are not expected to have a material The implementation of IFRS 15 affects both the timing of the effect on the financial statements of DSM. revenue recognition and the amount of revenue recognized within DSM's revenue categories as outlined below. DSM's main revenue categories are 'goods sold', 'services rendered', and 'royalties from ordinary activities'. During 2017, DSM performed a detailed impact assessment of IFRS 15 on its consolidated financial statements. DSM will adopt IFRS 15 using the cumulative effect method. Under this transition method, the cumulative impact of the adoption should be recognized in retained earnings as of 1 January 2018 and the comparatives will not be restated. DSM's assessment indicates that the initial effect of applying this Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 157 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Consolidated income statement x € million Notes 2017 2016 Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total operations operations operations operations Net sales 5 8,632 8,632 7,920 7,920 Cost of sales 5 (5,699) (5,699) (5,262) (5,262) Gross margin 2,933 2,933 2,658 2,658 Marketing and sales (1,221) (1,221) (1,132) (1,132) Research and development (334) (334) (309) (309) General and administrative (524) (524) (552) (552) Other operating income 104 104 109 109 Other operating expense (112) (112) (89) (28) (117) 5 (2,087) (2,087) (1,973) (28) (2,001) Operating profit 846 846 685 (28) 657 Financial income 6 35 35 23 23 Financial expense 6 (139) (139) (156) (156) Profit before income tax expense 742 742 552 (28) 524 Income tax expense 7 (115) (115) (89) (89) Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures 10 (83) (83) (38) (38) Other results related to associates and joint ventures 10 1,237 1,237 232 232 Profit for the year 1,781 1,781 657 (28) 629 Of which: Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 17 12 12 8 8 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 1,769 1,769 649 (28) 621 Dividend on cumulative preference shares (8) (8) (4) (4) Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares 1,761 1,761 645 (28) 617 Earnings per share (EPS) (in € ): Net basic EPS 2 10.07 10.07 3.68 (0.16) 3.52 Net diluted EPS 2 10.04 10.04 3.67 (0.16) 3.51 Please refer to Note 2 'Alternative performance measures' for the reconciliation to Adjusted EBITDA of € 1,445 million (2016: € 1,262 million) and other adjusted IFRS performance measures. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 158 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Consolidated financial statements Consolidated statement of comprehensive income x € million 2017 2016 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans 83 (8) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations relating to the non-controlling interests (8) Equity accounted investees share of Other comprehensive income (6) Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations Change for the year (610) 216 Reclassification adjustment to the income statement related to discontinued operations (14) (19) Fair value reserve Change for the year (3) 7 Hedging reserve Change for the year 98 (52) Reclassification adjustment to the income statement (39) 52 Reclassification adjustment to deferred items (4) Equity accounted investees share of Other comprehensive income 4 (1) Other comprehensive income, before tax (489) 185 Income tax (expense)/income relating to: Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (9) 5 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (9) 1 Hedging reserve (7) 2 Total income tax (expense) / income (25) 8 Other comprehensive income, net of tax (514) 193 Profit for the year 1,781 629 Total comprehensive income 1,267 822 Of which: Attributable to non-controlling interests 4 8 Attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 1,263 814 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 159 www.dsm.com Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December x € million Notes 2017 20161 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 8 3,058 3,188 Property, plant and equipment 9 3,313 3,325 Deferred tax assets 7 281 355 Share in associates and joint ventures 10 227 586 Financial derivatives 23 16 Other financial assets 11 475 463 7,370 7,917 Current assets Inventories 12 1,848 1,800 Trade receivables 13 1,542 1,504 Income tax receivables 13 55 62 Other current receivables 13 93 87 Financial derivatives 23 41 40 Current investments 14 954 944 Cash and cash equivalents 15 899 604 5,432 5,041 Total 12,802 12,958 Equity and liabilities Equity 16 Shareholders' equity 6,962 6,072 Non-controlling interests 17 103 108 7,065 6,180 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 7 259 278 Employee benefits liabilities 24 356 490 Provisions 18 151 128 Borrowings 19 2,551 2,552 Financial derivatives 23 4 14 Other non-current liabilities 20 188 158 3,509 3,620 Current liabilities Employee benefits liabilities 24 39 40 Provisions 18 53 54 Borrowings 19 77 853 Financial derivatives 23 20 239 Trade payables 21 1,452 1,376 Income tax payables 21 51 56 Other current liabilities 21 536 540 2,228 3,158 Total 12,802 12,958 1 Financial derivatives were previously assigned to Current assets and liabilities. These figures have now been distributed over Non-current and Current assets and liabilities, based on the contractual term. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 160 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Consolidated financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity (Note 16) x € million Share Share Treasury Other Retained Total NonTotal capital premium shares reserves earnings controlling equity interests Balance at 1 January 2016 338 489 (319) 171 4,862 5,541 90 5,631 Dividend (296) (296) (5) (301) Options / performance shares granted 32 32 32 Options / performance shares exercised / canceled (30) 30 Proceeds from reissued shares 253 253 253 Change in DSM's share in subsidiaries 15 15 Repurchase of shares (273) (273) (273) Reclassification 20 (20) Other 1 1 1 Total comprehensive income 203 611 814 8 822 Balance at 31 December 2016 338 489 (339) 396 5,188 6,072 108 6,180 Dividend (320) (320) (3) (323) Options / performance shares granted 26 26 26 Options / performance shares exercised / canceled (22) 22 Proceeds from reissued shares 238 (5) 233 233 Change in DSM's share in subsidiaries (6) (6) Repurchase of shares (297) (297) (297) Reclassification (18) 18 Other (15) (15) (15) Total comprehensive income (581) 1,844 1,263 4 1,267 Balance at 31 December 2017 338 489 (398) (199) 6,732 6,962 103 7,065 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 161 www.dsm.com Consolidated cash flow statement (Note 26) x € million 2017 2016 Operating activities Profit for the year 1,781 629 Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures (1,154) (194) Income tax 115 89 Profit before income tax expense 742 524 Financial income and expense 104 133 Operating profit1 846 657 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 502 489 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA)1 1,348 1,146 Adjustments for: (Gain) or loss from disposals (5) (3) Acquisition/divestment related in EBITDA 2 15 Change in provisions (3) 20 Defined benefit plans (61) (27) (67) 5 Income tax received 15 7 Income tax paid (81) (84) Other 18 33 Changes, excluding working capital (115) (39) Operating cash flow before changes in working capital 1,233 1,107 Changes in operating working capital: Inventories (201) (138) Trade receivables (121) (115) Trade payables 127 195 (195) (58) Changes in other working capital (42) (31) Changes in working capital (237) (89) Cash provided by operating activities 996 1,018 1 Please refer to Note 2 'Alternative performance measures' for the reconciliation to Adjusted EBITDA of € 1,445 million (2016: € 1,262 million) and other adjusted IFRS performance measures. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 162 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Consolidated financial statements Consolidated cash flow statement (Note 26) continued x € million 2017 2016 Cash provided by operating activities 996 1,018 Investing activities Capital expenditure for:1 Intangible assets (98) (63) Property, plant and equipment (449) (413) Payments regarding drawing rights (8) (19) Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 11 4 Acquisition of subsidiaries and associates (242) 4 Cash from net investment hedge (21) Disposal of subsidiaries, businesses and associates 1,525 80 Additions to fixed-term deposits (1,319) (936) Withdrawal from fixed-term deposits 1,286 Interest received 30 40 Other financial assets: Capital payments and acquisitions (98) (35) Dividends received 4 152 Additions to loans granted (23) (19) Repayment of loans granted 81 8 Proceeds from disposals 10 3 Cash from/(used in) investing activities 689 (1,194) Financing activities Settlement derivatives internal loans (28) Capital payments from/to non-controlling interests 3 6 Loans taken up 14 749 Repayment of loans (818) (4) Change in debt to credit institutions 10 (11) Repayment of commercial paper (150) Dividend paid (200) (190) Interest paid (135) (151) Proceeds from reissued treasury shares 107 137 Repurchase of shares (297) (273) Cash (used in)/from financing activities (1,344) 113 Change in cash and cash equivalents 341 (63) Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 604 665 Exchange differences relating to cash held (46) 2 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 899 604 1 An amount of € 1 million included in capital expenditure was funded by customers (2016: € 1 million). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 163 www.dsm.com Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 1 General information Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are in € million. A list of DSM participations has been filed with the Chamber of Commerce (Netherlands) and is available from the company upon request. The list can also be downloaded from the company website. The preparation of financial statements requires estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. The policies that management considers to be the most important to the presentation of the financial condition and results of operations are discussed in the relevant Notes. The same holds for the issues that require management judgments or estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Management cautions that future events often vary from forecasts and that estimates routinely require adjustment. Areas of judgment that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognized in the financial statements relate to the categorization of certain items as 'APM adjustments' relating to the alternative performance measures, the identification of cash generating units (CGUs) and the classification of activities as 'held for sale' and 'discontinued operations'. Key assumptions and estimates that need to be made by management relate to the useful lives of non-current assets (Notes 8 and 9), the establishment of provisions for retirement and other post-employment benefits (Note 24), the recognition and measurement of income taxes (Note 7) and the determination of fair values for financial instruments (Note 23) and for share-based compensation (Note 27). Furthermore, impairment testing mainly of goodwill and development projects requires judgments by management, among others with respect to the determination of CGUs, the estimation of future cashflows, growth rates and discount rates to apply (Notes 2, 8, 9 and 10). Significant judgment is also required for the determination of earn-out receivables and payables in business combinations (Note 3) and for the valuation of drawing rights (Note 8). For drawing rights, the most important judgments relate to the estimation of the required maintenance and replacement outlays. Estimates are based on historical quoted market prices, experience and assumptions that are considered reasonable under the circumstances. Exchange rates The currency exchange rates that were used in preparing the consolidated financial statements are listed below for the most important currencies. 1 euro = Exchange rate at balance sheet date Average exchange rate 2017 2016 2017 2016 US dollar 1.20 1.05 1.13 1.11 Swiss franc 1.17 1.07 1.11 1.09 Pound sterling 0.89 0.85 0.88 0.82 Brazilian real 3.97 3.41 3.61 3.86 Chinese renminbi 7.80 7.29 7.63 7.34 Presentation of consolidated income statement DSM presents expenses in the consolidated income statement in accordance with their function. This allows the presentation of gross margin on the face of the income statement, which is a widely used performance measure in the industry. The composition of the costs allocated to the individual functions is explained below. Cost of sales encompasses all manufacturing costs (including raw materials, employee benefits, and depreciation and amortization) related to goods and services captured in net sales. They are measured at their actual cost based on FIFO, or weighted average cost. Marketing and sales relates to the selling and marketing of goods and services, and also includes all costs that are directly related to the sale of goods, but that are not originated by the manufacturing of the goods (e.g. freight). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 164 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Research and development consists of: research, which is defined as original and planned investigation undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding; and development, which is defined as the application of research findings or other knowledge to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved materials, devices, products, processes, systems or services before the start of commercial production or use. General and administrative relates to the strategic and governance role of the general management of the company as well as the representation of DSM as a whole in the financial, political or business community. It also relates to business support activities of staff departments that are not directly related to the other functional areas. The discontinued operations in the consolidated income statement relate to the disposal of the caprolactam, acrylonitrile and composite resins businesses. 2 Alternative performance measures (APMs) In presenting and discussing DSM's financial position, operating results and net results, management uses certain alternative performance measures not defined by IFRS. These Alternative performance measures should not be viewed in isolation as alternatives to the equivalent IFRS measures and should be used as supplementary information in conjunction with the most directly comparable IFRS measures. Alternative performance measures do not have standardized meaning under IFRS and therefore may not be comparable to similar measures presented by other companies. To provide clear reporting on the underlying developments of the business, APM adjustments are made that impact the EBIT(DA), net profit, ROCE and the EPS. A reconciliation of these Alternative performance measures to the most directly comparable IFRS measures can be found on page 167. The APM adjustments to net profit, as included in the APMs, can be specified as follows: 2017 2016 Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total operations operations operations operations APM adjustments: Acquisitions/divestments 11 11 (13) 28 15 Restructuring 60 60 101 101 Other 26 26 Impairments of PPE, intangible assets and business activities 14 14 18 18 Income tax related to adjustments (28) (28) (31) (31) Adjustments to result in associates and joint ventures (1,158) (1,158) (212) (212) Total APM adjustments (income)/expense (1,075) (1,075) (137) 28 (109) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 165 www.dsm.com 2017 2016 The APM adjustments in 2017 are listed below: The APM adjustments in 2016 are listed below: Restructuring costs of € 60 million relate to project costs of Restructuring costs of € 101 million relate to project costs the restructuring projects together with the redundancy of the restructuring projects together with the redundancy schemes connected to the dismissal of employees and schemes connected to the dismissal of employees and costs of termination of contracts. costs of termination of contracts. Acquisition and divestment costs of € 11 million relate to The impairments of property, plant and equipment (PPE), acquisition costs of € 4 million for among others Amyris intangible assets, and business activities of € 18 million in Brasil and Twilmij, and the divestment costs for Innovative total relate mainly to the impairment of PPE at DSM Synthesis Research of € 7 million. Engineering Plastics in the US (€ 10 million) and intangible The other APM adjustments of € 26 million relate mainly to assets at DSM Bio-based Products & Services in Brazil the demolition of buildings (€ 15 million), and some site (€ 10 million). closure and relocation costs (€ 11 million). Acquisition and divestment costs of € 15 million relate to the The impairments of property, plant and equipment (PPE) adjustments due to various settlements relating to the and intangible assets of € 14 million mainly relate to asset divestment of DSM Fibre Intermediates and Composite impairments within DSM Food Specialties (€ 4 million), DSM Resins to ChemicaInvest of € 28 million and other Bio-based Products & Services (€ 11 million) and an asset acquisition-related costs (€ 4 million), offset partly by the write-off of a plant of DSM Nutritional Products in China release of an acquisition-related liability (€ 17 million). (€ 7 million), offset by some reversals of impairments within APM adjustments to the result from associates mainly relate DSM Resins & Functional Materials (€ 8 million). to the gain of € 232 million on the IPO of Patheon N.V. and APM adjustments to the result from associates mainly relate the secondary offering, partly offset by financing, to a gain on the sale of the shares in Patheon N.V. of € 1,250 reorganization and acquisition-related costs of Patheon million, offset by an impairment of the joint venture POET(€ 20 million). DSM of € 65 million and other associated companies of € 30 million in total. See Note 10 for further details. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 166 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Alternative performance measures 2017 2016 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total operations operations Total Operating profit 846 846 685 (28) 657 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 502 502 489 489 EBITDA 1,348 1,348 1,174 (28) 1,146 APM adjustments to EBITDA: Acquisitions/divestments 11 11 (13) 28 15 Restructuring 60 60 101 101 Other 26 26 Total APM adjustments 97 97 88 28 116 Adjusted EBITDA 1,445 1,445 1,262 1,262 Operating profit 846 846 685 (28) 657 APM adjustments to Operating profit: APM adjustments to EBITDA 97 97 88 28 116 Impairments of PPE and intangible assets 14 14 18 18 Total APM adjustments 111 111 106 28 134 Adjusted operating profit 957 957 791 791 Net profit 1,781 1,781 657 (28) 629 APM adjustments to: Operating profit 111 111 106 28 134 Result relating to associates/joint ventures (1,158) (1,158) (212) (212) Income tax related to APM adjustments (28) (28) (31) (31) Total APM adjustments (1,075) (1,075) (137) 28 (109) Adjusted net profit 706 706 520 520 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests (12) (12) (8) (8) Dividend on cumulative preference shares (8) (8) (4) (4) Adjusted net profit available to holders of ordinary shares 686 686 508 508 Earnings per share Average number of ordinary shares outstanding (x 1,000) 174,795 175,100 Effect of dilution due to share options (x 1,000) 683 603 Adjusted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (x 1,000) 175,478 175,703 Earnings per share (EPS) (in € ): Net basic EPS 10.07 10.07 3.68 (0.16) 3.52 Net diluted EPS 10.04 10.04 3.67 (0.16) 3.51 Adjusted net basic EPS 3.92 3.92 2.90 2.90 Adjusted net diluted EPS 3.91 3.91 2.89 2.89 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 167 www.dsm.com 2017 2016 Alternative performance measures Capital employed Intangible assets 3,058 3,188 Property, plant and equipment 3,313 3,325 Investment grants / drawing rights (104) (109) Inventories 1,848 1,800 Current receivables 1,690 1,653 Current liabilities (2,039) (1,972) Other 4 Capital employed at 31 December 7,766 7,889 Average capital employed Capital employed at 1 January 7,889 7,553 Capital employed at 31 March 7,913 7,456 Capital employed at 30 June 7,692 7,616 Capital employed at 30 September 7,620 7,620 Capital employed at 31 December 7,766 7,889 Average capital employed 7,776 7,627 Adjusted operating profit 957 791 Average capital employed 7,776 7,627 ROCE in % 12.3% 10.4% 3 Change in the scope of the consolidation Acquisitions On 3 January 2017, DSM acquired 100% of the shares of Sunshine (Suzhou Sunshine New Materials Technology Co., Ltd.)— the manufacturer of a novel, high-performance solar photovoltaic (PV) backsheet based on co-extrusion technology. Through this acquisition, DSM has expanded its product portfolio for the solar PV market to include polymer backsheets that protect PV solar cells. The total consideration amounts to € 38 million, consisting of a cash payment of € 17 million at closing of the deal, and an estimate of future variable earn-out payments of € 21 million (discounted; the undiscounted amount is € 28 million). The share purchase agreement stipulates four earn-out payments dependent on Sunshine's financial performance during March 2016 to February 2020. In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase price of Sunshine has been allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. The resulting goodwill amounted to € 17 million. The key components within the goodwill are future technology, future customer relationships as well as assembled workforce. The Purchase Price Allocation (PPA) of Sunshine was finalized in the course of the year. The acquisition of Sunshine contributed € 5 million to net sales and -€ 1 million to EBITDA in 2017. On 29 September 2017, DSM Hydrocolloids acquired a controlling interest of 59.5% in Inner Mongolia Rainbow Biotechnology Co., Ltd. by purchasing 59.5% of the shares. This company is a high-tech enterprise focusing on the research and production of application innovations of microbial polysaccharides and other biological gums. Via an additional capital payment in November 2017, DSM now owns 65%, with a non-controlling interest held by our partner, the founder of the company. The total consideration amounts to € 11 million, paid in cash at closing of the deal. In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase price has been allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. The resulting provisional goodwill amounted to € 14 million. The PPA is ongoing. The acquisition contributed € 1 million to net sales and € 0 million to EBITDA in 2017. On 1 November 2017, DSM Nutritional Products acquired 100% of the shares of Twilmij B.V., a Dutch nutritional solutions company in the animal feed sector. The acquisition of Twilmij further strengthens DSM's foothold in the Northwest-European markets. The total consideration amounts to € 65 million, consisting of a cash payment of € 60 million at closing of the deal, and an estimate of Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 168 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM future variable earn-out payments of € 5 million. The earn-out value consists of four conditional payments, due on or before 28 February 2020, mainly dependent on growth of production, net sales and gross margin. In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase price of Twilmij has been allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. The resulting provisional goodwill amounted to € 43 million, representing the value for the innovation capability and assembled workforce. The PPA is ongoing and is expected to result in a re-allocation from goodwill to intangible assets relating to customer relations and brands. The acquisition of Twilmij contributed € 14 million to net sales and € 2 million to EBITDA in 2017. On 21 December 2017, DSM Nutritional Products acquired 100% of the shares of BioCare Copenhagen A/S (Denmark) for a cash consideration of € 44 million. With the acquisition, DSM expands its offering in gut health ingredients with probiotics. BioCare Copenhagen is a privately-held company founded in 2012, focused on probiotics and specialized in microbial actives. BioCare Copenhagen has multi-market distribution agreements with a number of leading dietary supplements and pharmaceutical companies. In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase price of BioCare Copenhagen has been allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. The resulting provisional goodwill amounted to € 43 million. The PPA is ongoing. The acquisition of BioCare Copenhagen did not contribute to net sales and EBITDA in 2017. On 28 December 2017, DSM Nutritional Products acquired 100% of the shares of Amyris Brasil Ltda and established a long-term manufacturing partnership for Amyris' high-volume products. The consideration for Amyris Brasil Ltda (which owns and operates a production facility in Brazil) and intellectual property related to farnesene (a bio-based key intermediate for many applications) is € 89 million including an additional value share arrangement over a three-year period. DSM paid € 74 million in cash at closing, and recognized a net liability of € 15 million. In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase price of Amyris Brasil has been allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. The resulting provisional goodwill amounted to € 41 million. The PPA is ongoing. The acquisition of Amyris Brasil did not contribute to net sales and EBITDA in 2017. The impact of the acquisitions on DSM's consolidated balance sheet at the date of acquisition is shown in the following table. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 169 www.dsm.com Acquisitions 2017 Amyris Brazil Twilmij Other Total Book Fair Book Fair Book Fair Book Fair value value value value value value value value Assets Intangible assets 23 23 13 36 36 59 Property, plant and equipment 26 26 16 16 21 21 63 63 Other non-current assets 18 18 6 6 24 24 Inventories 3 3 6 6 6 6 15 15 Receivables 12 12 8 8 5 5 25 25 Cash and cash equivalents 1 1 (1) (1) 2 2 2 2 Total assets 83 83 29 29 53 76 165 188 Non-controlling interests 1 1 1 1 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 18 18 4 10 22 28 Current liabilities 17 17 7 7 31 31 55 55 Total non-controlling interests and liabilities 35 35 7 7 36 42 78 84 Net assets 48 48 22 22 17 34 87 104 Acquisition price (in cash) 74 60 88 222 Fair value of associate contributed 1 1 Acquisition price (payable earn-out) 15 5 21 41 Consideration 89 65 110 264 Elimination book value associate (1) (1) Goodwill 41 43 75 159 Acquisition costs recognized in APM adjustments 1 2 3 Disposals There were no material disposals in 2017. Other changes In 2017, DSM and Evonik established a joint operation for omega-3 fatty acid products from natural marine algae for animal nutrition. DSM Nutritional Products and Evonik Nutrition & Care each hold a 50% share in the joint operation and will co-own the production facility, which is to be built at an existing site of Evonik in the US and is expected to come on stream in 2019. The joint operation plans to invest around USD 200 million in the facility (USD 100 million by each party over circa 2 years). The joint operation is named Veramaris and is headquartered in the Netherlands. DSM accounts for the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to Veramaris in accordance with IFRS 11 for joint operations. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 170 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 4 Segment information Materials is a global player in specialty plastics, which are used in components for the electrical and electronics, automotive, DSM's operating segments are Nutrition, Materials and the flexible food-packaging, and consumer goods industries. Innovation Center. DSM has segmented its operations per Furthermore, Materials is a global player in providing business activity from which revenues are earned and innovative, sustainable resins solutions for paints and industrial expenses incurred. These operating results are regularly and optical fiber coatings, as well as the fiber Dyneema®. reviewed by the entity's chief operating decision maker (CODM) to make decisions about resources to be allocated to The Innovation Center focuses on innovation and growth of the segment and assess its performance. DSM uses Adjusted DSM's existing core business through adjacent technologies EBITDA as the main indicator to evaluate the consolidated via its Corporate Research Program as well as through the performance as well as the performance per segment. company's venturing and licensing activities. Additionally, it Discrete financial information is available for each identified identifies and invests in new and innovative growth options, segment. The accounting policies of the operating segments initially through the DSM Business Incubator. The Innovation are the same as those described in the Significant Accounting Center is responsible for developing and extracting value from Policies. Transactions between segments are generally DSMs Emerging Business Areas. executed at market-based prices. Interest revenue, interest expense, and income tax expense or income are not allocated At DSM, any consolidated activities outside the three reported to segments as these amounts are not included in the measure segments are reported as 'Corporate Activities'. These mainly of segment profit or loss reviewed by the CODM, or otherwise comprise operating and service activities as well as a number regularly provided to the CODM. of costs that cannot be allocated to the clusters. Nutrition serves the global industries for animal feed, food and DSM does not have a single external customer that represents beverages, pharmaceuticals, infant nutrition, dietary 10% or more of total sales. supplements, and personal care. It does so by the production of pure active ingredients, their incorporation into sophisticated forms, and the provision of tailored premixes and forward solutions. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 171 www.dsm.com Business segments Continuing operations 2017 Nutrition Materials Innovation Corporate EliminaTotal Center Activities tions Financial performance Net sales 5,579 2,825 169 59 8,632 Supplies to other clusters 52 10 22 (84) Supplies 5,631 2,835 191 59 (84) 8,632 Adjusted EBITDA 1,053 488 9 (105) 1,445 EBITDA 1,022 485 10 (169) 1,348 Adjusted operating profit 770 361 (30) (144) 957 Operating profit 728 367 (40) (209) 846 Depreciation and amortization 280 125 25 34 464 Impairments 14 (8) 26 6 38 of which included in APM adjustments 11 (9) 11 1 14 Additions to provisions 17 6 71 94 Result related to associates and joint ventures (103) 1,257 1,154 R&D costs1 127 112 63 32 334 Wages, salaries and social security costs 955 327 78 296 1,656 Financial position Total assets 6,811 2,162 674 3,155 12,802 Total liabilities 1,900 696 70 3,071 5,737 Capital employed at year-end 5,420 1,786 562 (2) 7,766 Capital expenditure 407 124 43 12 586 Share in equity of associates and joint ventures 1 3 53 170 227 Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %) 18.9 17.3 16.7 Workforce Average in FTE 13,243 4,472 639 2,179 20,533 Year-end (headcount) 13,676 4,635 685 2,058 21,054 1 R&D costs relate to the functional area Research and development and exclude R&D costs included in the functional areas Cost of sales and Marketing and sales as well as R&D expenditure capitalized. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 172 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Business segments Continuing operations 2016 Nutrition Materials Innovation Corporate EliminaTotal Center Activities tions Financial performance Net sales 5,169 2,513 167 71 7,920 Supplies to other clusters 55 7 23 (85) Supplies 5,224 2,520 190 71 (85) 7,920 Adjusted EBITDA 931 435 1 (105) 1,262 EBITDA 934 419 (5) (174) 1,174 Adjusted operating profit 645 311 (24) (141) 791 Operating profit 648 285 (38) (210) 685 Depreciation and amortization 278 124 24 34 460 Impairments 8 10 9 2 29 of which included in APM adjustments 10 8 18 Additions to provisions 4 15 3 77 99 Result related to associates and joint ventures 7 (24) 211 194 R&D costs1 104 109 64 32 309 Wages, salaries and social security costs 902 332 78 309 1,621 Financial position Total assets 6,935 2,207 826 2,990 12,958 Total liabilities 1,857 774 84 4,063 6,778 Capital employed at year-end 5,537 1,807 576 (31) 7,889 Capital expenditure 331 106 32 16 485 Share in equity of associates and joint ventures 1 2 133 450 586 Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %) 18.0 17.3 15.9 Workforce Average in FTE 13,168 4,453 613 2,275 20,509 Year-end (headcount) 13,260 4,460 619 2,447 20,786 1 R&D costs relate to the functional area Research and development and exclude R&D costs included in the functional areas Cost of sales and Marketing and sales as well as R&D expenditure capitalized. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 173 www.dsm.com Geographical information Continuing operations The Rest of Eastern North Latin China India Japan Rest of Rest of Total NetherWestern Europe America America Asia the 2016 lands Europe world Net sales by origin In € million 2,006 2,444 160 1,436 544 842 73 100 241 74 7,920 In % 25 31 2 18 7 11 1 1 3 1 100 Net sales by destination In € million 303 1,877 494 1,795 989 989 178 264 787 244 7,920 In % 4 25 6 23 12 12 2 3 10 3 100 Workforce at year-end (headcount) 4,026 4,715 439 3,187 2,069 4,594 475 193 828 260 20,786 Average workforce (FTE) 3,944 4,575 435 3,153 2,065 4,581 498 163 823 272 20,509 Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment Capital expenditure 120 151 4 91 36 73 1 1 5 3 485 Carrying amount 1,587 1,703 31 2,104 376 523 18 42 104 25 6,513 Total assets (total DSM) 4,560 2,495 126 3,110 885 1,077 87 144 367 107 12,958 2017 Net sales by origin In € million 2,193 2,560 182 1,430 669 1,023 82 123 286 84 8,632 In % 25 30 2 17 8 12 1 1 3 1 100 Net sales by destination In € million 316 2,074 564 1,918 1,059 1,116 200 299 821 265 8,632 In % 4 24 7 22 12 13 2 3 10 3 100 Workforce at year-end (headcount) 3,831 4,905 504 3,264 2,078 4,593 537 195 870 277 21,054 Average workforce (FTE) 3,735 4,676 469 3,204 2,066 4,572 504 194 846 267 20,533 Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment Capital expenditure 134 209 4 126 45 53 4 2 6 3 586 Carrying amount 1,674 1,692 31 1,864 387 547 19 37 97 23 6,371 Total assets (total DSM) 4,656 2,530 141 2,739 877 1,110 104 139 403 103 12,802 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 174 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 5 Net sales and costs Other operating income Net sales 2017 2016 2017 2016 Continuing operations Release of provisions 6 19 Continuing operations Gain on sale of assets and Goods sold 8,451 7,724 activities 20 6 Services rendered 173 188 Insurance benefits 4 31 Royalties 8 8 Amendments/settlements pension plans 20 18 Total 8,632 7,920 Earn-out payments and other settlements 28 16 Sundry 26 19 Total costs Total 104 109 In 2017, total operating costs amounted to € 7.8 billion, € 0.6 billion higher than in 2016, when these costs stood at € 7.2 billion. Total operating costs in 2017 included Cost of sales Other operating expense amounting to € 5.7 billion (2016: € 5.3 billion); gross margin as a percentage of net sales stood at 34% (2016: 34%). 2017 2016 Employee benefits costs Continuing operations Additions to provisions 87 74 2017 2016 Exchange differences 8 1 Acquisitions 3 2 Continuing operations Sundry 14 12 Wages and salaries 1,452 1,420 Social security costs 181 177 Total 112 89 Pension costs (see also Note 24) 112 131 Share-based compensation (see also Note 27) 23 24 Total 1,768 1,752 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 2017 2016 Continuing operations Amortization of intangible assets 146 143 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 318 317 Impairment losses 38 29 Total 502 489 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 175 www.dsm.com 6 Financial income and expense 7 Income tax The income tax expense on the total result was € 115 million, 2017 2016 which represents an effective income tax rate of 15.5% (2016: € 89 million, representing an effective income tax rate Continuing operations of 17.0%) and can be broken down as follows: Financial income Interest income 11 23 Fair value change commodity 2017 2016 hedges 14 Unwinding discounted Current tax expense: receivables 10 Current year (78) (113) Prior-year adjustments (4) (10) Total financial income 35 23 Tax credits compensated 2 3 Non-recoverable withholding Financial expense tax (1) (2) Interest expense (125) (121) Interest relating to defined (81) (122) benefit plans (8) (10) Deferred tax expense: Capitalized interest during Originating from temporary construction 3 3 differences and their reversal (19) 79 Exchange differences (4) (6) Prior-year adjustments 2 7 Unwinding discounted payables (3) (7) Change in tax rate 25 (4) Sundry (2) (15) Changes arising from (reversal of) write-down deferred tax Total financial expense (139) (156) assets 9 (17) Other changes in tax losses Financial income and expense (104) (133) and tax credits (51) (32) (34) 33 As of July 2017, the interest rate applied in the capitalization of interest during construction decreased from 5% to 4% Total (115) (89) (2016: 5%). Of which related to: Adjusted taxable result (143) (120) APM adjustments 28 31 The effective tax rate on the Adjusted taxable result was 16.8% in 2017 (2016: 18.3%). This decrease was mainly due to the adjusted federal tax rate in the US, following the new tax reform. The relationship between the income tax rate in the Netherlands and the effective tax rate on the result is as follows: Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 176 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Effective tax rate Deferred tax assets and liabilities in % 2017 2016 2017 2016 Domestic income tax rate 25.0 25.0 Balance at 1 January Deferred tax assets 355 366 Tax effects of: Deferred tax liabilities (278) (319) Deviating rates (4.6) (5.4) Rate change US tax reform (3.0) Total 77 47 Tax-exempt income and nondeductible expense (0.5) (0.3) Changes: Other effects (0.1) (1.0) Income tax income/(expense) in income statement (59) 33 Effective tax rate Adjusted Income tax: change in tax taxable result, continuing percentage US (Federal Tax) 25 operations 16.8 18.3 Income tax expense (34) 33 Discontinued operations (1.1) Income tax: sale of Patheon APM adjustments (see Note 2) (1.3) (0.2) (see Note 10) (22) Total effective tax rate 15.5 17.0 Total income statement (56) 33 Income tax expense in other The balance of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities comprehensive income (25) 8 decreased by € 55 million owing to the changes presented in Acquisitions and disposals (5) (3) the next table: Exchange differences 22 (12) Transfer 9 4 Balance at 31 December 22 77 Of which: Deferred tax assets 281 355 Deferred tax liabilities (259) (278) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 177 www.dsm.com In various countries, DSM has taken standpoints regarding its tax position which may at any time be challenged, or have already been challenged, by the tax authorities, because the authorities in question interpret the law differently. These uncertainties are taken into account in determining the probability of realization of deferred tax assets and liabilities. The deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to the following balance sheet items: Deferred tax assets and liabilities by balance sheet item 2017 2016 Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax assets liabilities assets liabilities Intangible assets 14 (152) 13 (209) Property, plant and equipment 22 (159) 18 (200) Financial assets 9 (8) 3 (1) Inventories 53 (33) 71 (22) Receivables 5 (17) 5 (5) Equity 1 (1) 1 (3) Other non-current liabilities 19 (1) 18 (1) Non-current provisions 74 (3) 95 (6) Other current liabilities 70 (12) 95 (3) 267 (386) 319 (450) Tax losses carried forward 141 208 Set-off (127) 127 (172) 172 Total 281 (259) 355 (278) No deferred tax assets were recognized for loss carryforwards amounting to € 211 million (2016: € 216 million). Unrecognized loss carryforwards amounting to € 77 million will expire in the years up to and including 2022 (2016: € 74 million up to and including 2021), € 72 million between 2023 and 2027 (2016: € 77 million between 2022 and 2026) and the remaining € 63 million between 2028 and 2032 (2016: € 65 million between 2027 and 2031). The valuation of deferred tax assets depends on the probability of the reversal of temporary differences and the utilization of tax loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets are recognized for future tax benefits arising from temporary differences and for tax loss carryforwards to the extent that the tax benefits are likely to be realized. In the Netherlands, tax losses may be carried forward for nine years. DSM has to assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable profits. Deferred tax assets are reduced if, and to the extent that, it is not probable that all or some portion of the deferred tax assets will be realized. In the event that actual future results differ from estimates, and depending on tax strategies that DSM may be able to implement, changes to the measurement of deferred taxes could be required, which could impact on the company's financial position and profit for the year. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 178 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 8 Intangible assets Goodwill Licenses Under Development Other Total and patents construction projects Balance at 1 January 2016 Cost 1,883 199 104 122 1,880 4,188 Amortization and impairment losses 17 91 36 816 960 Carrying amount 1,866 108 104 86 1,064 3,228 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 1 60 1 1 63 Put into operation 9 (58) 27 22 Acquisitions 7 5 9 21 Amortization (14) (5) (124) (143) Decreased drawing rights obligations (88) (88) Other impairment losses (9) (6) (1) (16) Exchange differences 85 3 1 30 119 Other reclassifications 1 (2) (3) 8 4 92 (4) 1 14 (143) (40) Balance at 31 December 2016 Cost 1,977 215 105 133 1,748 4,178 Amortization and impairment losses 19 111 33 827 990 Carrying amount 1,958 104 105 100 921 3,188 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 26 70 2 98 Put into operation 32 (68) 36 Acquisitions 159 21 23 15 218 Amortization (11) (7) (128) (146) Impairment losses (3) (11) (11) (9) (34) Exchange differences (181) (10) (6) (70) (267) Other reclassifications (14) 30 (15) 1 (25) 21 (39) 82 (169) (130) Balance at 31 December 2017 Cost 1,950 225 66 215 1,657 4,113 Amortization and impairment losses 17 100 33 905 1,055 Carrying amount 1,933 125 66 182 752 3,058 The amortization of intangible assets is included in Cost of sales, Marketing and sales, Research and development and General and administrative expenses. Over the past few years, DSM has acquired several entities in business combinations that have been accounted for by the acquisition method, resulting in recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets. The amounts assigned to the acquired assets and liabilities are based on assumptions and estimates about their fair values. In making these estimates, management consults independent, qualified appraisers if appropriate. A change in assumptions and estimates could change the values allocated to certain assets and their estimated useful lives, which could affect the amount or timing of charges to the income statement, such as amortization of intangible assets. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 179 www.dsm.com The impairment losses of € 34 million mainly relate to acquisition-related assets and development projects at DSM Innovation Center and DSM Food Specialties. See also Note 2 'Alternative performance measures'. The breakdown of the carrying amount of goodwill at year-end 2017 is as follows: Goodwill per acquisition Functional Year of Acquisition 2017 2016 Cash generating unit Currency acquisition Martek 387 444 DSM Nutritional Products USD 2011 NeoResins 358 358 DSM Resins & Functional Materials EUR 2005 Fortitech 290 333 DSM Nutritional Products USD 2012 Ocean Nutrition Canada 198 210 DSM Nutritional Products CAD 2012 Kensey Nash 135 155 DSM Biomedical USD 2012 Tortuga 102 118 DSM Nutritional Products BRL 2013 The Polymer Technology Group 73 84 DSM Biomedical USD 2008 Other acquisitions 390 256 Total 1,933 1,958 Goodwill per Cash generating unit the same assumption for growth in the terminal value. The key assumptions in the cash flow projections relate to the market Cash generating unit 2017 2016 growth for the CGUs and the related revenue projections, EBITDA developments, and the rates used for discounting DSM Nutritional Products 1,189 1,198 cash flows. DSM Resins & Functional Materials 383 386 Key assumptions goodwill impairment tests DSM Biomedical 208 238 DSM Food Specialties 59 64 2017 2016 DSM Dyneema 40 44 DSM Advanced Solar 16 3 Explicit forecast DSM Engineering Plastics 15 16 Mature business 5 5 DSM Hydrocolloids 14 Emerging business 10 10 DSM Bio-based Products & Services 9 9 Terminal value growth 1% 1% Total 1,933 1,958 Pre-tax discount rate DSM Nutritional Products 8.4% 8.6% DSM Resins & Functional The annual impairment tests of goodwill are performed in the Materials 10.3% 11.2% fourth quarter. The recoverable amount of the cash generating DSM Biomedical 10.6% 10.5% units (CGUs) concerned is based on a value-in-use calculation. DSM Nutritional Products, DSM Resins & Organic sales growth Functional Materials and DSM Biomedical are the three CGUs DSM Nutritional Products to which significant amounts of goodwill are allocated. Year 1-5 4-9% 3-5% Year 6-10 2.4% 2.4% The cash flow projections for the first 5 years are derived from DSM Resins & Functional DSM's business plan (Corporate Strategy Dialogue) as Materials adopted by the Managing Board, updated on a yearly basis. Year 1-5 2-10% 3-5% For the subsequent 5 years a gradual declining growth is Year 6-10 1.2% 1.2% applied for mature businesses to come to a terminal value after DSM Biomedical 10 years. The terminal value growth rate is determined with Year 1-10 8.0% 7.7% the assumption of limited inflationary growth. For emerging businesses, an explicit forecast period of 10 years is used with Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 180 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM For DSM Nutritional Products the growth assumptions are million) and was clearly above the carrying amount of net based on the growth of the global food and feed markets, for assets, thus providing an additional indication that goodwill DSM Resins & Functional Materials on the demand for was not impaired. advanced coating resins (influenced by growth in building and construction markets) and for DSM Biomedical on the growth Development costs of the market for medical devices. The carrying amount of development costs at 31 December 2017 included € 156 million mainly relating to strategic A sensitivity test was performed on the impairment tests of the projects which are not being amortized yet. The recoverable CGUs and showed that the conclusions of these tests would amount of these CGUs was estimated based on the present not have been different if reasonable possible adverse change value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the in key parameters had been assumed. Where in 2016 CGUs (value-in-use). The recoverable amount of all CGUs was headroom for Biomedical was limited and the sensitivity test estimated to be higher than its carrying amount and no resulted in a risk of no headroom, for 2017 this is no longer impairment was required. the case. The market capitalization of DSM at 31 December 2017 amounted to € 14,454 million (31 December 2016: € 10,334 Other intangible assets 2017 2016 Cost Amortization Carrying Of which Of which amount acquisitionacquisitionrelated related Application software 258 (186) 72 4 11 Marketing-related 93 (26) 67 67 54 Customer-related 537 (242) 295 249 275 Technology-based 460 (376) 84 63 188 Drawing rights 237 (39) 198 Other 72 (36) 36 13 12 Total 1,657 (905) 752 396 540 Total 2016 1,748 (827) 921 540 Other intangible assets include drawing rights contracts with and an amount of € 72 million was still payable to the partnership ChemicaInvest. ChemicaInvest will continue to ChemicaInvest for the acquisition of the drawing rights (2016: supply at least 80% of DSM Engineering Plastics' caprolactam € 74 million). Other intangible assets also include the customer needs in Europe and North America for 15 years (2015-2030) relationships that were part of the Fortitech acquisition in via a drawing rights contract, effectively maintaining DSM 2012, with a carrying amount at the end of 2017 of € 99 million Engineering Plastics' backward integration. Initially the fair (2016: € 124 million). Furthermore, acquisition-related value of this contract has been recognized as an intangible intangibles are included in the annual goodwill impairment test asset by DSM Engineering Plastics; for subsequent previously discussed in this section. These intangible assets measurement, the initial fair value is the deemed cost of the are amortized on a straight-line basis, except for the intangible asset, which is subject to straight-line amortization. assets with an indefinite useful life, which amount to € 46 At the end of 2017, it had a carrying amount of € 198 million million (2016: € 52 million). (2016: € 220 million) and a remaining useful life of 13 years, Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 181 www.dsm.com 9 Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and Other Under Not used for Total buildings machinery equipconstrucoperating ment tion activities Balance at 1 January 2016 Cost 2,013 3,825 206 547 15 6,606 Depreciation and impairment losses 827 2,458 140 1 9 3,435 Carrying amount 1,186 1,367 66 546 6 3,171 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 2 26 4 390 422 Put into operation 110 315 14 (439) Acquisitions 10 1 11 Disposals (2) (2) Depreciation (73) (226) (18) (317) Impairment losses (15) (15) Impairment reversals 2 2 Exchange differences 28 11 2 13 54 Other reclassifications (2) (3) 1 (4) Other changes (2) 6 (1) 3 73 120 (39) 154 Balance at 31 December 2016 Cost 2,138 4,176 220 508 15 7,057 Depreciation and impairment losses 879 2,689 154 1 9 3,732 Carrying amount 1,259 1,487 66 507 6 3,325 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 8 54 4 422 488 Put into operation 71 183 16 (270) Acquisitions 12 48 1 2 63 Disposals (4) (1) (1) (6) Depreciation (73) (226) (19) (318) Impairment losses (5) (7) (2) (1) (15) Impairment reversals 11 11 Exchange differences (89) (97) (4) (43) (233) Other reclassification 2 (1) 1 (3) (1) Other changes (1) (1) (78) (36) (4) 106 (12) Balance at 31 December 2017 Cost 2,070 4,177 219 613 14 7,093 Depreciation and impairment losses 889 2,726 157 8 3,780 Carrying amount 1,181 1,451 62 613 6 3,313 There were no material finance lease agreements in 2017 (as was the case in 2016). In 2017, impairment losses of € 15 million were recognized on property, plant and equipment. See also Note 2 'Alternative performance measures'. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 182 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 10 Associates and joint ventures Material associates and joint ventures for DSM are DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals (DSP), Patheon, ChemicaInvest, and POETDSM Advanced Biofuels. DSP was formed in 2011 as a fifty-fifty joint venture between DSM and Sinochem Group. DSP is the global leader in sustainable antibiotics, next-generation statins, and anti-fungals. DSP develops, produces, and sells intermediates, active pharmaceutical ingredients, and drug products. Patheon was formed in 2014 between DSM and JLL Partners, combining the businesses of DSM Pharmaceutical Products and Patheon. Patheon is a leading, global provider of outsourced pharmaceutical development and manufacturing services, ranging from formulation development to clinical and commercial-scale manufacturing, packaging, and life cycle management. DSM sold its interest in Patheon N.V. in 2017. ChemicaInvest is a leader in the production and supply of caprolactam, acrylonitrile, and composite resins. DSM has a 35% shareholding in the company. The joint venture between POET and DSM operates a start-up commercial-scale production facility for cellulosic bio-ethanol in the US. The interests in POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels and DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals are classified as joint ventures in accordance with IFRS 11 and accounted for using the equity method. DSM has had a 35% interest and significant influence in ChemicaInvest since the formation of this partnership in July 2015. DSM accounts for this interest using the equity method as well. Relations with these joint ventures and associates and their strategic importance are discussed in more detail in sections 'Innovation Center' and 'Partnerships' in the Report by the Managing Board. DSM had a 49% interest and significant influence in Patheon as of the formation of this company early in 2014; this decreased to 33.5% at the end of July 2016, following a successful IPO and secondary offering. On 29 August 2017, the remaining shares in Patheon N.V. were sold to Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. DSM's share in its most important associates and joint ventures is disclosed below: Company DSM interest 2017 2016 DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals, Ltd. (Hong Kong, China) joint control 50% 50% POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels LLC (Sioux Falls, South Dakota, USA) joint control 50% 50% Patheon N.V. (Amsterdam, Netherlands) 33.5% ChemicaInvest Holding B.V. (Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands) significant influence 35% 35% The following tables provide an overview of DSM's investments in associates and joint ventures, the bridge between 'Profit for the year' of the associates as shown in this Note, and the lines 'Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures' and 'Other results related to associates and joint ventures' in the Consolidated income statement. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 183 www.dsm.com Associates and joint ventures 2017 2016 Patheon DSP ChemicaPOET-DSM Other1 Total N.V. Invest Share in associates and joint ventures Balance at 1 January 279 130 117 60 586 644 Changes: Share in results 10 9 5 (100) (20) (96) (47) Capital payments 43 17 60 33 Dividend / capital repayments (4) (4) (152) Disposals (249) (249) 128 Consolidation changes (4) (4) (10) Impairments (20) (20) Transfers 5 6 11 (27) Exchange differences (41) (4) 2 (12) (3) (58) 17 Other 1 1 Total changes (279) 10 7 (69) (28) (359) (58) Balance at 31 December 140 7 48 32 227 586 Loans to associates and joint ventures (see note 11) 12 181 193 253 Total balance at 31 December associates and joint ventures 152 188 48 32 420 839 1 Among others Africa Improved Foods and Limburg Ventures are included in Other. Profit of associates and joint ventures 2017 2016 Patheon1 DSP ChemicaPOET-DSM Other Total N.V. Invest Profit for the year (100%) 28 19 82 (199) Non-controlling interest (13) Net profit shareholders (100%) 28 19 69 (199) DSM's %-share in capital 50% 35% 50% Share in result based upon %-share 10 9 25 (100) (20) (76) (67) Share in losses in excess of investment (20) (20) 20 Share in result of associates and joint ventures 10 9 5 (100) (20) (96) (47) Tax on VoFs and LLCs 13 13 9 Share in result associates and JVs 10 9 5 (87) (20) (83) (38) Book profit Patheon 1,250 1,250 232 Other 3 3 (19) (13) Other result share in associates and JVs 1,253 3 (19) 1,237 232 Total result related to associates and JVs 1,263 9 8 (87) (39) 1,154 194 1 Period 1 November 2016 until 15 May 2017. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 184 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Loans include a € 41 million shareholder loan with an annual In 2016, the equity value of ChemicaInvest was -€ 74 million fixed interest rate of 9.875% and € 140 million bridge loans on a 100% basis, DSM decreased its carrying amount in this with an annually rising interest rate from 7 to 10%, both with associate to zero and did not recognize any further losses on an expected 4-year maturity, granted to ChemicaInvest; a loan its investment in the associate, as DSM has no obligation to of € 12 million to DSP maturing in 2019; a USD 50 million loan fund beyond its net interest in ChemicaInvest. In 2017, to POET-DSM with a 5% interest rate has been fully repaid in ChemicaInvest showed a very good financial recovery, which 2017. resulted in a net profit of € 82 million on a 100% basis, leading to a carrying amount of the investment for DSM of € 7 million. Patheon is included from 1 November 2015 until the end of fiscal year 2016 (31 October) for 2016 and from 1 November At year-end the total assets of POET-DSM amounted to € 126 2016 until 15 May 2017 (transfer to assets held for sale at that million (2016: € 293 million) on a 100% basis. The POET-DSM date) for 2017. On 29 August 2017, DSM sold its 33.5% Advanced Biofuels joint venture has a commercial-scale interest or 48.7 million shares in Patheon N.V. to Thermo production facility for cellulosic bio-ethanol in Emmetsburg Fisher Scientific Inc. as part of a tender offer to acquire all of (Iowa, USA). It processes corn-crop residues through a the issued and outstanding shares of Patheon for USD 35.00 bioconversion process using enzymatic hydrolysis followed by per ordinary share in cash. As a consequence, DSM realized fermentation. In the third quarter of 2017, an impairment test a cash in-flow of € 1,535 million (investing activities) and a profit was carried out, triggered by the delays in the start-up of € 1,250 million, which is recorded as Other results related together with the pre-treatment re-design. The impairment to associates and joint ventures. test based on the adjusted cashflows of the ten-year plan where the terminal growth rate was set at 1.5% (2016: 1.5%), Divestment of share in Patheon and the pre-tax discount rate at 11.8% (2016: 12.3%), led to an impairment for DSM of € 65 million, which is included in Book value associate 249 'Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures' and the Earn-out receivable 32 value-in-use now equals the carrying amount. Nonetheless, Total book value 281 POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels made progress in 2017 after a period of significant delays throughout the industry. In Consideration 1,503 particular, progress was made in the development of Earn-out receivable 32 advanced enzymes, which will now be manufactured on-site, Total consideration 1,535 as well as in yeast technology. The pre-treatment set-up has Book result 1,254 recently been re-designed, with the aim to improve performance. Income tax (22) Book result after tax 1,232 The table on the next page gives an overview of associates Release of translation reserve and hedging and joint ventures (on a 100% basis). reserve to Income statement 18 Total transaction result in income statement 1,250 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 185 www.dsm.com Associates and joint ventures on a 100% basis DSP ChemicaInvest POET-DSM Other 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Assets Intangible assets 32 26 76 107 17 8 Property, plant and equipment 199 219 261 270 110 279 130 87 Other non-current assets 24 28 125 137 6 31 24 Inventories 87 82 115 112 5 10 18 13 Receivables 145 142 342 366 2 3 30 13 Cash and cash equivalents 74 92 328 158 3 1 88 95 Other current assets 7 Total assets 568 589 1,247 1,150 126 293 314 240 Liabilities Provisions (non-current) 8 1 76 68 19 8 9 Borrowings (non-current) 38 15 596 561 4 48 58 45 Other non-current liabilities 8 9 82 127 8 2 Provisions (current) 32 87 3 Borrowings and financial derivatives (current) 88 144 101 78 1 32 14 Other current liabilities 141 154 344 303 5 4 42 43 Total liabilities 283 323 1,231 1,224 29 60 152 104 Net assets (100% basis) 285 266 16 (74) 97 233 162 136 Of which non-controlling interest (5) (5) (9) 3 (16) Net assets excluding goodwill 285 266 16 (74) 97 233 162 136 Contingent liabilities 5 54 Summarized statement of profit or loss Revenue (net sales) 440 431 1,933 1,802 8 2 72 43 Operating profit (EBIT) 42 34 156 (37) (189) (40) (63) (32) Financial income 1 1 2 1 1 Financial expense (8) (12) (69) (52) (3) (3) (6) (4) Share of the profit of associates 7 6 (2) 1 Profit before income tax expense 35 23 96 (82) (192) (43) (70) (35) Income tax expense (16) (9) (6) (1) (7) (5) 5 (19) Profit for the year (continuing operations) 19 14 90 (83) (199) (48) (65) (54) Post-tax result discontinued operations (8) 5 Profit for the year (total) 19 14 82 (83) (199) (48) (65) (49) Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income 19 14 82 (83) (199) (48) (65) (49) of which non-controlling interest (1) 13 (10) (18) Adjusted EBITDA 73 62 205 105 (30) (27) (22) (22) EBITDA 73 62 205 23 (30) (27) (22) (22) Depreciation, amortization and impairment (31) (28) (49) (60) (159) (13) (41) (10) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 186 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 11 Other financial assets Loans Other Other Other Total associates and participations receivables deferred joint ventures items Balance at 1 January 2016 228 51 113 27 419 Changes: Charged to the income statement (9) 3 (6) (12) Capital payments 3 3 Disposals (3) 2 (1) Loans granted 31 31 Repayments (4) 2 (2) Consolidation changes Exchange differences 3 5 1 9 Transfers (8) 33 (2) 23 Changes in fair value 7 7 Other (1) 1 (16) 2 (14) Balance at 31 December 2016 253 50 136 24 463 Changes: Charged to the income statement 12 (8) 31 (6) 29 Acquisitions 7 18 2 27 Capital payments 47 47 Disposals (3) (3) Loans granted / prepayments 49 49 Repayments (65) (47) (112) Consolidation changes (2) (2) Exchange differences (4) (4) (9) (1) (18) Transfers (1) 1 (2) (2) Changes in fair value (1) (1) Other 1 (3) (2) Balance at 31 December 2017 193 89 177 16 475 For Loans associates and joint ventures, see also Note 10 'Associates and joint ventures'. Other participations relate to equity instruments in companies whose activities support DSM's business and which can be quoted or unquoted. An amount of € 42 million included in Other participations relate to equity instruments measured at cost (2016: € 26 million). In 2017, DSM made an equity investment in Amyris, Inc., an industrial bioscience company in the US for an amount of € 34 million, which is included under Capital payments. Repayments of € 47 million in Other receivables include the settlement of € 32 million relating to the earn-out receivable of Patheon. See also Note 10 'Associates and joint ventures'. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 187 www.dsm.com 12 Inventories 13 Current receivables 2017 2016 2017 2016 Raw materials and consumables 517 504 Trade receivables Intermediates and finished Trade accounts receivable 1,528 1,490 goods 1,392 1,359 Deferred items 29 24 Receivables from associates 6 15 1,909 1,863 1,563 1,529 Adjustments to lower net Adjustment for bad debts (21) (25) realizable value (61) (63) Total Trade receivables 1,542 1,504 Total 1,848 1,800 Income tax receivable 55 62 The carrying amount of inventories adjusted to net realizable Other current receivables value (before reclassification to held for sale) was Other taxes and social security € 216 million (2016: € 240 million). contributions 36 31 Employee related receivables 15 9 At the end of 2017, there were no inventories reclassified to Acquisition related receivables 8 held for sale (2016: none). Loans 7 25 Receivables associates and joint Changes in the adjustment to net realizable value ventures relating to cash facility 21 17 Other receivables 4 3 Deferred items 2 2 2017 2016 Total Other current Balance at 1 January (63) (48) receivables 93 87 Additions charged to income Total current receivables 1,690 1,653 statement (99) (101) Utilization/reversals 97 86 Exchange differences 4 Deferred items comprised € 31 million (2016: € 26 million) in Balance at 31 December (61) (63) prepaid expenses that will impact profit or loss in future periods. With respect to trade accounts receivable that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations. An aging overview of Trade receivables related to commercial transactions amounting to € 1,356 million (2016: € 1,343 million) is provided on the next page. The remaining balance reported as Trade receivables amounting to € 172 million (2016: € 146 million) is excluded from this analysis because it principally concerns reclaimable VAT and accruals that are not related to the payment behavior of customers. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 188 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Aging overview Trade receivables 15 Cash and cash equivalents in % 2017 2016 2017 2016 Neither past due nor impaired 80 82 1-29 days overdue 14 12 Deposits 282 33 30-89 days overdue 5 3 Cash at bank and in hand 596 556 90 days or more overdue 1 3 Payments in transit 19 10 Bills of exchange 2 5 The changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable Total 899 604 are as follows: Cash at year-end 2017 was not being used as collateral and 2017 2016 therefore was not restricted (2016: restricted for € 1 million). In a few countries DSM faces cross-border foreign exchange Balance at 1 January (25) (17) controls and/or other legal restrictions that limit its ability to make these balances available on short notice for general use Additions charged to income by the group. The amount of cash held in these countries was statement (7) (12) € 116 million (2016: € 109 million). The cash will generally be Deductions 10 5 invested or held in the relevant country and, given the other Exchange differences 1 (1) capital resources available to the group, does not significantly Balance at 31 December (21) (25) affect the ability of the group to meet its cash obligations. Cash held by DSM includes cash from certain associates and 14 Current investments joint ventures that continue to participate in the cash-pooling arrangements of DSM. At the end of 2017, the amount had decreased by € 43 million to € 19 million. See also Note 21 2017 2016 'Current liabilities'. Fixed term deposits 954 944 Total 954 944 All fixed-term deposits have been placed with institutions with a high credit rating in line with the policy as outlined in Note 23 'Financial instruments and risks'. The deposits earn interest relative to the fixed term. The change in current investments is mainly due to the redemption of the € 750 million bond in October 2017, and the sale of Patheon shares in August 2017. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 189 www.dsm.com 16 Equity 2017 2016 Balance at 1 January 6,180 5,631 Net profit 1,781 629 Net exchange differences (645) 197 Net actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit obligations 74 (9) Dividend (323) (301) Proceeds from reissue of ordinary shares 233 253 Repurchase of shares (297) (273) Other changes 62 53 Balance at 31 December 7,065 6,180 After the balance sheet date, the following dividends were declared by the Managing Board: Dividend 2017 2016 Per cumulative preference share A: € 0.17 (2016: € 0.17) 8 8 Per ordinary share: € 1.85 (2016: € 1.75) 323 306 Total 331 314 The proposed final dividend on ordinary shares is subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and has not been deducted from Equity. For a description of the rules of profit appropriation and of the statutory rights attached to preference shares B, see page 220. Share capital On 31 December 2017, the authorized capital amounted to € 1,125 million (2016: € 1,125 million), distributed over 330,960,000 ordinary shares, 44,040,000 cumulative preference shares A and 375,000,000 cumulative preference shares B. All shares have a nominal value of € 1.50 each. The changes in the number of issued and outstanding shares in 2016 and 2017 are shown in the following table. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 190 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Overview of shares Issued shares Treasury shares Ordinary Cumprefs A Ordinary Balance at 1 January 2016 181,425,000 44,040,000 6,501,973 Reissue of shares in connection with share-based payments (3,243,102) Repurchase of shares 5,200,000 Dividend in the form of ordinary shares (2,035,537) Balance at 31 December 2016 181,425,000 44,040,000 6,423,334 Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2016 (6,423,334) Number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2016 175,001,666 44,040,000 Balance at 1 January 2017 181,425,000 44,040,000 6,423,334 Reissue of shares in connection with share-based payments (2,238,144) Repurchase of shares 4,500,000 Dividend in the form of ordinary shares (1,903,665) Balance at 31 December 2017 181,425,000 44,040,000 6,781,525 Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2017 (6,781,525) Number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2017 174,643,475 44,040,000 The average number of ordinary shares outstanding in 2017 was 174,794,656 (2016: 175,099,827). All shares issued are fully paid. The cumulative preference shares A have been classified as equity because there is no mandatory redemption and distributions to the shareholders are at the discretion of DSM. On 31 December 2017, no cumulative preference shares B were outstanding. Share premium Of the total share premium of € 489 million (2016: € 489 million), an amount of € 101 million (2016: € 104 million) can be regarded as entirely free of tax. Treasury shares At 31 December 2017, DSM possessed 6,781,525 ordinary shares (nominal value € 10 million, 3.01% of the share capital). The average purchase price of the ordinary treasury shares was € 58.70. At 31 December 2017, 6,706,342 of the total number of treasury shares outstanding were held for servicing management and personnel share-option rights and share plans. The remainder, 75,183 shares, is the balance of the holding for this purpose at start of the year, the shares that were purchased under the company's share buy-back program in 2017 and shares that were reissued as stock dividend in 2017. At 31 December 2016, DSM possessed 6,423,334 ordinary shares (nominal value € 10 million, 2.85% of the share capital). The average purchase price of the ordinary treasury shares was € 52.77. At 31 December 2016, 6,044,486 of the total number of treasury shares outstanding were held for servicing management and personnel share-option rights. The remainder − 378,848 shares − is the balance of shares that were purchased under the company's share buy-back program in 2007, 2008 and 2016 and shares that were reissued as stock dividend in the years 2011 through 2016. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 191 www.dsm.com Other reserves in Shareholders' equity Reserve for Translation share-based Fair value reserve Hedging reserve compensation reserve Total Balance at 1 January 2016 314 (203) 63 (3) 171 Changes: Fair-value changes of derivatives (52) (52) Release to income statement (19) 52 33 Release to deferred items (4) (4) Fair-value changes of other financial assets 7 7 Exchange differences 216 216 Options and performance shares granted 32 32 Options and performance shares exercised/canceled (30) (30) Reclassification1 18 (2) 4 20 Income tax 1 2 3 Total changes 216 (4) 2 11 225 Balance at 31 December 2016 530 (207) 65 8 396 Changes: Fair-value changes of derivatives 98 98 Release to income statement (14) (39) (53) Fair-value changes of other financial assets (3) (3) Exchange differences (610) (610) Options and performance shares granted 26 26 Options and performance shares exercised/canceled (22) (22) Reclassification (18) (18) Changes in joint ventures and associates (4) 7 3 Income tax (9) (7) (16) Total changes (637) 59 (14) (3) (595) Balance at 31 December 2017 (107) (148) 51 5 (199) 1 Reclassification to retained earnings. The decrease in the Translation reserve in 2017 is mainly caused by strengthening of the euro compared to the US dollar, Swiss franc, Chinese renminbi and the Brazilian real. As a consequence the value of the subsidiaries in those countries decreased, which led to a negative exchange difference of € 610 million. Next to this there was a € 14 million release of the cumulative translation reserve of Patheon to the income statement. The Translation reserve, Hedging reserve and the Fair value reserve are legal reserves in accordance with Dutch law and cannot be distributed to shareholders. Additional information is provided in Note 7 to the 'Parent company financial statements'. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 192 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 17 Non-controlling interests 2017 2016 Andre Pectin Other Total Total % of non-controlling interest 71% Balance at 1 January 64 44 108 90 Changes: Share of profit/charged to income statement 8 4 12 8 Acquisitions 1 1 6 Capital payments 3 3 9 Dividend paid (3) (3) (5) Change in ownership percentage (9) (9) Exchange differences (5) (3) (8) Other (1) (1) Total changes 3 (8) (5) 18 Balance at 31 December 67 36 103 108 Not fully-owned subsidiaries on a 100% basis Andre Pectin Other 2017 2016 2017 2016 Assets Intangible assets 22 26 32 38 Property, plant and equipment 26 28 159 197 Other non-current assets 29 27 Inventories 29 29 22 25 Receivables 46 23 63 56 Cash and cash equivalents 2 3 26 32 Total assets 125 109 331 375 Liabilities Provisions (non-current) 3 4 1 3 Borrowings (non-current) 15 23 Other non-current liabilities 23 26 Borrowings and financial derivatives (current) 3 3 70 85 Other current liabilities 24 12 80 80 Total liabilities 30 19 189 217 Net assets (100% basis) 95 90 142 158 Net sales 47 55 227 202 Profit for the year 11 13 11 (6) Total comprehensive income (1) 1 Operating cash flows 6 15 29 18 Dividend paid to non-controlling interests 3 5 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 193 www.dsm.com 18 Provisions Restructuring Environmental Other longOther Total costs and costs term employee provisions termination benefits benefits Balance at 1 January 2016 39 27 44 29 139 Of which current 28 2 3 8 41 Changes in 2016: Additions 59 28 1 13 101 Releases (3) (2) (5) Uses (34) (4) (1) (15) (54) Exchange differences 1 1 Total changes 23 22 (2) 43 Balance at 31 December 2016 62 49 44 27 182 Of which current 35 7 3 9 54 Changes in 2017: Additions 30 27 2 35 94 Releases (2) (4) (6) Uses (50) (6) (3) (8) (67) Exchange differences (1) (1) (1) (3) Other change 4 4 Total changes (23) 21 (2) 26 22 Balance at 31 December 2017 39 70 42 53 204 Of which current 31 10 3 9 53 In cases where the effect of the time value of money is material, The addition to the provision for environmental costs relates provisions are measured at the present value of the mainly to discontinued businesses in the US and the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation. Netherlands, next to the existing soil remediation plans. The discount rate used increased from 1.7% to 1.9%. The balance of provisions measured at present value increased by The provisions for other long-term employee benefits mainly € 0.3 million in 2017 in view of the passage of time (2016: relate to length-of-service and end-of-service payments. The increase of € 0.7 million). average life of this provision is estimated to be between 10 and 12 years. The provisions for restructuring costs and termination benefits mainly relate to the costs of redundancy schemes connected Several items have been combined under Other provisions, for to the dismissal of employees and costs of termination of example demolition costs, onerous contracts and legal risks. contracts. These provisions have an average life of 1 to 3 These provisions have an average life of 1 to 3 years. years. The additions to the provisions for restructuring costs and The provisions for environmental costs relate to soil clean-up termination benefits in 2017 mainly relate to the various obligations, among other things. These provisions have an restructuring projects (same as in 2016), in particular for the average life of around 10 years. support functions (€ 16 million). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 194 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 19 Borrowings A breakdown of the borrowings by currency is given in the 2017 2016 following table: Total Of which Total Of which current current Borrowings by currency Debenture loans 2,542 3,290 749 2017 2016 Private loans 13 8 44 37 Finance lease EUR 2,543 3,291 liabilities 4 4 USD 20 38 Credit institutions 69 69 67 67 CNY 16 5 TWD 50 Total 2,628 77 3,405 853 BRL 45 10 Other 4 11 In agreements governing loans with a residual amount at yearTotal 2,628 3,405 end 2017 of € 2,542 million, of which € 0 million was of a shortterm nature (31 December 2016: € 3,290 million, of which € 749 million was of a short-term nature), negative pledge On balance, total borrowings decreased by € 777 million clauses have been included that restrict the provision of owing to the following changes: security. Movements of borrowings The documentation of the € 750 million bond issued in October 2007, the € 300 million bond issued in November 2017 2016 2013, the € 500 million bond issued in March 2014, the € 500 million bond issued in April 2015, the € 500 million bond issued Balance at 1 January 3,405 2,810 in September 2015 and the € 750 million bond issued in September 2016 include a change-of-control clause. This Loans taken up 16 754 clause allows the bond investors to request repayment at par Repayments (818) (4) if 50% or more of the DSM shares are controlled by a third Acquisitions 24 8 party and if the company is downgraded below investment Changes in debt to credit grade (< BBB-). In May 2017, Moody's changed the outlook institutions 2 (11) from negative to stable in relation to their A3 credit rating. Repayment of commercial paper (150) Standard & Poor's confirmed DSM's credit rating in June Exchange differences (1) (2) 2017. At 31 December 2017, there was € 1,746 million in borrowings outstanding with a remaining term of more than Balance at 31 December 2,628 3,405 five years (at 31 December 2016, there was € 2,245 million with a remaining term of more than five years). The average effective interest rate on the portfolio of The schedule of repayment of borrowings is as follows: borrowings outstanding in 2017, including hedge instruments related to these borrowings, amounted to 3.28% (2016: Borrowings by maturity 3.40%). 2017 2016 2017 853 2018 77 6 2019 301 300 2020 1 2021 and 2022 504 After 2022 1,746 2,245 Total 2,628 3,405 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 195 www.dsm.com A breakdown of debenture loans is given below: 20 Other non-current liabilities Debenture loans 2017 2016 Nom. amt. 2017 2016 Investment grants 40 41 Deferred items 15 20 EUR loan 5.25% 2007-2017 750 749 Drawing rights 69 68 EUR loan 1.75% 2013-2019 300 300 300 Other non-current liabilities 64 29 EUR loan 2.38% 2014-2024 500 498 498 EUR loan 1.00% 2015-2025 500 497 497 Total 188 158 EUR loan 1.38% 2015-2022 500 499 499 EUR loan 0.75% 2016-2026 750 748 747 The increase in the non-current liabilities relates to earn-out Total 3,300 2,542 3,290 agreements regarding the acquisition of Sunshine and Amyris Brasil and miscellaneous non-current liabilities regarding the acquisition of Amyris Brasil. All debenture loans have a fixed interest rate. 21 Current liabilities The 1.75% EUR bond 2013-2019 of € 300 million has an effective interest rate of 1.76%. The 2.375% EUR bond 2014-2024 of € 500 million was pre-hedged by means of 2017 2016 forward starting swaps, resulting in an effective interest rate for this bond at 3.97% including settlement of pre-hedge. Trade payables Received in advance 4 6 The 1.375% EUR bond 2015-2022 of € 500 million has an Trade accounts payable 1,377 1,276 effective interest rate of 1.40%. Notes and cheques due 3 5 Owing to associates and joint The 1% EUR bond 2015-2025 of € 500 million was preventures 68 89 hedged by means of forward starting swaps, resulting in an effective interest rate for this bond at 3.65% including Total Trade payables 1,452 1,376 settlement of pre-hedge. Income tax payable 51 56 The 0.75% EUR bond 2016-2026 of € 750 million was prehedged by means of a collar resulting in an effective interest Other current liabilities rate for this bond amounts at 1.08% including settlement of Other taxes and social security pre-hedge. contributions 51 51 Interest 18 26 A breakdown of private loans is given below: Pensions 10 4 Investment creditors 133 100 Private loans Employee-related liabilities 277 278 Payables associates and joint 2017 2016 ventures relating to cash facility 19 62 Other liabilities 28 18 TWD loan floating 2013-2018 34 Deferred items 1 (1 month) CNY loan fixed 2018-2019 12 Total Other current liabilities 536 540 Other loans 1 10 Total current liabilities 2,039 1,972 Total 13 44 DSM's policy regarding financial-risk management is described in Note 23. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 196 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 22 Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations where it is probable that the outcome of the proceedings will be unfavorable, and the financial outcome can be measured The contingent liabilities and other financial obligations in the reliably, a provision has been recognized in the financial following table are not recognized in the balance sheet. statements and disclosed in Note 18 'Provisions'. In 2015 an award was issued against DSM Sinochem 2017 2016 Pharmaceuticals India Private Ltd. (DSP India) in a protracted arbitration case in India going back to 2004 involving a joint Operating leases and rents 245 227 venture that DSP India had formed with Hindustan Antibiotics Guarantee obligations on behalf Ltd., which suspended its operations in 2003. DSP India is of associates and third parties 113 117 covered by an indemnity from Koninklijke DSM N.V. for this Outstanding orders for projects case. In 2015 DSP India made an application with the Civil under construction 12 31 Court in Pune (India) to set aside the arbitral award. The award Other 17 4 amounts to approximately € 18 million (excluding interest of 12% per annum). At the end of 2017, the application Total 387 379 proceedings were still pending. DSM has always viewed this case as unfounded and is of the opinion that the likelihood of the award being ultimately set aside is high. Therefore no Guarantee obligations are principally related to VAT and duties liability is recognized in respect of this case. on the one hand and to financing obligations of associated companies on the other. Guarantee obligations will only lead 23 Financial instruments and risks to cash outflow when called upon. At year-end, no obligations had been called upon. Most of the outstanding orders for Policies on financial risks projects under construction will be completed in 2018. General Property, plant and equipment under operating leases The main financial risks faced by DSM relate to liquidity risk, primarily concerns cars, catalysts, buildings and various market risk (comprising interest rate risk, currency risk and equipment items. price risk) and credit risk. DSM's financial policy is aimed at minimizing the effects of fluctuations in currency-exchange The commitments for operating leases and rents are spread and interest rates on its results in the short term and following as follows: market rates in the long term. DSM uses financial derivatives to manage financial risks relating to business operations and Operating leases and rents does not enter into speculative derivative positions. An important element of DSM’s financial policy and capital 2017 20161 management is the allocation of cash flow. DSM primarily allocates cash flow to investments aimed at strengthening its 2017 46 business positions and securing the dividend payment to its 2018 66 36 shareholders. Remaining cash flow is further used for 2019 42 29 acquisitions and partnerships that strengthen DSM’s 2020 30 21 competences and market positions. This is discussed more 2021 20 16 extensively in Financial and Reporting Policies of the Report 2022 18 15 by the Managing Board, see page 98. The net debt to equity After 2022 69 64 ratio (gearing) is disclosed as part of Note 25. Total 245 227 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the financial risk due to uncertain development 1 2016 figures have been restated for comparison reasons. of liquidity. An entity may not get access to sufficient liquidity if its credit rating falls, when it experiences sudden unexpected cash outflows or an unexpected drop in cash inflows, or some Litigation other event causes counterparties to avoid trading with or DSM has a process in place to monitor legal claims periodically lending to the institution. A company is also exposed to and systematically. liquidity risk if financial markets on which it depends are subject to loss of liquidity. DSM is involved in several legal proceedings, most of which are related to the ordinary course of business. DSM does not The primary objective of liquidity management is to optimize expect these proceedings to result in liabilities that have a the corporate cash position, among other things, by securing material effect on the company's financial position. In cases Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 197 www.dsm.com availability of sufficient liquidity for execution of payments by commercial paper (2016: € 0 million). DSM has no derivative DSM entities, at the right time and the right place. contracts to manage currency risk or interest rate risk outstanding under which margin calls by the counterparty DSM has two committed credit facilities: one facility of € 500 would be permitted. million issued in 2011 and maturing in September 2018 and one facility issued in 2013 of € 500 million and maturing in Floating-rate and fixed-rate borrowings and monetary liabilities March 2020. Together, the facilities amount to a total of analyzed by maturity are summarized in the following table. € 1,000 million (2016: € 1,000 million). The agreements for the Borrowings excluding credit institutions are shown after taking committed credit facilities have neither financial covenants nor into account related interest rate derivatives in designated material adverse changes clauses. At year-end 2017, no loans hedging relationships. DSM manages financial liabilities and had been taken up under the committed credit facilities. related derivative contracts on the basis of the remaining contractual maturities of these instruments. The remaining Furthermore, DSM has a commercial paper program maturities presented in the following table provide an overview amounting to € 1,500 million (2016: € 1,500 million). The of the timing of the cash flows related to these instruments. company will use the commercial paper program to a total of Financial assets are not linked to financial liabilities in order to not more than € 1,000 million (2016: € 1,000 million). meet cash outflows on these liabilities. At 31 December 2017, € 0 million had been issued as Borrowings and monetary liabilities by maturity Fixed-rate FloatingMonetary Guarantees Subtotal Interest Cash at1 Total cash borrowings rate liabilities payments redemption out borrowings 2016 Within 1 year 756 30 2,039 2,825 74 6 2,905 Within 1 to 2 years 6 3 9 35 5 49 Within 2 to 3 years 300 4 304 35 4 343 Within 3 to 4 years 14 14 29 4 47 Within 4 to 5 years 1 2 3 29 3 35 After 5 years 2,245 45 117 2,407 912 25 2,523 Total 3,302 36 2,107 117 5,562 293 47 5,902 2017 Within 1 year 8 2,108 2,116 35 2 2,153 Within 1 to 2 years 301 46 347 35 8 390 Within 2 to 3 years 25 25 29 10 64 Within 3 to 4 years 5 9 14 29 5 48 Within 4 to 5 years 499 4 503 29 5 537 After 5 years 1,746 49 113 1,908 612 16 1,985 Total 2,559 2,241 113 4,913 218 46 5,177 1 Difference between nominal redemption and amortized costs. 2 Cumulative interest payments in remaining years. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 198 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM The exposure of the financial derivatives to liquidity risk is as follows. The amounts are gross and undiscounted. The table contains the cash flows from derivatives with positive fair values and from derivatives with negative fair values to have a complete overview of the financial derivatives related cash flows. Financial derivatives cash flow 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Total 2016 Inflow 2,143 42 58 42 12 2,297 Outflow (2,337) (43) (66) (45) (12) (2,503) 2017 Inflow 2,655 63 42 38 21 2,819 Outflow (2,675) (72) (45) (41) (21) (2,854) Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that adverse movements of interest rates lead to high costs on interest-bearing debt or assets, which negatively impact the company's capability to honor its commitments. DSM's interest rate risk policy is aimed at minimizing the interest rate risks associated with the financing of the company and thus at the same time optimizing the net interest costs. This policy translates into a certain desired profile of fixed-interest and floating-interest positions, including cash and cash equivalents, with the floating-interest position not exceeding 60% of net debt. At 31 December 2017, € 0 million of debt carried a floating rate interest (2016: € 36 million). At 31 December 2017, DSM had no outstanding fixed-floating interest rate swaps (end of 2016 none). The following analysis of the sensitivity of borrowings, assets and related financial derivatives to interest rate movements assumes an instantaneous 1% change in interest rates for all currencies and maturities from their level on 31 December 2017, with all other variables held constant. A 1% reduction in interest rates would result in a € 18 million pre-tax loss in the income statement and equity on the basis of the composition of financial instruments on 31 December 2017, as floating-rate borrowings are more than compensated for by floating-rate assets (mainly cash). The opposite applies in the case of a 1% increase in interest rates. The sensitivity of financial instruments on 31 December 2017 to changes in interest rates is set out in the following table: Sensitivity to change in interest rate 2017 2016 Carrying Sensitivity of financial Carrying Sensitivity of financial amount income and expense amount income and expense to change in interest of: to change in interest of: +1% (1%) +1% (1%) Loans to associates and joint ventures 193 253 Current investments 954 10 (10) 944 9 (9) Cash and cash equivalents 899 9 (9) 604 6 (6) Short-term borrowings (77) (1) 1 (853) (1) 1 Long-term borrowings (2,551) (2,552) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 199 www.dsm.com Currency risk Currency risk is the risk that adverse movements of foreign currency rates lead to losses on assets or liabilities in currencies, which negatively impacts the results of operations and financial condition of the company. It is DSM's policy to hedge 100% of the currency risks resulting from sales and purchases at the moment of recognition of the receivables and payables. In addition, operating companies may – under strict conditions – opt for hedging currency risks from firm commitments and forecasted transactions. The currencies giving rise to these risks are primarily USD, GBP and JPY. The risks arising from currency exposures are regularly reviewed and hedged when appropriate. DSM uses average-rate currency forward contracts, currency forward contracts, spot contracts, and average-rate currency options to hedge the exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. At year-end, these instruments had remaining maturities of less than one year. For the hedging of currency risks from firm commitments and forecasted transactions cash flow, hedge accounting is applied: valuation effects of hedge obligations are reported as Hedging reserve in Note 16 'Equity'. Hedge accounting is not applied for hedges of recognized trade receivables and trade payables hedged with shortterm derivatives. To hedge intercompany loans, receivables and payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiaries, DSM uses currency swaps or forward contracts. Cash flow hedge accounting is applied for instruments related to some larger internal loans with a total notional amount of € 0 million (2016: € 865 million). At 31 December 2017, the notional amount of the currency forward contracts was € 3,525 million (2016: € 2,241 million). In 2017, DSM hedged USD 570 million (2016: USD 580 million) of its projected net cash flow in USD in 2018, of which USD 189 million against EUR and USD 381 million against CHF by means of average-rate currency forward contracts at an average exchange rate of USD 1.15 per euro and CHF 0.96 per USD, respectively, for the four quarters of 2018. Each quarter the relevant hedges for that quarter will be settled and recognized in the income statement. In 2017, DSM also hedged JPY 5,550 million (2016: JPY 5,550 million) of its projected net cash flow in JPY in 2018, of which JPY 4,000 million against CHF and JPY 1,550 million against EUR by means of average-rate currency forward contracts at an average exchange rate of JPY 114 per Swiss franc and JPY 125 per euro, respectively, for the four quarters of 2018. DSM also continued the hedge of projected GBP cash obligations against CHF, namely GBP 11 million at an average exchange rate of CHF 1.24 per British pound. These hedges have fixed the exchange rate for part of the USD and JPY receipts and GBP payments in 2018. Cash flow hedge accounting is applied for these hedges. As a result of similar hedges concluded in 2016 for the year 2017, € 10 million negative (2016: € 32 million negative) was recognized in the 2017 operating profit of the segments involved in accordance with the realization of the expected cash flows. There was no material ineffectiveness in relation to these hedges. The partial hedging of the currency risk associated with the translation of DSM's CHF denominated investments was continued for an amount of € 204 million (2016: CHF 370 million). The partial hedging of the currency risk associated with the translation of DSM's net investment in Patheon (USD) started in March 2017 and was discontinued upon the sale of DSM's share in Patheon N.V. in August 2017. There was no material ineffectiveness in relation to these hedges. The following analysis of the sensitivity of net borrowings and derivative financial instruments to currency movements against the euro assumes a 10% change in all foreign currency rates against the euro from their level on 31 December, with all other variables held constant. A +10% change indicates a strengthening of the foreign currencies against the euro. A -10% change represents a weakening of the foreign currencies against the euro. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 200 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Sensitivity to change in exchange rate 2017 2016 Carrying Sensitivity to change in Carrying Sensitivity to change in amount all exchange rates of: amount all exchange rates of: +10% (10%) +10% (10%) Loans to associates and joint ventures 193 5 (5) 253 6 (6) Current investments 954 1 (1) 944 34 (34) Cash and cash equivalents 899 46 (46) 604 42 (42) Short-term borrowings (77) (8) 8 (853) (10) 10 Long-term borrowings (2,551) (1) 1 (2,552) (1) 1 Interest rate swaps Currency forward contracts 3 (18) 18 (139) (128) 128 Currency forwards related to net investments in foreign entities 1 (17) 17 (47) (36) 36 Average-rate forwards used for economic hedging2 12 (13) 13 (27) (17) 17 Commodity hedging 17 2 (2) 1 Fair-value change reported in Translation reserve. 2 Fair-value change reported in Hedging reserve. Sensitivity changes on these positions will generally be recognized in profit or loss or in the translation reserve in equity, with the exception of the instruments for which cash flow hedge accounting or net-investment hedge accounting is applied. Cash flow hedge accounting is applied for the average-rate forwards and average-rate currency options used for economic hedging; the fair value changes of these derivatives are recognized in the Hedging reserve in equity until recognition of the related cash flows. See also 'Financial derivatives cash flow' on page 199. Net-investment hedge accounting is applied for the cross-currency swaps used to protect net investments in foreign entities; the fair-value changes of these derivatives are recognized in the Translation reserve in equity until the net investment is disposed of, to the extent that the changes in fair value are caused by changes in currencyexchange rates. With the policies explained above the currency risks of DSM and the impact resulting from the sensitivity of changes in exchange rates as disclosed above, are covered, with only minimal residual exposures left. These are considered to be not material. With regard to the forecasted transactions, the hedging takes place in accordance with pre-approved percentages. Price risk Financial instruments that are subject to changes in stock exchange prices or indexes are subject to a price risk. At year-end 2017, price risks related to investments in securities were limited. Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a (commercial or financial) counterparty may not be able to honor a financial commitment vis-à-vis DSM. The company manages the credit risk to which it is exposed by applying credit limits per institution and by dealing exclusively with institutions having a high credit rating. At the balance sheet date, there were no significant concentrations of credit risks other than some financing relationships with associates and joint ventures (see Note 10). With regard to treasury activities (for example cash, cash equivalents and financial derivatives held with banks or financial institutions) it is ensured that financial transactions are only concluded with counterparties that have at least a Moody's credit rating of A3 for long-term instruments. At business group level, outstanding receivables are continuously monitored by management. Appropriate allowances are made for any credit risks that have been identified (as listed in Note 13 'Current receivables'). It is therefore unlikely that significant losses will arise in relation to receivables that have not been provided for. The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amounts of financial assets that are recognized in the balance sheet, including derivative financial instruments. DSM has International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) agreements in Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 201 www.dsm.com place with its financial counterparties that allow for the netting of exposures in case of a default of either party. No significant agreements or financial instruments were available at the reporting date that would reduce the maximum exposure to credit risk. Information about financial assets is presented in Note 10 'Associates and joint ventures', Note 11 'Other financial assets', Note 13 'Current receivables', Note 14 'Current investments', Note 15 'Cash and cash equivalents' and Note 23 'Financial instruments and risks'. Information about impairments is in addition to the notes already presented in Note 2. DSM's policy is to grant corporate guarantees for credit support of subsidiaries and associates, to get access to credit facilities which are necessary for their operating working capital needs and which cannot be funded by the corporate cash pools and/or for bank guarantees needed for local governmental requirements. Information on guarantees is presented in Note 22 'Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations'. Fair value of financial instruments In the following table, the carrying amounts and the estimated fair values of financial instruments are given: 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Assets Other participations 89 89 50 50 Loans to associates and joint ventures 193 215 253 258 Other non-current receivables 177 177 136 136 Current receivables 1,690 1,690 1,653 1,653 Financial derivatives 57 57 40 40 Current investments 954 954 944 944 Cash and cash equivalents 899 899 604 604 Liabilities Non-current borrowings 2,551 2,649 2,552 2,717 Drawing rights liabilities 64 64 68 68 Current borrowings 77 77 853 886 Financial derivatives 24 24 253 253 Other current liabilities 2,039 2,039 1,972 1,972 The following methods and assumptions were used to determine the fair value of financial instruments: cash, current investments, current receivables, current borrowings (excluding current portion of long-term instruments) and other current liabilities are stated at carrying amount, which approximates fair value in view of the short maturity of these instruments. The fair value of financial derivatives and long-term instruments are based on calculations, quoted market prices or quotes obtained from intermediaries. The portfolio of derivatives consists of average-rate forward contracts that are valued against average foreign exchange forward rates obtained from Bloomberg and other derivatives that are valued using a discounted cash flow model, applicable market yield curves and foreign exchange spot rates. All inputs for the fair value calculations represent observable market data that are obtained from external sources that are deemed to be independent and reliable. DSM uses the following hierarchy for determining the fair value of financial instruments measured at fair value: Level 1: quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly Level 3: techniques that use inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value that are not based on observable market data The financial instruments that have a fair value different from the carrying amounts are classified as level 2 for both 2016 and 2017. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 202 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM The following table shows the carrying amounts of the financial instruments, broken down by type and purpose: Carrying amounts financial instruments at fair value Fair value hierarchy Assets Liabilities Total Bonds Level 1 (2,663) (2,663) Other participating interests Level 1 24 24 Currency swaps related to investments Level 2 (47) (47) Currency swaps and forward contracts Level 2 40 (206) (166) Earn-out receivables / payables Level 3 108 (17) 91 Other participating interests Level 3 26 26 Balance at 31 December 2016 198 (2,933) (2,735) Bonds Level 1 (2,649) (2,649) Other participating interests Level 1 47 47 Currency forward contracts related to investments Level 2 1 1 Currency swaps and forward contracts Level 2 39 (24) 15 Commodity derivatives Level 2 17 17 Earn-out receivables / payables Level 3 85 (39) 46 Other participating interests Level 3 42 42 Balance at 31 December 2017 231 (2,712) (2,481) During the year there were no transfers between individual levels of the fair value hierarchy. 24 Post-employment benefits The group operates a number of defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans throughout the world, the assets of which are generally held in separately administered funds. The pension plans are generally funded by payments from employees and from the relevant group companies. The group also provides certain additional healthcare benefits to retired employees in the US. Post-employment benefits relate to obligations that will be settled in the future and require assumptions to project benefit obligations. Post-employment benefit accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of post-employment benefits over the employee's approximate service period, based on the terms of the plans and the investment and funding. The accounting requires management to make assumptions regarding variables such as discount rate, future salary increases, life expectancy, and future healthcare costs. Management consults with external actuaries regarding these assumptions at least annually for significant plans. Changes in these key assumptions can have a significant impact on the projected defined benefit obligations, funding requirements and periodic costs incurred. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 203 www.dsm.com The charges for pension costs recognized in the income Employee benefits net liabilities statement (Note 5) relate to the following: 2017 2016 Pension costs Balance at 1 January 530 540 2017 2016 Changes: Defined benefit plans: Balance of actuarial Pension costs included in (gains)/losses (70) 8 employee benefit costs: Employee benefits costs 18 32 Current service costs pension Contributions by employer (70) (49) plans 28 35 Exchange differences (14) (1) Other post-employment benefits 2 1 Total changes (136) (10) Defined contribution plans 82 95 Balance at 31 December 394 530 Total pension costs included in employee benefits costs 112 131 The Employee net benefits liabilities of € 394 million Pension costs included in (2016: € 530 million) consist of € 374 million related to Other operating income (20)1 (16)1 pensions (2016: € 509 million), € 6 million related to healthcare and other costs (2016: € 7 million) and € 14 million related to Total in operating profit 92 115 other post-employment benefits (2016: € 14 million). Pension costs included in financial income and expense 8 10 Pensions Pension costs included in APM The DSM group companies have various pension plans, which adjustments 1 are geared to the local regulations and practices in the countries in which they operate. As these plans are designed Total 100 126 to comply with the statutory framework, tax legislation, local customs and economic situation of the countries concerned, Of which: it follows that the nature of the plans varies from country to Defined contribution plans 82 95 country. The plans are based on local legal and contractual Defined benefit plans 18 31 obligations. 1 Curtailment gains because of plan amendments in the UK, US and Switzerland. DSM's current policy is to offer defined contribution retirement benefit plans to new employees wherever possible. However, DSM still has a (small) number of defined benefit pension and For 2018, costs for the defined benefit plans relating to healthcare schemes from the past. Generally, these schemes pensions are expected to be € 33 million (2017: € 30 million). have been funded through external trusts or foundations, where DSM faces the potential risk of funding shortfalls. The Changes in Employee benefits liabilities recognized in the most significant defined benefit schemes are: balance sheet are shown in the following overview: Pension Plan at DSM Nutritional Products AG in Switzerland (DNP AG); DSM UK Pension Scheme in the UK; Consolidated Pension Plan from DSM Services USA in the US; and Pension Plan at DSM Nutritional Products GmbH in Germany (DNP GmbH). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 204 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM For each plan, the following characteristics are relevant: Consolidated Plan in the US The Consolidated Plan in the US has been closed to new DNP AG Pension Plan in Switzerland entrants since 2014. As of 31 December 2016, the plan was The DNP AG Pension Plan is a typical Swiss Cash Balance closed for pension accrual of the non-unionized employees. plan. For accounting purposes, this plan is qualified as a New accrual is only applicable for a small group of unionized defined benefit plan. It is a contribution based-plan. There is employees. There is no indexation applicable for the vested no promise of indexation for on-going pensions. The Swiss pension rights. In 2017, DSM provided a one-time funding of state minimal requirements for occupational benefit plans have USD 22 million into the scheme to reduce the deficit and avoid however to be respected; the Minimum Guaranteed Interest the payment of the variable part of PBGC (guarantee) Return on the cash balance accounts for 2017 was 1.0% contributions. The pension plan is managed and controlled by (2016: 1.25%) for the mandatory portion (BVG/LPP). There is a DSM company pension fund. The Board of Trustees consists also a minimal conversion rate applicable. The weighted of representatives of the employer and the employees who average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 12.9 years have an independent role. In 2017, the Trustees provided a (2016: 13.0) which could be seen as an indication of the lump sum window to terminated vested participants which has maturity profile of the scheme. resulted in a reduction of pension liabilities. The pension plan is managed and controlled by a DSM Since 2011, there has been a separate investment strategy for company pension fund. The Board of Trustees consists of the closed plan (liability related to divested businesses/ representatives of the employer and the employees who have companies) and the open plan (liability related to the current an independent role. In 2017, the Trustees implemented a businesses/companies). The investment strategy for the reduction of the conversion rate for the accounts related to the closed plan has a very low risk profile, whereas the investment higher income (in the first quarter) and the accounts related to strategy for the open plan anticipates on expected future the lower income (in the fourth quarter). This has reduced the returns on equity. The internal funding policy of this plan is pension liabilities in Switzerland. The plan assets are based on IFRS valuation. This implies a stricter funding policy collectively invested (no individual investment choice). In 2016, than the minimum requirements on local funding. The current an Asset Liability Management (ALM) study was performed IFRS funding level is 97% (2016: 87%), whereas the funding which has led to an adjustment of the investment strategy. The level on local standards (Pension Protection Act) is estimated current (estimated) funding level, based on local standards, is at 129% (2016: 114%). The minimum required funding level 119% (2016: 113%), which is above the legally required on local standards is 80% on the basis of this Act. minimum funding level. DNP GmbH Pension Plan in Germany DSM UK Pension Scheme The DNP GmbH Pension Plan in Germany has been closed to The DSM UK Pension Scheme was closed as of 30 new entrants as of 31 December 2008. Accrual is still September 2016 for all pension accruals. An unconditional applicable for employees who have been participating in the indexation policy is applicable for the vested pension rights. plan since 2008. The pension plan is a final pay pension plan The pension plan is managed and controlled by a DSM (averaged over the last 12 months prior to retirement) and company pension fund. The Board of Trustees consists of service-related benefit. The liability is on the balance sheet of representatives of the employer and the employees who have DNP GmbH. No assets are allocated to this liability. All an independent role. In 2017, the 2015 valuation was finalized reimbursements will be paid out by the local company. The resulting in the continuation of the annual recovery contribution weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is (GBP 1 million) and the company guarantee of GBP 14 million. 15.6 years (2016: 15.6) which could be seen as an indication A strategic workgroup was established to redesign the longof the maturity profile of the scheme. term de-risking strategy for the DSM UK Pension Scheme with the objective to align the company's intentions and the The most important unfunded plans are in Germany for which Trustees responsibility with respect to this plan. The weighted the associated liability amounts € 297 million (2016: average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 20.7 years € 312 million). In 2017, DSM agreed on a lump sum payment (2016: 22.1) which could be seen as an indication of the of € 7 million to a group of pensioners to settle their pension maturity profile of the scheme. In 2017, the Trustees and DSM liability. jointly decided to adjust the benefit indexation in the historic APC sections of the scheme. This decision has reduced the pension liability in the UK. The current funding level, based on local standards, is estimated at 103% (2016: 94%). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 205 www.dsm.com The changes in the present value of the defined benefit The actuarial gains/losses as included in the previous tables obligations and in the fair value of plan assets of the major can be specified as follows: plans are listed below: Remeasurement effects as included in Other Present value of defined benefit obligations comprehensive income 2017 2016 2017 2016 Balance at 1 January 1,806 1,745 Defined benefit obligation major pension plans Changes: Actuarial (gain)/loss due to Service costs 28 35 experience 24 (15) Interest costs 28 32 Actuarial (gain)/loss due to Contributions 13 14 demographic assumption (7) (16) Actuarial (gains)/losses 45 65 Actuarial (gain)/loss due to Past service costs (17) financial assumption changes 28 96 Curtailments/termination 45 65 benefits 1 (15) Exchange differences (129) (11) Plan assets major pension plans Settlements (25) Change in irrecoverable surplus Benefits paid (75) (59) other than interest (1) (1) Return on plan assets (greater)/ Balance at 31 December 1,675 1,806 less than discount rate 116 60 115 59 Fair value of plan assets Actuarial (gain)/loss major plans (70) 6 2017 2016 Actuarial (gain)/loss other plans (13) 2 Balance at 1 January 1,298 1,224 Total actuarial (gain)/loss (83) 8 Changes: Interest income on plan assets 20 23 Actuarial gains/(losses) 115 60 Actual return on plan assets 135 83 Contributions by employer 49 33 Contributions by employees 13 14 Disbursement (62) (46) Exchange differences (117) (10) Settlements (15) Balance at 31 December 1,301 1,298 The fair value of the plan asset consists of 99% of quoted assets (2016: 99%). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 206 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM The amounts recognized of these plans in the balance sheet In 2018, DSM is expected to contribute € 26 million (actual are as follows: 2017: € 49 million) to its major defined benefit plans. Net assets/liabilities The major categories of pension-plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: 2017 2016 Pension-plan assets by category Major plans: Present value of funded 2017 2016 obligations (1,370) (1,484) Fair value of plan assets 1,301 1,298 Bonds 43% 53% Equities 35% 32% (69) (186) Property 18% 12% Present value of unfunded Other 4% 3% obligations (305) (322) Funded status (374) (508) The pension-plan assets include neither ordinary DSM shares Effect of asset ceiling (1) nor property occupied by DSM. Net liabilities/assets major plans (374) (509) The main actuarial assumptions for the year (weighted averages) are: Net liabilities/assets other plans (20) (21) Actuarial assumptions for major plans outside the Total net liabilities/assets (394) (530) Netherlands Of which: 2017 2016 Liabilities (Employee benefits liabilities) (395) (530) Discount rate 1.49% 1.63% Assets (Prepaid pension Price inflation 1.71% 1.57% costs) 1 Salary increase 2.29% 2.08% Pension increase 0.87-2.10% 0.88-2.15% Year-end amounts for the current and previous periods are as follows: Major defined benefit plans per year 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Defined benefit obligations (1,675) (1,806) (1,745) (1,564) (1,316) Plan assets 1,301 1,297 1,224 1,086 958 Funded status of asset/(liability) (374) (509) (521) (478) (358) Experience adjustments on plan assets, gain/(loss) 115 60 (22) 61 7 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities, gain/(loss) (24) 15 (39) (1) 16 Gain/(loss) on liabilities due to changes in assumptions (21) (80) (4) (222) (25) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 207 www.dsm.com Sensitivities of significant actuarial assumptions The discount rate, the future increase in wages and salaries and the pension increase rate were identified as significant actuarial assumptions. The following impacts on the defined benefit obligation are to be expected: A 0.25% increase/decrease in the discount rate would lead to a decrease/increase of 3.6% (2016: 3.6%) in the defined benefit obligation; A 0.25% increase/decrease in the expected increase in salaries/wages would lead to an increase/decrease of 0.3% (2016: 0.4%) in the defined benefit obligation; and A 0.25% increase/decrease in the expected rate of pension increase would lead to an increase/decrease of less than 1.1% (2016:1.0%) in the defined benefit obligation. The sensitivity analysis is based on realistically possible changes as of the end of the reporting year. Each change in a significant actuarial assumption was analyzed separately as part of the test. Interdependencies were not taken into account. Healthcare and other costs In some countries, particularly in the US, group companies provide retired employees and their surviving dependents with postemployment benefits other than pensions, mainly allowances for healthcare expenses and life-insurance premiums. Some of these are unfunded; in these cases, approved expense claims are reimbursed out of the financial resources of the group companies concerned. These plans are not sufficiently material to warrant the individual disclosures required by IAS 19. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 208 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 25 Net debt The development of the components of net debt is as follows: Cash and Current Non-current Current Credit Derivatives Total cash investments borrowings borrowings institutions equivalents Balance at 1 January 2016 665 9 (2,557) (22) (231) (185) (2,321) Change from operating activities 1,018 8 1,026 Change from investing activities (1,194) 935 (7) (266) Reclassification from non-current to current 759 (759) Transfers 584 (748) 3 161 Dividend (190) (190) Interest (151) 27 (124) Proceeds from reissued shares 137 137 Repurchase of shares (273) (273) Derivatives (65) (65) Other 6 (5) 1 Change from financing activities 113 6 (756) 161 (38) (514) Exchange differences 2 (1) (1) 3 2 5 Total changes (61) 935 5 (764) 164 (28) 251 Balance at 31 December 2016 604 944 (2,552) (786) (67) (213) (2,070) Change from operating activities 996 (20) (2) 45 1,019 Change from investing activities 689 30 (4) (20) 21 716 Reclassification from non-current to current 12 (12) Transfers (794) (6) 810 (10) Dividend (200) (200) Interest (135) (135) Proceeds from reissued shares 107 107 Repurchase of shares (297) (297) Derivatives (28) 180 152 Other 3 3 Change from financing activities (1,344) 6 798 (10) 180 (370) Exchange differences (46) 1 8 (37) Total changes 295 10 1 778 (2) 246 1,328 Balance at 31 December 2017 899 954 (2,551) (8) (69) 33 (742) In 2017, the gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt) is 9.5% (in 2016: 25.1%). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 209 www.dsm.com 26 Notes to the cash flow statement The cash flow statement provides an explanation of the changes in cash and cash equivalents. It is prepared on the basis of a comparison of the balance sheets at 1 January and 31 December. Changes that do not involve cash flows, such as changes in exchange rates, amortization, depreciation, impairment losses and transfers to other balance sheet items, are eliminated. Changes in working capital due to the acquisition or disposal of consolidated companies are included under Investing activities. Most of the changes in the cash flow statement can be traced back to the detailed statements of changes for the balance sheet items concerned. For those balance sheet items for which no detailed statement of changes is included, the table below shows the link between the change according to the balance sheet and the change according to the cash flow statement: Change in operating working capital 2017 2016 Operating working capital Balance at 1 January 1,928 1,808 Balance at 31 December 1,938 1,928 Balance sheet change 10 120 Adjustments: Exchange differences 200 (78) Changes in consolidation (including acquisitions and disposals) (10) (4) Reclassification from/to held for sale (3) Transfers/non-cash value adjustments (5) 23 Total change in operating working capital according to the cash flow statement 195 58 In 2017, the operating working capital before reclassification to held for sale was € 1,938 million (2016: € 1,928 million), which amounts to 22.3% of annualized fourth quarter net sales (2016: 23.9%). The increase in operating working capital as a result of 9% organic growth was largely compensated by the weakening of mainly the USD and CHF. 27 Share-based compensation Under the DSM Stock Incentive Plan, management share units (performance-related and non-performance-related) and (until 2016) stock options (performance-based and non-performance-based) or Share Appreciation Rights (SARs; until 2011) are, respectively have been granted to senior management. The grant date is the first day on which the DSM stock is quoted ex-dividend following the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. Since 2011, SARs are no longer used as share-based compensation. As of 2017, the stock options for senior management have been replaced by management share units. These share units vest after three years partially based upon the realization of predefined performance measures. Stock options and SARs have a term of eight years and are subject to a vesting period of three years. Management share units have a term of three years. After this three-year period, one third of the management share units, stock options and SARs (nonperformance-related) will vest and two thirds of the management share units, stock options and SARs that are related to performance will vest in whole, in part, or not at all. Options become exercisable upon vesting. The performance measurement of the 2017 series of the management share units is based on four equally weighted factors: Relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance versus a peer group, Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) growth, Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI), and Greenhouse-gas Emissions (GHGE) reduction. Stock options related to performance as granted in 2016 are subject to the same performance criteria (while vesting of performance-related stock options as granted in 2015 is subject to TSR only). Non-vested management share units, stock options and SARs will be forfeited. If employment is terminated prior to the vesting date, specific rules regarding vesting and forfeitures apply. The exercise of stock incentives is regulated. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 210 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM For members of the Managing Board specifically, LTI performance shares have been granted since 2010 (no longer stock options) and for other Executive Committee members since 2016. LTI performance shares vest after three years upon the realization of predefined performance measures. For the LTI performance shares of the Managing Board please refer to Note 13 'Remuneration of Managing Board and Supervisory Board' to the Financial statements of the parent company. All management share units, stock options and LTI performance shares are settled by physical delivery of DSM shares, while SARs are settled in cash. Overview of stock options and Share Appreciation Rights for management Year of issue Outstanding at In 2017 Outstanding at Fair value on Exercise price Expiry date 31 Dec. 2016 Granted Exercised Average Forfeited/ 31 Dec. 2017 grant date (€ ) (€ ) price (€ ) expired 2009 43,400 (43,400) 61.03 2.83 21.10 27 Mar. 2017 2010 224,500 (163,750) 67.85 60,750 6.07 33.10 6 Apr. 2018 2011 411,926 (214,563) 67.78 (2,500) 194,863 9.60 46.20 2 May 2019 2012 368,000 (166,100) 66.75 (3,750) 198,150 6.88 40.90 15 May 2020 2013 615,588 (242,438) 67.65 (6,250) 366,900 9.23 48.91 7 May 2021 20141,2 2,200,988 (756,853) 69.63 (728,012)3 716,123 10.66 52.00 9 May 2022 20151 2,578,875 (152,050) 68.38 (197,525)3 2,229,300 9.89 50.98 5 May 2023 20161 2,744,475 (52,800) 68.30 (246,525)3 2,445,150 9.36 52.57 3 May 2024 2017 Total 9,187,752 (1,791,954) 68.36 (1,184,562) 6,211,236 Of which vested 1,983,364 1,711,536 at 31 Dec. at 31 Dec. 2015 2016 2016 Total 11,018,101 2,815,225 (2,340,174) 56.54 (2,305,400) 9,187,752 Of which vested 3,188,150 1,983,364 1 Stock options will partly vest, and may therefore be immediately exercised, upon termination of employment in connection with divestments, retirement or early retirement. The remaining term to exercise stock options or SARs after their vesting as a result of divestments, retirement or early retirement is limited to three years (the remaining term to exercise in the case of regular vesting is five years). 2 Based on TSR performance, the stock incentives tied to performance granted in 2014 vested only partially; the remaining part has been forfeited. 3 Number of forfeited options: 728,012 (2014), 197,525 (2015), and 246,525 (2016). Overview of management share units Year of issue Outstanding at 31 In 2017 Outstanding at 31 Share price at date Expiry date Dec. 2016 Granted Vested Forfeited/ Dec. 2017 of grant (€ ) expired 2017 449,312 (4,206) (4,963) 440,143 67.33 5 May 2020 2017 Total 449,312 (4,206) (4,963) 440,143 at 31 Dec. 2015 at 31 Dec. 2016 2016 Total Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 211 www.dsm.com Additionally, DSM grants certain members of senior management shares based on EBITDA and ROCE performance targets set for 2016 and 2017. Settlement in shares takes place after this two-year period. If employment is terminated prior to the settlement date, specific rules regarding vesting and forfeitures apply. Under this plan a total of 130,778 shares were granted of which at the end of 2017 84,683 shares vested and 15,344 were forfeited. The fair value of these shares is determined based on the average quoted market price in the first quarter of 2016. Furthermore, certain employees in the Netherlands are entitled to employee stock options that are granted on the first day on which the DSM stock is quoted ex-dividend following the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The opening price of the DSM stock on that day is the exercise price of the stock options. Employee stock options can immediately be exercised and have a term of five years. Overview of stock options for employees Year of issue Outstanding at In 2017 Outstanding at Fair value on Exercise price Exercise 31 Dec. 2016 Granted Exercised Average Forfeited/ 31 Dec. 2017 grant date (€ ) (€ ) period until price (€ ) expired 2012 58,045 (46,615) 64.17 (11,430) 6.79 40.90 May 2017 2013 68,770 (37,535) 68.04 (1,600) 29,635 6.51 48.91 May 2018 2014 116,550 (51,100) 67.59 (8,375) 57,075 5.68 52.00 May 2019 2015 50,250 (21,660) 67.59 (2,305) 26,285 4.50 50.98 May 2020 2016 257,615 (113,290) 67.50 (5,595) 138,730 4.38 52.57 May 2021 2017 433,505 (111,700) 76.52 (19,900) 301,905 6.14 67.33 May 2022 2017 Total 551,230 433,505 (381,900) 69.80 (49,205) 553,630 2016 Total 883,155 561,135 (851,940) 57.75 (41,120) 551,230 Measurement of fair value The costs of LTI performance shares and management share units are measured by reference to the fair value of the DSM share at the date on which the performance shares and share units are granted, ex dividend as the performance shares and share units do not accumulate dividend during the three-year vesting period. The costs of option plans are measured by reference to the fair value of the options at the date on which the options are granted. The fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes model, taking into account market conditions linked to the price of the DSM share. Stock-price volatility is determined on the basis of historical volatilities of the DSM share price measured each month over a period equal to the expected option life. The costs of these options are recognized in the income statement (Employee benefits costs). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 212 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Plan assumptions In the ordinary course of business, DSM buys and sells goods The following assumptions were used to determine the fair and services from/to various related parties in which DSM has value at grant date: significant influence. Transactions are conducted under terms and conditions that are equivalent to those that apply to arm's Plan assumptions length transactions. 2017 2016 Transactions and relationships with related parties are Management share units (2017) reported in the table below. and options (2016) Risk-free rate (0.56%) (0.23%) Transactions with related parties Expected share unit / option life in years 3 6 Joint ventures Associates Nominal share unit / option life in 2017 2016 2017 2016 years 3 8 Continuing Share price 67.33 52.57 operations Exercise price 52.57 Sales to 22 27 24 43 Volatility 29.5% Purchases from 6 8 381 338 Expected dividend (2017 in € ; Loans to 12 62 181 191 2016 in %) 5.25 3.14% Receivables from 26 41 122 144 Fair value of share unit / option Payables to 24 62 141 163 granted 62.08 9.36 Interest from 4 4 14 13 Employee options Risk-free rate (0.56%) (0.48%) DSM may issue guarantees as credit enhancement of Expected option life in years 2.5 2.5 associates to acquire bank facilities for these associates. Nominal option life in years 5 5 DSM has provided guarantees to third parties for debts of Share price 67.33 52.57 associates for an amount of € 64 million (2016: € 75 million). Exercise price 67.33 52.57 Volatility 20.5% 20.0% Other related-parties disclosure relates entirely to the key Expected dividend 2.60% 3.14% management of DSM, being represented by the company's Fair value of option granted 6.14 4.38 Managing Board, Executive Committee and Supervisory Board. For further details about the remuneration of the Managing Board, the Executive Committee and the An amount of € 23 million is included in the costs for wages Supervisory Board, please refer to Note 13 to the 'Parent and salaries for share-based compensation (2016: company financial statements'. € 24 million). The following table specifies the share-based compensation: Share-based compensation 2017 2016 Stock options and management shares 19 18 Share appreciation rights 1 Performance shares 4 5 Total expense 23 24 28 Related parties Koninklijke DSM N.V. is the group holding company that is listed on the Euronext Amsterdam stock exchange. The financial statements of the company are included in the chapter 'Parent company financial statements'. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 213 www.dsm.com 29 Service fees paid to external auditors The service fees recognized in the financial statements 2017 for the service of KPMG amounted to € 4.9 million (2016: € 4.8 million). The amounts per service category are shown in the following table. Total service fee Of which KPMG KPMG KPMG NL KPMG NL 2017 2016 2017 2016 Audit of the group financial statements 4.4 4.1 2.8 2.6 Audit of other (statutory) financial statements 0.41 0.6 Other assurance services 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Total assurance services 4.9 4.8 2.9 2.7 1 Statutory audits previously carried out by another auditor. 30 Events after the balance sheet date In 2018, DSM will re-evaluate its control assumption over Yantai Andre Pectin, which could result in deconsolidation of the entity. The re-evaluation is triggered by the recent developments after the refusal of the other shareholders to transfer their shares to DSM despite an earlier agreement. In 2017, the consolidated sales were € 47 million and Adjusted EBITDA was € 17 million. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 214 www.dsm.com Parent company financial statements Balance sheet at 31 December of Koninklijke DSM N.V. before profit appropriation x € million Notes 2017 2016 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 2 433 447 Property, plant and equipment 3 12 15 Financial assets 4 9,640 9,975 Deferred tax assets 5 131 173 10,216 10,610 Current assets Receivables 6 79 98 Financial derivatives 1 Cash and cash equivalents 2 82 98 Total 10,298 10,708 Shareholders' equity and liabilities Shareholders' equity 7 Share capital 338 338 Share premium 489 489 Treasury shares (398) (339) Other reserves (622) (95) Retained earnings 5,386 5,058 Profit for the year 1,769 621 6,962 6,072 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 8 2,542 2,541 2,542 2,541 Current liabilities Borrowings 8 749 Financial derivatives 47 Other current liabilities 9 794 1,299 794 2,095 Total 10,298 10,708 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 215 www.dsm.com Income statement of Koninklijke DSM N.V. x € million Notes 2017 2016 Other income 1 173 205 Cost of outsourced work and other external costs (84) (95) Wages and salaries 11 (72) (78) Social security and pension charges (8) (12) Amortization of intangible assets and depreciation of Property, plant and equipment (12) (8) Total operating expenses (176) (193) Operating profit (3) 12 Financial income 12 15 16 Financial expense 12 (105) (112) Result before income tax (93) (84) Income tax 5 18 17 Share of the profit of subsidiaries 4 590 465 Result after income tax 515 398 Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures 4 18 (9) Other results related to associates and joint ventures 4 1,236 232 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 1,769 621 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 216 www.dsm.com Parent company financial statements — Notes to the parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements 1 General Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are in € million. The Parent company financial statements are the financial statements of Koninklijke DSM N.V., which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the Netherlands. The accounting policies used are the same as those used in the consolidated financial statements, in accordance with the provisions of article 362-8 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. In these separate financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are accounted for using the net asset value. The balance sheet presentation is aligned with the consolidated financial statements in order to enhance transparency and facilitate understanding. The statutory seat of DSM is Het Overloon 1, Heerlen (Netherlands). A list of DSM participations has been filed with the Chamber of Commerce (Netherlands) and is available from the company upon request, as well as on the company website. DSM is registered with the Dutch Commercial Register under number 14022069. Information on the use of financial instruments and on related risks for the group is provided in the 'Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM'. Other income consists mainly of the charged corporate overhead and services to the group companies. The company forms a fiscal unity for corporate income tax purposes together with the group companies in the Netherlands. Each of the companies recognizes the portion of corporate income tax that the relevant company would owe as an independent tax payer, taking into account the tax liabilities applicable to the company. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 217 www.dsm.com 2 Intangible assets The carrying amount of intangible assets mainly comprises goodwill on the acquisition of NeoResins in 2005 (€ 358 million), Crina in 2006 (€ 8 million) and Pentapharm in 2007 (€ 33 million). For further information on these assets including the discussion of the related impairment tests, please refer to Note 8 'Intangible assets' in the 'Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM'. Goodwill Under Other Total construction Balance at 1 January 2016 Cost 403 17 62 482 Amortization and impairment losses 32 32 Carrying amount 403 17 30 450 Change in carrying amount Capital expenditure 3 3 Put into operation (16) 16 Amortization (6) (6) (13) 10 (3) Balance at 31 December 2016 Cost 403 4 78 485 Amortization and impairment losses 38 38 Carrying amount 403 4 40 447 Change in carrying amount Capital expenditure 1 1 Put into operation (4) 4 Exchange difference (4) (4) Amortization (8) (8) Impairment losses (3) (3) (4) (3) (7) (14) Balance at 31 December 2017 Cost 399 1 83 483 Amortization and impairment losses 50 50 Carrying amount 399 1 33 433 3 Property, plant and equipment This item mainly relates to land and buildings. Capital expenditure in 2017 was € 2 million (2016: € 0 million), while the depreciation charge in 2017 was € 1 million (2016: € 1 million). The historical cost of Property, plant and equipment at 31 December 2017 was € 61 million (2016: € 62 million); accumulated depreciation amounted to € 49 million (2016: € 47 million). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 218 www.dsm.com Parent company financial statements — Notes to the parent company financial statements 4 Financial assets Subsidiaries Associates and JVs Receivables Total Share in Loans Share in Loans equity equity Balance at 1 January 2016 8,807 482 3 93 9,385 Changes: Share in profit 465 (9) 456 Dividend received (27) (150) (177) Capital payments 1 1 Net actuarial gains/(losses) (3) (3) Change in Fair value reserve 7 7 Change in Hedging reserve 1 1 Exchange differences 196 9 2 207 Disposals 128 128 Transfers 31 31 Others (14) (28) (3) (16) (61) Balance at 31 December 2016 9,433 432 110 9,975 Changes: Share in profit 590 18 608 Charged to income statement 30 30 Dividend received (80) (80) Capital payments 11 11 Repayments (43) (43) Net actuarial gains/(losses) 61 61 Change in Fair value reserve (3) (3) Change in Hedging reserve 35 5 40 Exchange differences (591) (47) (6) (644) Disposals (249) (249) Transfers (47) (47) Impairments (20) (20) Other 1 1 Balance at 31 December 2017 9,409 140 91 9,640 For movements in Associates and joint ventures see Note 10 to the 'Consolidated financial statements'. In 2016, transfers within Receivables include the earn-out of Patheon of € 28 million and the divestment settlements of -€ 16 million. Disposals in 2017 relate to the divestment of DSM's share in Patheon, including the settlement of the earn-out receivable. See Note 10 to the 'Consolidated financial statements'. 5 Deferred tax assets This item mainly relates to net operating losses in the Dutch fiscal unity. In 2017, a tax income of € 18 million (2016: € 17 million) was included and other movements (mainly settlements with group companies) of -€ 60 million (2016: -€ 39 million). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 219 www.dsm.com 6 Receivables 310 million), dividend is first distributed on the cumulative preference shares B. At the end of 2017 no cumprefs B were in issue (2016: no cumprefs B). Subsequently, a 3.26% (2016: 2017 2016 1.759%) dividend is distributed on the cumulative preference shares A, based on a share price of € 5.29 (2016: € 5.29) per Receivable from subsidiaries 52 83 cumulative preference share A. For 2017, this distribution Other receivables / deferred amounts to € 0.17 (2016: € 0.09) per share, which is items 27 15 € 8 million in total. An interim dividend of € 0.06 per cumulative preference share A having been paid in August 2017, the final Total 79 98 dividend will then amount to € 0.11 per cumulative preference share A. 7 Shareholders' equity The profit remaining after distribution of these dividends on the cumulative preference shares A of € 1,761 million (2016: € 617 million) will be put at the disposal of the Annual General 2017 2016 Meeting of Shareholders in accordance with the provisions of Article 32, section 5 of the Articles of Association. Balance at 1 January 6,072 5,541 The Managing Board proposes a dividend on ordinary shares Net profit 1,769 621 outstanding for the year 2017 of € 1.85 (2016: € 1.75) per Exchange differences, net of share. With an interim dividend of € 0.58 (2016: € 0.55) per income tax (637) 197 ordinary share having been paid in August 2017, the final Net actuarial gains/(losses) on dividend would then amount to € 1.27 (2016: € 1.20) per defined benefit obligations 74 (9) ordinary share. Dividend (320) (296) Repurchase of shares (297) (273) If the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders makes a Proceeds from reissue of decision in accordance with the proposal, the net profit will be ordinary shares 233 253 appropriated as follows: Other changes 68 38 Profit appropriation Balance at 31 December 6,962 6,072 2017 2016 For details see the consolidated statement of changes in Net profit 1,769 621 equity (Note 16) on page 161. Profit appropriation: Legal reserve To be added to the reserves 1,438 311 In Shareholders' equity, an amount of -€ 107 million (2016: Dividend on cumprefs A 8 4 € 530 million) is included for Translation reserve, Interim dividend on ordinary -€ 148 million (2016: -€ 207 million) for Hedging reserve, shares 101 96 € 5 million (2016: € 8 million) for Fair value reserve and Final dividend distributable on -€ 182 million (2016: -€ 100 million) for intangible assets ordinary shares 222 210 related to product development projects. In addition, a legal reserve of € 126 million (2016: € 120 million) is recognized for profits that cannot be distributed and received in the 8 Borrowings Netherlands. Profit appropriation 2017 2016 According to article 32 of the Articles of Association of Total Of which Total Of which Koninklijke DSM N.V. and with the approval of the Supervisory current current Board, every year the Managing Board determines the portion of the net profit to be appropriated to the reserves. For the year Debenture loans 2,542 3,290 749 2017, the net profit is € 1,769 million (2016: € 621 million) and Commercial paper the amount to be appropriated to the reserves has been established at € 1,438 million (2016: € 311 million). From the Total 2,542 3,290 749 subsequent balance of the net profit of € 331 million (2016: € Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 220 www.dsm.com Parent company financial statements — Notes to the parent company financial statements At 31 December 2017, there were four debenture loans 10 Contingent liabilities (€ 2,542 million, maturing in 2019, and 2022 through 2026). Guarantee obligations on behalf of affiliated companies and The repayment schedule for borrowings (excluding third parties amounted to € 379 million (31 December 2016: commercial paper) is as follows: € 380 million). Koninklijke DSM N.V. has declared in writing that it accepts several liabilities for debts arising from acts in Borrowings by maturity law of a number of consolidated companies (including relating to the fiscal unity for income tax and VAT). These debts are 2017 2016 included in the consolidated balance sheet. 2017 749 11 Personnel 2018 2019 300 300 The average number of employees working for Koninklijke 2020 and 2021 DSM N.V. in 2017 was 372 (2016: 376), all of whom are based 2022 through 2026 2,242 2,241 in the Netherlands. 12 Financial income and expense Total 2,542 3,290 Financial income of € 15 million (2016: € 16 million) mainly consists of interest income relating to a net investment hedge. In agreements governing loans with a residual amount at yearFinancial expense of € 105 million (2016: € 112 million) mainly end 2017 of € 2,542 million, of which zero is of a current nature consists of the interest costs on bonds issued and the (31 December 2016: € 3,290 million, of which € 749 million counterpart of the net investment hedge. See also Notes 19 was of a current nature), clauses have been included which and 23 to the 'Consolidated financial statements'. restrict the provision of security. More information on borrowings is provided in Note 19 to the 'Consolidated financial statements', 'Borrowings'. 9 Other current liabilities 2017 2016 Liabilities to subsidiaries 729 1,203 Other liabilities 65 91 Deferred items 5 Total 794 1,299 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 221 www.dsm.com 13 Remuneration of Managing Board and Supervisory Performance score was below threshold. Managing Board Board members also have individual targets. The scores achieved on these targets were at maximum achievement. The realization Remuneration Managing Board in 2017 of the 2017 financial STI targets has been assessed by KPMG. As part of its remuneration policy for the Managing Board, Furthermore, KPMG has assessed the process with respect DSM benchmarks its remuneration package against the to the target realization of the non-financial STI targets. The packages offered by the labor-market peer group once every realization percentage was 75% of base salary. The realization three years. percentage in 2017 was 75% of base salary versus 73.5-82.5% on average over 2016. Base salary in 2017 Adjustment of the base salary is at the discretion of the With the STI Deferral and Share Matching Plan, only part of the Supervisory Board. On 14 May 2017, it was decided to adjust STI outcome is paid in cash. 25% of the gross STI value is the annual base salary of the CEO by 2.2% and for the other mandatorily converted into DSM Investment shares. Managing Board members by 2.5% as of 1 July 2017. Managing Board members can choose to convert up to a further 25% into additional DSM Investment shares (in 5% Fixed annual salary increments, with a minimum of 5% and a maximum of 25%). in € 1 July 2017 1 July 2016 The company matches these STI Investment shares with an equivalent number of Restricted Share Units (RSUs), vesting Feike Sijbesma 920,000 900,000 of which is deferred for three years, conditional on achieving Geraldine Matchett 605,000 590,000 predefined performance targets equivalent to the measures Stephan Tanda1 590,000 under the Long-Term Incentive (LTI) Plan. The remainder of the Dimitri de Vreeze 605,000 590,000 STI gross outcome (50% to maximum 75%) is paid out in cash. 1 Left DSM to pursue his career outside of the company as of 1 February 2017. Short-Term Incentives in € 20171 20162 Short-Term Incentives (STI) for 2017 STI targets are revised annually so as to ensure that they are Feike Sijbesma 682,500 742,500 stretching but realistic. Considerations regarding the Geraldine Matchett 448,125 457,250 performance targets are influenced by the operational and Stephan Tanda 3 433,650 strategic course taken by the company and are directly linked Dimitri de Vreeze 448,125 457,250 to the company's ambitions. The targets are determined at the beginning of the year for each Board member. 1 Based on results achieved in 2017 and therefore payable in 2018. 2 Based on results achieved in 2016 and therefore paid in 2017. 3 Left DSM to pursue his career outside of the company as of 1 February 2017. Target STI level and pay-out When they achieve all their targets, Managing Board members receive an incentive of 50% of their annual base salary. All members of the Managing Board decided to invest the Outstanding performance can increase the STI level to 100% maximum of 50% of their gross 2016 STI (payable in 2017) in of the annual base salary. accordance with the STI Deferral and Share Matching Plan. In all cases, these investment shares were matched with an The 2017 Integrated Annual Report presents the Short-Term equal number of Restricted Share Units (RSUs). This was also Incentives that have been earned on the basis of results the case with regard to the gross 2017 STI (which will be paid achieved in 2017. These Short-Term Incentives will be paid in 2018). out in 2018. Long-Term Incentives (LTI) The Supervisory Board has established the extent to which the The following table provides an overview of the LTI targets for 2017 were achieved and has used their performance shares that were granted to members of the discretionary power to adjust achievements resulting in Managing Board in the respective year. These performance partially higher pay-out, including impact on ROCE. Regarding shares are subject to a three-year vesting period. the financial targets, the score on the EBITDA target was overachieved, while the score on gross free cash flow was on target. The score for net sales growth was at maximum achievement. For the sustainability targets, the score on Brighter Living Solutions was on target, and the score on the Employee Engagement Index was overachieved. The Safety Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 222 www.dsm.com Parent company financial statements — Notes to the parent company financial statements Number of LTI performance shares granted1 A. Mandatory plan 2017 2016 Covers all employees employed in the Netherlands. Collective Defined Contribution Scheme: accrual based on Feike Sijbesma 23,500 31,000 fixed contribution. Indexation or reduction of accrued Geraldine Matchett 15,500 20,500 benefits, depending on PDN's coverage ratio. Stephan Tanda2 20,500 The accrual is tax exempt, the benefits will be taxed. Dimitri de Vreeze 15,500 20,500 Based on career-average base pay. Pensionable salary equals base salary up to a maximum of (in 2017) 1 Grant according to Koninklijke DSM N.V. Performance Share Plan. € 103,317 per annum considering a deductible of 2 Left DSM to pursue his career outside of the company as of 1 February 2017. € 13,592 (in 2017 subject to annual review). Accrual of 1.875% per annum. Retirement age 67 (as of 2016). For 2018, the number of conditionally granted ordinary shares The scheme includes a spouses'and disability pension. under the LTI program will be: Employee and employer contributions. Chairman 17,000 B. Allowance for salary exceeding € 103,317 Members 11,000 Employees whose pensionable salary exceeds € 103,317 For an overview of all granted and vested stock options and receive an age-dependent gross allowance that can be performance shares, see page 225. used to participate in a net pension scheme. The allowance is taxed. In 2017, the Supervisory Board established which proportion of the shares conditionally granted in 2014, vested. The Revision and claw-back of bonuses following four performance measures are applicable to the As in 2016, no revision or claw-back of bonuses occurred in 2014 grant: relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) versus a 2017. peer group, Return on Capital Employed (ROCE), Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI) and the Greenhouse-gas Remuneration Managing Board and Executive Committee Emissions (GHGE) reduction over volume-related revenue. The remuneration of the members of the Managing Board is Each of these measures determines 25% of the total vesting determined by the Supervisory Board within the framework of percentage. The applicable vesting schemes for the three-year the remuneration policy as approved by the Annual General vesting period starting in 2014 were published in DSM's 2014 Meeting of Shareholders. More details about the remuneration Integrated Annual Report. DSM's TSR performance minus the policy are included in the 'Report by the Supervisory Board' peer group performance over the vesting period did not result from page 125 onwards. in the vesting of any shares, while the performance in terms of GHGE reduction led to full vesting on this measure. Overall this Since 2015, DSM has had an Executive Committee, enabling resulted in the vesting of 50% of the total amount of shares faster strategic alignment and operational execution by granted in 2014. increasing focus on the development of the business, innovation and people. The members of the Executive Pensions in 2017 Committee in 2017 are the Managing Board members Feike The members of the Managing Board participate in the Dutch Sijbesma (CEO/Chairman), Geraldine Matchett (CFO) and pension fund Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland (PDN). Dimitri de Vreeze (Materials), as well as Chris Goppelsroeder This pension scheme for the Managing Board is equal to the (Nutritional Products), Philip Eykerman (Strategy and M&A), pension scheme for other DSM employees in the Netherlands. Rob van Leen (R&D and Innovation) and Peter Vrijsen (People The current pension plan for DSM in the Netherlands came & Organization), who was succeeded by Judith Wiese on 1 into effect in 2011. As of 1 January 2015, the Dutch tax January 2018. The members of the Executive Committee treatment of pension contributions changed resulting meet the definition of key management personnel. in a change to the DSM pension plan. As a consequence, DSM offers two non-qualifying individual defined contribution plans The total remuneration and related costs (including pension to employees whose pensionable salary exceeds € 103,317 expenditures, other commitments, shortand long-term (2017 ceiling) per annum, including the Managing Board. incentives) of the current members of the Managing Board amounted to € 5.5 million (2016: € 10.0 million). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 223 www.dsm.com The total remuneration and related costs (including pension expenditures, other commitments, short-term and long-term incentives) of the other members of the Executive Committee amounted to € 5.5 million in 2017 (2016: € 5.7 million). The cost of the remuneration of the individual members of the Managing Board and of the other members of the Executive Committee collectively was as follows: DSM's remuneration expense for the Managing Board and the Executive Committee (the reported costs for DSM, according to IFRS definitions, are not in all cases the compensation paid, nor the cash outflows for DSM) x € thousand Salary Short-term Pension1 Share-based2 Other items3 Total incentive expenditure compensation 2017 2016 2017 2016 20174 20165 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 20165 Feike Sijbesma 910 900 683 743 214 206 850 811 50 50 2,707 2,710 Geraldine Matchett 598 590 448 457 101 87 634 445 74 77 1,855 1,656 Stephan Tanda 6 49 590 434 9 116 (895) 531 1 111 (836) 1,782 Dimitri de Vreeze 598 590 448 457 112 100 552 496 39 40 1,749 1,683 Total Managing Board 2,155 2,670 1,579 2,091 436 509 1,141 2,283 164 278 5,475 7,831 Other members of the Executive Committee 1,995 1,950 1,497 1,489 432 408 1,271 1,255 298 615 5,493 5,717 Total Executive Committee 4,150 4,620 3,076 3,580 868 917 2,412 3,538 462 893 10,968 13,548 1 The employers' pension expenditure increased due to an adjustment of the employer/employee ratio, not impacting the overall contribution to the net pension scheme. 2 Share-based compensation expense represents the non-cash cost for DSM of performance shares awarded to members of the Managing Board and stock options to other members of the Executive Committee. These costs are recognized over the vesting period of the performance shares and stock options and therefore cover several years. The percentage of vesting of shares and options will determine the final income for the Managing Board and Executive Committee members. 3 Other items include company car and allowances. 4 The pension expenditure contains an age-dependent contribution for the salary exceeding € 103,317. For employees with a higher age, a higher contribution level is applicable. 5 In 2016, this amount included a one-time additional pension contribution of € 2.2 million, bringing the total 2016 pension expenditure to € 2,709 thousand and the total remuneration of the CEO to € 4,910 thousand. For the entire Managing Board the total remuneration for 2016 was € 10,031 thousand. 6 Left DSM to pursue his career outside of the company as of 1 February 2017. The cumulative expense of the share-based compensation previously recognized for not yet vested performance shares has been reversed in 2017. Pay ratio The ratio of total remuneration of the CEO, including annual Under the new Dutch Corporate Governance Code base salary, short-term incentives, long-term incentives and companies are required to publish a pay ratio. As the code other benefits such as pension (as reported in this annual does not provide a definition of the pay ratio, the calculation report) versus the average of total global employee (i.e. method applied will vary per company, which will make the including Dutch) remuneration (after deduction of total pay ratio data incomparable. The pay ratio per company will remuneration of the CEO) is 32:1. also differ year on year, since the variable pay (as a percentage of annual base salary) of the CEO/Managing Board is typically Furthermore, the pay ratio of the full Managing Board total much higher (100% at target) than the variable pay of the remuneration average versus the average of total global comparable average employee group (about 5-10% of annual employee remuneration (after deduction of total base pay), and this variable pay will fluctuate with business remuneration of the Managing Board) is 25:1. In case the ratio results. On top of that, different regions of the world have is calculated versus the Dutch employee remuneration different pay structures, so acquisitions/divestments will average, the ratios will be 20:1 (compared to CEO equally influence the pay ratio. DSM complies with the remuneration) or 16:1 (compared to average Managing Board governance code in providing a pay ratio, using the following remuneration). This is based on total NL cost of EUR 522 calculation method, as measured per 31 December 20171. million (which includes the remuneration of the Managing Board and has been deducted in the ratio calculation) and a 1 Underlying data can be retrieved from table 'DSM's remuneration expense for the Managing Board and the Executive Committee' (see above) as well head count in the Netherlands of 3,831 as per 31 December as Note 4 table 'Geographical information' under 'Workforce at year-end' on 2017. page 174 and Note 5 table 'Employee benefits costs' on page 175 of the 'Consolidated financial statements’. Data for the Netherlands are explicitly mentioned as they are not directly retrievable. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 224 www.dsm.com Parent company financial statements — Notes to the parent company financial statements Outstanding and exercised stock incentives The following table shows the stock incentives of the individual members of the Managing Board and the rights exercised. Overview of stock options Year of issue Outstanding In 2017 Outstanding1 Average Exercise price Expiry date at 31 Dec. Granted Exercised Forfeited/ at 31 Dec. share price at (€ ) 2016 expired 2017 exercise (€ ) Dimitri de Vreeze 2010 18,000 18,000 33.10 6 Apr 2018 2011 18,000 18,000 46.20 2 May 2019 2012 12,000 12,000 40.90 15 May2020 2013 12,000 12,000 48.91 7 May 2021 Total 60,000 60,000 Of which vested 60,000 60,000 1 The other members of the Managing Board do not hold any stock options. Since 2010, the Managing Board has been granted LTI performance shares instead of stock options. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 225 www.dsm.com Overview of performance shares Year of issue Outstanding In 2017 Outstanding Share price at 31 Dec. Granted Vested Forfeited / at 31 Dec. at date of 2016 expired 2017 grant (€ ) Feike Sijbesma 2014 28,822 (14,411) (14,411) 49.88 2015 32,051 32,051 52.58 2016 36,350 36,350 48.79 2017 29,333 29,333 63.65 Total 97,223 29,333 (14,411) (14,411) 97,734 Retained shares originated from performance shares 81,035 Geraldine Matchett 2015 27,008 27,008 52.58 2016 24,006 24,006 48.79 2017 19,092 19,092 63.65 Total 51,014 19,092 70,106 Retained shares originated from performance shares Stephan Tanda 2014 18,990 (18,990) 49.88 2015 20,511 (20,511) 52.58 2016 24,064 (24,064) 48.79 Total 63,565 (63,565) Retained shares originated from performance shares n.a. Dimitri de Vreeze 2014 16,910 (8,455) (8,455) 49.88 2015 20,836 20,836 52.58 2016 24,005 24,005 48.79 2017 19,092 19,092 63.65 Total 61,751 19,092 (8,455) (8,455) 63,933 Retained shares originated from performance shares 4,431 Other members Executive committee 2016 53,616 53,616 48.79 2017 45,577 45,577 63.65 Total 53,616 45,577 99,193 Retained shares originated from performance shares Purchasing shares In addition to the performance shares granted under the DSM Stock Incentive Plan, the current members of the Managing Board have themselves invested in DSM shares. All members of the Managing Board have purchased shares in the company to emphasize their confidence in the strategy and the company. At 31 December 2017, the members of the Managing Board together held 174,734 (2016: 198,290) shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V. These shares were bought through private transactions with private funds (including shares bought from earned STI) and obtained through vested performance shares. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 226 www.dsm.com Parent company financial statements — Notes to the parent company financial statements Managing Board holdings of DSM shares 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Ordinary shares Holdings from Total Ordinary shares Holdings from Total purchased with vested holdings purchased with vested holdings private money performance private money performance shares shares Feike Sijbesma 64,209 81,035 145,244 58,376 66,624 125,000 Geraldine Matchett 7,976 7,976 4,384 4,384 Stephan Tanda 18,065 37,350 55,415 Dimitri de Vreeze 17,083 4,431 21,514 13,491 13,491 Total holdings 89,268 85,466 174,734 94,316 103,974 198,290 Loans The company does not provide any loans to members of the Managing Board. Supervisory Board remuneration in 2017 The remuneration package for the Supervisory Board comprises an annual fixed fee and an annual committee membership fee. In addition, Supervisory Board members receive an intercontinental travel allowance for each meeting that they attend outside their continent of residence of € 4,000 (2016: € 4,000). The fixed fee per appointed year for the Chair of the Supervisory Board is € 85,000 (2016: € 85,000). The other members of the Supervisory Board each receive a fixed fee of € 60,000 (2016: € 60,000). Audit Committee membership is awarded € 10,000 (2016: € 10,000) per member and € 15,000 (2016: € 15,000) for the Chair. Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee and Sustainability Committee membership is awarded € 7,000 (2016: € 7,000) per member and € 10,000 (2016: € 10,000) for the Chair. Overview of remuneration awarded to the Supervisory Board in 2017 The total remuneration (annual fixed fee, annual committee membership fee and other costs such as the intercontinental travel allowance) of the members of the Supervisory Board amounted to € 0.7 million (2016: € 0.6 million). The remuneration of the individual members of the Supervisory Board was as follows: Remuneration Supervisory Board members in € Annual fixed fee Committee fee Other costs Total 2017 2016 Rob Routs, Chairman 85,000 17,000 5,250 107,250 96,750 Tom de Swaan, Deputy Chairman (as of 29 April 2016) 60,000 22,000 5,250 87,250 79,604 Victoria Haynes 60,000 17,000 17,250 94,250 87,584 Pierre Hochuli (until 3 May 2017) 20,000 5,667 313 25,980 74,250 Eileen Kennedy 60,000 17,000 17,250 94,250 93,917 Ewald Kist, Deputy Chairman (until 29 April 2016) 21,740 Pauline van der Meer Mohr 60,000 17,000 5,250 82,250 74,604 Frits van Paasschen (as of 3 May 2017) 40,000 11,333 16,937 68,270 Pradeep Pant (as of 29 April 2016) 60,000 17,000 25,250 102,250 72,271 John Ramsay (as of 3 May 2017) 40,000 6,667 4,938 51,605 Total 485,000 130,667 97,688 713,355 600,720 Total 2016 420,002 111,000 69,718 600,720 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 227 www.dsm.com Committee Overview Nomination Remuneration Auditing Sustainability Rob Routs, Chairman Chairman Member Tom de Swaan, Deputy Chairman Member Chairman Victoria Haynes Member Member Pierre Hochuli (until 3 May 2017) Member Member Eileen Kennedy Member Chairman Pauline van der Meer Mohr Member Chairman Frits van Paasschen (as of 3 May 2017) Member Member Pradeep Pant (as of 29 April 2016) Member Member John Ramsay (as of 3 May 2017) Member At year-end 2017, two members of the Supervisory Board held shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V.: Victoria Haynes 300 (2016: 300) and Pauline van der Meer Mohr 1,029 (2016: 1,029). Loans The company does not provide any loans to members of the Supervisory Board. Heerlen, 27 February 2018 Heerlen, 27 February 2018 Managing Board, Supervisory Board, Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Rob Routs, Chairman Geraldine Matchett, CFO Tom de Swaan, Deputy Chairman Dimitri de Vreeze Victoria Haynes Eileen Kennedy Pauline van der Meer Mohr Frits van Paasschen Pradeep Pant John Ramsay Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 228 www.dsm.com Other information Independent auditor's report of public-interest entities, the Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties (Wta, Audit firms supervision act), the To: the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and the Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij Supervisory Board of Koninklijke DSM N.V. assurance-opdrachten (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and Report on the audit of the financial statements 2017 other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. included in the Integrated Annual Report Furthermore, we have complied with the Verordening Our opinion gedragsen beroepsregels accountants (VGBA, Dutch Code In our opinion: of Ethics). the accompanying consolidated financial statements give a We believe the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient true and fair view of the financial position of Koninklijke DSM and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. N.V. (hereafter: Royal DSM) as at 31 December 2017 and of its result and its cash flows for the year then ended, in Audit approach accordance with International Financial Reporting Summary Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Materiality • Materiality of € 30 million the accompanying parent company financial statements • 3.5% of adjusted profit before tax from give a true and fair view of the financial position of Royal continuing operations DSM as at 31 December 2017 and of its result for the year then ended, in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Group audit • Audit at (business) group and local entity level Dutch Civil Code. resulting in a coverage of 73% of net sales from continuing operations and 80% of total assets What we have audited We have audited the financial statements 2017 of Royal DSM Key audit matters based in Heerlen. The financial statements include the • Valuation of goodwill • Impairment on POET-DSM joint venture consolidated financial statements and the parent company • Divestment of Patheon financial statements. Unqualified opinion The consolidated financial statements comprise: the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2017; the following consolidated statements for 2017: the income Materiality statement, the statement of comprehensive income, the Based on our professional judgment we determined the statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement; materiality for the financial statements as a whole at € 30 and million (2016: € 30 million). The materiality is determined with the notes comprising a summary of the significant reference to adjusted profit before tax from continuing accounting policies and other explanatory information. operations (Note 2: € 853 million; 2016: € 609 million) of which it represents 3.5% (2016: 4.9%). In addition, the The parent company financial statements comprise: appropriateness of the materiality was assessed by comparing the amount to consolidated net sales from continuing the parent company balance sheet as at 31 December operations of which it represents 0.3% (2016: 0.4%). We have 2017; also taken into account misstatements and/or possible the parent company income statement for 2017; and misstatements that in our opinion are material for qualitative the notes comprising a summary of the accounting policies reasons for the users of the financial statements. and other explanatory information. We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements in Basis for our opinion excess of € 1 million (2016: € 1 million), which are identified We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, during the audit, are reported to them, as well as smaller including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our misstatements that in our view must be reported on qualitative responsibilities under those standards are further described in grounds. the 'Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements' section of our report. Scope of the group audit Royal DSM is head of a group of reporting entities (hereafter: We are independent of Royal DSM in accordance with the EU entities). The financial information of this group is included in Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audits the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 229 www.dsm.com Because we are ultimately responsible for the auditor's report, used the work of local KPMG auditors when auditing or we are also responsible for directing, supervising and performing specified audit procedures at business group performing the group audit. In this respect we have and local entity level; and determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures to used the work of local non-KPMG auditors when auditing be carried out for entities reporting for group audit purposes. Royal DSM's investments such as DSM Sinochem Decisive were the size and/or the risk profile of the entities or Pharmaceuticals, Ltd and ChemicaInvest Holding B.V. operations. On this basis, we selected 25 entities (2016: 27 entities) to perform audits for group reporting purposes on a The group audit team has set materiality levels for the entities, complete set of financial information as well as 17 entities which ranged from € 5 million to € 12.5 million (2016: € 5 million (2016: 14 entities) to perform specified audit procedures for to € 12.5 million), based on the mix of size and risk profile of group reporting purposes on specific items of financial the entities within the group. information. The group audit team provided detailed instructions to all This resulted in a coverage of 73% (2016: 74%) of total net business group and local entity auditors part of the group sales from continuing operations and 80% (2016: 81%) of total audit, covering the significant audit areas, including the assets. The remaining 27% of total net sales from continuing relevant risks of material misstatement, and the information operations (2016: 26%) and 20% of total assets (2016: 19%) required to be reported back to the group audit team. The is represented by a significant number of entities ('Remaining group audit team visited entity locations in the United States entities'), none of which individually represents more than 2% of America, Switzerland, China, Singapore and the shared of total net sales from continuing operations and 2% of total service center in India. assets. Telephone conferences were held with all entity auditors part For these remaining entities, we performed amongst others of the group audit. During these visits and telephone analytical procedures at (business) group level to validate our conferences, we discussed the audit approach and the audit assessment that there are no significant risks of material findings and observations reported to the group audit team. misstatement within these entities. For a number of these entities, including Royal DSM's investment in Patheon N.V., we also performed file reviews. Our procedures as described above can be summarized as follows: By performing the procedures mentioned above at reporting entities, together with additional procedures at (business) Total Net sales from continuing operations group level, we have been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence about the group's financial information to provide an opinion about the financial 55% 18% 27% statements. Full scope Specified Central audits audit procedures procedures remaining entities Our key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional Total assets judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements. We have communicated the key audit matters to the Supervisory Board. The key audit matters are 68% 12% 20% not a comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed. Full scope Specified Central audits audit procedures procedures These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of remaining entities the financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. We have: Compared to last year we have added as a key audit matter performed audit procedures ourselves at (business) group the divestment of Royal DSM's investment in Patheon N.V. as level in respect of areas such as the annual goodwill the accounting for this transaction is significant for the financial impairment tests, other (in)tangible asset impairments, statements. Last year's key audit matters about the valuation accounting for associates and joint ventures, valuation of of deferred tax assets and the Alternative performance deferred tax assets, acquisitions, disposals, restructurings, measures are not included anymore in 2017 given the treasury and shared service centers; decreased risk profile of valuation of deferred tax assets and the lower prominence given to Alternative performance measures in the financial statements. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 230 www.dsm.com Other information — Independent auditor's report Valuation of goodwill may impact the future cash flow projections. The impairment test resulted in the recognition of an impairment of € 65 million. Description Our response Royal DSM carries a significant amount of goodwill in the balance sheet. Under EU-IFRS, the company is required to In our audit we assessed and tested the assumptions, test the amount of goodwill for impairment at least annually. methodologies, the pre-tax weighted average cost of capital The impairment tests were significant to our audit due to the and other data used, for example by comparing them to complexity of the assessment process and judgments and external data. Key assumptions tested by us include assumptions involved which are affected by expected future expectations of revenue growth, margin improvements as a market and economic developments. result of anticipated improvements in the factory and developments of the market price for bio-ethanol. We included Our response in our team valuation specialists to assist us with these procedures. Furthermore we held meetings with local and We challenged the cash flow projections included in the annual corporate management involved in the investment POETgoodwill impairment tests. Our audit procedures included, DSM. We assessed the adequacy of the disclosure in Note 10 amongst others, the involvement of a valuation specialist to to the financial statements. assist us in evaluating the assumptions, in particular the terminal growth and pre-tax discount rates, and the valuation Our observation methodology used by Royal DSM. We furthermore assessed the appropriateness of other data used by comparing them to We consider management's key assumptions and estimates, external and historical data, such as external market growth that resulted in the recognition of an impairment, to be within expectations and by analyzing sensitivities in Royal DSM's the acceptable range and we assessed the disclosure (Note valuation model. We specifically focused on the sensitivity in 10) to the financial statements as being proportionate. the available headroom for the cash generating units, evaluating whether a reasonably possible change in Divestment of Patheon N.V. assumptions could cause the carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount and assessed the historical accuracy of Description management's estimates. We assessed the adequacy of the disclosure (Note 8) to the financial statements. On 29 August 2017 Royal DSM completed the sale of its investment in Patheon N.V. This sale resulted in a gain on Our observation disposal of € 1,250 million. Given the amounts involved, the accounting for this transaction is significant for the financial We consider management's key assumptions and estimates statements. to be within the acceptable range and we assessed the disclosure (Note 8) to the financial statements as being Our response proportionate. We tested the accuracy and completeness of the reported Impairment on joint venture POET-DSM Advanced gain upon the disposal by comparing the consideration Biofuels LLC received against the terms and conditions according to the Share Purchase Agreement (SPA), the cash receipts and by Description reconciling the book value of the disposed amount to the underlying accounting records. We verified whether the gain Royal DSM has a 50% investment in POET-DSM Advanced on disposal was calculated in accordance with the relevant Biofuels which is classified as joint venture in accordance with clauses of the SPA underlying the transaction. We also IFRS 11 and accounted for using the equity method. The evaluated the adequacy of the disclosure (Note 10) of this POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels joint venture continued to disposal in the financial statements. experience delays in the start-up of the factory which management assessed as an indicator for impairment. In the Our observation third quarter of 2017 an impairment test was performed by management. We consider that the gain on disposal is appropriately reflected This impairment test was significant to our audit as this test in the financial statements and we assessed the disclosure required significant management judgment in determining the (Note 10) to the financial statements as being proportionate. expected cash flows to calculate the recoverable amount. Changes for example in projected sales volumes, related variable costs and the anticipated market price for bio-ethanol Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 231 www.dsm.com Report on the other information included in the Integrated requirements regarding statutory audits of public-interest Annual Report entities. In addition to the financial statements and our auditor's report Description of the responsibilities for the financial thereon, the Integrated Annual Report contains other statements information that consists of: Responsibilities of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board for the financial statements Report by the Managing Board which includes the chapters The Managing Board is responsible for the preparation and fair Key data, Letter from the CEO, Report by the Managing presentation of the financial statements in accordance with Board, Review of business, Financial and reporting policies EU-IFRS and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. and Corporate governance and risk management; Furthermore, the Managing Board is responsible for such Report by the Supervisory Board which includes the internal control as the Managing Board determines is chapters Report by the Supervisory Board and Supervisory necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements Board and Managing Board Royal DSM; that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud Other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch or error. Civil Code; and Other information which consists of the chapters What still As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the went wrong, Information about the DSM share, Managing Board is responsible for assessing Royal DSM's Sustainability statements, DSM figures: five-year summary ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial and Explanation of some concepts and ratios. reporting frameworks mentioned, the Managing Board should prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis Based on the following procedures performed, we conclude of accounting unless the Managing Board either intends to that the other information: liquidate the company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Managing Board should is consistent with the financial statements and does not disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant contain material misstatements; and doubt on the company's ability to continue as a going concern contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of in the financial statements. the Dutch Civil Code. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge company's financial reporting process, among other things. and understanding obtained through our audit of the financial statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the Our responsibilities for the audit of financial statements other information contains material misstatements. Our objective is to plan and perform the audit engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate By performing these procedures, we comply with the audit evidence for our opinion. requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720. The scope of the procedures Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, performed is substantially less than the scope of those level of assurance, which means we may not detect all material performed in our audit of the financial statements. errors and fraud during our audit. The Managing Board is responsible for the preparation of the Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are other information, including the Report by the Managing Board considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code could reasonably be expected to influence the economic and the other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial Dutch Civil Code. statements. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect Report on other legal and regulatory requirements of identified misstatements on our opinion. Engagement We were engaged by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders as auditor of Royal DSM on 7 May 2014, as of the audit for the year 2015 and have operated as statutory auditor ever since that financial year. No prohibited non-audit services We have not provided prohibited non-audit services as referred to in Article 5(1) of the EU Regulation on specific Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 232 www.dsm.com Other information — Independent auditor's report A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained financial statements is included the in appendix to this up to the date of our auditor's report. However, future events auditor's report. This description forms part of our auditor's or conditions may cause a company to cease to continue report. as a going concern; evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of Amstelveen, 27 February 2018 the financial statements, including the disclosures; and evaluating whether the financial statements represent the KPMG Accountants N.V. underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are also responsible for directing, supervising and performing the group audit. In this respect we have determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures to be carried out for group components. Decisive were the size and/or the risk profile of the group components or operations. On this basis, we selected group components for which an audit or review had to be carried out on the complete set of financial information E.H.W. Weusten RA or specific items. Appendix: Description of our responsibilities for the audit We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, of the financial statements among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant We have exercised professional judgement and have findings in internal control that we identify during our audit. In maintained professional skepticism throughout the audit, in this respect we also submit an additional report to the Audit accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical Committee of the Supervisory Board in accordance with requirements and independence requirements. Our audit Article 11 of the EU Regulation on specific requirements included among others: regarding statutory audits of public-interest entities. The information included in this additional report is consistent with identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement our audit opinion in this auditor's report. of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designing and performing audit procedures responsive to We provide the Supervisory Board with a statement that we those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk independence, and to communicate with them all of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud relationships and other matters that may reasonably be is higher than the risk resulting from error, as fraud may thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, related safeguards. misrepresentations, or the override of internal control; obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the From the matters communicated with the Supervisory Board, audit in order to design audit procedures that are we determine the key audit matters: those matters that were appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of of most significance in the audit of the financial statements. expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of Royal DSM's We describe these matters in our auditor's report unless law internal control; or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used when, in extremely rare circumstances, not communicating and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and the matter is in the public interest. related disclosures made by the Managing Board; concluding on the appropriateness of the Managing Board's use of the going concern basis of accounting, and based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on Royal DSM's ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor's report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 233 www.dsm.com Assurance report of the independent Scope of the group review auditor Royal DSM is the parent company of a group of entities. The To: the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and the Selected Sustainability Information incorporates the Supervisory Board of Koninklijke DSM N.V. consolidated information of this group of entities. Our conclusion Our group review procedures consisted of both review procedures at corporate (consolidated) level and at site level. We have reviewed the sustainability information in the Our selection of sites in scope of our review procedures is sections: 'DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals', primarily based on the site's individual contribution to the 'Strategy 2018', 'How DSM creates value for its stakeholders', consolidated information. Furthermore, our selection of sites 'Stakeholders', 'People', 'Planet' and 'Sustainability considered relevant reporting risks and geographical spread. Statements', as included in the Integrated Annual Report (hereafter: the Selected Sustainability Information) over the By performing our procedures at site level, together with year 2017 of Koninklijke DSM N.V. (hereafter: Royal DSM), additional procedures at corporate level, we have been able based in Heerlen, the Netherlands. A review is aimed at to obtain sufficient and appropriate assurance evidence about obtaining a limited level of assurance. the group's reported information to provide a conclusion about the Selected Sustainability Information. Based on our procedures performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Selected Unexamined prospective information Sustainability Information is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting The Selected Sustainability Information includes prospective Standards and the internally developed criteria as disclosed in information such as ambitions, strategy, plans, expectations the section 'Reporting policy' on page 99. and estimates. Inherently the actual future results are uncertain. We do not provide any assurance on the Basis for our conclusion assumptions and achievability of prospective information in the Selected Sustainability Information. We have performed our review on the Selected Sustainability Information in accordance with Dutch law, including Dutch Consistency with the Selected Sustainability Information Standard 3810N 'Assurance-opdrachten inzake included in other parts of the Integrated Annual Report maatschappelijke verslagen' (Assurance engagements relating to sustainability reports), which is a specified Dutch In addition to the Selected Sustainability Information and our standard that is based on the International Standard on assurance report thereon, the Integrated Annual Report Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 'Assurance contains other sustainability information. Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information'. Based on the following procedures performed, we conclude that the sustainability information included in other parts of the Our responsibilities under this standard are further described Integrated Annual Report is consistent with the Selected in the section 'Our responsibilities for the review of the Sustainability Information and does not contain material Selected Sustainability Information' of our report. misstatements. We are independent of Royal DSM in accordance with the We have read the other parts of the Integrated Annual Report. 'Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained through assurance-opdrachten' (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional our review of the Selected Sustainability Information, we have Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and considered whether the sustainability information included in other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. other parts of the Integrated Annual Report contains material Furthermore, we have complied with the 'Verordening misstatements. gedragsen beroepsregels accountants' (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics). The scope of the procedures performed is substantially less than the scope of those performed in our review of the We believe that the assurance evidence we have obtained is Selected Sustainability Information. sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 234 www.dsm.com Other information — Assurance report of the independent auditor Responsibilities of the Managing Board for the Selected Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria and Sustainability Information its consistent application, including the evaluation of the reasonableness of the Managing Board's estimates; The Managing Board of Royal DSM is responsible for the Evaluating the design and implementation of the reporting preparation of the Selected Sustainability Information in systems and processes related to the information in the accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards Selected Sustainability Information; and the internally developed criteria as disclosed in the section Interviewing the Managing Board, management and 'Reporting policy' on page 99. relevant staff at corporate and business group level responsible for the sustainability strategy and policy; The Managing Board is also responsible for such internal Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing the control as it determines is necessary to enable the preparation Selected Sustainability Information, carrying out internal of the Selected Sustainability Information in a manner that control procedures on the data and consolidating the data ensures that this is free from material misstatement, whether in the Selected Sustainability Information; due to fraud or error. A limited number of visits to production sites to review the source data and the design and implementation of internal Our responsibilities for the review of the Selected controls and validation procedures at local level; Sustainability Information An analytical review of the data and trends submitted for consolidation at corporate level; Our responsibility is to plan and perform the assurance Reviewing relevant data and evaluating internal and external engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and documentation, based on limited sampling, to assess the appropriate assurance evidence for our conclusion. accuracy of the information in the Selected Sustainability Information; and Procedures performed in an assurance engagement to obtain Reviewing the results of procedures performed by the a limited level of assurance are aimed at determining the Corporate Operational Audit department of Royal DSM with plausibility of information and are less extensive than a respect to the Selected Sustainability Information. reasonable assurance engagement. The level of assurance obtained in review engagements is therefore substantially less We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, than the level of assurance obtained in an audit engagement. among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the review and significant findings, including any significant Misstatements can arise from fraud or errors and are findings in internal control that we identify during our review. considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the decisions of Amstelveen, 27 February 2018 users taken on the basis of the Selected Sustainability Information. The materiality affects the nature, timing and KPMG Accountants N.V. extent of our review procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our conclusion. We apply the 'Nadere voorschriften kwaliteitssystemen' (Regulations on quality management systems) and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. E.H.W. Weusten RA We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained professional skepticism throughout the review, in accordance with the Dutch Standard 3810N, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Our review engagement included, among others, the following procedures: Performing an analysis of the external environment, obtaining an understanding of relevant social themes and issues, and of Royal DSM's business; Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 235 www.dsm.com Special statutory rights On 31 December 2017, the board of the Foundation was composed as follows: DSM Preference Shares Foundation The DSM Preference Shares Foundation was established in Gerard Kleisterlee, Chairman 1989. Cees Maas, Vice-Chairman Mick den Boogert By virtue of DSM's Articles of Association, 375,000,000 cumulative preference shares B can be issued. The listing Important dates prospectus of 1989 stated that if, without the approval of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board, either a bid is made for the ordinary shares or a significant participation in ordinary Annual General Meeting of Shareholders shares is built up, or such an event is likely to occur, then these The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders is to be held at the preference shares B may be issued, which shall have the same DSM head office in Heerlen (Netherlands) on Wednesday, 9 May voting rights as the ordinary shares. 2018 at 14:00 hours CET. Under an agreement entered into in 1999, and subsequently Important dates amended, between the DSM Preference Shares Foundation Publication of first-quarter and DSM, the Foundation has the right to acquire such results Tuesday, 8 May 2018 preference shares (call option) to a maximum corresponding Ex-dividend quotation Friday,11 May 2018 to 100% of the capital issued in any form other than preference Publication of second-quarter shares B, less one. results Wednesday, 1 August 2018 Publication of third-quarter The objective of the Foundation is to promote the interest of results Wednesday, 31 October 2018 DSM, and the enterprise maintained by DSM and all parties connected therewith, whereby influences that would threaten the continuity, independence or identity, contrary to the aforementioned interests, are resisted to the maximum extent possible. The purpose of the agreement with the Foundation is, among other things, for the Foundation to allow DSM the opportunity to determine its position, for example with regard to a possible bidder for DSM shares or a party or parties tempting to obtain (de facto) control, to examine any plans in detail and, to the extent applicable, to look for (better) alternatives. Preference shares B will not be outstanding longer than necessary. As soon as there are no longer any reasons for the preference shares B to remain outstanding, the Managing Board will convene a General Meeting of Shareholders and recommend the cancellation of the preference shares B that are still outstanding. The Foundation acquired no preference shares B in 2017. The DSM Preference Shares Foundation is an independent legal entity within the meaning of article 5:71, first paragraph, under c of the Dutch Act on Financial Supervision (Wet op het financieel toezicht). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 236 www.dsm.com DSM figures: five-year summary Balance sheet1 x € million 2017 2016 2015 2014 20132 Assets Intangible assets 3,058 3,188 3,228 2,867 2,690 Property, plant and equipment 3,313 3,325 3,171 3,673 3,611 Deferred tax assets 281 355 366 427 364 Share in associates and joint ventures 227 586 644 617 247 Financial derivatives 16 32 23 69 Other financial assets 475 463 419 275 200 Non-current assets 7,370 7,917 7,860 7,882 7,181 Inventories 1,848 1,800 1,627 1,739 1,638 Current receivables 1,690 1,653 1,556 1,769 1,597 Financial derivatives 41 40 15 24 57 Current investments 954 944 9 6 19 Cash and cash equivalents 899 604 665 669 770 5,432 5,041 3,872 4,207 4,081 Assets held for sale 11 37 637 Current assets 5,432 5,041 3,883 4,244 4,718 Total assets 12,802 12,958 11,743 12,126 11,899 Equity and liabilities Shareholders' equity 6,962 6,072 5,541 5,723 5,908 Non-controlling interests 103 108 90 213 188 Equity 7,065 6,180 5,631 5,936 6,096 Deferred tax liabilities 259 278 319 365 375 Employee benefits liabilities 356 490 496 479 326 Provisions 151 128 98 105 97 Borrowings 2,551 2,552 2,557 1,637 1,725 Financial derivatives 4 14 182 178 181 Other non-current liabilities 188 158 228 81 75 Non-current liabilities 3,509 3,620 3,880 2,845 2,779 Employee benefits liabilities 39 40 44 45 34 Provisions 53 54 41 42 65 Borrowings 77 853 253 1,143 841 Financial derivatives 20 239 50 184 9 Current liabilities 2,039 1,972 1,842 1,915 1,845 2,228 3,158 2,230 3,329 2,794 Liabilities held for sale 2 16 230 Current liabilities 2,228 3,158 2,232 3,345 3,024 Total equity and liabilities 12,802 12,958 11,743 12,126 11,899 1 Financial derivatives were previously assigned to Current assets and liabilities. The figures have now been distributed over Non-current and Current assets and liabilities. 2 Application of IFRS 11 'Joint Arrangements' that came into effect from 1 January 2014. The year 2013 has been restated. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 237 www.dsm.com Income statement x € million 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Net sales 8,632 7,920 8,935 9,283 9,429 Adjusted EBITDA1 1,445 1,262 1,170 1,166 1,312 EBITDA 1,348 1,146 1,046 1,134 1,187 Adjusted operating profit (EBIT)1 957 791 650 617 773 Operating profit (EBIT) 846 657 304 290 476 Financial income and expense (104) (133) (174) (125) (144) Income tax expense (115) (89) (68) (7) (76) Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures 1,154 194 30 (59) 13 Profit for the year 1,781 629 92 99 269 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 12 8 4 (46) (2) Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 1,769 621 88 145 271 Dividend on cumulative preference shares (8) (4) (10) (10) (10) Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares 1,761 617 78 135 261 Key figures and financial ratios Capital employed2 7,766 7,889 7,553 8,105 8,060 Capital expenditure: Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment 586 485 570 616 694 Acquisitions 204 16 106 424 Disposals 1,546 87 307 93 78 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 502 489 742 798 730 Net debt (742) (2,070) (2,321) (2,420) (1,841) Dividend 331 310 297 296 297 Workforce at 31 December, headcount 21,054 20,786 20,796 21,351 23,485 Employee benefits costs (x € million) 1,768 1,752 1,778 1,713 1,822 Financial ratios1 ROCE in % 12.3 10.4 8.2 7.8 9.6 Net sales / average capital employed 1.11 1.04 1.13 1.17 1.18 Current assets / current liabilities 2.44 1.58 1.62 1.21 1.49 Equity / total assets 0.55 0.48 0.48 0.49 0.51 Gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt) 0.10 0.25 0.29 0.29 0.23 Adjusted EBIT / net sales in % 11.1 10.0 7.3 6.6 8.2 Net profit / average Shareholders' equity available to holders of ordinary shares in % 28.0 11.1 1.4 2.4 4.5 Adjusted EBITDA / Financial income and expense 13.9 9.5 7.4 9.9 9.6 1 In presenting and discussing DSM's financial position, operating results and cashflows, DSM uses certain Alternative performance measures (APMs) not defined by IFRS. These APMs are used because they are an important measure of DSM's business development and DSM's management performance. A full reconciliation of IFRS performance measures to the APMs is given in the 'Alternative performance measures' on page 165. 2 Before reclassification to held for sale. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 238 www.dsm.com DSM figures: five-year summary Information about ordinary DSM shares per ordinary share in € 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Adjusted Net profit 3.92 2.90 2.14 2.34 2.84 Net profit 10.07 3.52 0.45 0.78 1.52 Operating cash flow 5.65 5.79 3.93 4.62 5.74 Dividend: 1.851 1.75 1.65 1.65 1.65 Interim dividend 0.58 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.50 Final dividend 1.27 1.20 1.10 1.10 1.15 Pay-out including dividend on cumulative preference shares as % of Adjusted net profit 48 61 71 69 59 Dividend yield (dividend as % of average price of an ordinary DSM share) 2.8 3.3 3.5 3.3 3.2 Share prices on Euronext Amsterdam (closing price): Highest price 81.66 64.18 55.11 57.97 59.75 Lowest price 57.20 41.40 39.62 44.44 43.93 At 31 December 79.67 56.96 46.28 50.64 57.16 (x 1,000) Number of ordinary shares outstanding: At 31 December 174,643 175,002 174,923 173,537 173,963 Average 174,795 175,100 174,357 172,605 172,183 Daily trading volumes on Euronext Amsterdam: Average 676 787 912 801 728 Lowest 238 152 130 104 95 Highest 2,110 2,554 4,506 7,981 3,049 1 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 239 www.dsm.com Explanation of some concepts and ratios PEOPLE average effective manpower including contractor employees Brighter Living Solutions (past 12 months)). See Planet Brighter Living Solutions. Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) Eubiotics DSM's policy is to maintain business activities and produce The general term 'Eubiotics', is related to the Greek term products that do not adversely affect safety or health, and that 'Eubiosis' and relates to feed ingredients that support an fit with the concept of sustainable development. The company optimal balance of microbiota in the gastrointestinal tract of does this by setting the following objectives: to provide an livestock animals. They promote efficient gut performance so injury-free and incident-free workplace; to prevent all workas to produce well-nourished animals that get the most from related disabilities or health problems; to control and minimize their feed, while at the same time sustaining their health and the risks associated with DSM's products for their whole life welfare and protecting the environment. cycle and to choose production processes and products such that the use of raw materials and energy is minimized; to Frequency Index (FI) evaluate and improve DSM's practices, processes and The Frequency Index is a way to measure safety performance. products continuously in order to make them safe and The number of accidents of a particular category per 100 acceptable to its employees, the customers, the public and employees per year. the environment. Inclusion Index United Nations Global Compact The Inclusion Index is a subset of items in the Employee A strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed Engagement (Pulse) Survey to specifically measure Inclusion. to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally Inclusion is: A working environment where all employees are accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, a full and equal member of a team; where diverse perspectives environment and anti-corruption. are valued, and investment is made in their development; where people are respected and able to contribute as they are United Nations' Universal Declaration of Human Rights and not having to conform; where they can reach their On 10 December 1948, the General Assembly of the United potential, and where they can speak up without fear of Nations adopted and proclaimed the Universal Declaration of retribution . Human Rights. Following this historic act, the Assembly called upon all Member countries to publicize the text of the LWC-rate DSM own Declaration and to cause it to be disseminated, displayed, The LWC-rate DSM own is the number of lost workday cases read and expounded principally in schools and other per 100 DSM employees in the past 12 months: educational institutions, without distinction based on the LWC-rate = 100 * (number of LWCs (past 12 months) / political status of countries or territories . average effective manpower (past 12 months)). PLANET Occupational Health Case Biofuel This refers to any abnormal condition or disorder requiring A fuel which is derived from renewable organic resources, as medical treatment – other than one resulting directly from an distinct from one which is derived from non-renewable accident – caused by, or mainly caused by, repeated exposure resources such as crude oil and natural gas. to work-related factors. Brighter Living Solutions PSI rate Brighter Living Solutions (BLS) are products and services that, The PSI rate is the number of process safety incidents per 100 when considered over the product life cycle, offer an DSM employees and contractor employees in the past 12 environmental benefit (ECO+) and/or a social benefit months: PSI rate = 100 * (number of PSIs (past 12 months) / (People+) compared to mainstream reference solutions. average effective manpower including contractor employees (past 12 months)). ECO+ qualifications are made based on comparative Eco Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). DSM is using the standard approach REC-rate DSM all to evaluate environmental footprint as published by the The REC-rate DSM all is the number of recordable injuries per WBCSD Chemical sector in 2014. Qualifications are also 100 DSM employees and contractor employees in the past 12 made based on documented expert opinion by business months: REC-rate = 100 * (number of RECs (past 12 months) / managers or relevant internal experts based on identified Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 240 www.dsm.com Explanation of some concepts and ratios mainstream reference solutions and identified environmental Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions differentiators. Indirect GHG emissions relate to the generation of purchased energy (i.e. electricity, heat or cooling) consumed by the The People+ qualifications are made based on DSM People company. Purchased energy is defined as energy that is LCA method or expert opinions, similar as for ECO+. The purchased or otherwise brought into the organizational People LCA method helps to identify social impacts of boundary of the company. Scope 2 emissions physically occur products on the dimensions health, comfort and well-being, at the facility where the energy is generated. working conditions, and community development, it is a methodology developed by DSM based on internal standards Scope 3: Value chain emissions and external stakeholder dialogues. Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions (not included in scope 2) that occur in the value chain of the reporting More information and definitions can be found on the company company, including both upstream and downstream website. emissions. Carbon footprint Location-based emissions The total set of direct and indirect greenhouse-gas emissions Reflects the average GHG emissions intensity of grids on expressed as CO2eq. which electricity consumption occurs (using mostly national grid-average emission factor data). Corresponding emission Carbon price factor: in most cases, the country emission factor. The price that is paid to emit one ton CO2eq into the atmosphere. DSM implements an internal carbon price of Market-based emissions € 50/t CO2eq. Reflects GHG emissions from electricity supplies that companies have purposely chosen (or their lack of choice) and Circular economy contracted. Corresponding emission factors: Circular economy refers to an economy that is restorative and in which materials flows are of two types: biological nutrients, supplier specific emission factor (provided by the supplier) designed to re-enter the biosphere safely, and technical residual emission factor (country based grid factor, nutrients, which are designed to circulate at high quality corrected for allocated purchased electricity from renewable without entering the biosphere throughout their entire lifecycle. resources) CO2 Greenhouse-gas emissions (GHGE) efficiency improvement Carbon dioxide, a gas that naturally occurs in the atmosphere. The GHGE efficiency improvement is the amount of GHG It is part of the natural carbon cycle through photosynthesis emissions per unit of output (specific emissions) in a given year and respiration. It is also generated as a by-product of compared to the specific emissions in the prior year. GHGE combustion. Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas. efficiency improvements are one of the ratios in the Long-Term Incentive part of the Managing Board remuneration and relate Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) to a three-year period. COD is an indicator of the degree of pollution of waste water by organic substances. GRI The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) has developed Eco-efficiency Sustainability Reporting Guidelines that strive to increase the Eco-efficiency is a concept (created in 1992 by the WBCSD) transparency and accountability of economic, environmental, that refers to the creation of more goods and services while and social performance. The GRI was established in 1997 in using less resources and creating less waste and pollution partnership with the UN Environment Programme. It is an throughout their entire life cycle. In the context of DSM's SHE international, multi-stakeholder and independent institution targets, eco-efficiency relates specifically to the reduction of whose mission is to develop and disseminate globally emissions and energy and water consumption, relative to the applicable Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. These production volumes of DSM's plants. Guidelines are for voluntary use by organizations for reporting on the economic, environmental, and social dimensions of Greenhouse-gas emissions (GHGE) their activities, products and services. Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions Direct GHG emissions occur from sources that are owned or Levelized Cost of Energy (LCOE) controlled by the company (i.e. emissions from combustion in LCOE is a figure used to compare the average cost of energy owned or controlled boilers, furnaces, vehicles, etc.). coming from different sources. It measures the cost of energy production over the lifetime of an asset like a photovoltaic panel. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 241 www.dsm.com Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC) Capital expenditure Loss of Primary Containment is an unplanned or uncontrolled This includes all investments in intangible assets and property, release of material from the container that is in direct contact plant and equipment as well as the acquisition of subsidiaries with the material. and associates and related cash flows. NOx Disposals Nitrogen oxides. These gases are released mainly during This includes the disposal of intangible assets and property, combustion and cause acidification. plant and equipment as well as the disposal of participating interests and other securities. Renewable resource A natural resource which is replenished by natural processes Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization at a rate comparable to, or faster than, its rate of consumption (EBITDA) by humans or other users. The term covers perpetual EBITDA is the sum of operating profit plus depreciation and resources such as solar radiation, tides, winds and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is the EBITDA adjusted for hydroelectricity as well as fuels derived from organic matter material items of profit or loss coming from acquisitions/ (bio-based fuels). divestments, restructuring and other circumstances that management deem it necessary to adjust in order to provide SO2 clear-reporting on the underlying developments of the Sulfur dioxide. This gas is formed during the combustion of business. fossil fuels and causes acidification. Earnings per ordinary share VOC Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. Volatile organic compounds. The term covers a wide range of minus dividend on cumulative preference shares, divided by chemical compounds, such as organic solvents, some of the average number of ordinary shares outstanding. which can be harmful. High-growth economies Water use and water consumption High-growth economies relate to the following regions: Latin Water use includes water used for 'once-through cooling' that America, Middle East, Asia (excluding Japan) and Eastern is returned to the original water source after use. Water Europe. consumption is the portion of water used that is not returned to the original water source after being withdrawn. Innovation sales Innovation sales are defined as sales from products and PROFIT applications that have been introduced in the last five years. General In calculating financial profitability ratios, use is made of the Operating working capital average of the opening and closing values of balance sheet The total of inventories and trade receivables, less trade items in the year under review. payables. The financial indicators per ordinary share are calculated on Organic sales growth the basis of the average number of ordinary shares Organic sales growth is the total impact of volume and price / outstanding (average daily number). In calculating mix. Impact of acquisitions and divestments as well as Shareholders' equity per ordinary share, however, the number currency impact are excluded. of shares outstanding at year-end is used. Return on capital employed (ROCE) In calculating the figures per ordinary share and the 'net profit Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations as a as a percentage of average Shareholders' equity available to percentage of weighted average capital employed. holders of ordinary shares', the amounts available to the holders of cumulative preference shares are deducted from Total shareholder return (TSR) the profits and from Shareholders' equity. Total shareholder return is capital gain plus dividend paid. Capital employed Working capital The total of the carrying amount of intangible assets and The total of inventories and current receivables, less current property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade receivables payables. and other receivables, less trade payables and other current liabilities. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 242 www.dsm.com List of abbreviations ADR American Depositary Receipts ILO International Labour Organization AFM The Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets IP Intellectual Property API Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients IPO Initial Public Offering APM Alternative performance measures LCA Life Cycle Assessment BRA Business Risk Assessment LoR Letter of Representation CDP The new name for the Carbon Disclosure Project LTI Long-Term Incentive CEFIC Conseil Européen des Fédérations de l'Industrie Chimique LWC Lost Workday Case (European Chemical Industry Council) NGO Non-Governmental Organization CGU Cash Generating Unit NPS Net Promoter Score COA Corporate Operational Audit department OCI Other Comprehensive Income CoBC Code of Business Conduct OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development COD Chemical Oxygen Demand OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer CPLC Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition PA Polyamide CRA Corporate Risk Assessment PDN Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland CRP Corporate Research Program PPA Purchase Price Allocation CSD Corporate Strategy Dialogue PRA Process Risk Assessment CSR Corporate Social Responsibility PSI Process Safety Incident DHA Docosahexaenoic acid PV Photovoltaic DNP DSM Nutritional Products R&D Research & Development DSGC Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of DSP DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals Chemicals EBA Emerging Business Area ROCE Return on Capital Employed EBIT Earnings before interest and taxes (Operating Profit) SAR Share Appreciation Rights EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and SDG Sustainable Development Goal amortization SHE Safety, Health and Environment EEI Energy Efficiency Improvement SPF Sun Protection Factor EPA Eicosapentaenoic Acid SSP Supplier Sustainability Program EPS Earnings per share STI Short-Term Incentive FIFO First in, first out SUN Scaling Up Nutrition Movement FTE Full-time equivalent TCFD Taskforce for Climate-related Financial Disclosures FX Foreign exchange TDC Total Direct Compensation GHG Greenhouse gas TSR Total Shareholder Return GHGE Greenhouse-gas emissions UN United Nations GMM Genetically Modified Micro-organisms UNGC United Nations Global Compact GRI Global Reporting Initiative VOC Volatile Organic Compound IAS International Accounting Standards WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development IASB International Accounting Standards Board WEF World Economic Forum IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee WFP United Nations World Food Programme IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017 243 www.dsm.com Questions about or feedback on this Report can be addressed to: Royal DSM P.O. Box 6500 6401 JH Heerlen The Netherlands T +31 (0)45 578 8111 E media.contacts@dsm.com W www.dsm.com For the printing of this Report 100% biological ink and FSC-paper was used. This Report is printed carbon neutral.
