PALFINGER INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DETAILED GRI AND SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURES REPORTING STANDARDS GRI STANDARDS The allocation of PALFINGER’s sustainability issues to the respective GRI disclosures is marked by references. Moreover, the impacts of an issue, in particular PALFINGER’s contribution to the respective impact, are shown by means of the value creation chain and the four sustainability areas. The following impact table presents an overview of where in the value creation chain – supply chain, within the Company or during product use – a direct or indirect impact occurs and under which of PALFINGER’s four sustainability areas it is subsumed. The impacts, their measurements and any improvement measures instituted are described in the relevant chapters of this Report. SUSTAINABILITY AND DIVERSITY IMPROVEMENT ACT (NADIVEG) The impact table further below also shows which of PALFINGER’s sustainability issues are associated with which provisions of the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act, which was applied in the reporting year for the first time. This illustrates PALFINGER’s implementation of the requirements under this Act in connection with the value creation chain and other guidelines such as GRI, UNGC and the SDGs. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG) In 2017, PALFINGER deepened its analysis of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) and specified the direct or indirect impact of its own actions on individual SDGs. The following impact table presents in detail the direct impact of individual sustainability issues on a Sustainable Development Goal. The top 13 sustainability issues of PALFINGER directly impact nine SDGs. The major impact is shown to be exerted on the five following goals in descending order. These five often interact and support each other. They will be taken into account in reporting in the future. SDG 12: Responsible consumption and production PALFINGER assumes responsibility by using raw materials efficiently. The reduction of energy consumption as well as of hazardous waste is promoted along the entire value creation chain. With its safe, efficient, low-noise products that have a low consumption of operating materials, PALFINGER provides lifting solutions that correspond to the state of the art in research and the demand in the market. Product lifecycle approaches take into account application and production patterns ranging from the supplier to the end customer. SDG 13: Climate action PALFINGER is committed to climate protection and strives to continuously optimize energy consumption and intra-company transports caused by production operations and during product use, thereby reducing costs and emissions. Examples are hybrid or electric solutions or the switch to renewable energy, provided that an adequate solution is offered by the energy supplier. Specific objectives and measures regarding energy consumption and CO2 emissions have been defined in order to contribute to this goal. In addition, to the extent that regional conditions allow, PALFINGER strives to achieve the greatest possible efficiency in buildings as well as in production processes. 214 PALFINGER INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DETAILED GRI AND SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURES SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth The viability of the business model is of great importance to PALFINGER and contributes to economic growth. Relevant trends, such as digitalization, are actively monitored. It is equally important to guarantee attractive employment on the basis of an internalized corporate culture and internalized corporate values. This includes legal and ethical standards as well as diversity aspects, training opportunities and voluntary social benefits for PALFINGER employees. Moreover, control by means of management systems like OHSAS 18001 promotes safe working conditions and is taken into consideration in the selection and regular assessment of suppliers. SDG 9: Industry, innovation and infrastructure PALFINGER is committed to keeping its business model up to date with current trends at all times and hence invests in research and development, which are also aimed at maintaining the Company’s viable position in the future. With the help of innovations, PALFINGER enhances its production processes as well as the safety of its products, for example by means of virtual reality applications. Another focus is on the efficient use of raw materials such as steel or aluminium. SDG 10: Reduced inequalities PALFINGER views compliance with legal and ethical standards as its social responsibility. Exceeding regional standards also makes PALFINGER an attractive employer. PALFINGER acts in an ethically correct manner: Laws are obeyed, taxes are transparent and are paid correctly, and corruption is counteracted. Relevant issues here are the promotion of diversity and equal opportunity, for example in connection with talent management, as well as fair working conditions, modern workplaces and fair remuneration. UN GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) For four years, PALFINGER has been committed to compliance with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Instead of disclosing a Communication on Progress report, the sustainability issues are combined with the UN principles in the impact table below. IMPACTS OF THE SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES ALONG THE VALUE CREATION CHAIN The impact table shows which sustainability issues and topics are deemed material for PALFINGER, at which stage of the value creation chain their impacts occurs, and to which areas the impacts are allocated. The ranking of the material topics corresponds to their long-term impacts and at the same time the overall relevance identified by internal and external stakeholders in 2017. All 38 issues that were assessed in the materiality analysis have been included. Any changes in comparison with previous reports are indicated in the key and/or the chapter “Materiality Analysis”. References to guidelines and reporting standards and the meeting of KPIs are indicated as well. Materiality analysis, page 42 Responsible employer Eco-efficiency in production Sustainable products Fair business 215 PALFINGER INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DETAILED GRI AND SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURES IMPACT TABLE Stage of value creation chain Supply chain Product use Within the Ranking References to guidelines Company GRI disclosures Material topics NaDiVeG | SDG | UNGC Intensity of reporting 1 Product safety • GRI: 416-1, 416-2 Quantitative presentation of any PALFINGER’s products should be distinguished by accidents involving products and utmost safety. The prevention of accidents during description of safety innovations for their use should go beyond statutory requirements. products 2 Product research and development1) • No GRI disclosures Quantitative presentation of investment PALFINGER should increasingly invest in product available in research and development research and development and offer the latest • NaDiVeG technologies. • SDG: 9, 13 3 Innovation in production1) • No GRI disclosures Quantitative presentation of investment PALFINGER should promote sustainable innovations available in research and development and technologies in the production process in order • NaDiVeG to increase efficiency ( more output with less input ). • SDG: 9, 13 4 Viability of the business model • GRI: 201-1, 201-2 Quantitative presentation of monetary PALFINGER should make sure that its business model • SDG: 8, 9 flows to stakeholders, management sysremains viable in the long term and actively pursue tems as well as presentation in the contrends (e.g. urbanization, rental instead of purchase, text of the management report, risk circular economy, etc.). PALFINGER should make a management, economic performance, contribution to society. organizational profile 5 Health and safety • GRI: 403-2 Quantitative presentation of accidents, PALFINGER should protect its employees against • NaDiVeG fatalities, staff absences in the accidents and proactively promote occupational Company’s own production process, health and safety as well as preventive health care and • SDG: 3 absentee rate and management social security provision. A good work-life balance systems as well as description of should contribute to the employees’ well-being. initiatives 6 Product lifecycle2) • GRI: 301-1, 302-1, 302-2, Quantitative description of warranty PALFINGER products should be characterized by 302-3, 305-1, 305-2, costs and waste cuttings rate as well as their reduced weight and their lower need for energy 305-3, 305-4 qualitative description of product and operating materials over the entire product • NaDiVeG innovations for quality enhancement as lifecycle. The products should be of top quality, well as of safe and efficient products reliable, durable and low in maintenance. • SDG: 12 • UNGC: 7-9 7 Employee development3) • GRI: 404-1 Quantitative presentation of hours of PALFINGER should promote the initial and further • NaDiVeG training, appraisal interviews as well as training of its employees and prepare them in good qualitative description of development time for changes in their working environment (e.g. • SDG: 4, 8 programmes Industry 4.0, expert development). 8 Energy efficiency and climate protection • GRI: 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, Quantitative indicators and PALFINGER should strive to continuously optimize 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, management systems as well as energy consumption and intra-company transport 305-4 qualitative description of energy (e.g. on-demand logistics, e-drive induction loops) • NaDiVeG efficiency and climate protection and to reduce costs and emissions, thus making an active contribution to climate protection. PALFINGER • SDG: 13 should aim for the highest building efficiency possible • UNGC: 7-9 under regional conditions. 9 Raw material demand and efficiency • GRI: 301-1 Quantitative presentation of raw In production, PALFINGER should use raw materials • NaDiVeG material demand, waste cuttings rate such as steel, aluminium and glass fibre efficiently. and hazardous waste as well as • SDG: 12 qualitative description of raw material • UNGC: 7-9 demand and efficiency 10 Attractive employment4) • GRI: 102-8, 401-1 Quantitative presentation of employee PALFINGER should be highly reputed as an attractive • NaDiVeG development, employee turnover and employer, maintain a high employee retention rate diversity; qualitative description of and create development opportunities (horizontally • SDG: 4, 5, 8 PALFINGER’s attractiveness as an and vertically) within the Company. • UNGC: 3-6 employer 216 PALFINGER INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DETAILED GRI AND SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURES Stage of value creation chain Supply chain Product use Within the Ranking References to guidelines Company GRI disclosures Material topics NaDiVeG | SDG | UNGC Intensity of reporting 11 Corporate culture and values5) • GRI: 102-16, 102-17 Quantitative presentation of employee PALFINGER employees, in particular executives, should • NaDiVeG survey as well as qualitative description set an example when it comes to embracing of corporate culture and values PALFINGER’s corporate culture and acting on the basis • SDG: 8 of its values of entrepreneurship, respect and learning. • UNGC: 10 This should lead, among other things, to intercultural understanding, a higher level of recognition and appreciation and an active exchange of knowledge. 12 Compliance with legal and ethical standards • GRI: 102-16, 102-17, Presentation of violations, if any, and PALFINGER should act in an ethically correct 205-1, 205-2, 205-3, description of initiatives regarding manner: laws are obeyed, taxes are paid correctly 206-1, 307-1, 419-1 corporate ethics and prevention of and corruption is counteracted. • NaDiVeG corruption • SDG: 5, 8, 10, 16 • UNGC: 7-10 13 Industry 4.0 and digitalization5) • No GRI disclosures Qualitative description of digitalization PALFINGER should focus increasingly on the available and Industry 4.0 digitalization and connectivity of machinery; this also • NaDiVeG extends to its suppliers (open sourcing). The responsible handling of data, in particular utmost • SDG: 9, 13 data protection, should be guaranteed. Stage of value creation chain Supply chain Product use Within the Ranking References to guidelines Company GRI disclosures Further topics NaDiVeG | SDG | UNGC Intensity of reporting 14 Alternative drive systems • No GRI disclosures Qualitative description of product PALFINGER should offer alternative drive systems available innovations (e.g. electric, hybrid). • SDG: 13 15 Effluents and wastes • No GRI disclosures Presentation of waste cuttings rate and At PALFINGER sites, potentially hazardous waste and reported development of hazardous waste, substances should be avoided, safely stored, and • SDG: 12 description of the state of the art of disposed of in an environmentally friendly manner or, electroplating and paint shops, if possible, reused. description of product innovations 16 Working conditions5) • GRI: 403-2, 412-1, 412-2 Quantitative presentation of health and PALFINGER should establish uniform minimum • NaDiVeG safety, human rights issues as well as standards in order to guarantee globally applicable qualitative description of working working conditions for its employees. This should • SDG: 3, 8, 10 conditions create safe and healthy jobs. • UNGC: 1-6 17 Environmentally friendly products6) • GRI: 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, Quantitative indicators and qualitative PALFINGER products should avoid noise and 305-4 description of emissions, product emissions during operation, be free of hazardous • NaDiVeG innovations for quality enhancement, substances (e.g. chromium VI), offer product variants the state of the art of electroplating with biodegradable hydraulic oil and thus avoid • SDG: 12, 13 and paint shops as well as potential risks to humans and the environment. • UNGC: 7-9 presentation of waste cuttings rate and development of hazardous waste 18 Overall performance5) • No GRI disclosures Qualitative description of PALFINGER’s PALFINGER should increasingly become a fullavailable overall performance service provider for one-stop-shop solutions. 19 Fair remuneration • No GRI disclosures Qualitative description of wage level PALFINGER should offer fair remuneration regardless reported of age, gender, origin and other diversity factors, and • NaDiVeG should ensure local minimum wages. • SDG: 5, 10 217 PALFINGER INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DETAILED GRI AND SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURES Stage of value creation chain Supply chain Product use Within the Ranking References to guidelines Company GRI disclosures Further topics NaDiVeG | SDG | UNGC Intensity of reporting 20 Employee motivation5) • No GRI disclosures Qualitative description of employee PALFINGER should provide an environment that available motivation raises the motivational level of its employees. Innovative incentive systems should support this, especially for agile teams. 21 Regional responsibility • GRI: 203-2 Qualitative description of regional PALFINGER sites should become actively involved • NaDiVeG responsibility at the regional level and should invest in public welfare (e.g. donations, sponsoring, development programmes). Good relations should be maintained with local residents. 22 Diversity and equal opportunity • GRI: 405-1, 406-1 Quantitative presentation of the PALFINGER should enhance diversity and offer all • NaDiVeG percentage of women, generations employees the same opportunities – irrespective of and incidents of discrimination, as age, gender, personal background and other diversity • SDG: 5, 10 well as qualitative description of factors. Discrimination should actively be prevented. • UNGC: 3-6 diversity strategy, employees with disabilities and of initiatives 23 Correct corporate governance • GRI: 102-18, 102-19, Presentation of compliance The management should act in a correct manner 102-20, 102-21, 102-22, management and any violations and guarantee the independence of the 102-24, 102-32, 415-1 Supervisory Board, the involvement of • NaDiVeG shareholders and the transparent remuneration of the top management. The importance of acting in • SDG: 10 accordance with defined corporate values should • UNGC: 10 be emphasized. 24 Sustainability in the supply chain: suppliers7) • GRI: 308-1, 308-2, 407-1, Number of supplier audits and results PALFINGER should take an interest in whether 408-1, 409-1, 414-1, suppliers pay attention to environmental protection 414-2 and to their social responsibility. Suppliers that show • NaDiVeG commitment in these fields should receive advantages from PALFINGER. • SDG: 8, 12, 13 • UNGC: 1-9 25 Product recyclability • No GRI disclosures Presentation of waste cuttings rate and Starting in the development phase, PALFINGER available development of hazardous waste, products should be designed so that they can be • SDG: 12 description of the state of the art of easily disabled (decommissioned) and recycled at electroplating and paint shops, the end of their lifecycle. description of product innovations 26 Employee communication • No GRI disclosures Qualitative description of employee Every employee should be informed about major available communication corporate developments in a timely manner. • SDG: 10 Communication with and among employees should take place at an elevated international level and be characterized by the common corporate values. 27 Modern workplaces5) • No GRI disclosures Qualitative description of modern PALFINGER should create structures, processes and available workplaces framework conditions to ensure flexible, agile and • SDG: 5, 8, 10 mobile workplaces. These should take into account the interests of present and future employees (working time models, home offices, parental leave, expatriations, etc.). 28 Sustainability in the supply chain: dealers7) • GRI: 308-1, 308-2, 407-1, Qualitative presentation of dealers PALFINGER should take an interest in whether 408-1, 409-1, 414-1, dealers pay attention to environmental protection 414-2 and to their social responsibility. Dealers that show • NaDiVeG commitment in these fields should receive advantages from PALFINGER. • UNGC: 1-9 29 Environmentally friendly transport • GRI: 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, Qualitative description of transport The transport of raw materials, components and 305-4 PALFINGER products should be kept short and • NaDiVeG environmentally friendly. • UNGC: 7-9 30 Solutions for developing and emerging countries • No GRI disclosures Qualitative description of lifting PALFINGER should adjust its products to the needs available solutions for developing and emerging in less developed countries to make them affordable • SDG: 1, 8 countries and to make physical labour easier. 218 PALFINGER INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DETAILED GRI AND SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURES Stage of value creation chain Supply chain Product use Within the Ranking References to guidelines Company GRI disclosures Further topics NaDiVeG | SDG | UNGC Intensity of reporting 31 Efficiency of water consumption5) • No GRI disclosures Qualitative description of efficient use The water consumption in PALFINGER’s production reported of water should be constantly reduced. • NaDiVeG • SDG: 6 32 Product information and fair marketing8) • GRI: 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, Qualitative description pf product Users should be provided with product 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, information and marketing information and training in order to ensure safety 102-7, 102-8, 102-9, and environmental protection when using 102-10, 102-11, 102-12, PALFINGER products. Promotion of the products 102-13, 417-2, 417-3 should be honest and transparent. • NaDiVeG • UNGC: 3-9 33 Products for ecological/social use • No GRI disclosures Qualitative description of product PALFINGER should increasingly strive for product available innovations innovations for the use in environmental and social fields. This has already been achieved in the case of cranes for wind energy plants, access systems for people with disabilities or davit systems (rescue boats). 34 Regional procurement and production9) • No GRI disclosures Qualitative description of regional PALFINGER should procure regionally and produce in reported procurement and production the region where the products are placed on the market. 35 Freedom of association10) • GRI: 402-1, 407-1 Qualitative description of freedom of PALFINGER should uphold freedom of association • NaDiVeG association and guarantee freedom of expression. • UNGC: 1-6 36 Stakeholder involvement • GRI: 102-40, 102-41, Presentation within the framework of PALFINGER should openly inform customers, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 stakeholder management suppliers, employees and all other cooperation • NaDiVeG partners, and engage them in the development of the Company accordingly. • UNGC: 3-6 37 Biodiversity5) • No GRI disclosures Qualitative presentation of protection of PALFINGER should practise nature conservation reported biodiversity and, in particular, preserve biodiversity at its sites. • NaDiVeG • SDG: 14, 15 38 Second-hand market • No GRI disclosures Qualitative presentation of In the future, PALFINGER should collaborate with its available PALFINGER’s dealers to promote the second-hand market, thus pre-owned market promoting the control and a possible upgrade of used products. Changes as compared to the previous materiality analysis: 1) More detailed presentation of the former topic: Research and development 2) Former terms: Durability of products; Combination of the topics: Efficient and environmentally friendly products, Low product weight 3) Former term: Training 4) Former term: Attractive employment possibility 5) New topic 6) Combination of the topics: Avoidance of noise and emissions, Biodegradable hydraulic oil, Products without problematic substances 7) More detailed presentation of the former topic: Sustainability in the supply chain 8) Combination of the topics: Product information, Fair marketing 9) Former term: Regional procurement 10) Former term: Freedom of assembly GRI 103-1 Materiality analysis, page 42 219
