Building the Future UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 2 Introduction by the Chief Executive Officer Introduction by the Chief Executive Officer Heimo Scheuch, Chief Executive Officer Wienerberger AG Ladies and Gentlemen, on our shareholders’ interests. Non-financial aspects 2017 was a successful year for the Wienerberger and indicators are presented in aggregated form. The Group: We generated record revenues of over € 3.1 billion Wienerberger Sustainability Report, published for 2017 and a net profit of € 123 million, while our net debt was as a Sustainability Update, is targeted at our many other reduced by 10%. At the same time, we achieved substanstakeholders, above all our employees, customers and tial progress in the implementation of our Sustainability suppliers, and presents our financial and, in particular, our Roadmap 2020. This goes to show that a company non-financial achievements as well as the impact of the committed to the principles of sustainability is able to Wienerberger Group’s activities on society, as required by improve its performance and enhance its enterprise value, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). It is our intention not despite this commitment but because of it. to present a transparent and coherent view of how we pursue our mission, which is to improve people’s quality of life by supplying sustainable building material and We are in the midst of implementing the infrastructure solutions of outstanding quality. In order to Wienerberger Sustainability Roadmap 2020 in come increasingly closer to our vision of being the most order to continuously improve our ecological, highly regarded producer of building material and social and societal performance. infrastructure solutions and the preferred employer in our markets, we are striving for continuous self-improvement. By presenting our management approach, we provide Wienerberger’s 2017 Annual Report takes stock of clear insights into our high-quality corporate governance, our achievements in financial terms and offers an outlook our strategy and the future orientation of our company. on upcoming developments, always with a special focus Introduction by the Chief Executive Officer 3 As the technology and innovation leader of our With digitally assisted design processes and con­­ sector, the Wienerberger Group is aware of its heavy struction methods, including products with high thermal responsibility for the improvement of living conditions on insulation properties, we make it easier for our customers Planet Earth. The Sustainable Development Goals of the to meet the requirements of energy efficiency in building United Nations (17 SDGs) are the yardstick against which construction (SDG 13). Another objective is to make policy-makers as well as global players like ourselves have cities safer, more resilient and more sustainable (SDG 11). to measure their performance. Wienerberger is directly Our second-generation Raineo Stormbox is ideally suited concerned with several of these goals, be it promoting to solve the problems caused by heavy rainfall; it collects, decent work (SDG 8), building resilient infrastructure and cleans and stores rainwater for later reuse, which is an fostering innovation (SDG 9) , making cities inclusive, extremely efficient way of preventing flash flooding in safe, resilient and sustainable (SDG 11), ensuring urban areas. sustainable consumption and pro­­duction patterns (SDG 12) or taking action to combat climate chang Research and development (R&D) are among and its impacts (SDG 13). the priorities of Wienerberger’s strategic planning. The most essential tasks of R&D include the optimization of production processes (SDG 12) and the development of In our two main product groups, we are aiming innovative products and system solutions for a resilient at a 20% reduction in specific energy consumption infrastructure (SGD 9). In 2017, our R&D expenditure by 2020 compared to 2010. came to approx. € 11 million. At Group level, innovative products accounted for almost 30% of total revenues. We will continue working on future-oriented solutions We are well on track, as shown by our contributions by placing a special focus on the digitalization of processes to ensuring sustainable consumption and production in all business areas and the step-by-step introduction of patterns (SDG 12) and to combating climate change Industry 4.0 in production. Our aim is to optimize all (SDG 13). In absolute terms, our consumption of energy processes, ranging from production planning to sales and increased in 2017 over the value reported in 2016, partly administration. With this in mind, we have set up an as a result of higher production volumes, but energy innovation lab within the company, which enables us consumption by ton of products produced (specific energy to establish structured contacts with start-ups. At the consumption) decreased by another 0.8% Group-wide end of 2017, we organized an open call for innovation, and by 1.7% in ceramic production. For our two main followed by an Innovation Day in January 2018, which product groups (bricks and tiles, plastic pipes) we are provided a platform for lively exchanges with numerous aiming at a 20% reduction in specific energy consumption representatives of start-ups. by 2020 compared to 2010. At the same time, we are accelerating our conversion to climate-friendlier energy Innovative solutions are also required in the context sources. In 2017, for instance, our specific CO2 emissions of continuing urbanization. According to a UN study, two from ceramic production were reduced by a satisfactory thirds of the world population will be living in cities by 2.3% from the previous year’s level. Our North America 2050, but hardly any of these cities will have been Division fully met its target of completely converting all designed on a drawing board or computer. A major effort main production sites from coal to natural gas. will therefore be to redesign the inhumane suburbs of many European metropolises – not to mention cities outside Europe – to make these places attractive again for people to live in. In our role as technology and innovation leader, we will do our utmost to develop innovative 4 Introduction by the Chief Executive Officer solutions, always bearing in mind that we have to cover the Wienerberger Group and subsequently take the the “luxury” segment and, at the same time, provide necessary measures to further improve the level of acceptable and affordable social housing. employee satisfaction. This takes me to another issue of special importance to me: I cannot overemphasize the key role our employees In the near future, we will apply a Group-wide play in the successful further development of our com“Supplier Code of Conduct”. pany. Therefore, it is important to us that our employees worldwide live our corporate values regardless of nation, gender, age, etc. It is our vision to be the preferred Another challenge faced by Wienerberger is the employer in every region in which we operate. growing globalization of supply chains. We are expected not only to guarantee the quality of our finished products, but also to guarantee compliance with social and ecoCompared to the previous year, the frequency of logical minimum standards of the raw materials, products accidents within the Wienerberger Group was and services we need to produce and market significantly reduced by another 16.8% in 2017. our products. By signing the UN Global Compact in 2003, we In 2017, the Wienerberger Group employed a committed ourselves to ensuring that its ten principles work-force of more than 16,000 people. By ensuring regarding human rights, occupational health and safety, that our employees are fairly remunerated at all our environmental protection and the fight against corruption production sites, we contribute to their social security. are observed not only within our own sphere of control, As an industrial producer, the occupational safety and but also along our supply chains. We actively promote an health of all our employees is an absolute priority for us. ethical approach in all our entrepreneurial actions and It is our goal to reduce the number of occupational therefore are increasingly adopting supplier guidelines accidents throughout the Group to zero every year. We that oblige our suppliers to comply with social and ethical are happy to report that the frequency of accidents within minimum standards. In the near future, we will apply a the Wienerberger Group was reduced by another 16.8% Group-wide “Supplier Code of Conduct”. Please refer to in 2017, while the severity of accidents went down by pages 90 to 94 for our 2017 Communication on Progress 2.1% compared to 2016. To our deepest regret and despite on the UN Global Compact. all our efforts, two fatal occupational accidents occurred in 2017. We studied the circumstances of the accidents in We intend to consistently pursue our course in the great depth in order to derive targeted measures aimed at years to come and take all the measures necessary to further improving occupational safety in our plants. We attain our goals. I am confident that you, our esteemed continue to pursue our “zero accident” target. readers, will accompany us on our way. We regard our corporate values – expertise, passion, integrity and respect, customer orientation, entrepreneurship, quality and responsibility – as the driving forces that encourage our employees to develop their potential to the full. The fundamental prerequisites are employee motivation and satisfaction, as well as a culture of trust within the company. In the course of 2018, we will roll out the employee survey to all country organizations of UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2017 5 UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2017 The activities of big industrial companies, such as Progress in 2017 Wienerberger AG, have a strong impact on society and the The long-term target pursued by the Wienerberger environment. Such companies therefore bear a special Group is to reduce the number of accidents to zero. In responsibility and should act in an exemplary manner. The 2014, the Group-wide safety standards implemented in minimum standards to be complied with include, above 2010 were upgraded for the entire Wienerberger Group all, the principles of the UN Global Compact regarding and activities within the framework of the Safety Initiative human rights, labor standards, environmental protection were stepped up. Additionally, each Business Unit and the fight against corruption. Through its accession to implements its specific internal programs, which are the UN Global Compact in 2003, Wienerberger officially described in detail on pages 45 and 46 of the 2016 committed to the ten principles and undertook to foster Sustainability Report. their implementation within the framework of the company’s possibilities. Once a year, we report on progress As in the previous year, targeted measures were taken achieved in this respect. by each Business Unit in 2017 in order to further increase the level of safety for our employees. Every occupational The 2017 Communication on Progress in respect of accident is analyzed by the Business Unit concerned; core the Global Compact forms part of our 2017 Sustainability aspects of occupational safety and individual initiatives Update. In order to ensure maximum transparency and to are evaluated annually. In 2017, we again succeeded make it easier for our readers to find the individual in reducing the frequency of accidents within the examples, we have aggregated the most important Wienerberger Group. As compared to the previous year, statements on the ten principles and, in addition, marked accident frequency was reduced from 6.5 occupational the corresponding indicators in the GRI Index and added accidents per million hours worked in 2016 to 5.4 in references to the pages concerned. 2017, which corresponds to a further reduction by almost 17%. Accident severity, expressed in accident-related sick Global Compact Principles – Human Rights leave days per million hours worked, also dropped from Principles 1 und 2 177 in 2016 to 173 in 2017 (-2.1%). However, it saddens Businesses should support and respect the protection us to report that in 2017 again two fatal accidents of internationally proclaimed human rights, and make sure occurred in the Wienerberger Group. Wienerberger that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. deeply regrets these accidents. We studied the circumstances of the accidents in great depth and consistently Commitment pursued our measures aimed at increasing safety at Within its sphere of influence, Wienerberger work for our employees. guarantees the protection of basic human rights. By adopting the Wienerberger Social Charter, Wienerberger Health is a human right. Wienerberger therefore committed itself to comply with the conventions and ensures safe and healthy working conditions at all its recommendations of the International Labor Organization production sites. In 2017, the average number of non(ILO). This includes providing safe and healthy working accident-related sick leave days per employee at Group conditions. The safety of its employees is a matter of level (excluding the North America Division) increased top priority for Wienerberger. to 10.2 from 9.6 in the previous year. This development is due to the higher frequency of long sick leave periods. 6 UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2017 The North America Division is not included, as its Global Compact Principles – Labor Standards absolute numbers and percentages are not comparable Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 with those of the other Divisions of the Group due to Businesses should uphold the freedom of association local legal provisions. Prevention plays an important role and the effective recognition of the right to collective in health promotion, especially in view of the increased bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced and frequency of long sick leave periods. Besides our regular compulsory labor; the effective abolition of child labor; health screening programs, we ensure that company and the elimination of discrimination in respect of physicians are available to all employees and offer ergoemployment and occupation. nomic workplace analyses as well as individual health and fitness programs. Commitment Zero tolerance of child labor and discrimination is an In North America, all full-time employees are absolute must for Wienerberger. Even before its accession covered by supplementary health insurance, the scope to the UN Global Compact in 2003, Wienerberger of which exceeds that of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) committed itself, by signing the 2001 Social Charter, in some respects. to ensure that employment and working conditions throughout the Group comply with national legislation Being aware of its responsibility for the health and/or are based on collective bargaining agreements as and well-being of its employees, Wienerberger for a minimum standard. Thus, Wienerberger operates in years has been making every effort to minimize their accordance with the recommendations of the Inter­ exposure to potentially hazardous substances. Since 2008, national Labor Organization (ILO). Besides adequate Wienerberger has voluntarily reported on its measures to and safe working conditions, fair remuneration and the protect employees from exposure to respirable crystalline right of assembly and collective bargaining are high silica. The survey is conducted every two years within the priorities for us. framework of the NEPSI social partnership agreement between employees and employers (Negotiation Platform In our effort to combat discrimination in recruitment on Silica, www.nepsi.eu/en/nepsi). Within the framework and employment, we consider it essential to offer our of the 2017 survey, Wienerberger applied the NEPSI female employees an attractive working environment system limits and collected indicators exclusively at its and the same opportunities as their male colleagues. ceramic production sites. At the same time, however, we At the same time, we want to make sure that our male extended the geographic scope of the NEPSI system in employees benefit from the same flexible solutions that order to obtain a clearer picture of all ceramic production enable them to reconcile work and family obligations as sites of the Wienerberger Group. Based on the new, their female colleagues. internally fine-tuned definitions of the indicators of the NEPSI social partnership agreement, we adjusted our Progress in 2017 targets in respect of the protection of our employees In 2017, 72% of all Wienerberger employees against exposure to respirable crystalline silica accordingly. were covered by a collective bargaining agreement, the As a Group-wide target, at least 95% of all ceramic percentage being almost the same as in 2016. production sites are to report on measures taken to protect employees from respirable crystalline silica. Companies with a primary focus on the production With almost 98% of all ceramic plants reporting on their of building materials traditionally have a high percentage measures, the target was again surpassed in 2017. of male employees. In 2017, the number of new entrants was 2,235, i.e. 265 more than in 2016. The number of women among the new entrants continued to rise in 2017 from 274 to 342, the number of men from 1,696 to 1,893. The percentage of women among the new entrants UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2017 7 increased from 13.9% to 15.3%, whereas the percentage Commitment of men declined from 86.1% to 84.7%. As at 31/12/2017, Our goal is to minimize the environmental impact the total percentage of women employed by the of our production processes and our use of raw materials. Wienerberger Group was 13.8%, i.e. slightly above the A responsible way of operating our clay extraction sites, previous year’s value (13.6%). The percentages of women the best possible conservation of resources, and an increase in the individual functional areas remained almost in the percentage of recycled materials used: these are the unchanged compared to the previous year. central principles governing our production activity. We are well aware that industrial production processes always In 2017, 12% of senior management positions were involve the consumption of resources and a certain degree held by women, unchanged from the previous year. We of interference with the natural environment. Therefore, continued to adhere to our policy of giving preference production in harmony with the environment is a matter to women for new appointments to senior management of great importance to us. and executive positions, provided the candidates’ qualifications were equal. One specific measure to Progress in 2017 increase the number of women in senior management Specific energy consumption and specific CO2 and executive positions at Wienerberger is to enable emissions are two of the essential indicators of environwomen to embark on suitable career paths at an mentally friendly production technologies. Wienerberger early point in time. has set itself the target to reduce these parameters by 20% each in ceramic production by 2020, as compared to The reconciliation of work and family life is an issue 2010. However, the Wienerberger Group’s total energy of special concern to Wienerberger. We therefore offer consumption increased by 3.9% in 2017. The main reason our employees the possibility of working part-time. This for the increase is the higher volume of brick and plastic offer is being taken up by a growing number of female as pipe production as well as the increase in concrete paver well as male employees. The percentage of Wienerberger production at some production sites. Changes in the employees working part-time increased slightly to 3.6% product mix in plastic pipe and concrete paver production in 2017 (+0.1 percentage points). The percentage of also led to an increase in energy consumption in absolute women in part-time employment amounted to 16.1% terms in 2017. in 2017, down by 0.7 percentage points from the previous year. At the same time, the percentage of men working In 2017, specific energy consumption dropped by part-time increased slightly to 1.6% in 2017 (+0.2 0.8% from the previous year’s level in the Wienerberger percentage points). Group as a whole and by 1.7% in ceramic production. Global Compact Principles – Continuous efforts are being made by Wienerberger Environmental Protection to convert its production processes to low-emission energy Principles 7, 8 and 9 sources in order to further reduce our climate-relevant Businesses should support a precautionary approach CO2 emissions. The North America Division is a noteto environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to worthy example of the success achieved: All its active promote greater environmental responsibility; and production lines were converted from high-emission encourage the development and diffusion of environ­ coal to low-emission natural gas in 2017. The share mentally friendly technologies. of renewable energy sources in the consumption of electricity, based on kWh per ton, increased significantly to a satisfactory 37% in 2017, up by 19.4 percentage points from the previous year. 8 UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2017 The index of specific CO2 emissions from primary for 2017 is to reduce its scrap rate by 50% compared to energy sources in kg CO2 per ton of ceramic products the reference value from 2014. The target was almost produced was reduced by 2.3%, as compared to the attained at 45.3%. The scrap rate is to be further reduced previous year. The reductions in specific CO2 emission through the optimization of technologies, tools and were most pronounced in the production of clay blocks processes as well as by raising our employees’ awareness (-2.8%) and facing bricks (-2.0%). Specific CO2 emissions for resource efficiency in the plants. Pipelife’s target is to from primary energy sources in ceramic production increase the amount of recycling material used per ton dropped more strongly (-2.3% as compared to 2016) than of products produced to 70 kg (reference value in 2014: specific energy consumption (-1.7%). This is due to the 58.9 kg/t). In 2017, the amount of recycling material per ongoing, consistent substitution of CO2-intensive energy ton of products produced increased by 1.8 to 67.2 kg/ton. sources, such as coal and fuel oil, by natural gas. As part of its commitment to the precautionary Pipelife has set itself the target to reduce the volume principle in dealing with environmental problems, of specific indirect CO2 emissions (primarily from the Wienerberger has for years been working intensively on consumption of electricity) in production by 20% from the voluntary preparation of eco-balances and environthe level reported in 2010. In 2017, Pipelife’s indirect mental product declarations (EPDs) for its entire product CO2 emissions from electricity were 1% higher than in range. Moreover, all ceramic pipes and fittings produced the previous year, which was due, among other factors, by Steinzeug-Keramo as well as selected Semmelrock to changes in the product mix. product lines have been successfully certified according to the Cradle to Cradle® concept. Specific water consumption is another indicator of the use of environmentally friendly technologies. We are Global Compact Principles – making every effort to use water sparingly, for instance Fight against Corruption by running it in closed circuits and drawing primarily on Principle 10 our own wells. We are happy to report that in 2017 the Businesses should work against corruption in all total volume of specific water consumption, based on its forms, including extortion and bribery. net additions to inventories, was reduced in all product groups. Pipelife’s target is to reduce its consumption of Commitment water from public networks to 0.55 m³ per ton of Wienerberger is committed to fair and free products produced by 2020. In plastic pipe production, competition; this implies a firm stance against any form however, specific water consumption from public of corruption. We have always pursued the target of networks amounted to 0.95 m³ per ton in 2017. This zero incidents of corruption and expect all our employees unsatisfactory increase is also due, among other factors, to act accordingly. to changes in the product mix. Wienerberger is making a continuous effort to increase resource efficiency in production and, at the same time, further improve the properties of its products. Our particular focus is on reducing raw material consumption and using secondary raw materials in those areas of production where it is economically and technically feasible. We are also working on a continuous reduction of scrap rates and the recycling of production waste and residual materials into production. Semmelrock’s target UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2017 9 Progress in 2017 Global Compact Principles – Wienerberger expects all employees of the Implementation in the Supply Chain Wienerberger Group to act in full compliance with the To an increasing extent, Wienerberger verifies law. Any infringement constitutes a breach of duty. Should compliance with the principles of the Global Compact a suspicion of unlawful behavior be confirmed, the along its supply chain and therefore obliges its suppliers employee concerned will be sanctioned under labor law or to observe social and ecological minimum standards. civil law, depending on the extent of damage caused. Wienerberger demands observance of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact on human rights, occupational In 2017, internal audits were performed in 23 comhealth and safety, environmental protection and the fight panies, with a special focus on organization, purchasing, against corruption along its supply chain. Almost all materials management, sales and human resources, as well business areas have laid down their minimum requireas corruption and anti-trust legislation. Another priority ments in specific supplier codes of conduct, which was compliance with the Group-wide standards on health suppliers have to sign upon conclusion of a contract and and safety. In 2017, no judgment was pronounced against comply with in their transactions. Wienerberger intends Wienerberger for corruption, nor were any penalty to apply a Group-wide “Supplier Code of Conduct”. payments due. No negative reports were issued by the authorities in charge. For further information: Christine Vieira Paschoalique Corporate Sustainability Officer Wienerberger AG A-1100 Vienna Wienerberg City, Wienerbergstraße 11 T +43 1 60 192 10 180 M +43 664 812 11 22 christine.paschoalique@wienerberger.com 10 GRI G4 Content Table GRI G4 Content Table General standard disclosures Indicator Page in Part of UN Global Sustainability external Compact Update assurance Principles Strategy & Analysis 1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 6­–8 Organizational Profile 3–9 Name, headquarters, scale, legal form, brands and products, locations and markets 9–13, 19, Annual Report 111–112 10–11 Total number of employees by employment contract, gender, supervised employees, regions and 33–35, 43–45 any significant variations in employment numbers 12 Description of supply chain 19–21 13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, no significant ownership, or its supply chain changes 14 Handling of precautionary approach or principle addressed by the organization 16, 93 UNGC 7 15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other 16, 18, 90–94 initiatives to which the organization subscribes 16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) 18, 84 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries 17 List of all entities included in the organization‘s consolidated financial statements 85, Annual Report 200 18–21 Process for defining the report content, material aspects, aspect boundaries inside 19–22, Website, 2014 and outside of the organization Materiality Analysis 2014 by PWC 22–23 Restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for 53 and mentioned in the such restatements footnotes of respective indicators Stakeholder Engagement 24–27 List of stakeholder groups engaged, basis for identification of stakeholders, organization’s 18–19 approach to stakeholder engagement and topics that came up during the stakeholder process Materiality Analysis 2014 Report Profile 28–30 Reporting period, date of most recent previous report and reporting cycle 85 31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 94 32 Report of the “in-accordance”-option, GRI-index of the selected option, 85 reference to the external audit report 33 Policies of the organization regarding external audit of the report, scope of audit and relationship 85, 95–96 to audit company Governance 34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees responsible for decisions 18, Website, Annual Report 2014 regarding the economic, ecological and social impact 48–69 by PWC Ethics and Integrity 56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as 16–17 codes of conduct and codes of ethics GRI G4 Content Table 11 Specific standard disclosures Indicator Page in Part of UN Global Sustainability external Compact Report assurance Principles Economic Performance Aspect: Economic Performance DMA Disclosure on management approach 9–10 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 11 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations Annual Report 164–167 Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 84 Environment Aspect: Materials UNGC 7, 8, 9 DMA Disclosure on management approach 18, 52, 65–69 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 58–59, Website, Materiality Analysis 2014 Aspect: Energy UNGC 7, 8, 9 DMA Disclosure on management approach 18, 52–56, 61–62 yes EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 54 yes EN5 Energy intensity 55–56 yes EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 54–56 Aspect: Water UNGC 7, 8, 9 DMA Disclosure on management approach 18, 59, 66 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 59 Aspect: Emissions UNGC 7, 8, 9 DMA Disclosure on management approach 18, 52–53, 56–58, 63–64 yes EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 57 yes EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 57–58 yes EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 57–58 Aspect: Products and Services UNGC 9 DMA Disclosure on management approach 74–81 EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 74–81 Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment UNGC 7, 8 DMA Disclosure on management approach 8, 22, 59, 67, 70–71, 92–93 EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain 8, 22, 59, 67, and actions taken 70–71, 92–93 12 GRI G4 Content Table GRI G4 Content Table Specific standard disclosures Indicator Page in Part of UN Global Sustainability external Compact Report assurance Principles Labor practices and decent work Aspect: Employment UNGC 3, 4, 5, 6 DMA Disclosure on management approach 17, 32 yes LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, 33–35, 43–45 yes gender, and region Detailed reporting fully in line with GRI requirements is currently not possible. The adaptation of the according reporting is in progress. Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety DMA Disclosure on management approach 17, 32, 36–40 yes LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 36–38 yes and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Detailed reporting fully in line with GRI requirements is currently not possible. The adaptation of the according reporting is being evaluated. LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 38–40 LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 41 Aspect: Training and Education DMA Disclosure on management approach 17, 41–42 LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 41–42 Detailed reporting fully in line with GRI requirements is currently not possible. The adaptation of the according reporting is being evaluated. Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity UNGC 6 DMA Disclosure on management approach 17, 42–45 LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category 43–45, Annual Report according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 53, 54–55 Human rights Aspect: Non-discrimination UNGC 6 DMA Disclosure on management approach 17, 42 HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 42 GRI G4 Content Table 13 Specific standard disclosures Indicator Page in Part of UN Global Sustainability external Compact Report assurance Principles Human rights Aspect: Assessment UNGC 1, 2 DMA Disclosure on management approach Website, Materiality Analysis 2014 HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews Qualitative information: or impact assessments 8, 16, 18, 41, 90, 94 Reporting fully in line with GRI requirements is currently not possible. The adaptation of the according reporting is being evaluated. Society Aspect: Local Communities DMA Disclosure on management approach Website, Materiality Analysis 2014 SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local communities Website, Materiality Analysis 2014 Aspect: Anti-corruption UNGC 10 DMA Disclosure on management approach 16–17 SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption 17 and the significant risks identified SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 17 Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior DMA Disclosure on management approach 16–17 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, 17 and monopoly practices and their outcomes Aspect: Compliance DMA Disclosure on management approach 16–17 SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions 17 for non-compliance with laws and regulations Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society UNGC 1, 2 DMA Disclosure on management approach 8, 70–71, 94 SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply Qualitative Information: chain and actions taken 8, 70–71, 94 Reporting in line with GRI requirements is currently not possible. In all our business areas in Europe, minimum standards have been laid down in “supplier codes of conduct”, which have to be signed and complied with by suppliers upon conclusion of a contract. Note: The Annual Report as well as the Materiality Analysis 2014 can be found on the Wienerberger Website (www.wienerberger.com) Building the Future Wienerberger UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 sustainability@wienerberger.com www.wienerberger.com For further information: Christine Vieira Paschoalique Corporate Sustainability Officer Wienerberger AG A-1100 Vienna, Wienerberg City, Wienerbergstraße 11 Part of the Wienerberger Sustainability Update 2017
