Everyday Fun and Fresh. Integrated Report 2018 CONTENTS Contents Everyday Fun and Fresh. Editorial Policy The FamilyMart UNY Group’s Value Creation Models Beginning in 2018, FamilyMart UNY Holdings Co., Ltd., is issuing an integrated report. In preparing this report, we have combined 2 Becoming the Most Familiar and Trusted Presence Value Creation Models financial information with non-financial information, including management strategies, business summaries by segment, and 4 Value Creation Overview environmental, social, and governance information. Our aim is to further understanding of the initiatives that will sustain our growth. 6 Strategies for Adding Value The Company is leveraging a network of approximately 17,000 brick-and-mortar stores in Japan to achieve Accelerated Pursuit of New Growth. Integrated Report 2018 explains how By continuously creating new value for our customers, we help make their we will add value to these stores, create value, and build a strong Management Message chain. In addition, the report shows how—thanks to their links 8 To Our Stakeholders lives more fun and fresh every day. Valuing people as individuals, with customers and local communities—brick-and-mortar stores also play a pivotal role in realizing initiatives that address social issues. In this way, the report offers a unified picture of all of our Management Message we aim to be a familiar and trusted presence in their lives. corporate activities. Medium-Term Management Plan In this report, “the Company” refers to FamilyMart UNY Holdings, while “the FamilyMart UNY Group” refers to the 14 Fiscal 2018 Management Plan Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, affiliates, and jointly controlled companies. 16 Accelerated Pursuit of New Growth Voluntary Adoption of International Financial Reporting 18 CLOSE Adding Value through Standards (IFRS) FamilyMart UNY Holdings Co., Ltd., decided to voluntarily adopt UP Brand Integration the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) starting Medium-Term Management Plan with its securities report for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017. Performance data (including forecasts) contained in this Business Strategies report is disclosed in accordance with IFRS unless otherwise specifically stated. 22 Convenience Store Business Cautionary Statement 30 General Merchandise Store Business This report contains forward-looking statements, including the Company’s strategies, future business plans, and projections. Such forward-looking statements are not based on historical Initiatives for Social Issues facts and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that relate to, but are not necessarily confined to, such areas as 36 Leveraging Brick-and-Mortar Stores to Tackle Key Issues economic trends and consumer preferences in Japan and abrupt changes in the market environment. Accordingly, the actual busi38 Reducing the Environmental Burden of Products in ness performance of the Company may substantially differ from Supply Chains Business Strategies the forward-looking statements in this report. 40 Catering Rapidly to Diversifying Demand through Product Development 42 Coexistence with Local Communities / Helping Invigorate Communities 44 Developing Personnel and Organizations for Accelerated Pursuit of New Growth Initiatives for Social Issues Corporate Governance and Internal Control System 46 Board of Directors and Executive Officers 48 Brief Personal History of Directors 49 Brief Personal History of Corporate Auditors 50 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance and 55 Internal Control System / IR Activities Data and Financial Section Internal Control System 56 Fact Sheets 72 Consolidated Performance 73 Operating Data (Non-consolidated) 74 Management’s Discussion and Analysis Data and Financial Section 80 Operational and Other Risks 82 Consolidated Financial Statements 87 History 88 Corporate Data / Investor Information 89 Organization Integrated Report 2018 1 The FamilyMart UNY Group’s Value Creation Models VALUE CREATION MODELS Becoming the Most Familiar The FamilyMart UNY Group has two mainstay businesses: the convenience store (CVS) business and the general merchandising store (GMS) business. The Group is advancing concerted measures based on its and Trusted Presence “Everyday Fun and Fresh” Group principles. Through these efforts, we aim to be the most familiar and trusted presence in customers’ lives. Value Creation Models Number of store staff in Japan Stores globally Approx. Approx. 24,000 220,000 Store Network Rooted Relationships with in Local Communities Customers Based on The Group has built a network comprisIn-House Cards ing roughly 17,000 stores in Japan. By operating stores that are rooted in local As well as deepening relationships with communities, we have established customers, our point-accruing in-house ourselves as an essential part of the cards will help us develop new busiinfrastructure of society and daily life. nesses in the financial service field. In-house card members Approx. 20 million System for Providing Valued Products Mainly in the food field, we have built a supply chain that reliably procures high-quality raw materials and manufactures and delivers products that cater to demand in a timely manner. Store visits per day in Japan Approx. 16 million Store Facilities Reflecting Brick-andChanging Needs Mortar Stores We have not only enhanced our product lineup but have also added a The greatest attribute of the FamilyMart range of facilities to our stores, such as UNY Group is that its businesses are ATMs and eat-in spaces. based on brick-and-mortar stores, where Stores in Japan customers can handle real products as they browse. Capitalizing on the advanApprox. tages of having points of contact with customers and providing them with 17,000 services through store staff, we are evolving our business models so that we can cater to society’s changing needs in a timely manner. 2 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 3 The FamilyMart UNY Group’s Value Creation Models VALUE CREATION MODELS Brick-and-mortar stores are at the core of the FamilyMart UNY Group’s provision of added value. The Value Creation Overview Group continually heightens its social and economic value by remaining in step with social changes to garner customer endorsement while further evolving unique advantages. Value Creation Models Social problems in Japan Aging society Decreasing working-age population Increasing safety, reassurance, and health needs Adding value Economic Increasing demands of a recyclingbased society The FamilyMart UNY Group will Strengthening management foundaadd value by evolving its unique tions, enhancing profitability Store Network System for attributes and advantages even Rooted in Local Providing Valued Expanding customer base further. Communities Products Increasing competitiveness of products and services Creating new revenue-generating businesses Social changes E nhancing competitiveness for hiring and development of personnel Core of businesses  rowing profit margins by increasing G operational efficiency Brick-andRapid technological progress mortar stores Offering a full lineup of products and Increasing automation services and being a familiar presence G  rowing presence of e-commerce for customers are at the core of in retail our businesses. Expanding AI and IoT markets Store Facilities Reflecting Relationships Value we create Changing Needs with Customers Based on In-House Cards Social For customers Providing products and services that match demand Eliminating inconvenient shopping areas For local communities Group Principles Revitalizing local communities Everyday Fun and Fresh P roviding products and services that meet safety, reassurance, and health needs Corporate Governance / Risk Management Building a recycling-based society P50 P36 4 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 5 The FamilyMart UNY Group’s Value Creation Models VALUE CREATION MODELS The retail industry is at a major turning point. Structural change in society and rapid technological progress Strategies for Adding Value are compelling retailers not just to revamp the products and services they offer but to rethink how they do business. We will continue taking on challenges with the aim of growing into a retail group that provides new value centered on brick-and-mortar stores. Value Creation Models Boosting product Establishing appeal high-quality stores We are achieving differentiation in the food field by developing high-quality original As well as rebuilding our store network to products that cater to the growing concern strengthen area dominance, we are collabowith health and food safety. rating with partners to create stores that attract even more customers. System for Providing Valued Products Store Network Rooted in Local Communities Brick-andmortar stores Core of businesses Relationships with Customers Based on Store Facilities In-House Cards Reflecting Changing Needs Creating new revenueDeveloping generating businesses next-generation stores We are considering the investment of management resources not only in traditional We are capturing new demand by leveraging merchandising businesses but also in new IT in store creation and by opening newgrowth fields that utilize credit card functions concept stores based on partnerships with and memberships. companies belonging to industries with which we have strong affinities. 6 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 7 Management Message MANAGEMENT MESSAGE To Our Stakeholders Looking Back on a Year of Two Integrations More than a year ago, I became president of FamilyMart whole proceeding as planned. UNY Holdings Co., Ltd. At the time, my most important In fiscal 2017, we cemented the foundations of new mission was to lay organizational foundations that would growth by bringing forward measures to address concerns. maximize management integration synergies. With this in For example, we closed underperforming stores ahead of mind, I have been focusing efforts on two types of integraschedule. Also, in August we formed a capital and operation. First, we are proceeding with brand integration on an tional tie-up with Don Quijote Holdings Co., Ltd., which Management Message unprecedented scale in the CVS business. Second, we are operates discount stores under the Don Quijote brand. maximizing synergies within the Group by combining the Thus, in fiscal 2017, the year ended February 28, 2018, we strengths of operating companies. Efforts to integrate made strategic moves for future growth. brands in the CVS business are progressing well, including Thanks to the aforementioned initiatives, in fiscal 2017 the rebuilding of supply chains. Our goal is to convert all net profit attributable to owners of parent surpassed our Circle K and Sunkus stores to FamilyMart stores by initial forecast of ¥24.0 billion by ¥9.6 billion to reach November 2018. Further, integration of the Group, includ¥33.6 billion, establishing the foundations for earnings ing the cultivation of solidarity among personnel, is on the in the current fiscal year and beyond. Entrenching the “Everyday IMPROVE” Mind-Set As a large entity accounting for sales of approximately ¥4 we have to improve and innovate continually. Further, trillion, the Group must develop even more cohesively and accumulating small, day-to-day improvements will enable accelerate its responses to the dizzying pace of change in major transformations. As their behavior changes, the Koji Takayanagi competitive conditions and consumer behavior. For this attitude of each employee will change. This change will reason, we have set out Everyday IMPROVE as the slogan transform the organization and enable us to continue Representative Director and President FamilyMart UNY Holdings Co., Ltd. of the medium-term management plan. To ensure that providing customers with value. Please expect to see us sales floors—the front line of retail operations—are always IMPROVE. fresh and appealing places that customers enjoy visiting, 18/2 Results, 19/2 Numerical Targets (Consolidated, IFRS) (¥ billion) 18/2 19/2 PL Group sales* 3,728.8 3,682.5 Operating revenues 1,275.3 1,270.2 Core operating income 66.2 77.3 Net profit attributable to owners of parent 33.6 40.0 We will alter course by stepping up BS Interest-bearing liabilities 502.1 500.0 the creation of new retail formats Shareholders’ equity Ratios 543.2 570.0 D/E ratio (times) 0.9 0.9 based on brick-and-mortar stores. ROE (%) 6.3 7.2 * Calculated using the non-consolidated operating revenues (JGAAP) of FamilyMart (including those of franchised stores) and UNY 8 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 9 Management Message MANAGEMENT MESSAGE To Our Stakeholders Leveraging and Strengthening Brick-and-Mortar Stores growing earnings through expansion of store networks and the sale of goods are beginning to lose traction. To “ Our goals are to have a strong presence as a chain and outstanding retail cater to the changes in consumer behavior and the diversicapabilities. To achieve these goals, fication of demand due to expansion of the e-commerce market, coupled with the evolution of leading-edge techfirst of all we must rigorously improve ” nologies, we must be willing to take on out-of-the-box existing stores. Management Message ideas that revolutionize business formats. We have set out Everyday IMPROVE as a slogan because maintaining this mind-set is the most important way of heightening competitiveness in the current conditions. One of our advantages is that we have brick-andmortar stores. The greatest assets of the FamilyMart UNY Group are its stores, which are points of contact with customers and local communities, and its networks, which provide products and information to each store. The When formulating growth strategies, we will not prevail Group’s growth strategy entails capitalizing on the unique against our competition if we target a corporate profile capabilities of brick-and-mortar stores while strengthening Improving the Quality of Existing Stores  that is premised on continuing established approaches to these capabilities even further to achieve differentiation the retail business. Amid Japan’s shifting demographic and create revolutionary new business formats that are Brand integration in the CVS business and management investment to add value to products. For example, we are composition and the emergence of competition that tranbased on brick-and-mortar stores. integration have established a network of brick-and-mortar introducing new coffee machines to the CVS business. In scends business categories, business models based on stores that underpins the business. In other words, we addition, we are moving forward with the prepared dish have secured scale. While resolutely keeping this scale, we project, which laterally introduces to the GMS business will focus on boosting the competitiveness of existing successes from structural reform in ready-to-eat items. Accelerating Pursuit of New Growth stores. We will implement a build-and-scrap (B&S) strategy In conjunction with these measures, we will accelerate to establish stores in optimal locations and introduce strainvestment designed to increase the efficiency of store tegic new fixtures to improve store environments. operations and reduce workloads. We will renew cash Achieving complete integration was the main focus of the further and establishing fresh differentiation in the GMS Moreover, we will proactively reform store layouts with a registers, product shelves, and other store equipment. The initiatives set out in the medium-term management plan business as a new lifestyle creation retail business. In addiview to increasing store capabilities. At the same time, we aim of such renewals is to enhance labor productivity by announced in April 2017. As I have already mentioned, tion, customers’ purchasing information obtained through will raise the quality of the network even further by only simplifying work processes and shortening the time they however, given that we have made a certain amount of loyalty cards and the information infrastructure that we opening new stores that are highly profitable. take. A further aim is to allow store staff to concentrate on progress with the brand integration of the CVS business have established to use this information for product develFocusing on products that encourage customers to visit realizing high-quality store operations and cordial customer and integration among organizations, in fiscal 2018, the opment and marketing are important management stores, we are also enhancing the quality of ready-to-eat service, which are the forte of brick-and-mortar stores. year ending February 28, 2019, we are moving into a resources that we have accumulated through points of items. As part of this effort, we are implementing capital phase of Accelerated Pursuit of New Growth. While contact with customers at brick-and-mortar stores. We are leveraging and strengthening brick-and-mortar stores, we considering the creation of new revenue-generating busiare beginning full-scale efforts to establishing foundations nesses that leverage these management resources to for earnings growth. create high added value and which go beyond the boundCreating New Revenue-Generating Businesses  Our goals are to have a strong presence as a chain aries of product sales. In light of these plans, we have and outstanding retail capabilities. To achieve these earmarked ¥140.0 billion for investment in Accelerated Outside the merchandising area, we are considering the e-commerce, and other businesses that can utilize the goals, first of all we must rigorously improve existing Pursuit of New Growth in fiscal 2018. We will concentrate creation of businesses that are highly compatible with current store network and infrastructure to enhance cusstores. I see our priority tasks for the immediate future efforts on improving the quality of existing stores and brick-and-mortar stores and that can become new earntomer convenience. Regarding financial services busias strengthening store capabilities in the CVS business creating new revenue-generating businesses. ings mainstays. We envision businesses that can take maxinesses, in fiscal 2017 we reorganized Group companies to mum advantage of stores as points of contact with consolidate the financial services-related capabilities of our customers and the supply chains that underpin the store CVS and GMS businesses. With our sights set on the new network. Specifically, strong candidates are financial serpotential of financial services, we plan to prepare concrete vices businesses related to settlement and loyalty points, strategies during 2018. businesses that use logistics networks to service 10 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 11 Management Message MANAGEMENT MESSAGE To Our Stakeholders Utilizing the Resources of Other Industries  Leveraging Strong Stores to Sustain Growth In the retail industry, competition is transforming rapidly. business operates can swiftly cater to the diversifying Looking over the initiatives that I have described so far as a Competition that existed between chains is becoming needs of customers by offering them the product and whole, we are steadily establishing the tangibles for new competition between business formats, while online and service lineups of other types of business in combination growth, including store networks and organizations, stratbrick-and-mortar businesses are becoming rivals. On the with the convenience of our stores. Other examples of egies, and operational collaborations. Going forward, other hand, I get the distinct feeling that there is burgeonusing the mutually complementary management resources however, we need to strengthen intangibles. The prime ing potential for business collaborations across industry of other types of businesses to establish foundations for movers in the creation of new ideas are not organizations Management Message boundaries. I think that in competitive conditions where accelerated growth strategies are the strengthening of our but people. To shift from an earnings model focused on speed is of the essence there will be a constant rise in relationship with Don Quijote Holdings Co., Ltd., through procuring and selling products to one that adds functions cases where we find opportunities for new growth by a capital and operational tie-up and becoming a consolito sales floors, we should not only rely on external securing expertise or resources that we do not have dated subsidiary of ITOCHU Corporation, the Company’s resources but also actively foster and hire personnel with a through business alliances with partners in other induslargest shareholder. variety of different mind-sets and fields of expertise. I feel tries. For example, the integrated stores that our CVS that, at the same time as inculcating the Everyday IMPROVE mind-set, we have to develop systems and workplace environments that promote a corporate culture that is conducive to new ideas and take on ambitious challenges. In addiLearning from Retailers with Different Approaches  tion, the FamilyMart UNY Group’s businesses must cater to distributing profits to shareholders on a stable and conthe needs of society and address its issues. In my view, levertinuous basis commensurate with its consolidated operatAt this point, I would like to explain the capital and operaresources and building a new business format that tranaging our assets—in other words, brick-and-mortar stores ing performance. Guided by this basic policy, we target a tional tie-up with Don Quijote Holdings. While Don scends existing retailing categories was very attractive. rooted in local communities—to continue providing new consolidated payout ratio of 40%. For fiscal 2018, we Quijote Holdings is also a retailer, its approach to store In February and March 2018, we opened six doublevalue aimed at addressing social issues will sustain not only have set an annual dividend of ¥127 per share, up ¥15 management differs greatly from that of our chain. The branded MEGA Don Quijote UNY stores in the Chukyo our development but that of society at large. year on year. Going forward, we will continue to invest company delegates significant responsibility for purchasing area around the city of Nagoya and in Kanagawa As for our earnings growth scenario, taking into account aggressively to grow earnings while proactively advancing and pricing to Don Quijote stores. Unlike the chain stores Prefecture. At all of these stores, sales and customer numthe creation of new revenue-generating businesses, the returns to shareholders. of the GMS business, Don Quijote stores attract a broad bers are favorable. More than these successes, however, medium-term management plan sets a target of ¥60.0 As we pursue new growth, I would like to ask all of our customer group by offering an array of different products the fact that UNY employees are absorbing know-how is a billion for profit for the year attributable to owners of the stakeholders for their continued support of FamilyMart at each store and creating individualistic sales floors, which major boon. Experiencing the Don Quijote approach to parent in fiscal 2020. In fiscal 2018, partly thanks to the UNY Holdings. reflect the strong commitment of store staff to earnings day-to-day store management firsthand is inspiring the bringing forward of measures to address concerns, which I June 2018 generation that is based on selling all products in stock. employees who volunteered to participate in the opening mentioned earlier, we will steadily advance management We decided to form an operational tie-up with Don and operation of double-branded stores. While monitoring strategies with a view to achieving profit for the year attribRepresentative Director and President the results of the six stores, we will actively incorporate the FamilyMart UNY Holdings Co., Ltd. Quijote Holdings because the potential for creating synerutable to owners of the parent of ¥40.0 billion. gies through the use of each company’s management Don Quijote approach into the management of UNY stores. As for the distribution of profits, given that it views returning profits to shareholders as an important management task, the Company maintains the basic policy of Combining Merchandising with Enhanced Store Capabilities  Dividend per Share and Payout Ratio In April 2018, ITOCHU Corporation, the Company’s largest For many years, ITOCHU has been collaborating with us Dividend per share (¥) Payout ratio (%) shareholder, announced its intention to implement a in a broad variety of operational areas, including functions 127 tender offer for shares in the Company. We approved this related to supply chains for ready-to-eat items, store man106 110 112 112 100 102 tender offer as we concluded that becoming ITOCHU’s agement, and information systems. In considering new subsidiary would contribute to enhancement of our corpobusinesses outside the merchandising area, such as finan82 57.4 70 72 rate value over the medium to long term. Upon complecial services and businesses that service e-commerce, we 46.9 37.9 42.8 49.6 42.1 40.2 tion of the tender offer, ITOCHU will become our parent believe that it makes sense to use ITOCHU’s trading com44.2 37.9 39.2 company and hold the majority of our voting rights. pany capabilities and networks rather than only relying on However, we intend to continue independent business our own resourcefulness. Therefore, the Group will management as a listed company that also benefits minoradvance businesses based on optimized cooperation. 10/2 11/2 12/2 13/2 14/2 15/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 19/2 ity shareholders. (plan) JGAAP IFRS 12 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 13 Medium-Term Management Plan MEDIUM-TERM MANAGEMENT PLAN Fiscal 2018 Management Plan —Accelerated Pursuit of New Growth— Fiscal 2018 Priority Measures Earnings Growth Scenario  In fiscal 2018, the year ending March 31, 2019, with In fiscal 2017, the year ended March 31, 2018, we brought forward the closures of underperforming stores and the recogAccelerated Pursuit of New Growth as our goal, we will Total investment for FY2018 ¥140.0 billion nition of impairment losses to address future concerns associated with the CVS and GMS businesses. Consequently, we concentrate on establishing foundations for medium-toexpect to have significantly lower impairment loss risk from fiscal 2018 onward. Taking into account contributions to earnlong-term growth while beginning preparations for the Amount ings from new revenue-generating businesses, the Group is targeting ¥60.0 billion for profit for the year attributable to creation of new revenue-generating businesses. Therefore, Breakdown of investment by measure owners of the parent in fiscal 2020, the medium-term management plan’s final year. the majority of investment in fiscal 2018 will focus on the Reinforcement of store foundations ¥105.0 billion CVS segment + New GMS segment (60% of total profit attributable to the Company from FY2018) CVS business. Given that the investment needed for man(¥ billion) Enhancement of product competitiveness ¥12.0 billion agement integration will have ended, starting from fiscal 60.0 Medium-Term Management Plan 2019 we plan to pursue a basic policy of keeping investImprovement of store operating procedures ¥20.0 billion 2016/9 ment within the scope of operating cash flows. Management Integration 50.0 11.5 Development of earnings foundations in New financial and peripheral e-commerce ¥3.0 billion + 40.0 10.0 operations 33.6 9.6 Breakdown of investment by segment 21.0 21.5 17.7 48.5 * CVS business, HD, new ¥127.0 billion 40.0 * 9.8 30.4 * GMS business ¥13.0 billion 21.0 15.9 * 11.7* 16/2 17/2 18/2 19/2 20/2 21/2 Plan Target Target 1 Improvement of quality at existing stores JGAAP IFRS * Includes adjustments and HD CVS GMS Complete brand conversion Develop UD Retail business Interest-Bearing Liabilities and Advance B&S initiatives Reinforcement of store foundations R  enovate existing stores and R  enovate existing stores and the D/E Ratio Dividend Policy  improve facilities improve facilities Open high-quality stores, etc. Open high-quality stores, etc. As we will continue actively investing from fiscal 2019 Targeting a consolidated payout ratio of 40%, we will onward, we expect interest-bearing liabilities to remain distribute profits to shareholders on a stable and continuImprove quality of ready-to-eat  dvance side dish project A around ¥500.0 billion. However, we aim to improve the ous basis commensurate with our consolidated operating items and conduct capital Enhancement of product investments (develop products through team D/E ratio to approximately 0.7 times by accumulating performance. competitiveness merchandising, renovate sales shareholders’ equity through earnings growth. Introduce new coffee machines, floors), etc. etc. Interest-bearing liabilities Shareholders’ equity D/E ratio (times) Dividend per share (¥) Improvement of store operating E nhance operational efficiency Invest in new systems (¥ billion) 8000 210 Approx. 190 procedures (introduce new store facilities, etc.) (introduce new registers, etc.) Approx. 0.8 0.96 Approx. 0.7 0.92 Approx. 0.9 Approx. 160 127 112 2 Creation of new revenue-generating businesses 570.0 600.0 640.0 543.2 517.8 500.0 500.0 500.0 497.8 502.1 A  dvance initiatives in the Company’s financial operations Development of earnings foundaDevelop customer database tions in financial and peripheral Improve convenience and enable smartphone compatibility for point 0 0 17/2 18/2 19/2 20/2 21/2 18/2 19/2 20/2 21/2 e-commerce operations services Plan Target Target Policy Plan Plan 14 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 15 Medium-Term Management Plan MEDIUM-TERM MANAGEMENT PLAN Since management integration in September 2016, FamilyMart UNY Holdings Co., Ltd., has given first priority to achieving complete integration. To this end, we have combined the strengths of operating companies to maximize synergies and integrated the brands of Circle K and Sunkus stores under the FamilyMart brand in the CVS business. Establishing Accelerated Aiming for Full-Scale Development of Financial Services high-quality stores Pursuit of and Businesses That Service E-Commerce New Growth To leverage the retail industry’s unique advantages to establish financial services as new growth fields, we have strengthened our relationships with Group companies responsible for financial services and businesses that service e-commerce. We will focus on such areas as payment method diversification and marketing that uses loyalty points. Establishment of UFI FUTECH fintech-related businesses in such areas as electronic Capital and Business Alliance with Don Quijote Holdings  In September 2017, we changed the status of the money, credit cards, loyalty points, and customer IDs. company that managed the FamilyMart Internet Medium-Term Management Plan shopping website to establish a new company Entrenchment of Relationship through We concluded a final agreement on a capital and business alliance with Don Quijote Holdings Co., Ltd., tasked with promoting fintech-related businesses. Joint Tender Offer Bid for Pocket Card in August 2017. In November of the same year, we completed the transfer of 40% of the issued shares Specifically, FamilyMart UNY Holdings assumed all FamilyMart acquired shares of Pocket Card Co., of UNY that we owned. shares of famima.com Co., Ltd., which had been Ltd., which manages Famima T Card, through a held by FamilyMart Co., Ltd., and changed famima. joint tender offer bid with the ITOCHU Group in Aim of the Capital and Business Alliance com’s name to UFI FUTECH Co., Ltd. We will advance November 2017. As a result, FamilyMart and the The capital and business alliance promises to enable collaborations that exploit the strengths and expertise of ITOCHU Group acquired an 80% stake in Pocket the Group’s CVS and GMS businesses and Don Quijote Holdings’ discount store business as well as realize Card. Based on this reinforced relationship, we complementary benefits. In addition, we want to create a new GMS business through close collaboration that will further strengthen financial services, which includes joint investment. This collaboration will extend our customer base to encompass younger generations promise to become a new growth field. and capitalize on the store development and management know-how of the discount store business. Creating new Transfer of 40% of UNY shares revenue-generating Conversion of UCS into a Wholly Owned businesses Subsidiary of UNY Payment for share transfer Ownership ratio: 100% Ownership ratio: 60% In May 2018, UNY made UCS CO., LTD., a wholly owned subsidiary by acquiring its shares through Ownership ratio: 40% a share exchange. UCS is a Group company that Repayment of part Loan in amount linked to operates credit card businesses as well as insurance of loan to UFHD ownership ratio and leasing businesses. We will combine UNY’s store Ownership ratio: 100% network with UCS’ business expertise to strengthen UD Retail marketing initiatives and broaden the customer base. At the same time, by investing in systems Establishment of UD Retail as the GMS business grows, UCS will strengthen One of the main focuses of the alliance between UNY and Don Quijote Holdings is the management and financial services and increase management effioperation of double-branded MEGA Don Quijote UNY stores. To create an organization for the manageciency, thereby enhancing the Group’s profitability. ment of these stores during and after conversion, the Company established UD Retail Co., Ltd., as a wholly owned subsidiary of UNY in November 2017. The assets of stores to be converted were transferred from UNY to the new subsidiary through an absorption-type demerger. Completion of Convenience Store Brand Integration Opening of Double-Branded Stores Joint Trial Using FamilyMart Stores Since management integration in September 2016, we have been steadily converting Circle K and February 2018 saw the unveiling of the MEGA In June 2018, we launched a joint trial that Sunkus stores to the FamilyMart brand. We plan to complete unification of the brands into a single brand Don Quijote UNY Oguchi store—the first UNY entails incorporating Don Quijote’s product by November 2018. store converted to a double-branded store. The lineup, sales floors, and management methods at While converting stores, we are optimizing the existing supply chains of each convenience store chain. six double-branded stores we had opened by three FamilyMart stores in Tokyo. After increasing efficiency by reorganizing and integrating production and distribution bases, we will March got off to an impressive start by surpassing implement new investments to enhance profitability and product quality. projections for sales and customer numbers. P29 P18 P34 16 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 17 Medium-Term Management Plan MEDIUM-TERM MANAGEMENT PLAN Converting Products, Infrastructure, and Stores  CLOSE UP Adding Value through In preparation for brand conversion, we completed the conversion to FamilyMart products at Circle K and Sunkus stores As of the end of February 2018, we had rightsized production bases for ready-to-eat items from 120 to 96 bases and Brand Integration by the end of February 2017 and unified logistics in June of distribution bases from 213 to 164 bases compared with Convenience Store Business the same year. Other preparations before the brand convertheir numbers at the time of management integration. sion included integrating services by enabling the use of With respect to manufacturing bases, we aim to raise T-POINT and other services at these stores in August 2017. profitability through a reorganization that dedicates each In addition, we increased efficiency by integrating a plant to the manufacture of products within a specific Convenience store brand conversion is moving forward briskly, with post-conversion daily sales and range of different functions and infrastructure related to temperature range. We will implement the new investcustomer numbers above their pre-conversion levels. In the next phase, our network of 17,000 stores in store management. FamilyMart has been implementing ment in plants that this reorganization requires. As for Japan will work in concert to accelerate initiatives to provide new added value. structural reform in ready-to-eat items since fiscal 2014, the logistics networks, in addition to rightsizing distribution year ended February 28, 2015. This reform has two objecbases, we have streamlined delivery routes to achieve tives: enhancing product quality through new investment overall optimization. For the supply chain as a whole, a and increasing efficiency through reorganization of producsmaller fleet of delivery vehicles will result in approximate Brand Conversion on an Unprecedented Scale  tion and distribution bases. Since management integration, annual reductions of 53 million kilometers in delivery disFamilyMart has extended these initiatives to encompass tances and 20,000 tons in CO2 emissions compared with reorganization of the entire supply chains of Circle K and levels prior to management integration. Furthermore, Medium-Term Management Plan After management integration, FamilyMart Co., Ltd., faced Sunkus stores, including the production bases for ready-toamid concerns about a declining working-age population, a daunting task. It had to convert the brands of roughly eat items, distribution bases, and logistics networks that reorganization measures promise to lower manpower 5,000 convenience stores in just over two years. This was a AFTER have been producing and handling the stores’ products. requirements for driving and other operations. project on an unprecedented scale. However, we realized that completing the brand conversion as quickly as possible was essential if we were to create management inteTimeline until Completion of Brand Integration gration synergies and provide customers with new added value. Therefore, we made brand conversion our highest 2016/9 Management 2018/11 Integration Completion of priority management strategy and took maximum advan2017/2 Brand Conversion tage of know-how acquired from past brand integrations Products Provision of FamilyMart products to Circle K and Sunkus stores Completion of product unification in six months involving am/pm and Cocostore. As a result, the benefits 2017/6 of brand integration are emerging clearly, with sales and Logistics Integration of logistics networks of FamilyMart customer numbers up more than 10% compared with stores with those of Circle K and Sunkus stores their levels before the conversion. 2017/8 Cards Introduction of T-POINT to Circle K and Sunkus stores Franchise Contract Package / BEFORE System Switch to FamilyMart franchise contracts and store systems at time of brand conversion Brand Conversion More Efficient Supply Chain BEFORE AFTER (2016/8/31) (2018/2/28) Circle K and Sunkus Stores after Brand Conversion Stores Converted to FM Brand Stores Daily Sales Daily Customer Numbers (¥ thousand) Up approx. Up approx. 19/2 17/2 18/2 Total 11% 12% Plan Distribution bases 213 164 Brand conversion 829 2,720 1,045 4,594 513 829 Build & scrap 64 203 140 407 462 740 Total 893 2,923 1,185 5,001 Circle K and Production bases Before After Before After Sunkus store closures 244 664 396 1,304 120 96 conversion conversion conversion conversion September 2016–February 2018 results, year on year 18 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 19 Medium-Term Management Plan MEDIUM-TERM MANAGEMENT PLAN CLOSE UP Adding Value through Brand Integration Using Strong Area Dominance to Formulate New Strategies  In developing the convenience store network, opening a franchisees who manage convenience stores through to Adding Value through Brick-and-Mortar Stores new store normally requires an investment of about ¥50 head office employees. For these reasons, we have built million per store, including deposits and other costs. frameworks that grow the entire chain by uniting franMeanwhile, the current brand integration has been allowing chised stores and the head office. For example, every six In Japan’s retail industry, competition across industry with even higher added value. Just as we have evolved us to expand the convenience store network more effimonths we hold forums in which franchisees, store staff, boundaries is becoming fiercer as drugstores and specialty brick-and-mortar stores by incorporating a range of added ciently. We are able to curb investment by remodeling a and members of the senior management team participate. stores emerge and the e-commerce market expands. value, we believe that there are limitless possibilities for single store for a little over ¥10 million. Also, we have estabAlso, when convenience stores are very busy during seaConsequently, FamilyMart needs to anticipate change and evolving business models that are based on convenience lished three basic remodeling methods, which have enabled sonal promotions we send head office employees to prorealize self-reform even more quickly than ever. stores. We will pay close attention to society’s needs and us to accelerate integration. The establishment of strong vide support. The CVS business has grown as a result of its 24-hour leverage the management resources of franchised stores Medium-Term Management Plan area dominance rapidly and efficiently in this way will be a Having one of Japan’s largest convenience store netbusiness format that caters to local customers and by and business partners to achieve further growth as a chain significant advantage for the growth of the CVS business. works gives us the foundations for achieving economies of adding store features that help provide the products and that stands apart from other chains. Having conducted several brand integrations through scale. With this in mind, we will move into a phase of services that customers seek. To realize further growth in FamilyMart in the past, we appreciate the importance of setting out new strategies that increase the rapidly changing conditions, the business must fully establishing a common philosophy and values as well as competitiveness of individual stores by making maximum exploit the advantages of its points of contact with cusrelationships of trust among everyone involved, from use of these foundations. tomers—in other words, brick-and-mortar stores—to evolve into a presence that is even more familiar to, and convenient for, customers. Major Chains’ Stores and Market Shares in Japan With brick-and-mortar stores at the core of its business strategies, FamilyMart will enhance the competitiveness of the entire chain by creating stores that provide customers Seven-Eleven Japan 20,260 FamilyMart 17,232 LAWSON 13,992 MINISTOP 2,264 Daily Yamazaki 1,553 13.0% 11.9% Seicomart 1,197 33.2% Community Store 548 23.9% 34.7% 20.8% 2016/8 2018/2 JR-EAST 494 11.0% POPLAR 461 22.0% 29.5% Three F 291 Seven-Eleven Japan FamilyMart LAWSON Circle K Sunkus Others SAVE ON 163 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 As of February 28, 2018 (December 31, 2017 for certain chains) Sources: Data released by each company 20 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 21 Business Strategies BUSINESS STRATEGIES Convenience Store Business Message from the President Moving from Brand to Organizational Integration  I became president in September 2016, a little over a year and through previous initiatives, and the general mobilization of a half ago. During this time, the whole Company has made a the capabilities of our organization and personnel. As well as concerted effort to integrate Circle K and Sunkus stores under being proud of our employees, I am genuinely thankful to CVS the FamilyMart brand. Converted stores are seeing significant everyone involved. increases in daily sales and customers. Moreover, we have Our next task is to rebuild the head office’s support system integrated manufacturing and logistics at the same time. As a for franchised stores. I feel that making brand integration our result, our expansion of the convenience store network is first priority has given rise to a range of issues with respect to creating economies of scale that are growing the earnings of optimization of the head office organization and personnel the whole chain, and we plan to complete integration by assignment. In fiscal 2018, under our new One FamilyMart November 2018. We have been able to proceed successfully slogan, we will achieve “real” integration that coalesces perConvenience Store with this 5,000-store brand conversion thanks to the tireless sonnel as well as brands and infrastructure, and we will estabBusiness efforts of franchised stores, suppliers, and personnel as well as lish an environment that allows us to maximize our support the know-how and business partner networks developed for franchised stores as important partners. Stepping Up Efforts through a Results-Oriented Organization  Takashi Sawada Representative Director and President As we advance brand integration, enhancing the quality of As part of these efforts, we renewed FamilyMart’s organiFamilyMart Co., Ltd. our store network in Japan, which has reached 17,000 stores, zation at the beginning of fiscal 2018. Aiming to establish a has become a pressing management task for the near term. group of autonomous organizations with their own goals and We aim to change course significantly by transitioning from responsibilities, we changed from a chain of command scale expansion to the stepped-up pursuit of quality and the directly under the control of the president to a system in Business Strategies cultivation of solidarity as a company. To these ends, we will which each division has overall control of important functions. take a range of measures that clarify roles and responsibilities The new system also clarifies key performance indicators. in the organization and enable it to achieve results. Under this system, we will accelerate efforts to heighten the quality of our stores. Aiming to Be Rooted in Local Communities  Being rooted in local communities is the guiding principle of that earn the overwhelming trust and endorsement of cusFamilyMart’s medium-to-long-term growth scenario. As tomers and grow while contributing to local communities. Japan’s population declines, competition in the retail industry Recent years have seen remarkable advances in a range of is becoming challenging. In addition, e-commerce businesses technologies. Seeing great potential in such technologies, we are increasing the pace of their forays into the retail industry. are working with multiple specialist organizations to utilize Our existing approach of rolling out homogeneous products leading-edge technologies for conserving energy in store and services cannot win against such fierce competition. By operations and the development of next-generation convebeing deeply rooted in each local community and responding nience stores. Meanwhile, the greatest strength of our busiflexibly to its distinctive consumer behavior and events, stores ness is the points of contact with customers that One FamilyMart: A New Mission to will become indispensable and achieve significant differentiation. With this in mind, we will create systems that support the brick-and-mortar stores give us. I am convinced that the age of digitization will, in fact, create strong demand for a return Achieve Real Integration innovation and decision-making of individual stores. Furthermore, we will consider “localizing” supervisors who to basics and services provided by people. As the name FamilyMart suggests, franchised stores, supwork in frontline operations supporting franchised stores so pliers, and the many other members of our “family” business that supervisors can participate in store development with a will unite to continue building a chain that customers support stronger sense of ownership. Through marketing that reflects because it is the “family” that belongs to local communities demand in retail zones and store management that accords and to Japan. with local communities, we aim to create convenience stores 22 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 23 Business Strategies BUSINESS STRATEGIES Convenience Store Business STRATEGY Raising the Value of the Entire Chain by Strengthening Support for Franchised Stores 1 Heightening Store Quality  Opening Quality Stores Through management integration, we estabwill close underperforming stores. As a result, the Overview of Business Conditions lished a network with the second largest number number of stores in our domestic network will temIn Japan, there are nearly 60,000 convenience stores, with three major chains accounting for nearly 90% of them. Due to of stores in Japan. As Japan’s population trends porarily dip toward the end of the current fiscal year. fiercer competition with companies in an expanding e-commerce market and with other business formats, convenience store operators must increase the competitiveness of chains by leveraging store networks as infrastructure and expanding downward, the number of convenience stores is Meanwhile, the benefits of our uncompromising and improving their capabilities. Also, in response to the decline in Japan’s population, chains urgently need to increase approaching a saturation point in the country’s approach to new store selection are emerging, with work efficiency and reduce workloads if they are to sustain long business hours and high-quality store operations. retail zones. Mindful of these business conditions, the average daily sales of newly opened stores surwe will give first priority to establishing a quality passing ¥500,000 in fiscal 2017. Moreover, from the store network. For new store openings, our basic current fiscal year onward we expect lower impairpolicy will be to continue stringent selection of ment loss risk because we brought forward measures Complete brand Enhance quality of ready-to-eat high-quality stores that promise stable earnings. to mitigate this issue. In fiscal 2019 and beyond, we integration items and invest in ­production bases Concentrating on directly managed stores, we will continue developing highly profitable stores. Implement strategic Increase efficiency of store investment focused on operations by introducing Store Numbers and Market Size in Japan Store Openings and New Store Daily Sales existing stores new fixtures (¥ trillion) (¥ thousand) 80,000 12 1,500 600 60,000 8 1,000 500 40,000 4 500 400 20,000 Store Network System for Rooted in Local Providing Valued 0 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 14/2 15/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 19/2 Business Strategies Communities Products (Plan) Store numbers (left) Market size (right) Store openings (left) Build & scrap (left) Sources: Current Survey of Commerce, Ministry of Economy, Trade and New store daily sales (right) Industry; and Convenience Store Sokuho, Ryutsu Sangyo Shinbunsha Note: For each year, figures for the number of stores are as of the end of February, while figures for market size are as of the end of March. Shifting toward Quality Enhancement Since management integration in September 2016, we have been integratBuilding Competitiveness through Strategic Store Openings ing convenience store brands. Given that we will complete brand integraAs a measure to heighten the competitiveness of improvements, such as the establishment of store tion by November 2018, we will accelerate efforts to increase the quality individual stores, we are moving forward with a parking spaces and eat-in spaces, are emerging and competitiveness of our convenience stores. As well as implementing build-and-scrap (B&S) strategy. This entails relocatsteadily. At stores for which we have implemented capital investment to heighten product quality, we will introduce new ing existing stores to stores with locations and sales the B&S strategy, daily sales are at least 15% up fixtures and systems to increase the efficiency of store operations. floor areas that suit retail zones. The B&S strategy from their level before relocation. As of February relocated 110 stores in fiscal 2014. In fiscal 2017, 28, 2018, roughly 7,000 stores had introduced this number had risen steeply to 315, or more than eat-in spaces—which boost daily sales. Plans call Relationships Store Facilities half of all store openings. The benefits of for establishing these spaces in even more stores. with Customers Reflecting Based on Changing Needs A Build-and-Scrap Case Study In-House Cards Built store Scrapped store Site: Approx. 1,213.2m 2 Site: Approx. 122.3m2 Sales floor: Approx. 148.8m2 Sales floor: Approx. 95.9m2 Parking spaces: 14 Parking spaces: 0 Create next-generation Prepare for full-scale Location: Corner lot Location: Facing one street stores rollout of financial services and businesses E stablish collaborations in fitness that service e-commerce and laundromat areas S trengthen relationship with Pocket Card 24 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 25 Business Strategies BUSINESS STRATEGIES Convenience Store Business STRATEGY 2 Strengthening Measures to Support Franchised Stores  1 Accelerating Reform of Store Operations 2 Enabling Head Office to Support Stores FamilyMart has begun reforming store operations we plan to introduce about 1,000 self-checkout Due to the concern over the ongoing decline in an environment that encourages motivated store in earnest to increase their efficiency. In fiscal cash registers. Through these additional meaJapan’s working-age population, securing and staff to work at our stores long term. For exam2017, in addition to the short-term measures of sures to increase work efficiency, we expect to training store staff along with rising personnel ple, we have introduced a qualification system simplifying work manuals and reducing sales reduce store work hours by a further 3.5 hours. expenses are becoming management issues. that reflects work proficiency as well as an award promotion items, we introduced next-generation FamilyMart will actively invest to improve store Therefore, we are creating systems that enable system that recognizes talented store staff. point-of-sale (POS) cash registers and invested in operations and to establish environments that the head office to help hire and train store staff. Aiming to allow supervisors to exercise their IT. As a result, we reduced store work by six enable store staff to focus on strengthening the To alleviate the work burden involved for franabilities to the utmost, we have revised training hours. In fiscal 2018, we will eliminate the need differentiating features of brick-and-mortar chised stores when recruiting store staff, we have and evaluation methods so that they can be for inspections of products when they are delivstores, such as customer established a store staff recruitment section, adapted to a range of different individual abilities, ered and introduce larger, labor-saving store service and high-quality FamiJOB, on the FamilyMart website. In addition, and we have optimized the scope of responsibilifixtures and food preparation equipment. Also, store management. we have extended the reach of our recruitment. ties by reducing the number of stores supervisors By establishing flexible working hours, we are manage from eight to seven. By increasing the encouraging applications from those without efficiency of supervisors, we want to establish an convenience store work experience, such as optimal support system for franchised stores as housewives and senior citizens. Also, we have rapidly as possible. prepared work manuals in multiple languages so that we can more actively hire non-Japanese people who would like to work in our stores. Business Strategies To ensure that store staff can contribute to A new fryer A next-generation POS cash register store operations as soon as possible, we began the FamilyMart School system in April 2017. Under this system, head office training managers New drawer-type shelves visit training facilities and franchised stores nationwide and provide training in accordance with the proficiency levels of store staff. In fiscal During sales promotions and other busy periods, head office employees 1 Accelerating Reform of Store Operations 2017, roughly 30,000 store staff participated in help with store operations. To date, 2,200 employees have taken part in Simplifying manuals 6,500 training sessions. Also, we are developing this system. Eliminating need for product inspections Introducing next-generation POS cash registers 2 Enabling Head Office to Support Stores 3 Support Systems for Franchised Stores Helping to hire and train store staff Main Points of Change in New Franchise Introducing self-checkout cash registers FamilyMart has established a range of systems Assisting with store staff retention Contract  educing workloads by introducing new R that allow franchisees to manage their fixtures  aving head office employees support H convenience stores with peace of mind. Since Old contract New contract store operation September 2016, we have been switching over Product Franchisee Head office offsets disposal costs responsibility portion of product loss to a new franchise contract. Under this new Head office pays 90% of Support for Franchisee contract, the head office reduces the financial utility bills responsibility portion, less than ¥3.6 million annually 3 Support Systems for Franchised Stores burden of store operations by subsidizing a Store manageNew franchise contract certain percentage of utility costs and losses N/A ¥1.2 million per year ment support Support for management of multiple stores on unsold ready-to-eat items and giving each Senior Citizen Franchisee System franchised store ¥1.2 million per year as stores were operated through the multiple-store assistance for store management. management system. Other initiatives include our P61 In 2001, FamilyMart became the first establishment of the Senior Citizen Franchisee convenience store operator to introduce a system System, which encourages senior citizens to that encourages the management of multiple become franchisees by shortening contract stores under the FamilyMart brand. As of the end periods from 10 to five years and offering flexible of February 2018, approximately 70% of all contract details. 26 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 27 BUSINESS STRATEGIES STRATEGY 4 Advancing Measures for Next-Generation Stores  Discovering New Potential for Stores Amid increasing interest in health, we decided to combining existing stores with highly compatible enter the fitness business to cater to customers businesses to create store formats that have added who want a convenient place to work out. We functions and as such go beyond merchandising. have begun establishing Fit & GO gyms, which are open 24 hours a day year round. Other initiatives to add to store functions that meet everyday needs will include the launch of laundromat services through Famima Laundry. Also, we are considering the introduction of an in-store key delivery service that caters to the growing demand for vacation rentals. Through such initiatives, we will continue discovering new possibilities for An integrated convenience store and laundromat STRATEGY Introducing the Don Quijote Way to Convenience Stores In June 2018, we began the joint trial developitems, of which 2,800 are Don Quijote items, 3 Strengthening Product Appeal  ment of convenience stores that incorporate Don such as daily necessities, confectioneries, and Quijote’s product lineup, sales floors, and manprocessed foods. Through this joint trial, we will Developing and Increasing the Efficiency of Supply Chains agement methods. We introduced special prodprovide the kind of shopping fun that only brickBy advancing structural reform in ready-to-eat quality of ready-to-eat items, we aim to renew uct shelves that are much higher than normal and-mortar stores can offer. Business Strategies items, we are continuing to market ready-to-eat mainstay products and develop distinctive, shelves, and the stores carry approximately 5,000 items that have even greater value and appeal. attractive products. To these ends, since fiscal This structural reform has two aims: rationalizing 2015 at plants that produce ready-to-eat items supply chains through the development and we have been collaborating with producers of optimization of production and distribution bases ready-to-eat items to invest in renovation meaand enhancing the quality of ready-to-eat items. sures that are compliant with HACCP* prinIn fiscal 2018, we are progressing with an ciples, as well as invest in food preparation integration of production and distribution equipment that enables the manufacture of bases that includes Circle K and Sunkus while differentiated products. transitioning to a phase of enhancing product * Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point is a method of food hygiene The FamilyMart Tachikawa Minamidori Store, which was remodeled and A Don Quijote-style sales floor and product lineup management. appeal even further. In efforts to raise the reopened in June 2018 Heightening the Quality of Ready-to-Eat Items Creating Next-Generation Stores As it continues renewing rice balls, noodles, sandmachines equipped with the latest functions, In June 2017, FamilyMart announced a business The merits of utilizing leading-edge technolwiches, and other mainstay products, FamilyMart thereby enabling us to offer higher-value prodalliance with ITOCHU Corporation and LINE ogy in the CVS business are not limited to will emphasize ingredients, preparation methods, ucts. For example, customers will be able to order Corporation. The alliance is premised on using increases in the efficiency of store openings and and appearance. To realize tastiness that sura richer flavored coffee by adding beans or a LINE’s various services to cooperatively develop operations. As well as using the technology of passes that of specialty store offerings, we will smooth caffe latte new products, technologies, and services. We are Google LLC to incorporate AI in store developcarefully select ingredients and introduce the finely blended with considering incorporating the company’s services ment, we are exploring ways of enhancing marlatest food preparation equipment as needed. milk. In addition, the in a wide range of store operations, such as the keting efficiency through digital advertising. By Further, through such measures as increasing our machines’ drip brewing establishment of communication with customers capitalizing on the distinctive advantages that selection of health-focused products, we will process ensures that all that reflects their needs and purchase history, the brick-and-mortar stores and points of contact provide an extensive product lineup that caters to of the beverages have a improvement of payment equipment and other with customers give it, FamilyMart will embrace diverse customer needs. rich, refreshing flavor. store equipment, the enhancement of customer state-of-the-art technology to create a new genThe use of self-service coffee machines has We expect that these convenience, and the mitigation of the workloads eration of stores. become firmly established among convenience machines will boost of store staff. store customers in Japan. By the end of fiscal coffee beverage sales 2019, nearly all of our stores will have new coffee by at least 10%. A new coffee machine 28 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 29 Business Strategies BUSINESS STRATEGIES General Merchandise Store Business Message from the President Looking Back at Fiscal 2017—A Pivotal Year  “Back to Basics” was the slogan in fiscal 2017, the year our employees were somewhat surprised and unsettled ended February 28, 2018. This slogan urges us to think due to the differences in our business methods and culcarefully about how to make stores points of contact with tures. Until then, they had viewed Don Quijote Holdings as GMS customers, offer lineups of sought-after products, and an exemplary company in another business category. create stores that customers want to visit. Revisiting these However, they have since begun participating actively as imperatives, all of our employees focused on individual the tie-up takes concrete form. Given the progress of store management, store appeal, and budget attainment. advanced technology and major changes in the financial Thanks to these efforts, we outperformed targets. sector in Japan and overseas, fiscal 2017 was a pivotal year In August, we entered into a capital and operational not only for the Company but for society as a whole. tie-up with Don Quijote Holdings Co., Ltd. At the outset, General Merchandise Store Business Offering Experiences That Are More Than Shopping  We are paying close attention to the following three into a store where customers find even more products that changes in business conditions. First, Japan’s demographics they want to eat, wear, or use. In other words, we have to are changing. In many rural and urban areas, the effects of create sales floors that cater to customers’ lifestyles, offer population decline on industry are becoming evident. As innovative product mixes that suggest ideas for everyday Norio Sako society ages and single-person households increase, conlife, and provide an enhanced service menu that extends Representative Director and President sumption behavior is changing. Moreover, we cannot beyond product sales. With these points in mind, we will UNY CO., LTD. ignore the decline in mom-and-pop stores. Second, comrevitalize existing stores by renewing product lineups and petition is beginning to transcend business categories in sales floor space allocation and leveraging in-house cards Business Strategies earnest, with drugstores and discount stores that offer in marketing. At the same time, we will strengthen mancompetitively priced products earning customer endorseagement foundations through mind-set reform at our ment. Third, the e-commerce market is expanding, making head office, which supports store management. In the it difficult for GMS (general merchandising store) busimedium to long term, we must create mold-breaking store nesses to establish differentiation and superiority based on formats. In fiscal 2018, the year ending February 28, 2019, existing business models. we will complete the closure of underperforming stores There is no shortcut to overcoming these business conand the withdrawal from underperforming businesses that ditions and winning out. The only way is to exploit advanwe decided before management integration. These steps tages that brick-and-mortar stores have over Internet will allow us to become more proactive and tackle fullshopping to provide experiences that go beyond shopping scale store reform from fiscal 2019, the year ending and thereby encourage store visits. We must transform February 29, 2020. Using Tie-Up “Chemical Reactions” as Opportunities  The timing of the tie-up with Don Quijote Holdings has We cannot win out in tough competitive conditions by had stimulating effect on the Company. UNY originated trying to replicate past successes. Instead, with our sights Realizing Our Vision of a New from the merger of two companies—one originally a clothing store business and the other originally a footwear store set on the coming fiscal year and beyond, we will begin reforming personnel evaluation through the introduction business. Having experienced several management integraof performance-based systems. Also, we will rapidly estabLifestyle Creation Retail Business tions, I feel that the “chemical reactions” resulting from human interaction produce significant opportunities. lish a new mind-set, new sales floors, and new stores in accordance with management policies. Further, the tie-up Moreover, I think that tie-ups between companies in differwill add significant momentum as we move forward to ent business categories promise greater benefits than achieve these three new goals. Thus, in a concerted effort, tie-ups between companies in the same business category. UNY will take on the challenge of realizing its vision of a To ensure that we convert such opportunities into new lifestyle creation retail business. growth, we set out New UNY as a slogan in fiscal 2018. 30 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 31 Business Strategies BUSINESS STRATEGIES General Merchandise Store Business STRATEGY Realizing a New UNY through Decisive Reform 1 Revitalizing Existing Stores  In fiscal 2018, we have set out management policies that call on the Company to rebuild existOverview of Business Conditions ing businesses. Accordingly, we will remodel The GMS business operates a variety of stores that specialize in particular retail zones and which carry essential stores with a focus on directly managed sales everyday items, such as food, clothing, and household goods. As consumer behavior changes, the business is facing fierce competition from drugstores; discount stores; and, in recent years, from e-commerce businesses, which do floors and take an array of measures to enhance not have brick-and-mortar stores. In such conditions, transitioning to a business model that creates unique value store quality. As well as offering a full range of that companies in other business categories cannot match has become a pressing task. products that cater to customers’ lifestyles, we will create sales floors that not only reflect actual demand but also make shopping fun and encourage store visits. In particular, for APITA stores, Remodel existing stores Strengthen product appeal APITA Yokohama TERRACE Tsunashima compact shopping center, which operate in medium-sized retail zones, we which opened in March 2018 and convert to discount with focus on food field will proceed with drastic remodeling of all stores store format Advance Prepared Dishes Project to establish sales floors with competitive space which is for store remodeling and investment in Make Kanemi a subsidiary allocation. In fiscal 2018, we plan to invest new cash registers and other systems. approximately ¥13 billion in these stores, most of STRATEGY 2 Increasing Product Appeal  The Company will identify changes in customer Store Network System for demand and take product-focused measures to Rooted in Local Providing Valued create attractive sales floors. In the food field, Business Strategies Communities Products where our affordable quality products are particularly popular, we will focus on price competitiveness while carefully analyzing customer demand as well as trends among local stores. At the same New UNY time, we will expand and improve our lineup of In fiscal 2018, under the New UNY slogan, we will reinvigorate products that evoke a sense of added value. In stores as our points of contact with customers. Specifically, we June 2017, we decided to make Kanemi Co., In fiscal 2018, we will concentrate efforts on prepared dishes. will remodel existing stores so that they attract more customers, Ltd., a subsidiary by taking a 52.47% stake in the create new-format stores with the Don Quijote Group, and company, which manufactures and sells prepared and product lineup of prepared dishes. With our establish new Groupwide foundations for growth. dishes and boxed lunches. This has enabled the suppliers, we will advance the project while new subsidiary to work in unison with UNY to giving first priority to product quality enhancestrengthen the competitiveness of prepared dish ment and keeping in mind the kind of prepared sales floors. Further, in fiscal 2018 we launched dish sales floors we want. Relationships Store Facilities the Prepared Dishes Project to improve the quality with Customers STRATEGY Reflecting Based on Changing Needs In-House Cards 3 Strengthening Management Foundations  As well as working to rebuild existing businesses, proactive measures for new growth. Going forwe are taking steps to strengthen management ward, we intend to invest actively in new IT sysfoundations. Since fiscal 2016, the year ended tems that increase management efficiency and in February 28, 2017, we have been decisively disthe streamlining of logistics. While fostering a Invest in systems with a Prepare for full-scale posing of underperforming stores. In fiscal 2018, sense of responsibility and ownership among view to establishing establishment of businesses plans call for the closure of 11 stores. Also, we employees for the earnings of stores and of the next-generation stores peripheral to financial and are steadily selling such inefficient assets as chain as a whole, we will transform ourselves e-commerce services closed stores and idle assets. By reorganizing and into an organization focused on earnings growth Make UCS a subsidiary reducing our assets through selection and conand concentrate management resources on existcentration, we are laying the foundations of ing stores. 32 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 33 Business Strategies General Merchandise Store Business STRATEGY 4 Joining Forces with Don Quijote Holdings  Concluded in August 2017 with the aim of cre90% in daily customer numbers, and 75% ating a new retail category, our capital and operin gross profit compared with pre-conversion ational tie-up with Don Quijote Holdings is results. In fiscal 2018, we will analyze the six progressing. By March 2018, we had opened six stores’ results and issues, select stores to be converted MEGA Don Quijote UNY stores, which converted to the new format from fiscal 2019, combine UNY’s strengths in the food field with and determine our store format strategy. the entertainment value that differentiates Don At the new company tasked with leading the Quijote stores. The main difference between tie-up project, UD Retail Co., Ltd., roughly 100 these stores and conventional UNY stores is that UNY employees who responded to in-house job the household goods and clothing account for postings and about 60 employees temporarily approximately half of total revenues. As these seconded by Don Quijote Holdings have been products promise higher profit margins than preparing to open stores under the new business C LOSE UP Double-Branded food, the new stores’ business model enables us category. This joint team will also cooperate in to use earnings from household goods and the management of stores after they open. MEGA Don Quijote UNY Stores clothing to pursue added value and price competitiveness in the food field. By any measure, Through this tie-up, we want to absorb the unique store management know-how of Don Herald a New Beginning the six stores are performing robustly. Quijote Holdings and apply it to the management Approximate cumulative results for March and of other new-format stores and UNY stores. For customers, the six double-branded MEGA Don Quijote UNY stores that opened in February and April 2018 showed increases of 120% in sales, March 2018 do not resemble conventional UNY stores. The new stores include astonishingly low prices, mass displays and point-of-purchase advertising in sales floors, and reflect a customer-first philosophy. Based on this store format, UNY will take on the challenge of providing customers with new value. Performance of Six Converted Stores Business Strategies A Leading Discount Store and Rival  Sales Daily Customer Gross Profit In the highly competitive conditions of recent years, one stores include highly competitive supermarkets. (¥ billion) Up approx. Numbers Up approx. (¥ billion) Up approx. of our benchmarks has been discount stores, which At first, there was considerable trepidation among 120% 90% 75% have continued to grow earnings by strongly emphasizour employees about the decision to enter into a ing low prices. Among these stores, Don Quijote capital and operational tie-up with Don Quijote 4.2 36,000 0.85 Holdings was a worthy adversary that we sought to Holdings. However, as details of the tie-up became surpass. In addition to distinctive stores and an ability to clear, the prospect of tackling a new retail business 19,000 0.49 attract large numbers of customers, some Don Quijote engendered a more positive attitude. 1.9 Assimilation of the Don Quijote Way and Synergy Creation  Before After Before After Before After conversion conversion conversion conversion conversion conversion Many young employees stepped forward when we Don Quijote Holdings’ corporate culture comprises Six Converted stores (Oguchi, Tokai-Dori, Zama, Hoshikawa, Toyota Motomachi, and Kou) were recruiting employees for UD Retail, which mandelegation of authority to individual stores, a bottom-up Approximate cumulative results for March and April 2018 ages the stores after their conversion to the new approach to management, performance-based personnel business category. These employees are highly motisystems, and intensity. In other words, the kind of vated and want to tackle a new business and expericorporate culture essential for a retailer is deeply rooted Composition of Sales at Six Converted Stores ence the excitement of selling products in a new in the company. Our basic store management strategy is to field—which is the starting point of retailing. In precherry-pick both companies’ best methods and leverage Sports / Others leisure 6.1% paring for the openings of the first double-branded them to maximize benefits. However, UNY will also use the 4.9% Household General Clothing stores, our employees worked with employees from tie-up as an opportunity to assimilate the know-how of merchandise 7.7% goods Clothing 17.3% 14.1% 18.3% Household Don Quijote Holdings. Don Quijote Holdings and apply it to existing UNY stores. goods Processed 36.9% Foods food Foods 55.4% 36.2% 68.6% Home Creation of a New Business Model  electronics 7.6% From fiscal 2019, we will convert approximately 20 store layouts. By combining these changes with the Fresh food 19.2% stores per year. The tie-up will broaden our customer advantages of UNY, namely appealing products and base among younger generations and families, attract its relationships with existing customers, UNY will Before conversion After conversion more customers by extending business hours, and create a unique business model that drives growth. encourage store visits by establishing unconventional 34 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 35 Initiatives for Social Issues MATERIAL ISSUES Leveraging BrickR  educing the Environmental Burden of Products in Supply Chains C  oexistence with Local and-Mortar Stores Communities P38 to Tackle Key Issues H  elping Invigorate Communities  atering Rapidly to Diversifying C Demand through Product Development P42 P40 Through its business activities, the FamilyMart UNY Group responds to society’s issues and needs. In these efforts, we capitalize on our brick-and-mortar stores’ distinctive links with Clarifying Priority Issues for Sustainability  customers and local communities. Our goal is Store Network System for Rooted in Local Providing Valued to continue rapidly adapting to changes in We have identified priority issues on which we should focus initiaCommunities Products business conditions while achieving sound, tives based on consideration of the expectations of stakeholders and sustained growth. With this in mind, we will society, management strategies for realizing our target corporate focus on finding roles for which brick-andprofile, our Group principles, and other guidelines. mortar stores are uniquely qualified, energizing the organization, and diversifying personnel. Most Material Issues of FamilyMart UNY Group No. Most material issues (goals in the SDGs) Material issues of FamilyMart UNY Group Environmental awareness Construction of a recycling-oriented society Contribution to a low carbon society 1 Toward realization of a society that coexists in harmony with nature Promotion of ESD (Education for Sustainable Development) Contributing to the development of Development and revitalization of local Relationships Participating in the vibrant local communities as social and living infrastructure communities Disaster countermeasures and support for Store Facilities with Customers United Nations Initiatives for Social Issues disaster-affected areas Reflecting 2 Based on Global Compact Supporting the development of the next Changing Needs In-House Cards generation Working together with NGOs / NPOs and harmonious coexistence with local communities Strengthening of supply chain management In September 2017, FamilyMart UNY Holdings that delivers safe and reliable products Provision of safe and reliable products / services became a signatory to the United Nations Dissemination and awareness-raising about 3 ethical consumption Global Compact. We will not only respond to Promotion of fair and transparent business the issues and needs of international society activities but also accelerate initiatives in accordance Responding to increasingly sophisticated Provision of high added-value products and diverse consumer needs with the compact’s human rights, labor, envi4 Development of products / services that ronmental, and anticorruption principles and improve health and welfare help realize a sustainable society. Enhancing diversity Promotion of the acceptance and activity for diverse human resources 5 D  eveloping Personnel and Organizations for Enhancement of work-life balance and building a workplace which offers job satisfaction Accelerated Pursuit of New Growth P44 Please also refer to our Sustainability Report 2017, which summarizes our priority issues and Everyday Fun and Fresh. sustainability activities. Sustainability Report 2017 http://www.fu-hd.com/english/csr/report/pdf/ Sunshine60, 17F 1-1, Higashi-Ikebukuro 3-chome, UFHD_s-rep2017E_all.pdf Toshima-ku, Tokyo 170-6017, Japan Telephone: (81) 3-3989-7301 36 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 37 Initiatives for Social Issues MATERIAL ISSUES Leveraging Brick-and-Mortar Stores to Tackle Key Issues Store Network System for Rooted in Local Communities Providing Valued Products Reducing the Environmental Burden of Products in Supply Chains Our Best Roles Providing a large number of food products essential in everyday life, the FamilyMart UNY Relationships Group takes a wide range of measures to minimize environmental burden at each stage of Store Facilities with Customers its operations, including product development, manufacturing, delivery, and sales. Reflecting Based on Changing Needs In-House Cards Recognizing UNY as an environmentally progressive company that is helping to build a sustainable society, the Minister of the Environment has granted UNY ECO FIRST certification. Creating a “Food Recycling Loop” Efforts to Reduce Food Waste As a means to achieve a recycling-oriented society, Moreover, building a food recycling loop contribTo cut down on waste at its stores, FamilyMart is packages with carbon dioxide and nitrogen UNY is operating a “food recycling loop” together utes to local recycling efforts and local production working to improve the precision of its ordering instead of oxygen, which causes food to spoil, to with local communities. From producers to recyfor local consumption, which brings producers and system. This involves ensuring the proper number better suppress oxidation. Utilizing higher perforclers, we form partnerships with a range of busiconsumers together in each region. Recyclers turn of products are ordered and managing product mance food packaging has allowed us to extend nesses at every stage of the loop and work to leftover food collected at each store into feed or selection with regard to inventory levels, sales, best-by date by three days without sacrificing the recycle the food waste generated by our stores. compost, and we use a system for keeping track of weather, events, and other factors at each store. delicatessen item’s freshness or flavor, thereby The deployment of waste measurement systems at the producers that use those products. These efforts Such efforts help to reduce food waste, especially reducing food waste. With the introduction of each store and exhaustive efforts to control and sort help to establish local recycling-oriented agricultural for boxed lunches, rice balls, sandwiches, and these new technologies, along with re-examinawaste allowed UNY to achieve a food recycling rate industries that provide safe and reliable agricultural other products with short shelf lives. tion of our packaging and methods of selling Initiatives for Social Issues of 63.6% in fiscal 2016, a 2 percentage point and livestock products. With our “Mother’s Kitchen” brand of original products, we will continue to reduce food waste improvement over the previous fiscal year. delicatessen items launched in the fall of 2016, through a variety of approaches. we use “gas exchange packaging” that fills Foodrelated Stores that Consumers businesses generate recyclable food waste Producers put their photo Sorting and weighing leftover food on products and sell them • Creating trash sorting manuals and at eco vegetable markets educating employees Properly storing products to maintain Buy/Eat Eco vegetables corner good product quality in a produce section • Installing refrigerated storage facilities and special containers Sell agricultural and livestock products made from recycling Eco vegetable logo Producers Providing recycled Recyclers agricultural and livestock products Improving the ordering system’s precision not only eliminates stock-outs, “Mother’s Kitchen” was cited in a compendium of examples of highto consumers optimizes inventories, and reduces order lead times but also helps curb performance packaging that helps reduce food waste, prepared by the Establishing traceability Produce high-quality recycled surplus food products. Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. (Agricultural and livestock products from products (compost and feed) producers that consumers can see) We have producers utilize production Everyone involved gathers Produce recycled products that technologies and properly recycled products together and exchanges views satisfy producers’ needs (compost and feed) to provide us with safe and reliable agricultural and livestock products 38 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 39 Initiatives for Social Issues MATERIAL ISSUES Leveraging Brick-and-Mortar Stores to Tackle Key Issues Store Network System for Rooted in Local Providing Valued Communities Products Catering Rapidly to Diversifying Demand through Product Our Best Roles Development Brick-and-mortar stores, which are the focus of our business activities, bring us into daily Relationships contact with customers. These points of contact help us to rapidly reflect customers’ diversiStore Facilities with Customers fying needs as well as local communities’ issues in the development of products and services. Reflecting Based on Changing Needs In-House Cards Responsibility to Provide and Explain Safe and Reliable Moreover, we are selling tasty low-carb products, such as salads, desserts and instant noodles, Products co-developed with RIZAP GROUP, Inc., an operator of personal training gyms. In addition to supporting consumer health promotion, FamilyMart Based on cooperation with business partners, and confirms that legal violations or fraudulent entered the fitness business in February 2018. To FamilyMart UNY Group is working to strengthen activities are not occurring. In fiscal 2017, one cater to growing interest in health, we are openthe systems and structures that ensure safe and call was made to the “business partner helpline” ing Fit & GO gyms, which are available 24 hours reliable products throughout the entire supply (FamilyMart: 1; UNY: 0). Furthermore, FamilyMart a day, 365 days a year and offer a range of health chain. In order to preemptively control various sent a “business partner survey” to about 100 promotion options. Fit &GO store image risks from procurement to consumption, we have companies of which 76 responded, and UNY sent created the information service “business partner the survey to about 900 companies of which 340 helpline” for all our business partners through an responded. Business partner opinions, requests, Initiatives for Social Issues external third party to facilitate early detection and other information were reported to the Risk Sales of Products That Protect Biodiversity and correction of issues and problems concerning Management & Compliance Committee and the supply chain. Furthermore, the Group conrevisions and improvements are being made. ducts a “business partner survey” once a year Protecting nature translates into protecting living paper and elementary school workbooks. things, and selling food and products based on Customers purchasing products with the FSC this concept makes customers choose us. To certification logo indirectly help preserve forests Development of Products / Services That Improve expand the virtuous cycle from production to and protect biodiversity. It is a way to contribute consumption, we offer products that protect to society through shopping. Health and Welfare biodiversity and work hard to increase consumer awareness about its importance. With the aging of the population and greater FSC certification is granted by the FSC (Forest health awareness in today’s society, FamilyMart Stewardship Council), which runs an internais providing various products and services in tional forest certification system, to response to the needs of consumers. We have forests and wood recoglaunched “diet management products” under nized as sustainable, as the supervision of registered dietitians at the well as to products Kobe City Medical Center General Hospital. made from such wood. These products can be easily purchased at conveUnder UNY’s private nience stores and are better for physical health “Mackerel Mirin Grilled box lunch” (saba no mirin-yaki bento) label brand, we develop approved by registered dietitians and gentler on the body, as they take into considand sell FSC-certified Apparel made from organic cotton Forest Stewardship eration calories, salt content, foodstuff items, and products such as toilet Council-certified workbooks nutritional balance. 40 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 41 Initiatives for Social Issues MATERIAL ISSUES Leveraging Brick-and-Mortar Stores to Tackle Key Issues Store Network System for Rooted in Local Providing Valued Products Communities Coexistence with Local Communities Helping Invigorate Communities Our Best Roles In Japan, the FamilyMart UNY Group has a network of more than 17,000 stores. Each of Relationships these stores is rooted in its local community, complements the services of local Store Facilities with Customers governments, and helps create local communities where all can live with peace of mind. Reflecting Based on Changing Needs In-House Cards Serving as Social and Living Infrastructure during Disasters Coordination with Local Governments (Conclusion of Comprehensive Agreements, Disaster Relief Agreements, Both FamilyMart and UNY have been appointed and provide emergency relief supplies. A portion of and Watch Over Agreements)  as “Designated Public Institutions” by the Prime UNY’s largest stores make themselves available as Minister in accordance with Article 2, item (v) evacuation sites for local residents and perform of the Basic Act on Disaster Control Measures. functions that include providing “kamado benches” To promote safe and reliable urban development, to return home,” and “watch over agreements Designated public institutions play important roles usable as soup kitchens and stools with built-in FamilyMart has concluded agreements ranging from (for seniors, etc.)” with prefectures as well as in efforts such as drafting disaster management toilets in times of emergency. In addition, both “comprehensive agreements” to “agreements to municipalities and other organizations. Through operation plans, preventing disasters, and carrying FamilyMart and UNY have systems in place for the provide material support in the event of a disaster,” these agreements, FamilyMart plays a role as social out response measures and recovery efforts. disaster recovery stage: steps have been taken to “agreements to provide support to people unable and living infrastructure in emergency situations. When disaster strikes, FamilyMart leverages its ensure normal business operations can be immediActivities in Collaboration with Local NGOs / NPOs Initiatives for Social Issues extensive nationwide logistics network to offer its ately resumed, and preparations are made throughcoordinated transport capabilities to those in need out the Group to prepare for large disasters. Disaster UNY works with NPOs and volunteers from local We also collect clothing that customers no longer companies to collect clothing that our customers need at our stores and recycle it into material for decide they no longer need. The clothing colautomobile interiors. Customers who bring in clothlected is sent to Asia, Africa, and South America ing receive “eco shopping cards” that they can use through the NPO Japan Relief Clothing Center as coupons, and UNY donates 1% of each coupon’s and Nippon Express. value toward disaster relief and greening efforts. Store operations immediately after a disaster Bench with built-in stove (UNY) Disaster relief toilet (UNY) Community Gatherings Donations of Disaster Relief Money (2017 Northern Kyushu Torrential Rain Disaster Relief Money) Eat-in spaces in FamilyMart stores are also used on the roadside, and people also use them for as places for community members to strengthen events put on by local NPOs, school clubs, and their connections with each other. People use other organizaRecord-breaking torrential rains caused catastrophic stores, and other stores throughout Japan from these spaces for things beyond just eating and tions. There are damage in Northern Kyushu on July 5 and 6, 2017. July 8 through July 22. drinking the products they purchased. They use approximately To help as quickly as possible with recovery The stores raised a total of ¥41,383,739 over them as break areas during the workday at stores 7,000 stores and reconstruction efforts, FamilyMart UNY a roughly two-week period. On August 18, in business districts, as community spaces for that feature Holdings launched a fund and collected dona¥33,106,991 was donated to Fukuoka Prefecture family and friends to have pleasant conversations eat-in spaces. tions at FamilyMart, Circle K and Sunkus, UNY and ¥8,276,748 was donated to Oita Prefecture. with each other at stores in residential areas and Eat-in space used as a place for community gatherings 42 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 43 Initiatives for Social Issues MATERIAL ISSUES Leveraging Brick-and-Mortar Stores to Tackle Key Issues Store Network System for Rooted in Local Developing Personnel and Providing Valued Communities Products Organizations for Accelerated Pursuit Our Target Issues of New Growth To realize Accelerated Pursuit of New Growth, the FamilyMart UNY Group is leveraging Relationships the store, production, and logistics networks acquired through management integration as Store Facilities with Customers well as links with customers and local communities. Also, to maximize the benefits of these Reflecting Based on stepped-up efforts, we are taking systemic measures to create workplaces amenable to the Changing Needs In-House Cards needs of all types of personnel. Approach to Personnel and Main Initiatives Approach to Personnel and Main Initiatives UNY wants each employee to learn, think, and Participation and Advancement in the Workplace FamilyMart’s personnel strategy for supporting stores with the head office. Accordingly, we are act independently. Our policy is to develop perwith a view to establishing workplaces where growth comprises four initiatives: personnel recruitorganizing work processes and preparing concrete sonnel who not only advance their competence both women and men are managers. By 2020, ment, personnel development, appropriate assigndevelopment plans so that supervisors can learn as professionals in the GMS business but also we aim for women to account for at least 10% ment and periodic rotation, and compensation. the skills they need systematically and efficiently. cultivate attributes that benefit society at large. of our managerial staff. Regarding personnel development, we have created Also, the second of our newly established organiBased on this policy, we support employees’ a wide variety of educational programs that enable zations, the Diversity Promotion Office, is creating growth by conducting training that matches employees to proactively advance their careers. In workplaces that encourage diverse personnel to career plans and encouraging self-development. fiscal 2011, we established the FamilyMart Business take maximum advantage of their abilities. This In addition, we recommend store managers and College as a dedicated education department. As office’s initiatives are focused on empowering Initiatives for Social Issues deputy managers to acquire qualifications that well as providing employees of all ranks with female employees. develop their awareness of the needs of seniors training that fosters business skills, develops global and the disabled so that they can visit stores personnel, and promotes diversity, the college offers without anxiety. Further, we provide skills training selective and open training programs. for part-time personnel and pay additional wages In fiscal 2017, we established two organizations to those obtaining qualifications. directly under the control of the president. The Also, we are empowering female employees. first of these, the Human Resource Development In April 2016, we established a three-year Action Office, is unifying personnel development systems Plan Based on the Act on Promotion of Women’s Training focused on the needs of seniors and the disabled throughout the company so that employees are better able to improve their skills and advance their careers. A particularly important task is the development of supervisors who link franchised A workshop conducted by female employees Action Plan Based on the Act on Action Plan Based on the Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace (UNY) Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace (FamilyMart) Plan period April 1, 2016–March 31, 2019 Plan period April 1, 2016–February 28, 2021 Goal Women in at least 10% of managerial positions (section managers and above) Percentage of female employees: 20% Goal Percentage of female managers: 10% Reemployment of those who have cited childcare or nursing care obligations as a reason for resignation Initiatives Extension of childcare and nursing-care leave periods Establishment of in-house conditions that make it easier for women to work and continue working Revision of system for non-regular employees Initiatives Active hiring of female employees Training and awareness cultivation aimed at the promotion of women to managerial positions 44 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 45 Corporate Governance and Internal Control System CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM Board of Directors and Executive Officers (As of June 1, 2018) 9 6 13 11 5 8 10 12 7 3 1 2 4 1 Representative Director and President 5 Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer 9 Director, Managing Executive Officer 12 Outside Director 13 Outside Director Koji Takayanagi Toshio Kato Naoyoshi Tsukamoto Takashi Saeki Tadashi Izawa Assistant to Officer in Charge of CVS Chief Information Officer, General Manager of IT Promotion Division, General Manager of CVS Information Systems Corporate Governance and Department, and General Manager of New Project Office 2 Representative Director and Executive Vice President 6 Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer 10 Director, Managing Executive Officer Internal Control System Isamu Nakayama Jiro Koshida Hiroaki Tamamaki Chief Strategy Officer General Manager of Finance & Accounting Division In Charge of Projects 3 Representative Director and Executive Vice President 7 Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer 11 Director, Executive Officer Executive Officers Norio Sako Kunihiro Nakade Jun Takahashi Eiji Morita Seiichiro Takeshita Takashi Kitano In Charge of GMS Chief Financial Officer Chief Administrative Officer and General Manager of CSR & Management Division Kazutaka Hiramatsu Yoshiharu Kanoda Mikio Nishiwaki Tadashi Takeda 4 Representative Director and Executive Vice President 8 Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer Takashi Sawada Isao Kubo In Charge of CVS General Manager of Corporate Planning Division 46 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 47 Corporate Governance and Internal Control System CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM Brief Personal History of Directors Brief Personal History of Corporate Auditors (As of June 1, 2018) (As of June 1, 2018) Representative Director and President Representative Director and Executive Vice President Representative Director and Executive Vice President Koji Takayanagi Isamu Nakayama Norio Sako 1975/4 Joined ITOCHU Corporation 1981/4 Joined ITOCHU Corporation 1980/3 Joined UNY CO., LTD. 2015/4 Representative Director, Executive Vice President 2012/4 Managing Executive Officer, Executive Vice 2013/2 Representative Director and President of UNY CO., and President of Food Company of ITOCHU President of Food Company, and Chief Operating LTD. (current) Corporation Officer of Provisions Division of ITOCHU 2015/3 Representative Director and President of UNY Corporation 2017/3 President and Executive Officer of the Company Group Holdings Co., Ltd. 2013/5 Representative Director and President of 2017/5 Representative Director and President of the 2016/9 Representative Director and Executive Vice FamilyMart Co., Ltd. Company (current) President of the Company 2016/9 Representative Director and Executive Vice 2018/3 Representative Director and Executive Vice President of the Company President, In Charge of GMS of the Company 2018/3 Representative Director and Executive Vice (current) President of the Company, Chief Strategy Officer of the Company (current) Important Position Concurrently Held in Other Company Representative Director and President of UNY CO., LTD. Important Positions Concurrently Held in Other Companies Director and Chairman of FamilyMart Co., Ltd. Director of UNY CO., LTD. Chairperson of General Japan Franchise Association Representative Director and Executive Vice President Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer Takashi Sawada Toshio Kato Jiro Koshida 1981/4 Joined ITOCHU Corporation 1983/3 Joined FamilyMart Co., Ltd. 1979/3 Joined UNY CO., LTD. 2005/10 Founded and assumed role as Representative 2016/9 Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer and 2016/9 Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, and Director, President and Chief Executive Officer of General Manager of Corporate Planning Division of General Manager of Corporate Management Revamp Corporation the Company Division of the Company 2016/9 Representative Director and President of 2018/3 Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, and 2018/3 Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, and FamilyMart Co., Ltd. (current) Assistant to Officer in Charge of CVS of the General Manager of Finance & Accounting Division Company (current) of the Company (current) 2018/3 Representative Director and Executive Vice President, In Charge of CVS of the Company Important Position Concurrently Held in Other Company Important Positions Concurrently Held in Other Companies (current) Director, Executive Vice President, General Manager of Store Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, and General Operation Division, and Supervisor of Customer Service Manager of Finance & Accounting Division of UNY CO., LTD. Important Position Concurrently Held in Other Company Office and Franchisee Relations Office of FamilyMart Co., Ltd. Director of UCS CO., LTD. Representative Director and President of FamilyMart Co., Ltd. Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer Kunihiro Nakade Isao Kubo 1980/4 Joined ITOCHU Corporation 1982/4 Joined ITOCHU Corporation 2015/4 Managing Executive Officer and General Manager 2016/4 Managing Executive Officer and General Manager of General Accounting Control Division of ITOCHU of Internal Audit Division of ITOCHU Corporation Corporation 2018/5 Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, and 5 3 1 2 4 2016/5 Director, Managing Executive Officer, General General Manager of Corporate Planning Division of Manager of Management Division, Chairman of the Company (current) Risk Management & Compliance Committee, Chairman of Business Process Improvement Important Position Concurrently Held in Other Company Committee, and Chairman of Corporate Social Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, General Responsibility Committee of the Company Manager of Corporate Planning Division and International Business Division of FamilyMart Co., Ltd. 2018/3 Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, and Chief Financial Officer of the Company (current) Director, Managing Executive Officer Director, Managing Executive Officer Director, Executive Officer 1 Standing Outside Corporate Auditor 3 Outside Corporate Auditor 5 Outside Corporate Auditor Naoyoshi Tsukamoto Hiroaki Tamamaki Jun Takahashi Yasuhiro Baba Mika Takaoka Takayuki Aonuma 1989/4 Joined Circle K Japan Co., Ltd. 1980/4 Joined ITOCHU Corporation 1989/6 Joined Circle K Japan Co., Ltd. 1979/4 Joined ITOCHU Corporation 2009/4 Professor of the College of Business, Rikkyo 1982/4 Prosecutor of the Tokyo High Public Prosecutors University (current) Office 2013/2 Director and General Manager of Merchandising 2010/4 Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer of 2016/2 Director, Executive Officer, Group Strategic 2014/4 Executive Councilor, General Manager of the Division of Circle K Sunkus Textile Material & Fabric Division of ITOCHU Headquarters Director and Planning & Policy Global Risk Management Division, ITOCHU 2011/5 Corporate Auditor of the Company (current) 2016/9 Chief Prosecutor of the Nagoya High Public Corporation Department Director of UNY Group Holdings Co., Ltd. Corporation Prosecutors Office 2018/5 Director, Managing Executive Officer, Chief Important Positions Concurrently Held in Other Companies Corporate Governance and Information Officer, General Manager of IT 2011/5 Director, Managing Executive Officer, and Officer in 2018/3 Director, Executive Officer, Chief Administrative 2016/5 Standing Outside Corporate Auditor of the Professor of the College of Business, Rikkyo University 2018/2 Registered as attorney at law (current) Promotion Division, General Manager of CVS Charge of Corporate Planning Division of Officer, and General Manager of CSR & Company (current) Outside Director of TSI HOLDINGS CO., LTD. 2018/2 Of-Counsel at City-Yuwa Partners (current) Information Systems Department, and General FamilyMart Co., Ltd. Management Division of the Company (current) Outside Director of MOS FOOD SERVICES, INC. Manager of New Project Office of the Company Important Positions Concurrently Held in Other Companies 2018/5 Corporate Auditor of the Company (current) 2018/5 Director, Managing Executive Officer, and Officer in Outside Director of Kyodo Printing Co., Ltd. (current) Important Position Concurrently Held in Other Company Corporate Auditor of FamilyMart Co., Ltd. Charge of Projects of the Company (current) Director, Senior Executive Officer, General Manager of Corporate Auditor of UNY CO., LTD. Important Position Concurrently Held in Other Company Internal Control System Important Positions Concurrently Held in Other Companies Corporate Planning Division of UNY CO., LTD. Of-Counsel at City-Yuwa Partners Important Position Concurrently Held in Other Company Director, Managing Executive Officer, General Manager of Director of UFI FUTECH Co., Ltd. Information Systems Division of FamilyMart Co., Ltd. Representative Director and President of UFI FUTECH Co., Ltd. 2 Standing Corporate Auditor 4 Outside Corporate Auditor Outside Director Outside Director Akira Ito Naotaka Nanya Takashi Saeki Tadashi Izawa 1979/3 Joined U-Store Co., Ltd. 1993/4 Registered as attorney at law (current) 2007/5 Director of U-Store Co., Ltd. 1999/9 Opened Nanya Law Firm (current) 1974/4 Joined TOHO GAS Co., Ltd. 1976/4 Joined the Ministry of International Trade and Industry 2008/8 Executive Officer, Manager of Eastern U-Store 2011/5 Corporate Auditor of UNY Group Holdings Co., Ltd. 2012/6 Representative Director and Chairman of TOHO Management Division, Management Supervisory GAS Co., Ltd. 2014/4 Executive Vice President of Chiyoda Corporation 2016/9 Corporate Auditor of the Company (current) Division of UNY CO., LTD. 2014/5 Outside Director of UNY Group Holdings Co., Ltd. 2017/7 President of the Japan-China Economic Association 2010/2 Executive Officer, Manager of Central Chukyo Important Position Concurrently Held in Other Company (current) PIAGO Management Division, Management Outside Corporate Auditor of CKD Corporation 2016/9 Outside Director of the Company (current) 2018/5 Outside Director of the Company (current) Supervisory Division of UNY CO., LTD. Important Positions Concurrently Held in Other Companies 2012/5 Standing Corporate Auditor of UNY CO., LTD. Adviser and Member of the Board of TOHO GAS Co., Ltd. Important Position Concurrently Held in Other Company Outside Director of Central Japan Railway Company President of the Japan-China Economic Association 2016/9 Standing Corporate Auditor of the Company Outside Corporate Auditor of The Ogaki Kyoritsu Bank Ltd. (current) 48 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 49 Corporate Governance and Internal Control System CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM Corporate Governance Basic Policies  Principal Meetings  Based on our belief that strong corporate governance compliance and the accurate performance of administraPrincipal Meetings and Decision Highlights builds enterprise value, we are working to construct a tive work. In addition, to ensure proper corporate goverBoard of Directors transparent and effective management system. To this end, nance, it is essential to fulfill our duty of accountability Summary Decides on important matters affecting the Company’s implementation of operations and supervises the performance of duties we are working to establish a system to ensure legal through regular disclosure of corporate information. Number of meetings in fiscal 2017 20  evision of executive compensation R Overview of the Company‘s Corporate Governance System Capital and business alliance with Don Quijote Holdings Co., Ltd. Decision Highlights Additional acquisition of Kanemi Co., Ltd., shares Type of system Company with a Board of Corporate Auditors Conversion of UCS CO., LTD., into a wholly owned subsidiary of UNY CO., LTD. Number of directors Additional acquisition of Pocket Card Co., Ltd., shares 13 (2) (Of whom, number of outside directors) Management Meeting Number of corporate auditors 5 (4) Based on policies the Board of Directors has approved, deliberates the implementation of policies and (Of whom, number of outside corporate auditors) Summary plans in overall business management Term of office for directors 1 year (the same for outside directors) Number of meetings in fiscal 2017 23 Term of office for corporate auditors 4 years (the same for outside corporate auditors) Adoption of an executive officer system Yes Principal Committees Investment and Loan Committee Organization to support CEO decision-making Management Meeting Purpose Conducts preliminary reviews of investments and loans Chairperson Representative director and executive vice president Committee members 7 Corporate Governance System (As of June 1, 2018) Meetings in fiscal 2017 11 General Meeting of Shareholders Governance Committee (established in fiscal 2018) Appointment / Dismissal Appointment / Dismissal Appointment / Dismissal Purpose Reviews the establishment and operation of internal control systems throughout the Group Chairperson Director and senior managing executive officer Report Board of Accounting Auditors Board of Directors Committee members 4 Corporate Auditors (Certified Public Directors Auditors Audit Accountants) Outside Directors Meetings in fiscal 2017 — Outside Auditors Collaboration Risk Management & Compliance Committee Appointment / Dismissal / Supervision Purpose Exercises Groupwide control of risk management and compliance activities Representative Director and President Chairperson Director and senior managing executive officer Committee members 12 Representative Director and Management Meeting Executive Vice President Meetings in fiscal 2017 3 Investment and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee CSO Loan Committee Purpose Exercises Groupwide control of corporate social responsibility and sustainability activities CFO Governance Committee Chairperson Director and executive officer Committee members 6 Risk Management & CAO Meetings in fiscal 2017 2 Compliance Committee Corporate Governance and Corporate Social CIO Responsibility Committee Collaboration Internal Control System Audit Office Audit Departments Accounting Audit Management / Approval / Report Instruction Group Companies CVS Business GMS Business 50 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 51 Corporate Governance and Internal Control System CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM Corporate Governance Criteria Concerning the Independence of Outside Officers  Evaluation of Board of Directors’ Effectiveness  With the goal of defining the criteria for certifying outside Officers” with the approval of the Board of Directors. directors and outside corporate auditors as independent When considering candidates for outside director and With the aim of further enhancing corporate governance, functioning properly, with “appropriate” or “more or less officers of the Company, the Company has established outside corporate auditor, their independence based on the Company evaluates the effectiveness of the Board of appropriate” accounting for the majority of answers to the “Criteria Concerning the Independence of Outside said criteria is a prerequisite for the position. Directors. The effectiveness evaluation conducted in 2018 evaluation’s questions. found that the Board of Directors was generally Reasons for Appointing Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors  Summary of Evaluation of Board of Directors’ Effectiveness Outside Directors Attendance rate at Name Reason for appointment fiscal 2017 Board of Subjects All directors and corporate auditors at the end of February each year Directors’ meetings Takashi Saeki has served as an outside director of the Company as well as a consultant to directors, outside director, and outside corporate auditor at other companies. We have thus Method Questionnaire survey of all subjects (answers anonymous) Takashi Saeki determined that Mr. Saeki can be expected to provide valuable opinions and advice based on 16/20 Independent Director his abundant experience and significant insight as a corporate manager. 1. Composition of the Board of Directors (80%) Mr. Saeki serves as a director and advisor of TOHO GAS Co., Ltd. The Group conducts 2. Management of the Board of Directors standard gas use transactions as well as gas fee money transfer transactions with this company, Questions but the amounts of these transactions are immaterial. 3. Agenda items of the Board of Directors 4. Support systems of the Board of Directors Tadashi Izawa has abundant experience acquired through his years of experience as a deputy Tadashi Izawa director-general of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, a board member of the Japan All directors and corporate auditors answer a questionnaire about the effectiveness of the Board of Directors. Independent Director International Cooperation Agency, an executive vice president of Japan External Trade Organiza— Evaluation method Based on the aggregated results of these answers, analysis and evaluation are conducted at meetings of the tion, and an ambassador. We have determined that Mr. Izawa can be expected to provide Board of Directors. valuable opinions and advice based on these experiences and his deep knowledge. Outside Corporate Auditors Further, the previous fiscal year’s evaluation pointed out related to the composition of the Board of Directors, such issues related to the Board of Directors with respect to the as the number of directors and the percentage of outside Attendance rate Attendance rate at schedule for convening meetings and the content of directors, and issues related to the enhancement of the at fiscal 2017 Name Reason for appointment fiscal 2017 Board of Board of Corporate Directors’ meetings Auditors’ meetings documents provided. Based on comparison with the content of the agenda items of the Board of Directors, Yasuhiro Baba has been engaged in accounting and finance tasks at another company for many previous fiscal year’s evaluation, the most recent evaluation including plans for successors to representative directors Yasuhiro Baba years. We have thus determined that Mr. Baba can be expected to perform rigorous audits of the 20/20 12/12 confirmed that the Company has made improvements and the nomination and dismissal of members of senior Company’s management based on his wealth of experience and insight into the accounting and (100%) (100%) finance fields. with respect to enhancing and revising management of management. In light of the evaluation, the Board of Mika Takaoka Mika Takaoka possesses a wealth of specialized insight and knowledge regarding economics and the Board of Directors in regard to these issues. Directors will consider improvements and revisions and 16/20 11/12 management accumulated through her experience as a university professor. We have thus determined Independent Auditor (80%) (91%) Meanwhile, most recent evaluation pointed out issues continue efforts to enhance its effectiveness. that Ms. Takaoka can be expected to perform rigorous audits of the Company’s management. Naotaka Nanya Naotaka Nanya has a wealth of experience and insight as a legal specialist. We have thus deter20/20 12/12 Independent Auditor mined that Mr. Nanya can be expected to perform rigorous audits of the Company’s management. (100%) (100%) Takayuki Aonuma Takayuki Aonuma has a wealth of experience and insight as a legal specialist. We have thus deterMessage from Outside Director  Independent Auditor — — mined that Mr. Aonuma can be expected to perform rigorous audits of the Company’s management. Note: Tadashi Izawa and Takayuki Aonuma were elected to the Board of Directors and the Board of Corporate Auditors, respectively, at the 37th Ordinary General Meeting of Pursuing an Optimal System through Trial and Error Shareholders on May 24, 2018. I used to be an outside director at UNY Group Holdings Co., Ltd. In my view, the holding company’s Board of Directors, Message from Outside Director  whose members changed following management integration, discusses important management issues in a timely Contributing to Corporate Management as Risks Diversify manner. Also, I believe that the exchanges of opinion and Please let me introduce myself. I am Tadashi Izawa, and the questions of attendees, including those of outside members, Corporate Governance and Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders convened in May are generally appropriate. 2018 appointed me as an outside director. In a career spanning An evaluation of the Board of Directors’ effectiveness, more than 30 years, I have worked as a government adminisconducted in 2017, identified issues, mainly concerning the Internal Control System Outside Director trator in diverse fields, including public relations, energy, and management of the Board with regard to such areas as time trade. Also, living overseas and working for international aid allotted for discussions and procedures for providing inforTakashi Saeki organizations exposed me to many different values and mation that is the basis of discussions. The past year has national traits. I look forward to drawing on these experiences seen many improvements. Given the rapidity with which to provide the FamilyMart UNY Group with fresh perspectives. Outside Director business conditions are changing, however, I feel that time More than a year and a half has passed since manageDue to the rapid technological progress of recent years and and capacity limit the Board of Directors’ ability to discuss all ment integration, and the Company’s governance remains other factors, companies are facing competition from inside Tadashi Izawa important issues of the holding company and operating at the trial-and-error stage. In light of periodic effectiveness and outside their industries. As lifestyles change, society ages, companies. I think, therefore, the Company needs to divide evaluations, I would like the Board to continue improveand internationalization advances, retailers must respond to functions among the Board of Directors and various types of ments and reforms. change with more agility than before to continue providing governance but also calls for rapid identification of and acute meetings—such as the Management Meeting and relevant consumers with high added value. sensitivity to diverse risks. My mission is to be an outside direcoperating companies’ boards of directors—and then create a Adopting a flexible, unconventional stance to addressing tor that helps the Group control and minimize risks as it boldly framework that organically links them. issues not only requires the appropriate establishment of seizes opportunities for growth and business advancement. 52 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 53 Corporate Governance and Internal Control System CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM Corporate Governance Internal Control System / IR Activities Executive Compensation  Internal Control System  The Company provides compensation to directors and fixed compensation and bonuses to directors through the The Company has the Risk Management & Compliance operation) of internal controls based on the Basic Policy. corporate auditors within predetermined monetary limits Company’s management stock ownership plan as stock Committee as an advisory body to the president, and the The standing corporate auditors also attend the committee approved by the general meeting of shareholders. price-linked compensation. During directors’ terms of committee reviews the establishment (streamlining and to deliver their opinions. Directors receive fixed compensation, which is a office, the Company requires directors to keep shares they monthly salary, and bonuses. Fixed compensation is a have acquired. Compliance and Risk Management  monetary amount based on internal regulations and posiPart-time directors only receive fixed compensation in The Risk Management & Compliance Committee monitors Use of Employee Hotline and Supplier Helpline in tion. Bonuses are performance-based compensation and the form of a monthly salary. the status of compliance by receiving reports from the Fiscal 2017 are linked to consolidated net profit attributable to owners Corporate auditors only receive fixed compensation in Compliance Committee at each Group company. The Suspected fraud, law breaking, or rule violation 19 of parent. Further, the Company provides a portion of the form of a monthly salary. respective Group companies continuously execute various Inquiry about labor contract or working hours 7 measures including education and training activities for Inquiry about workplace conditions, behavior, language 67 Compensation for Executives officers and employees and the establishment of an interSuspected harassment 43 Total paid in various forms (¥ million) Other 21 Total paid No. of nal reporting system and a point of contact for consulting. Retirement Total 157 (¥ million) Basic salary Stock options Bonuses payments In addition, the Company has established systems to benefit recipients rectify and prevent compliance violations. It has established company. The respective Group companies regularly anaDirectors (excluding outside directors) 154 101 — 53 — 10 an internal reporting system for the Group, which includes lyze and evaluate various risks and independently conduct Corporate auditors an employee hotline and a supplier helpline. risk management regarding the risks concerned. 26 26 — — — 1 (excluding outside corporate auditors) The Risk Management & Compliance Committee moniThe Company has established the Investment and Loan Outside directors 20 20 — — — 2 tors the status of risk management by receiving reports Committee, which reviews important investment and loan Outside corporate auditors 34 34 — — — 4 from the Risk Management Committee at each Group topics at the Company and the respective Group companies. Note: The above figures include one director who retired as of the close of the 36th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on May 25, 2017, and one director who retired on February 20, 2018 Group Companies Management System  The Company dispatches directors and/or corporate auditors ­Directors meetings and in the Management Meeting, etc. Compensation of Accounting Auditors  and provides the respective Group companies with business Furthermore, with respect to risk management, we administration and management guidance in accordance with have taken actions such as the establishment of the Risk The compensation paid to accounting auditors for conNames of the certified public accountants that executed the Management Rules regarding Associated Companies. Management & Compliance Committee and compliance ducting audits is determined based on the Company’s duties: The Company also has entered into management guidance education at each Group company. Based on the status of scale and characteristics and on the number of days Koichi Okubo and Haruko Nagayama, agreements with major operating companies to promote such actions, the Company conducts education and training required to perform the audits. The final decision is made Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC Groupwide improvement of propriety in operations. regarding compliance and risk management, etc., at Group after reaching agreement with the accounting auditors. In addition, we determine matters that require the Compacompanies and provides training materials to the group comInformation on the certified public accountants that perny’s prior approval and matters that need to be reported to the panies, and further provides advice and guidance on the formed the audits and on compensation they received can Company under the Management Rules regarding Associated improvement of relevant rules and the streamlining of the be found below. Companies, and conduct deliberations on significant matters systems. With these measures, the Company promotes the pertaining to the subsidiaries in the Company’s Board of internal control systems including those at Group companies. Compensation for Corporate Auditors Compensation based on Fiscal 2016 Compensation based on Fiscal 2017 IR Activities  Compensation for non-audit Compensation for non-audit Corporate Governance and audit and attestation audit and attestation services (¥ million) services (¥ million) The Company is committed to ensuring that its investor meetings, conducts overseas investor relations activities, (¥ million) (¥ million) FamilyMart UNY Holdings 64 3 79 — relations activities respect its policy of simple and forthright meets individually with investors and analysts, and proacdisclosure characterized by accuracy, promptness, and tively provides information through its corporate website Internal Control System Consolidated subsidiaries 217 4 449 — impartiality. Under the strong leadership of the president, and various publications. Going forward, we will work to Total 281 7 528 — the Company holds biannual financial results review further enhance our investor relations activities. Major Investor Relations Activities in Fiscal 2017 Activities Contents Twice (interim and year-end results): Explanation of business results and management strategies; Meetings for analysts and institutional investors firstand third-quarter teleconferences Briefing sessions Product strategy briefings, distribution center study tour, briefing on MEGA Don Quijote UNY store Overseas IR activities Visits to important investors in the U.S., Europe, and Asia for briefing sessions Individual meetings About 300 times Domestic and international conferences About 10 times hosted by securities companies Briefings for individual investors 4 times • Annual report Major communication tools • Semi-annual reports for individual shareholders (published after the second quarter and fiscal year-end) 54 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 55 Data and Financial Section DATA AND FINANCIAL SECTION Fact Sheets Retail Sector Data Convenience Store Sector Data Sales of Retail Sector Major Convenience Store Chains (Number of domestic stores, including area franchised stores) (¥ billion) YoY 12/3 13/3 14/3 15/3 16/3 17/3 18/3 12/2 13/2 14/2 15/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 difference Entire retail sector 136,709 137,184 141,136 139,466 140,565 140,275 142,999 Seven-Eleven Japan 14,005 15,072 16,319 17,491 18,572 19,422 20,260 838 Department stores 6,723 6,649 6,893 6,702 6,792 6,560 6,534 FamilyMart 8,834 9,481 10,547 11,328 11,656 12,995 15,726 2,731 Supermarkets 12,977 12,905 13,250 13,293 13,147 12,965 13,086 Cocostore 772 731 693 656 405 Convenience stores 8,975 9,542 10,017 10,544 11,127 11,518 11,801 Circle K Sunkus 6,169 6,242 6,359 6,353 6,350 5,130 1,506 (3,624) E-commerce 8,459 9,513 11,166 12,797 13,774 15,135 16,505 LAWSON 10,457 11,130 11,606 12,276 12,395 13,111 13,992 881 MINISTOP 2,105 2,192 2,218 2,151 2,221 2,263 2,264 1 Market Size of Retail Sector by Format Daily Yamazaki 1,644 1,617 1,571 1,574 1,548 1,559 1,553 (6) (¥ trillion) (¥ trillion) Seicomart 1,132 1,154 1,160 1,161 1,184 1,180 1,197 17 150 18 Community Store 303 313 448 594 520 518 548 30 16.5 145 142.9 15 JR-EAST 454 502 506 506 505 500 494 (6) 12.5 13.0 140 12 POPLAR 700 713 655 525 518 472 461 (11) 11.8 135.0 Three F 710 679 641 558 539 349 291 (58) 135 9 8.6 7.4 6.5 SAVE ON 577 582 600 605 578 501 163 (338) 130 6 4.3 Total 47,862 50,408 53,323 55,778 56,991 58,000 58,455 455 125 3 0 0 Notes: 1. FamilyMart merged with Cocostore in December 2015 and with Circle K Sunkus in September 2016. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2. Figures for certain chains are as of December 31 of the previous year. Market size of entire retail sector (left) Convenience stores (right) Supermarkets (right) Department stores (right) E-commerce (right) Share of Store Numbers Others 13.1% Seven-Eleven Japan Others 8.0% Seven-Eleven Japan General Merchandise Store Sector Data 29.3% MINISTOP 34.7% MINISTOP 3.9% 4.4% Sales at Major Superstores Circle K LAWSON (¥ billion) Sunkus 12/2 23.9% 18/2 12/2 13/2 14/2 15/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 12.9% Aeon Retail 2,017 1,978 1,961 1,935 1,990 2,006 2,021 Ito-Yokado 1,334 1,302 1,280 1,253 1,255 1,219 1,213 LAWSON FamilyMart 21.8% UNY 750 730 732 705 716 699 670 18.5% FamilyMart IZUMI 470 489 509 530 580 618 652 29.5% Others 8,405 8,404 8,766 8,867 8,604 8,421 8,528 Total 12,977 12,905 13,250 13,293 13,147 12,965 13,086 Total Store Sales (Non-consolidated) (¥ billion) Growth Rate of Average Daily Sales at Existing Stores 12/2 13/2 14/2 15/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 (%) FamilyMart 1,534 1,584 1,721 1,860 2,005 12/2 13/2 14/2 15/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 3,009 3,016 Circle K Sunkus 896 878 895 928 936 Aeon Retail 0.3 (1.4) 0.0 (2.8) (0.3) (2.3) (1.4) Seven-Eleven Japan 3,280 3,508 3,781 4,008 4,291 4,515 4,678 Ito-Yokado (2.6) (4.3) (4.6) (4.5) 0.2 (4.2) (1.4) UNY (1.6) (2.8) 0.3 (2.9) 1.0 (1.0) 0.0 LAWSON 1,621 1,693 1,758 1,932 1,960 2,027 2,110 IZUMI 0.8 (0.8) 2.4 1.4 2.0 1.9 (0.4) Sources: Current Survey of Commerce, E-Commerce Market Survey, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry; and data released by each company Growth Rate of Average Daily Sales at Existing Stores (Non-consolidated) (%) 12/2 13/2 14/2 15/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 FamilyMart 4.4 (1.6) (0.4) (2.2) 1.3 0.8 (0.3) Data and Financial Section Circle K Sunkus 3.1 (4.8) (3.1) (3.6) (0.9) (2.1) (5.4) Seven-Eleven Japan 6.7 1.3 2.3 2.4 2.9 1.8 0.7 LAWSON 5.4 0.0 (0.2) (1.0) 1.4 (0.2) (0.1) Sources: Convenience Store Sokuho, Ryutsu Sangyo Shinbunsha for number of stores; and data released by each company 56 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 57 Data and Financial Section DATA AND FINANCIAL SECTION Fact Sheets Convenience Store Business: FamilyMart Co., Ltd. Profile of Stores Business Performance (Non-consolidated) Number of Stores 17/2 18/2 19/2 (est.) 15/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 19/2 (est.) Number YoY Number YoY Number YoY Number YoY Number YoY FamilyMart Circle K / Sunkus FamilyMart Circle K / Sunkus FamilyMart of stores difference of stores difference of stores difference of stores difference of stores difference YoY YoY YoY YoY YoY Company-owned stores 416 30 347 (69) 356 9 299 (57) 274 (25) difference difference difference difference difference Type 1 6,360 289 6,424 64 6,588 164 7,004 416 Average daily sales 522 6 425 (6) 520 (2) 385 (40) 525 5 at all stores (¥ thousand) Type 2 3,738 415 4,063 325 5,145 1,082 7,504 2,359 Number of customers 911 (3) 682 (17) 884 (27) 617 (65) 895 11 Franchised stores 10,098 704 10,487 389 11,733 1,246 14,508 2,775 15,633 1,125 Spending per customer (¥) 573 8 624 8 588 15 624 ±0 587 (1) FamilyMart stores (non-consolidated) 10,514 734 10,834 320 12,089 1,255 14,807 2,718 15,907 1,100 Average daily sales Company-owned stores 373 373 143 (230) — (143) 523 6 424 (7) 523 ±0 389 (35) 532 9 at existing stores (¥ thousand) Franchised stores 4,539 4,539 1,363 (3,176) — (1,363) Number of customers 914 (2) 680 (19) 896 (18) 622 (58) 907 11 Circle K Sunkus stores (non-consolidated) 4,912 4,912 1,506 (3,406) — (1,506) Spending per customer (¥) 571 6 624 8 584 13 625 1 586 2 Number of stores operated by 10,514 734 10,834 320 17,001 6,167 16,313 (688) 15,907 (406) Growth rate of average daily sales FamilyMart Co., Ltd. (non-consolidated) 0.8 — (2.1) — (0.3) — (5.4) — 1.2 — at existing stores (%) Okinawa FamilyMart Co., Ltd. 251 19 269 18 318 49 324 6 (FYI) Minami Kyushu FamilyMart Co., Ltd. 337 4 353 16 405 52 406 1 Growth rate of average daily sales at existing stores — — — — 2.1 — — — — — Hokkaido FamilyMart Co., Ltd.*1 75 7 47 (28) — (47) — — including converted stores JR KYUSHU RETAIL, INC. 151 17 153 2 183 30 189 6 from Circle K Sunkus (%) Sunkus Nishi-Shikoku*2 63 63 — (63) Average daily sales 486 6 — — 501 15 — — 515 14 at new stores (¥ thousand) Circle K Shikoku*2 155 155 — (155) Number of stores operated by area franchise 814 47 822 8 1,124 302 919 (205) 947 28 companies in Japan Number of stores in Japan 11,328 781 11,656 328 18,125 6,469 17,232 (893) 16,854 (378) Sales by Product Category Taiwan 2,952 55 2,985 33 3,071 86 3,168 97 3,308 140 E-commerce Category Products 1,193 123 1,109 (84) 1,138 29 1,134 (4) 1,114 (20) Fast food Thailand 10.4% 6.1% Fried chickens, steamed meat buns, oden, and counter coffee, etc. China 1,306 211 1,530 224 1,875 345 2,197 322 2,197 ±0 Fast food Services made and sold over the counter 1.6% United States 8 (1) — (8) — — — — — — Daily food Daily food Lunch boxes, noodles, sandwiches, desserts, etc. Vietnam 71 43 87 16 122 35 160 38 160 ±0 Non-food 26.8% Processed food Beverages, liquor, instant noodles, confectionery, etc. 29.7% Indonesia 21 9 27 6 70 43 88 18 86 (2) 18/2 Non-food items Magazines, daily goods, cigarettes, etc. The Philippines 91 52 108 17 95 (13) 65 (30) 66 1 Cigarettes Services Copy service, express service, etc. Malaysia — — — — 4 4 37 33 73 36 24.3% E-commerce Ticket and pre-paid card sales by Famiport (multimedia terminals) Number of overseas stores operated by area 5,642 (7,433) 5,846 204 6,375 529 6,849 474 7,004 155 franchise companies Processed food 25.4% Number of stores operated by area franchise 6,456 (7,386) 6,668 212 7,499 831 7,768 269 7,951 183 companies Total number of stores 16,970 (6,652) 17,502 532 24,500 6,998 24,081 (419) 23,858 (223) Breakdown of Sales and Gross Profit Ratio by Product Category (Non-consolidated) *1 Hokkaido FamilyMart was integrated with FamilyMart Co., Ltd., on March 1, 2016. (¥ million) *2 Sunkus Nishi-Shikoku and Circle K Shikoku were integrated with FamilyMart Co., Ltd., on March 1, 2017. 17/2 18/2 19/2 (est.) FamilyMart Sales Gross profit ratio (%) YoY Sales Gross profit ratio (%) YoY Gross profit ratio (%) YoY 24,081 stores YoY (%) Share (%) difference YoY (%) Share (%) difference difference in eight countries and regions Fast food 120,773 7.6 5.7 45.43 0.04 156,102 29.3 6.1 45.37 (0.06) (as of end-February 2018) Daily food 585,632 5.0 27.9 35.77 (0.21) 681,946 16.4 26.8 35.97 0.20 Processed food 531,746 5.3 25.3 37.50 (0.75) 647,525 21.8 25.4 37.98 0.48 China Japan Liquor 87,237 3.0 4.2 24.58 (0.07) 108,794 24.7 4.3 25.27 0.69 Opened first store in 2004  Opened first store in 1973 Food sub-total 1,238,152 5.4 58.9 37.46 (0.40) 1,485,575 20.0 58.3 37.82 0.36 2,197 stores  17,232 stores Non-food 622,144 4.3 29.6 15.75 0.04 755,794 21.5 29.7 15.60 (0.15) Vietnam Taiwan Cigarettes 500,434 4.8 23.8 10.81 0.01 618,731 23.6 24.3 10.81 ±0.00 Opened first store in 2009  Opened first store in 1988 Services 33,479 1.3 1.6 9.26 (0.22) 40,172 20.0 1.6 9.32 0.06 Data and Financial Section 160 stores  3,168 stores E-commerce 207,122 9.3 9.9 5.54 0.22 265,301 28.1 10.4 5.76 0.22 Total 2,100,899 5.4 100.0 27.44 (0.24) 2,546,843 21.2 100.0 27.50 0.06 27.65 0.15 Thailand  The Philippines (FYI) Opened first store in 1993  Opened first store in 2013 30.7 (0.2) 30.9 0.2 31.1 0.2 1,134 stores  65 stores GP ratio excluding services and EC Malaysia Indonesia Opened first store in 2016  Opened first store in 2012 37 stores  88 stores 58 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 59 Data and Financial Section DATA AND FINANCIAL SECTION Fact Sheets Franchise Contracts (Contract details differ according to area franchisers) Number of Stores by Region Types of FamilyMart Franchise Contracts Provided by the franchisee Hokkaido Contract type 1FC-A 1FC-B 1FC-C 2FC-N Contract period 10 years from store opening 237 ¥3,000,000 at contract date (excluding consumption tax) 233 4 Affiliation fee: ¥500,000 (excluding consumption tax) Required at contract date Store preparation commission: ¥1,000,000 (excluding consumption tax) Initial stocking fee: ¥1,500,000 (including cash for making change and a portion of merchandise procurement costs) FamilyMart Ishikawa Aomori Iwate Land / building Provided by FamilyMart Provided by FamilyMart Circle K / Sunkus 267 226 189 Funds Interior facility FamilyMart funds Provided by FamilyMart construction expense part of expense Total: 17,232 stores in Japan 212 55 145 81 176 13 (Includes area franchised stores) Sales fixtures (In principle, FamilyMart funds necessary expenses.) Yamaguchi Shimane Tottori Kyoto Fukui Akita Miyagi Information devices As of February 28, 2018 Staff hiring About ¥500,000 91 65 72 332 158 160 370 Application for approval (Franchisees are required to fund their own living expenses for 2 to 3 months.) 91 — 65 — 72 — 306 26 149 9 130 30 352 18 Percentage of monthly Percentage of monthly Percentage of monthly Percentage of monthly gross margin* gross margin* gross margin* gross margin* Hiroshima Okayama Hyogo Shiga Toyama Niigata Yamagata Fukushima Franchise commission Up to ¥2.5 million: 49% Up to ¥2.5 million: 52% Up to ¥3.0 million: 59% Up to ¥3.0 million: 59% From ¥2.5 million: 39% From ¥2.5 million: 42% From ¥3.0 million: 52% From ¥3.0 million: 63% 276 243 560 161 168 184 153 180 Over ¥3.5 million: 36% Over ¥3.5 million: 39% Over ¥4.5 million: 49% Over ¥5.5 million: 69% 275 1 200 43 509 51 139 22 143 25 179 5 141 12 180 — Rent Note 1 Provided by FamilyMart Provided by FamilyMart Minimum operating revenue guaranteed Nagasaki Fukuoka Osaka Gifu Nagano Gunma Tochigi Ibaraki ¥20 million per year (for stores open 24 hrs/day) 158 546 1,401 378 267 126 227 336 Incentive for opening 24 hrs/day ¥1.2 million per year <Training period (1st 12th month from opening)> <After training period> 158 — 538 8 1,324 77 280 98 241 26 124 2 226 1 331 5 Of monthly losses from food waste: Of monthly losses from food waste: Ehime Kagawa Nara Aichi Yamanashi Saitama Tokyo Support for losses from food waste 1) 80% between 1st and 4th month from opening 1) 10% for amounts between ¥100,000 and ¥300,000 Saga Oita 2) 50% between 5th and 12th month from opening 2) 50% for amounts between ¥300,000 and ¥500,000 75 119 245 128 145 1,686 82 796 2,525 3) 15% for amounts exceeding ¥500,000 Support for utilities 90% for amounts below ¥3.6 million per year 75 — 119 — 195 50 126 2 143 2 1,352 334 82 — 782 14 2,334 191 Store management support ¥1.2 million per year Kumamoto Miyazaki Kochi Tokushima Wakayama Mie Shizuoka Kanagawa Chiba * Net sales less cost of sales Notes: 1. In the case of rental store space, the franchisee shall pay the rent, a leasehold deposit, and guarantee money. 204 125 105 86 120 420 560 1,042 633 2. A loan system is available for part of the franchisee’s initial payments in the case of 2FC-N contracts. 204 — 125 — 86 19 77 9 116 4 351 69 456 104 959 83 620 13 Okinawa Kagoshima FamilyMart’s Franchise System FamilyMart Co., Ltd., as the franchiser, collaborates closely with all management support services, including store operational know324 281 of its franchisees to foster mutual trust and a collaborative relahow and the shared use of data management and logistics sys324 — 281 — tionship so that both parties may achieve business growth. Our tems. In return for this support, the Company receives royalty franchisees are responsible for store management, including the income consisting of a certain percentage of each franchisee’s ordering of their own inventories, the arranging of their product gross margin. The rate differs according to the type of franchise displays, and the hiring and training of their staff. For our part, we contract. Number of Store Openings and Closures (Non-consolidated) supply not only our brand name and logo but also full store 15/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 19/2 (est.) FamilyMart Total FamilyMart Circle K Total FamilyMart Circle K Major Store Operation Systems Sunkus Sunkus Number of stores 10,514 10,834 17,001 16,313 14,807 1,506 15,907 15,907 — Multiple-Store Promotion System Multiple-Store Promotion System Step-Up Program for Franchisees Opening 1,061 703 831 576 576 — 600 600 — (1FC Contracts) (2FC Contracts) on 2FC-N Contracts Relocation* 110 182 244 315 315 — 340 340 — This incentive-based support system encourages Under this system, which is geared toward This program enables franchisees on 2FC-N Converting CKS stores to FM brand — — 829 2,720 2,720 — 1,045 1,045 — franchisees operating one store to take on expanding franchise store operations, contracts to step up to 1FC-B or 1FC-C contracts Closure 327 383 1,589 4,202 578 3,624 2,051 545 1,506 multiple stores. FamilyMart’s head office provides all store after completing five years of management of a Closure — — 468 1,119 455 664 741 345 396 infrastructure, thereby allowing franchisees to new store and fulfilling their contracts. Relocation — — 271 350 123 227 312 200 112 hold down the outlay of funds. Irrespective of Closure due to brand conversion — — 850 2,733 — 2,733 998 — 998 the initial type of operating contract, franchisees Net increase/decrease 734 320 71 (906) 2,718 (3,624) (406) 1,100 (1,506) can take on the management of multiple stores. * Figures for relocation of FamilyMart stores include store relocation that occurred following the conversion from Circle K and Sunkus stores to the FamilyMart brand. Note: Not applicable to certain stores Data and Financial Section Major Support Systems for Franchisees Newly Independent Family Membership Franchisee Support System Senior Citizen Franchisee 2FC-N Contract Funds Partial FamilyMart Store Staff IndepenPromotion System Intern Employee IndepenSystem Loan System dent Franchisee Support System dence System Note: Not applicable to certain stores 60 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 61 Data and Financial Section DATA AND FINANCIAL SECTION Fact Sheets General Merchandise Store Business: UNY CO., LTD. Overview of Stores Sales Growth (%) Sales floor space at term-end Number of stores Average sales / year Sales by product category (Directly managed floor space) 17/2 18/2 19/2 (est.) Approximately 23,000m2 YoY change in existing store sales APITA 90 Approximately ¥5.0 billion Foods 65%, Non-food items 35% (1.0) 0.0 (0.2) (Approximately 11,000m2) (after day-of-the-week adjustment) Approximately 6,000m2 Clothing (1.5) 1.2 PIAGO 101 Approximately ¥2.0 billion Foods 85%, Non-food items 15% (Approximately 4,000m2) Household goods (0.4) 1.4 Foods (0.3) (0.2) YoY change in existing store sales (0.8) (0.3) Sales by Product Category Number of (1.3) (1.1) customers Other 0.8% Average spending 1.0 1.1 per customer Household goods YoY change in all store sales (2.3) (3.7) 13.5% Clothing (3.8) (3.1) Clothing Household goods (7.6) (6.1) 13.7% 18/2 Foods (0.3) (3.0) Foods 72.0% Gross Profit Ratio by Product Category (%) 15/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 19/2 (est.) Increase / Increase / Increase / Increase / Increase / (¥ million) Decrease Decrease Decrease Decrease Decrease 15/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 Clothing 36.7 (0.8) 36.3 (0.4) 35.6 (0.7) 36.3 0.7 YoY (%) Share (%) YoY (%) Share (%) YoY (%) Share (%) YoY (%) Share (%) Household goods 27.8 0.1 27.4 (0.4) 26.0 (1.4) 27.1 1.1 Clothing 99,975 (8.0) 14.2 98,274 (1.7) 13.7 94,535 (3.8) 13.5 91,569 (3.1) 13.7 Foods 20.5 — 20.5 — 20.4 (0.1) 20.3 (0.1) Women’s clothing 27,103 (8.6) 3.8 26,736 (1.4) 3.7 25,757 (3.7) 3.7 24,418 (5.2) 3.6 Total 23.9 (0.2) 23.7 (0.2) 23.2 (0.5) 23.4 0.2 23.8 0.4 Children’s clothing 12,948 (9.6) 1.8 12,619 (2.5) 1.8 12,486 (1.1) 1.8 11,260 (9.8) 1.7 Men’s clothing 18,898 (5.2) 2.7 18,933 0.2 2.6 19,459 2.8 2.8 17,517 (10.0) 2.6 Shoes, bags and 15,758 (9.3) 2.2 15,662 (0.6) 2.2 12,456 (20.5) 1.8 14,162 13.7 2.1 accessories Underwear 25,266 (7.7) 3.6 24,322 (3.7) 3.4 24,375 0.2 3.5 24,211 (0.7) 3.6 Profile of Stores Household goods 109,246 (5.6) 15.5 105,901 (3.1) 14.8 97,881 (7.6) 14.0 90,783 (7.3) 13.5 Number of Stores by Store Type Household goods 16,689 (20.6) 2.4 15,907 (4.7) 2.2 11,812 (25.7) 1.7 8,905 (24.6) 1.3 General 15/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 92,556 (2.3) 13.1 89,994 (2.8) 12.6 86,069 (4.4) 12.3 81,877 (4.9) 12.2 merchandise Increase / Increase / Increase / Increase / Foods 484,962 (2.3) 68.7 501,236 3.4 69.9 499,502 (0.3) 71.4 482,763 (3.4) 72.0 Decrease Decrease Decrease Decrease Fresh food 286,898 (1.7) 40.7 298,368 4.0 41.6 296,121 (0.8) 42.3 286,687 (3.2) 42.7 APITA 98 1 97 (1) 97 — 90 (7) Processed food 198,064 (3.2) 28.1 202,868 2.4 28.3 203,381 0.3 29.1 196,076 (3.6) 29.2 PIAGO 117 (4) 120 3 113 (7) 101 (12) Commodity supplies 679 107.2 0.1 833 22.6 0.1 869 4.3 0.1 763 (12.1) 0.1 U-Home* 11 — 11 — — (11) — — Other 10,905 (3.8) 1.5 10,748 (1.4) 1.5 7,033 (34.6) 1.0 4,769 (32.2) 0.7 Total 226 (3) 228 2 210 (18) 191 (19) Total 705,770 (3.6) 100.0 716,994 1.6 100.0 699,822 (2.4) 100.0 670,649 (4.2) 100.0 MEGA Don Quijote — — — — — — 1 1 UNY stores * UNY CO., LTD. withdrew from the home center business and closed all 11 U-Home stores from June to August in 2016. Net Sales and Growth Ratio of Existing Store Sales by Store Type (¥ million) 15/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 Number of Store Openings and Closures Existing Existing Existing Existing YoY (%) store sales*1 YoY (%) store sales*1 YoY (%) store sales*1 YoY (%) store sales*1 15/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 19/2 (est.) (%) (%) (%) (%) Increase / Increase / Increase / Increase / Increase / APITA 462,024 (3.1) (3.4) 470,247 1.8 0.9 465,950 (0.9) (0.9) 459,530 (1.4) 0.7 Decrease Decrease Decrease Decrease Decrease PIAGO 231,601 (4.4) (2.2) 234,922 1.4 1.1 228,617 (2.7) (1.2) 213,132 (6.8) (1.6) Number of stores 226 (3) 228 2 210 (18) 191 (19) 181 (10) U-Home*2 10,195 (5.9) (2.9) 9,796 (3.9) 0.1 3,905 (60.1) — — — — Opening 6 — 8 — 2 — 1 — 1 — Total 703,821 (3.6) (2.9) 714,965 1.6 1.0 698,473 (2.3) (1.0) 672,663 (3.7) 0.0 Closure 9 — 6 — 20 — 20 — 11 — *1. The growth ratio of existing store sales is after day-of-the-week adjustment. MEGA Don Quijote *2. UNY CO., LTD. withdrew from the home center business and closed all 11 U-Home stores from June to August in 2016. — — — — — — 1 1 6 5 UNY stores Data and Financial Section 62 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 63 Data and Financial Section DATA AND FINANCIAL SECTION Fact Sheets Consolidated Business Results Financial Summary (¥ million) Japanese GAAP IFRS Japanese GAAP IFRS 14/2 15/2 16/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 14/2 15/2 16/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 Fiscal year Per share of common stock FamilyMart 345,603 374,430 427,676 FamilyMart 2,686.37 2,872.40 2,987.34 Operating revenues 424,435 843,815 1,275,300 Total equity per share (¥) 2,864.20 4,089.07 4,293.16 UNY GHD 1,032,126 1,018,959 1,038,733 UNY GHD 1,291.17 1,271.84 1,206.51 Operating profit / FamilyMart 43,310 40,417 48,734 FamilyMart 238.19 270.45 221.94 50,281 55,670 66,250 Basic net income per share (¥) 187.13 195.07 265.82 Core operating income UNY GHD 25,328 20,237 22,367 UNY GHD 32.13 (10.47) (12.49) Net profit attributable to FamilyMart 22,611 25,672 21,067 Cash dividends applicable FamilyMart 102.00 106.00 110.00 17,763 21,585 33,656 110.00 112.00 112.00 owners of parent UNY GHD 7,440 (2,408) (2,873) to the year (¥) UNY GHD 24.00 20.00 20.00 FamilyMart 93,256 111,717 68,534 Ratios Capital expenditures 90,831 125,314 UNY GHD 77,959 65,720 66,670 FamilyMart 43.4 40.9 38.8 Equity ratio (%) 37.3 31.1 31.4 FamilyMart 24,459 30,918 32,835 UNY GHD 31.3 30.7 28.5 Depreciation and amortization 46,967 63,936 UNY GHD 35,412 37,232 37,633 FamilyMart 9.2 9.7 7.6 ROE (return on equity) (%) 6.6 5.5 6.3 UNY GHD 2.5 — — Net cash provided by FamilyMart 60,843 71,837 97,985 FamilyMart 4.1 4.1 3.0 93,776 83,351 152,729 ROA (return on total assets) (%) 2.5 1.5 2.2 operating activities UNY GHD 35,385 57,842 84,212 UNY GHD 0.8 — — Net cash used in FamilyMart (64,377) (53,674) (61,566) FamilyMart 19.0 20.0 24.4 (62,756) (30,657) (49,502) PER (price earnings ratio) (times) 29.0 35.2 30.4 investing activities UNY GHD (60,523) (53,335) (46,852) UNY GHD 18.8 — — Net cash (used in) provided FamilyMart (21,054) (21,375) (17,394) FamilyMart 42.8 39.2 49.6 (16,824) (4,916) (37,875) Payout ratio (%) 58.8 57.4 42.1 by financing activities UNY GHD 71,714 (6,833) (12,986) UNY GHD 74.7 — — Note: The figures above do not include the performance of UNY GHD in the 1st half of fiscal 2016. Fiscal year-end FamilyMart 588,136 666,244 730,295 Total assets 728,976 1,667,074 1,732,506 UNY GHD 950,166 952,584 973,233 FamilyMart 265,458 284,829 295,229 Total equity 271,876 517,842 543,235 UNY GHD 305,776 301,249 285,018 Note: The figures above do not include the performance of UNY GHD in the 1st half of fiscal 2016. Data and Financial Section 64 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 65 Data and Financial Section DATA AND FINANCIAL SECTION Fact Sheets (FYI) Comparison between IFRS and Japanese GAAP (FYI) Year-on-Year Comparisons Including the Performance of UNY Group Holdings in Fiscal 2016 1st Half (IFRS) IFRS Japanese GAAP * Differs from numerical values under corporate accounting procedures. (FYI) Reference Figures Taking Into Consideration (¥ million) 17/2 18/2 19/2 the Major Adjustments to IFRS Results Full year 1H Full year 1H (est.) Full year (est.) (¥ billion) (FYI) (FYI) YoY YoY 18/2 Adjustment 18/2 YoY YoY Operating revenues 1,275.3 95.8 Operating revenues 1,371.1 Operating revenues 1,267,329 633,636 (0.2%) 1,275,300 0.6% 645,100 1.8% 1,270,200 (0.4%) Convenience store business 560.8 12.0 Convenience store business 572.8 Convenience store business 293,632 560,880 271,600 (7.5%) 520,500 (7.2%) General merchandise store business 718.7 83.9 General merchandise store business 802.6 General merchandise 341,239 718,768 376,000 10.2% 754,400 5.0% Eliminations (4.3) 0.0 Eliminations (4.3) store business Cost of sales 573.1 95.5 Cost of sales 668.6 Eliminations / Corporate (1,235) (4,349) (2,500) — (4,700) — Operating gross profit 702.1 0.3 Operating gross profit 702.4 Operating gross profit 702,997 357,495 1.4% 702,164 (0.1%) 354,100 (0.9%) 696,400 (0.8%) Selling, general and administrative expenses 635.9 8.7 Selling, general and administrative expenses 644.6 Selling, general and 626,995 315,536 3.8% 635,914 1.4% 311,600 (1.2%) 619,100 (2.6%) Convenience store business 427.1 7.2 Convenience store business 434.3 administrative expenses General merchandise store business 211.5 1.5 General merchandise store business 213.0 Convenience store business 214,806 427,104 208,400 (3.0%) 408,700 (4.3%) Eliminations (2.6) (0.1) Eliminations (2.7) General merchandise 101,330 211,506 104,400 3.0% 213,400 0.9% Core operating income* 66.2 (8.4) Operating profit 57.8 store business Convenience store business 42.9 (7.5) Convenience store business 35.4 Eliminations / Corporate (600) (2,696) (1,200) — (3,000) — General merchandise store business 23.5 (0.9) General merchandise store business 22.6 Core operating income 76,001 41,959 (13.6%) 66,250 (12.8%) 42,500 1.3% 77,300 16.7% Eliminations (0.2) 0.0 Eliminations (0.2) Convenience store business 29,199 42,934 29,000 (0.7%) 51,000 18.8% (IFRS operating expense subject) 38.2 (7.7) General merchandise Operating profit 27.9 (0.8) 12,988 23,531 14,300 10.1% 27,100 15.2% store business Convenience store business 4.1 0.1 Eliminations / Corporate (228) (215) (800) — (800) — General merchandise store business 23.8 (1.0) Equity in earnings of Eliminations 0.0 0.0 852 (536) — 908 6.6% 1,400 — 1,800 98.2% associates and joint ventures Non-operating income/loss, Extraordinary income/loss, Other income 5,143 1,802 (26.3%) 9,681 88.2% 1,300 (27.9%) 4,000 (58.7%) Finance income / Finance costs 0.6 0.8 (29.1) Equity in earnings of associates and joint ventures Other expenses 31,244 9,751 (31.8%) 48,865 56.4% 6,800 (30.3%) 14,600 (70.1%) Net profit attributable to owners of parent 33.6 (1.1) Net profit attributable to owners of parent 32.5 Operating profit 50,753 33,474 (11.7%) 27,974 (44.9%) 38,400 14.7% 68,500 144.9% Convenience store business (1.2) (0.3) Convenience store business (1.5) Convenience store business 20,760 4,197 24,800 19.5% 42,400 — General merchandise store business 17.7 (1.2) General merchandise store business 16.5 Eliminations 17.2 (0.3) Eliminations 17.5 General merchandise 12,881 23,823 14,500 12.6% 27,000 13.3% store business Eliminations / Corporate (166) (46) (900) — (900) — Finance income 4,041 1,729 (24.7%) 3,273 (19.0%) 1,100 (36.4%) 2,200 (32.8%) Main Adjustment Details [Amount] Finance costs 3,478 1,206 (34.9%) 2,608 (25.0%) 1,700 41.0% 3,600 38.0% (¥ billion) Net profit attributable to Reversal of offset adjustments to net sales and cost of sales of products without inventory risks 28,667 22,367 17.4% 33,656 17.4% 22,500 0.6% 40,000 18.8% owners of parent Operating revenues (Cost of sales) • (Convenience Store Business) Ticket, card, and service products (from directly operated stores) Convenience store business 12,435 (1,285) 17,200 38.3% 30,000 — • (General Merchandise Store Business) Side dishes, etc., sold through consignment buying system General merchandise 9,545 17,708 5,200 (45.5%) 9,600 (45.8%) (Convenience Store Business) Amortization of goodwill associated with merger [7.6] store business Selling, general and (Both segments) Amortization of goodwill not associated with merger [1.1] Eliminations / Corporate 386 17,234 100 (74.1%) 400 (97.7%) administrative expenses Others (retirement benefits, etc.) [0.2]  ross profit less selling, general and administrative expenses G Core operating income* (Reflects changes in selling, general and administrative expenses) (IFRS operating expense subject) Equity in earnings of associates and joint ventures and other income and expenses subtracted as expenses * Core operating income is a profit indicator for operating profit under Japanese GAAP that is calculated by subtracting the cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses from operating revenues. Data and Financial Section 66 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 67 Data and Financial Section DATA AND FINANCIAL SECTION Fact Sheets Financial Results of Major Subsidiaries FamilyMart Co., Ltd. (Non-consolidated) (IFRS) (FYI) JGAAP UNY CO., LTD. (Non-consolidated) (IFRS) (FYI) JGAAP * Numerical values under corporate accounting procedures * Numerical values under corporate accounting procedures (¥ million) (¥ million) (¥ million) (¥ million) 18/2 19/2 18/2 18/2 19/2 18/2 1H Full year 1H Full year Full year 1H Full year 1H (Est.) Full year (Est.) Full year YoY*1 YoY*1 YoY YoY YoY*2 YoY*1 YoY*1 YoY YoY YoY*2 Total store sales 1,551,390 45.5% 3,016,064 19.2% 1,538,681 (0.8%) 3,000,000 (0.5%) Total store sales 3,016,064 0.2% Gross operating revenues 302,066 605,827 91.5% 291,120 (3.6%) 581,360 (4.0%) Gross operating revenues 712,816 (3.9%) Operating revenues 247,705 45.9% 468,179 18.9% 222,986 (10.0%) 424,331 (9.4%) Gross operating revenues 480,361 0.6% Net sales 273,735 551,217 92.0% Net sales 670,649 (4.2%) Income from   Income from Other revenues 28,330 54,611 87.0% Other revenues 42,166 (0.1%) 169,969 39.5% 327,453 18.1% 327,452 0.2% franchised stores franchised stores Gross profit 70,466 143,504 92.2% 70,345 (0.2%) 141,196 (1.6%) Gross profit ratio 156,898 (3.5%)  Other operating  Other operating 21,646 45.7% 40,474 13.7% 39,798 (2.4%) revenues revenues Operating gross profit 98,797 198,114 90.8% 96,583 (2.2%) 193,420 (2.4%) Operating gross profit 199,065 (2.8%) Net sales  56,089 70.0% 100,252 23.8% Net sales  113,110 2.7% Selling, general and Selling, general and 87,778 178,563 90.3% 84,904 (3.3%) 172,388 (3.5%) 181,088 (5.2%) administrative expenses administrative expenses Operating gross profit 207,427 41.3% 396,108 17.7% 201,024 (3.1%) 387,628 (2.1%) Operating gross profit 396,107 0.1%  Leasehold and  Leasehold and 10,787 21,439 87.1% 21,482 (6.5%) office rents office rents Selling, general and Selling, general and 183,231 48.6% 361,912 19.8% 176,197 (3.8%) 344,057 (4.9%) 359,032 1.7% administrative expenses administrative expenses Personnel expenses 42,619 83,698 94.9% Personnel expenses 84,881 (3.8%)  Leasehold and Leasehold and  Advertising expenses 6,794 13,341 89.7% Advertising expenses 10,195 (5.3%) 82,781 47.3% 164,930 19.8% 164,932 1.9% office rents office rents Depreciation 4,813 9,400 95.8% Depreciation 10,464 (15.3%)  Personnel expenses 33,811 53.1% 65,256 22.0%  Personnel expenses 64,550 2.4% Water, electricity and Water, electricity and  Advertising expenses 11,633 6.9% 20,583 (13.3%)  Advertising expenses 20,582 (19.5%) 5,230 10,040 104.5% 10,032 (3.6%) heating expenses heating expenses Depreciation  22,451 51.3% 45,257 31.0%  Depreciation 42,156 7.1% Other 17,534 40,645 79.1% Other 44,031 (4.8%) Other  32,553 68.5% 65,885 25.4%  Other 66,810 5.9% Core operating income 11,019 19,551 95.3% 11,679 6.0% 21,032 7.6% Operating profit 17,977 29.6% Core operating income 24,197 3.0% 34,196 (0.7%) 24,827 2.6% 43,570 27.4% Operating profit 37,075 (13.3%) Other income 774 4,665 457.2% 588 (24.0%) 2,470 (47.1%) Non-operating income 2,905 (19.4%) Other income 885 (40.1%) 1,669 (45.9%) 612 (30.8%) 980 (41.3%) Non-operating income 11,259 40.8% Other expenses 942 6,217 241.6% 369 (60.8%) 2,600 (58.2%) Non-operating expenses 3,918 10.6% Other expenses 9,519 (11.5%) 41,982 51.0% 6,012 (36.8%) 12,428 (70.4%) Non-operating expenses 2,534 (7.1%) Loss on disposal 376 818 130.0% of fixed assets Loss on disposal 1,016 (56.4%) 4,633 (2.7%) Impairment loss 73 3,446 525.1% of fixed assets Impairment loss  4,368 (28.1%) 28,468 87.4% Other 493 1,953 113.9% Other  4,135 75.2% 8,881 13.1% Operating profit 10,851 17,999 98.9% 11,898 9.6% 20,902 16.1% Ordinary income 16,963 21.8% Operating profit 15,563 9.6% (6,117) — 19,426 24.8% 32,122 — Ordinary income 45,801 (4.6%) Finance income 880 1,645 (18.4%) 173 (80.3%) 271 (83.5%) Extraordinary income 4,424 329.3% Finance income 8,903 160.6% 10,228 105.2% 4,237 (52.4%) 5,419 (47.0%) Extraordinary income 3,941 410.0% Finance costs 829 1,890 124.2% 1,341 61.8% 2,580 36.5% Extraordinary loss 9,113 (86.3%) Finance costs 970 9.3% 1,867 (5.5%) 959 (1.1%) 1,915 2.6% Extraordinary loss 25,801 (65.6%) Income before income taxes 10,903 17,753 73.7% 10,730 (1.6%) 18,593 4.7% Income before income taxes 12,275 — Profit before income Net profit 8,600 14,394 — 7,500 (12.8%) 12,200 (15.2%) Net profit 9,265 — 23,496 40.4% 2,244 (82.4%) 22,705 (3.4%) 35,626 — Profit before income taxes 23,940 — taxes *1. Year-on-year comparisons for FY2017 under IFRS use figures that do not include the FY2016 1st half performance *2. Year-on-year comparisons for FY2017 under Net profit 17,146 65.7% 509 (92.0%) 17,396 1.5% 27,367 — Net income 18,908 — before management integration. ­Japanese GAAP use figures that include FY2016 1st half performance before ­management *1. Year-on-year comparisons for FY2017 under IFRS use figures that do not include the FY2016 1st half performance of *2. Year-on-year comparisons for FY2017 under integration. Circle K Sunkus Co., Ltd., before management integration. Japanese GAAP use figures that include the FY2016 1st half performance of Circle K Sunkus Co., Ltd., before management integration. Data and Financial Section 68 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 69 Data and Financial Section DATA AND FINANCIAL SECTION Fact Sheets Information on Major Companies Capital Expenditures (¥ million) Number of Subsidiaries, Affiliates, and Joint Ventures 17/2 18/2 19/2 (est.) YoY 18/2 CVS business GMS business FamilyMart Co., Ltd. (Non-consolidated) Number of subsidiaries 38 25 13 Lease deposits 17,174 15,984 13,682 (14.4%) Number of affiliates and joint ventures 27 21 6 New stores 16,361 29,868 19,712 (34.0%) Total 65 46 19 Existing stores 4,595 9,917 22,036 122.2% For stores 20,956 39,785 41,748 4.9% Head office investment 777 674 1,695 151.5% Financial Summary of Main Subsidiaries (Convenience Store Business) System investment 4,839 5,004 4,691 (6.3%) (¥ million) For head office 5,616 5,678 6,386 12.5% FamilyMart Co., Ltd. Taiwan FamilyMart Co., Ltd. SENIOR LIFE CREATE Co., Ltd. (Non-consolidated) Lease 29,375 42,681 40,653 (4.8%) Shares 100.00% Shares 50.00% Shares 95.43% Total capital expenditure 73,123 104,130 102,471 (1.6%) 18/2 19/2 (est.) 18/2 19/2 (est.) 18/2 19/2 (est.) UNY CO., LTD. (Non-consolidated) YoY* YoY YoY YoY YoY YoY Future development 626 60 — — Gross operating 468,179 18.9% 424,331 (9.4%) 60,229 9.0% 9,323 9.7% 10,120 8.5% revenues New stores 2,150 2,505 1,268 (49.4%) Core operating income 34,196 (0.7%) 43,570 27.4% 6,286 7.3% 469 5.9% 235 (49.9%) Existing stores 1,785 3,498 9,220 163.6% Net income 509 (92.0%) 27,367 — 5,820 23.3% 294 18.5% 148 (49.7%) Total capital expenditure 4,560 6,064 10,488 73.0% Consolidated total Note: The figures for earnings contributions [shares] by affiliates and subsidiaries are as of February 28, 2018. * Year-on-year comparisons for FY2017 use figures that do not include the FY2016 1st half performance of Circle K Sunkus Co., Ltd., before management integration. Capital expenditure 90,831 125,314 140,000 11.7% Depreciation 46,967 63,936 70,000 9.5% Note: The figures above do not include the FY2016 1st half performance of UNY Group HD before management integration. Financial Summary of Main Subsidiaries (General Merchandise Store Business) (¥ million) UNY CO., LTD. (Non-consolidated) UCS CO., LTD. UD Retail CO., LTD. Shares* 60.00% Shares 48.81% Shares 60.00% 18/2 19/2 (est.) 18/2 19/2 (est.) 18/2 19/2 (est.) YoY YoY YoY YoY YoY YoY Gross operating 605,827 581,360 (4.0%) 19,947 19,979 0.2% 162 26,435 — revenues Core operating income 19,551 21,032 7.6% 3,919 4,063 3.7% (158) 507 — Net income 14,394 12,200 (15.2%) 2,574 2,700 4.9% (162) 400 — Note: The figures for earnings contributions [shares] by affiliates and subsidiaries are as of February 28, 2018. * Effective November 21, 2017, 40.0% of the total issued shares of stock in UNY CO., LTD., were transferred to Don Quijote Holdings Co., Ltd. Financial Summary of Main Affiliates and Joint Ventures (¥ million) Okinawa FamilyMart Co., Ltd. Minami Kyushu FamilyMart Co., Ltd. Shares 48.98% Shares 49.00% 18/2 19/2 (est.) 18/2 19/2 (est.) YoY YoY YoY YoY Net income 959 0.5% 989 3.1% 219 265.7% 239 9.1% (¥ million) Central FamilyMart Co., Ltd. Pocket Card Co., Ltd. Shares 49.00% Shares 0.00% 18/2 19/2 (est.) 18/2 19/2 (est.) YoY YoY YoY YoY Net income (893) — (1,414) — 3,597 60.9% 5,436 51.1% Note: The figures for earnings contributions [shares] by affiliates and subsidiaries are as of February 28, 2018. Data and Financial Section 70 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 71 Data and Financial Section DATA AND FINANCIAL SECTION Consolidated Performance Operating Data (Non-consolidated) CVS Business Operating Revenues and Operating Profit / Net Profit Attributable to Owners Average Daily Sales / Growth Rate of Average Store Openings / Store Closures Core Operating Income of Parent and EPS Daily Sales of Existing Stores Operating revenues (¥ billion) Net profit attributable to owners of parent (¥ billion) EPS (¥) Average daily sales: total stores (¥ thousand) Store openings Store closures Operating profit / Core operating income (¥ billion) Average daily sales: new stores (¥ thousand) Growth rate of average daily sales of existing stores (%) 345.6 374.4 427.6 424.4 843.8 1,275.3 22.6 25.6 21.0 17.7 21.5 33.6 521 440 508 424 516 480 522 486 520 501 1,284 1,061 703 831 576 550 110 1300 270.45 265.82 238.19 221.94 195.07 1.3 0.8 187.13 (0.4) (0.3) (2.2) 66.2 55.6 48.7 50.2 43.3 40.4 0 90 -650 276 327 383 452 578 14/2 15/2 16/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 14/2 15/2 16/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 14/2 15/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 14/2 15/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 Japanese GAAP IFRS Japanese GAAP IFRS Note: Circle K and Sunkus stores after brand conversion are included in figures for Note: Circle K Sunkus stores are not included. total stores, not included in figures for existing stores and newly opened stores. Total Equity and ROE Total Assets and ROA Number of Total Chain Stores Total Store Sales (Japan, includes stores under area franchisers) Total equity (¥ billion) ROE (%) Total assets (¥ billion) ROA (%) (¥ billion) 265.4 284.8 295.2 271.8 517.8 543.2 588.1 666.2 730.2 728.9 1,667.0 1,732.5 10,547 11,328 11,656 18,125 17,232 1,721 1,860 2,005 3,009 3,016 18500 3050 9.2 9.7 7.6 6.6 5.5 6.3 4.1 4.1 3.0 2.5 1.5 2.2 0 0 14/2 15/2 16/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 14/2 15/2 16/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 14/2 15/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 14/2 15/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 Japanese GAAP IFRS Japanese GAAP IFRS Note: Figures for 2017/2 and after include Circle K and Sunkus stores. Note: Figures for 2017/2 and after include Circle K and Sunkus stores. GMS Business Cash Flows Capital Expenditures and Depreciation Sales Growth at Existing Stores Gross Profit Ratio (after day-of-the-week adjustment) Cash flows from operating activities (¥ billion) Capital expenditures (¥ billion) Depreciation (¥ billion) (%) (%) Cash flows from investing activities (¥ billion) 60.8 71.8 97.9 93.7 83.3 152.7 93.2 111.7 68.5 90.8 125.3 0.3 (2.9) 1.0 (1.0) 0.0 24.1 23.9 23.7 23.2 23.4 105 25 63.9 46.9 Data and Financial Section 30.9 32.8 24.4 (64.3) (53.6) (61.5) (62.7) (30.6) (49.5) 90 20 14/2 15/2 16/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 14/2 15/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 14/2 15/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 14/2 15/2 16/2 17/2 18/2 Japanese GAAP IFRS Japanese GAAP IFRS 72 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 73 Data and Financial Section DATA AND FINANCIAL SECTION Management’s Discussion and Analysis Current Situation of the Corporate Group Market Environment in Fiscal 2017 Segment Initiatives and Performance The Group consists of a total of 66 companies: the Company (FamilyMart UNY Holdings Co., Ltd.), 38 subsidiaries, and 27 In fiscal 2017, the year ended February 28, 2018, Japan’s ­affiliates and jointly controlled companies. These companies develop operations in the convenience store (CVS) business, the economy continued to recover gradually as the job market Performance by segment is as follows. general merchandise store (GMS) business, and peripheral businesses. and personal income improved. The retail industry generally saw improvement in consumer confidence. Convenience Store Business The businesses of each Group company and their position within the Company’s businesses are as follows. In fiscal 2017, total sales in Japan’s retail industry were Through companywide collaboration, FamilyMart Co., Ltd., Major Group Companies ¥142.9 trillion, up 1.9% year on year. Sales by department aims to become an even more competitive chain. To this Company name Operations Voting rights (%) Relations to the Company Subsidiaries stores were ¥6.5 trillion, down 0.4% year on year; sales by end, the company is converting the Circle K and Sunkus FamilyMart Co., Ltd.*1*2 Convenience store business 100.00 Management guidance based on Group strategies, outsourcing transacsupermarkets came to ¥13.0 trillion, up 0.9% year on brands to the FamilyMart brand while advancing three tions, officers holding concurrent positions at the Company General merchandise store Management guidance based on Group strategies, contracting transacyear; and sales by convenience stores were ¥11.8 trillion, major reforms: structural reform in ready-to-eat items, UNY CO., LTD.*1*2 60.00 business tions, officers holding concurrent positions at the Company up 2.4% year on year. Meanwhile, e-commerce sales were marketing reform, and operation reform. 50.00 Taiwan FamilyMart Co., Ltd.*1 Convenience store business up around 9.0%, increasing from ¥15.1 trillion in fiscal As of February 28, 2018, the company had converted (50.00) Accounting and other storerelated 100.00 2016 to ¥16.5 trillion in fiscal 2017. the brands of 3,549 stores. At converted stores, daily sales famima Retail Service Co., Ltd. services (100.00) UFI FUTECH Co., Ltd. E-commerce-related services 72.33 * Sources: Retail Statistical Yearbook and E-Commerce Market Survey, Ministry of and customer numbers have been rising compared with 81.35 Economy, Trade and Industry UCS CO., LTD. Credit card service business Officers holding concurrent positions at the Company pre-conversion level. FamilyMart will realize further integra(81.35) Contracting of security, janitorial, 100.00 tion benefits by leveraging a store network of more than Sun Sougou Maintenance Co., Ltd. and maintenance operations (100.00) Business Performance in Fiscal 2017 17,000 stores in Japan and the integration of products and Manufacturing, processing, and Kanemi Co., Ltd.*1*3 52.47 Note: In the previous fiscal year, the Company applied provisional accounting treatment distribution bases, which the company completed in 2017. wholesale of prepared dishes 30 other companies for its absorption-type merger with UNY Group Holdings Co., Ltd., in September 2016. However, as the Company finalized the accounting treatment in the second Regarding promotion, the company implemented marAffiliates and Joint Ventures quarter of fiscal 2017, it has retroactively adjusted financial figures for the previketing reform with a view to making maximum use of the 48.98 ous fiscal year. Year-on-year comparisons in this management’s discussion and Okinawa FamilyMart Co., Ltd. Convenience store business Officers holding concurrent positions at the Company analysis are comparisons with the retroactively adjusted figures. sales promotion benefits of TV commercials and other (48.98) 49.00 measures to boost sales. Throughout the year, FamichikiMinami Kyushu FamilyMart Co., Ltd. Convenience store business Officers holding concurrent positions at the Company (49.00) Senpai, an original character personifying FamilyMart’s In accordance with its Everyday Fun and Fresh principles, 49.00 Central FamilyMart Co., Ltd. Convenience store business flagship product, FAMICHIKI fried chicken, enthusiastically (49.00) the Group is taking maximum advantage of its unique Shanghai FamilyMart Co., Ltd. Convenience store business *5 promoted products in target categories. In January 2018, management resources to transform retail business Guangzhou FamilyMart Co., Ltd. Convenience store business *5 Suzhou FamilyMart Co., Ltd. Convenience store business *5 models. At the same time, the Group aims to remain a we held the Chargrilled Chicken Great Thanks Festival to POCKET CARD CO., LTD. Credit card service business 23.08 social and lifestyle infrastructure provider that is essential commemorate this product’s surpassing of 100 million unit (23.08) 20 other companies to consumers’ daily lives. sales. Also, the company held a Winter Festa based on a In fiscal 2017, operating revenues increased ¥431,485 tie-up with the popular animated TV series Kemono Other 40.06 Advice and support regarding product supply systems for convenience million, or 51.1%, year on year, to ¥1,275,300 million. Friends. Both sales promotions were well received. ITOCHU Corporation*3 General trading company (0.20) store business and general merchandise store business and other support Core operating income increased ¥10,580 million, or As for store operation, aiming to accelerate operation *1. The company indicated is a specified subsidiary. 19.0%, to ¥66,250 million. reform even further, FamilyMart established a cross-divi*2. At FamilyMart Co., Ltd., and UNY CO., LTD., gross operating revenues (excluding intersegment revenue) account for more than 10% of the consolidated operating revenues. *3. The company indicated submits annual securities reports. Profit before income taxes decreased ¥5,056 million, or sional organization and moved forward in earnest with *4. Figures in parentheses are indirect voting share percentages. 15.0%, year on year, to ¥28,639 million. such measures as increasing the efficiency of store staff *5. Joint venture China CVS (Cayman Islands) Holding Corp. holds 100% of voting rights. Subsidiary FamilyMart China Holding Co., Ltd., holds 40.35% of voting rights of China CVS (Cayman Islands) Holding Corp. Net profit increased ¥12,250 million, or 50.4%, year on work. The company lessened the work required for store year, to ¥36,552 million due to the adoption of a consolioperations by introducing next-generation point-of-sale In the GMS business, Kanemi Co., Ltd., which was an affiliate, has become a subsidiary as the Company acquired addidated tax payment system. (POS) cash registers to all stores and introducing new suptional shares of Kanemi. After deducting net profit attributable to non-controlplies that enable shorter cleaning periods. Further, the Company has transferred 40.0% of the issued shares of UNY CO., LTD., which was a wholly owned subsidling interests, net profit attributable to owners of parent In store development, the company built a high-quality iary, to Don Quijote Holdings Co., Ltd. increased ¥12,071 million, or 55.9%, year on year, to store network by implementing brand conversion and ¥33,656 million. opening stores in accordance with a build-and-scrap (B&S) strategy. February 2018 saw the opening of the Tohoku Data and Financial Section Operating Results (Consolidated, IFRS) ­region’s first integrated store based on a collaboration (¥ million) ­ etween FamilyMart and the National Federation of Agrib 17/2 18/2 YoY Operating revenues 843,815 1,275,300 51.1% cultural Cooperative Associations (ZEN-NOH)—FamilyMart Core operating income 55,670 66,250 19.0% Plus ZEN-NOH Fureai Hiroba Motosawa Store, in Yamagata, Net profit attributable to owners 21,585 33,656 55.9% Yamagata Prefecture. As well as carrying the original prodof parent uct lineups that are ZEN-NOH strengths, such as meats, 74 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 75 Data and Financial Section DATA AND FINANCIAL SECTION Management’s Discussion and Analysis fresh fruit and vegetables, daily necessities, and private Operating Results: CVS Business (IFRS) clothing and household goods and twice the number for As a result, in the GMS business gross operating reve(¥ million) label products, the store has an eat-in space that serves purchases of food products. nues increased 99.2% year on year, to ¥718,768 million, 17/2 18/2 YoY as a hub for the local community. As for store development, in September 2017 the comand segment profit increased 80.3%, to ¥17,708 million. Gross operating revenues 484,461 560,880 15.8% In other domestic business operations, in January 2018 pany opened a new-format supermarket, La: Foods Core In addition, in accordance with a basic agreement on a Segment profit (loss) 11,278 (1,285) — the company began a service at approximately 13,000 Nayabashi, in the TERRASSE NAYABASHI multipurpose capital and business alliance, which FamilyMart UNY HoldE-Net ATMs, mainly installed at FamilyMart stores nationIncrease / building in Naka Ward, Nagoya, to coincide with the openings and Don Quijote Holdings concluded in August 2017, FamilyMart 17/2 18/2 Decrease wide, that waives usage fees for JAPAN POST BANK cash Growth rate of average daily sales ings of 21 other specialty stores in the facility. The superthe companies converted one of UNY’s stores and reat existing stores (%) 0.8 (0.3) — cards at certain times. Also, the company entered the fitmarket is based on the concept of a partner that shares opened it in February 2018 as the MEGA Don Quijote UNY Average daily sales at existing stores ness business with the aim of catering to increasing health (¥ thousand) 523 523 ±0 the convenience, enjoyment, and variety of downtown life. Oguchi Store, which combines the strengths and knowconsciousness and expanding the businesses of franchised Number of customers at existing stores 914 896 (18) Store revitalization initiatives included the renewals and how of UNY and Don Quijote Holdings. Many customers, stores. In February 2018, under the Fit & GO brand the Average daily sales at existing stores reopenings of the APITA Shin-Moriyama Store in February both from the local community and beyond, are visiting (¥ thousand) 571 584 13 company opened its inaugural 24-hour gym, Fit & GO Ota 2017 and the APITA Kakamihara Store in April 2017. Rethe new store. By March 2018, the companies had fully Nagahara, in Ota Ward, Tokyo. opened as new-format shopping centers that offer lifestyle converted and reopened a further five APITA and PIAGO With respect to diversity promotion, the company General Merchandise Store Business solutions, the stores combine the company’s directly manstores. Going forward, UNY aims to enhance its corporate launched the FamilyMart Women Project, an organization Under the Back to Basics slogan, UNY CO., LTD., set out aged sales floors for clothing and household goods with value over the medium to long term through a variety of tasked with empowering women. Each operating base management strategies centered on individual store manKusamura Books, which comprises TSUTAYA, Starbucks collaborations that take advantage of both companies’ conducts proving tests for workstyle ideas that reflect agement and store appeal. The five basics of retailing are Coffee, and other stores. Further, in March 2017 the commanagement resources and unique strengths and women’s priorities. The company presented awards for merchandise, 52-week merchandising, product assortpany opened the Telass Walk Ichinomiya Store, the first of know-how. good ideas and shared them companywide. In addition, ment, sales floor environment, and employee hospitality. the FamilyMart Service Spot stores, which are tasked with the company is continuing initiatives to employ people In a cohesive manner, the company refocused on improvenhancing the convenience of general supermarkets. As of Operating Results: GMS Business (IFRS) (¥ million) with disabilities. At the same time, FamilyMart is establishing these five basics and providing them to customers. February 28, 2018, the company operated 16 of these stores, 17/2 18/2 YoY ing conditions that allow everyone to do satisfying work. In relation to product development, the Daisy Lab, and it plans to expand and improve their lineup of services. In various areas, including at stores, farms, and the head where female employees develop products that reflect With respect to environmental and social contribution Gross operating revenues 360,739 718,768 99.2% office, the company is increasing workplaces where emwomen’s perspectives, launched an original bedding series, initiatives, in January 2018 the company received the MinSegment profit 9,824 17,708 80.3% ployees with disabilities can contribute. Daisy Home Resort, the newly developed apparel series ister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Award at the 5th (¥ million) The total number of stores operated in Japan was easy care, and other offerings. Further, three Low-Salt Kelp Food Industry Mottainai (waste prevention) Grand Prix, UNY 17/2 18/2 YoY 17,232 (including 919 stores operated by three domestic Tsukudani soy-sauce-preserved products in the Style ONE which is organized by the Japan Organics Recycling AssociSales by product category area franchisers) as of February 28, 2018. The total Healthy private label series received the gold prize at the 3rd ation. Also, in February 2018 the company’s Re DESIGN Clothing 94,535 91,569 (3.1%) number of stores operated overseas in Taiwan, Thailand, JSH Low-Sodium Food Awards hosted by the Low-Sodium PROJECT, which benefits the environment and local Household goods 97,881 90,783 (7.3%) China, Vietnam, Indonesia, the Philippines, and Malaysia Committee of The Japanese Society of Hypertension, in communities through manufacturing by local producers, stuFood 499,502 482,763 (3.4%) was 6,849, and the total number of FamilyMart stores May 2017. In November 2017, in recognition of its promodents, and people with disabilities, received the Outstanding Commodity supplies 869 763 (12.1%) worldwide, including both domestic and overseas stores, tion of health through low-sodium products, the company Performance Award at the 2018 Aichi Environmental was 24,081 as of the same date. received the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare Award Award, sponsored by Aichi prefectural government. Other 7,033 4,769 (32.2%) As a result, gross operating revenues in the CVS busifor Excellence at the 6th Long Healthy Life Expectancy Sales at existing stores were unchanged year on year, Total 699,822 670,649 (4.2%) ness increased by 15.8% year on year, to ¥560,880 milAwards. Also, in response to the growing demand for with increases of 1.2% in clothing and 1.4% in house(%) lion. Segment loss was ¥1,285 million compared with the ready-to-eat items as the number of elderly and double-inhold goods and a decline of 0.2% in food products. UNY 17/2 18/2 YoY change in existing store sales previous fiscal year’s segment profit of ¥11,278 million. come households increases, the company launched the Winter clothing sold favorably as did household goods, (after day-of-the-week adjustment) (1.0) 0.0 structural reform project in ready-to-eat items and develhome video game consoles and related products, winter Clothing (1.5) 1.2 oped food products based on the concept of prepared bedding and other winter goods, and specially selected Household goods (0.4) 1.4 dishes that impress every day. discount items. In the food product category, winter inFoods (0.3) (0.2) Regarding promotion, the company focused on retaingredients for hot pot dishes cooked at table sold steadily ing customers by stepping up promotions that targeted in the fourth quarter. UCS Card members. The company introduced a UCS PreIn fiscal 2017, UNY opened one store and closed 20, mium Ticket campaign, which provided UCS Card members giving it 191 stores as of February 28, 2018. Data and Financial Section with a 5% discount ticket usable on a day of their choosing between the 1st and 15th of every month. In addition, the company held a Points Thanks Festival campaign, which awarded UCS Card and uniko card members with at least 10 times the normal shopping points for purchases of 76 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 77 Data and Financial Section DATA AND FINANCIAL SECTION Management’s Discussion and Analysis Financial Position Cash Flows Capital Expenditures Medium-to-Long-Term Strategies and Outlook for Fiscal 2018 Total assets stood at ¥1,732,506 million on February 28, Cash Flows from Operating Activities In fiscal 2017, the Company and its subsidiaries conducted 2018, an increase of ¥65,432 million compared with the Net cash provided by operating activities was ¥152,729 capital expenditures totaling ¥125,314 million primarily for The business conditions of the retail industry remain chalprevious fiscal year-end. million, up ¥69,378 million year on year. This outcome was store investments, including those for new store openings lenging in Japan due to changes in the social environment Current assets were up ¥58,525 million from a year a result of an increase in trade and other payables accomand the renovation of existing stores in the CVS business. including an aging population and intensified competition ­earlier, as an increase in cash and cash equivalents offset panying a rise in store numbers in the CVS business. among different business formats. In addition, diversifying a decrease in other financial assets. Capital Expenditures customer needs are necessitating the creation of products (¥ million) Non-current assets increased ¥6,906 million from the and services based on new ideas. Moreover, corporate 17/2 18/2 YoY previous fiscal year-end, as increases in property, plant and Cash Flows from Investing Activities social responsibility is increasing with regard to the proviequipment and other financial assets compensated for Net cash used in investing activities amounted to ¥49,502 Convenience store business 85,655 116,281 35.8% sion of safe and reliable foods and responses to environ­decreases in investment property and leasehold deposits million, up ¥18,845 million year on year. This increase General merchandise store business 5,176 9,007 74.0% mental issues. receivable. was attributable to continued investments in stores due Eliminations / Corporate 0 26 — To win out in these challenging competitive conditions, Total liabilities amounted to ¥1,143,128 million on Febto the conversion of Circle K and Sunkus brand stores to the Group will seek growth opportunities by concentrating Total 90,831 125,314 38.0% ruary 28, 2018, up ¥9,452 million from a year earlier. FamilyMart brand stores in the CVS business and existing its management resources to provide unique value. Current liabilities were down ¥56,752 million compared store renovations in the GMS business, which offset an In the CVS business, ¥72,015 million of capital expendiwith the previous fiscal year-end due to a decrease in bonds ­increase in proceeds from sales of property, plant and tures was for new store openings and repairs and renovaand borrowings, which more than offset an increase in equipment and investment property and the effect of tion of stores, ¥20,206 million was for leasehold deposits Convenience Store Business trade and other payables. the previous fiscal year’s acquisition of businesses. associated with store leases, and ¥24,061 million was for The domestic CVS business will complete its conversion of Non-current liabilities rose ¥66,205 million from a year investments related to information systems. In the GMS stores to the FamilyMart brand by November 2018 with a earlier due to increases in bonds and borrowings and lease business, ¥7,902 million of capital expenditures was for view to leveraging economies of scale and creating synerobligations. Cash Flows from Financing Activities new openings and repairs and renovations of stores, ¥66 gies in various areas. Specifically, FamilyMart will Net cash used in financing activities was ¥37,875 million, million was for leasehold deposits associated with store strengthen product development and procurement capaTotal equity increased ¥55,980 million from the previous up ¥32,960 million year on year. This increase reflected a leases, and ¥1,040 million was for investments related to bilities, consolidate and rationalize production bases and fiscal year-end, coming to ¥589,377 million on February 28, decrease in commercial paper. information systems. other infrastructure, reorganize delivery routes, and inte2018. This outcome was largely due to increases in retained Aside from store closures, no material sales or retiregrate information systems. earnings and non-controlling interests. As a result, cash and cash equivalents at the end of the ments of equipment were conducted during fiscal 2017. As for merchandise, aiming to further enhance product As a result, the equity ratio was 31.4%, up from 31.1% fiscal year amounted to ¥253,174 million, up ¥64,885 millineups, the Company will continue large-scale capital inin the previous fiscal year; return on equity was 6.3%, up lion from a year earlier. vestment in such facilities as plants that manufacture from 5.5%; and total equity attributable to owners of Dividend Policies ready-to-eat items. In store operation, the Company will parent per share was ¥4,293.16. increase support for franchised stores by lessening the The Company views returning profits to shareholders as an work required for store operation through the streamlining important management task. We maintain a basic policy of of operating systems and the utilization of IT. As for store distributing profits to shareholders on a stable and contindevelopment, to build an even higher-quality store netuous basis commensurate with consolidated operating work, the Company will implement flexible store-opening performance. Guided by this basic policy, we target a constrategies that reflect market characteristics. For other solidated payout ratio of 40%. business operations, the Company will take steps to The Company’s articles of incorporation stipulate that heighten customer convenience. For example, FamilyMart dividend payments can be decided via resolutions by the aims to roll out financial services that utilize new storeBoard of Directors based on Article 459 (1) of the Comparelated technologies. Also, the Company will make forays nies Act, and it is the Company’s basic policy to issue diviinto the fitness business and the laundromat business to dend payments twice a year in the form of interim and expand the businesses of franchised stores. year-end dividends. Data and Financial Section Based on the above policies, the Company has chosen to issue annual dividend payments of ¥112 per share for fiscal 2017, consisting of an interim dividend of ¥56 per share and a year-end dividend of ¥56 per share. The Company is a company to which consolidated dividend regulations apply. 78 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 79 Data and Financial Section DATA AND FINANCIAL SECTION Management’s Discussion and Analysis General Merchandise Store Business This initiative will capture new customer groups and grow (2) Natural Disasters (5) Legal and Regulatory Changes The GMS business faces the task of responding to major revenues and earnings. The Group’s business performance and financial position As an operator of stores in Japan and overseas, the Group structural changes in society, including the aging of society could be adversely affected by unexpected events, such as is subject to legal and regulatory requirements and has and a decline in the working-age population. UNY will reAs a result, the Company has set a target of at least fires, acts of terror, and wars, and natural disasters, such as acquired official licensing in such areas as food safety, fair invigorate the business by strengthening profitability while ¥60.0 billion for net profit attributable to owners of parent earthquakes, epidemics, and extreme weather events, in trade, and environmental protection. The Group’s business rigorously reforming the structure of operations. To in fiscal 2020. Japan and overseas, leading to the destruction of stores, performance and financial position could be adversely strengthen management foundations, the company will supply stoppages, and other circumstances disrupting the affected by unforeseen changes in legal and regulatory thoroughly analyze asset efficiency and undertake selecregular operation of FamilyMart stores. systems or licensing requirements for the operation of tion and concentration. Meanwhile, UNY will use the conConsolidated Performance Forecast stores or by differences of opinion with regulators leading version of UCS CO., LTD., to a wholly owned subsidiary to For fiscal 2018, the Company forecasts a year-on-year de(3) Franchise System to increased costs and operational restrictions. intensify collaboration in sales promotions and expand the cline of 0.4% in operating revenues, to ¥1,270,200 million, In its convenience store business, the Group engages At the present time, the Group is not involved in any customer base of the GMS business. Regarding the reconand year-on-year increases of 16.7% in operating profit, to ­franchisees to operate its stores under its proprietary ­litigation that has the potential to significantly impact the struction of existing businesses, the company will increase ¥77,300 million, and 18.8% in net profit attributable to “FamilyMart System.” The Group’s business performance Group’s performance. The Group’s business performance the appeal of product in the clothing, household goods, owners of parent, to ¥40,000 million. and financial position could be adversely affected by any and financial position could, however, be adversely affected and food products categories. In tandem with these efacts that disrupt the operation of the system or by illegal by litigation that has a major impact on its performance or forts, UNY will remodel existing stores with a focus on preEarnings Forecast (Consolidated) or scandalous behavior involving franchisees and business social standing or by a decision that negatively affects the (¥ million) pared dishes, clothing, and other mainstay categories. partners that causes the suspension of business transacGroup or its business. 18/2 19/2 (est.) YoY With respect to preparations for the formation of a new tions or undermines public confidence in the chain. Operating revenues 1,275,300 1,270,200 (0.4%) The Group’s business performance and financial position (6) Handling of Personal Information retail business, starting in 2018 the company and Don Quijote Holdings will convert existing stores and reopen them Core operating income 66,250 77,300 16.7% could also be adversely affected by the mass termination of In its business processes, the Group collects and stores peras double-branded MEGA Don Quijote UNY stores, which Net profit attributable to owners of parent 33,656 40,000 18.8% franchise contracts with franchisees following a breakdown sonal information relating to its customers. The Group’s combine the strengths and know-how of both companies. in relations of trust between the Group and its franchisees. business performance and financial position could be ­adversely affected by any incidents of leakage of personal (4) Food Safety information that occur despite its best preventive efforts. As an operator of convenience stores and general merchanTo ensure that no unauthorized access or leakage of dise stores, the Group is mainly engaged in the marketing personal information occurs, the Group conducts compulof food products to consumers. The Group’s business persory and appropriate supervision of employees that handle formance and financial position could be adversely affected personal information while using organizational, human, by any major food safety incident (food poisoning, contamphysical, and technological safety management measures ination, illegal mislabeling, etc.) arising despite its best of proven reliability. Operational and Other Risks preventive efforts. The Group is committed to supplying safe food prod(7) IT Systems ucts through such measures as jointly creating with busiThe Group has set up IT systems linking Group companies, ness partners an integrated quality management system business partners of the Group, and its franchised stores. that encompasses everything from production to marketing. The Group’s business performance and financial position The following section outlines some of the main risks relat(1) Economic Trends could be adversely affected by failure, misuse, or other uning to the Group’s operations that could potentially have a The Group is mainly engaged in the operation of conveauthorized use of IT systems that lead to disruption of significant impact on investors’ decisions. nience stores and general merchandise stores. The Group’s services and operations. Statements contained within this section that refer to business performance and financial position could be adThe Group has set up IT system safety mechanisms. matters in the future have been determined to the best of versely affected by various factors, including changes in the our knowledge as of the end of the reporting term. business climate, consumption trends, and other economic The Company has a Companywide risk management conditions and changes in competition with convenience system in place and assesses and classifies the risks that the stores and other retail formats, in its markets in Japan and Company faces according to potential frequency and degree overseas (Taiwan, Thailand, China, Vietnam, Indonesia, the Data and Financial Section of effect. The Company implements continuous activities Philippines, Malaysia, and Hong Kong). commensurate with each risk to minimize its effect. Moreover, the Company advances these activities at its Group companies. 80 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 81 Data and Financial Section DATA AND FINANCIAL SECTION Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (IFRS) FamilyMart UNY Holdings Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries   As of February 28, 2017 and February 28, 2018 Thousands of Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars* Millions of yen U.S. dollars* 2017 2018 2018 2017 2018 2018 (February 28, 2017) (February 28, 2018) (February 28, 2018) (February 28, 2017) (February 28, 2018) (February 28, 2018) ASSETS LIABILITIES AND EQUITY CURRENT ASSETS: CURRENT LIABILITIES: Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 188,289 ¥ 253,174 $ 2,366,112 Trade and other payables ¥ 279,299 ¥ 288,744 $ 2,698,542 Trade and other receivables 258,729 259,654 2,426,673 Deposits received 159,957 152,155 1,422,009 Bonds and borrowings 117,147 48,864 456,673 Other financial assets 27,254 19,463 181,897 Lease obligations 20,240 27,160 253,832 Inventories 53,401 55,558 519,234 Income taxes payable 4,579 7,885 73,692 Other current assets 27,383 24,838 232,131 Other current liabilities 58,141 57,802 540,206 Subtotal 555,056 612,686 5,726,037 Total current liabilities 639,363 582,611 5,444,963 Assets held for sale 3,591 4,485 41,916 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES: Total current assets 558,646 617,171 5,767,953 Bonds and borrowings 276,682 332,282 3,105,439 Lease obligations 83,812 93,843 877,037 Other financial liabilities 55,873 53,732 502,168 Liabilities for retirement benefits 15,245 16,970 158,598 NON-CURRENT ASSETS: Provisions 51,309 51,979 485,785 Property, plant and equipment 367,232 393,596 3,678,467 Other non-current liabilities 11,391 11,711 109,449 Investment property 156,501 137,004 1,280,411 Total non-current liabilities 494,313 560,517 5,238,477 TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,133,676 1,143,128 10,683,439 Goodwill 161,496 155,763 1,455,729 EQUITY: Intangible assets 71,606 66,252 619,178 Common stock 16,659 16,659 155,692 Investments accounted for using the equity method 23,285 23,956 223,888 Capital surplus 237,008 236,785 2,212,944 Leasehold deposits receivable 140,226 122,917 1,148,757 Treasury shares (441) (1,104) (10,318) Other financial assets 138,146 153,279 1,432,514 Other components of equity 8,203 15,925 148,832 Assets for retirement benefits 927 1,758 16,430 Retained earnings 256,414 274,970 2,569,813 Deferred tax assets 34,851 47,209 441,206 Total equity attributable to owners of parent 517,842 543,235 5,076,963 Other non-current assets 14,158 13,599 127,093 Non-controlling interests 15,555 46,143 431,243 Total non-current assets 1,108,428 1,115,334 10,423,682 TOTAL EQUITY 533,398 589,377 5,508,196 TOTAL ASSETS ¥1,667,074 ¥1,732,506 $16,191,645 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY ¥1,667,074 ¥1,732,506 $16,191,645 * The translations of Japanese yen amounts into U.S. dollar amounts are included solely for the convenience of readers outside Japan and have been made at the rate of ¥107 to $1, the approximate rate of exchange at February 28, 2018. Data and Financial Section 82 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 83 Data and Financial Section DATA AND FINANCIAL SECTION Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss (IFRS) Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (IFRS) FamilyMart UNY Holdings Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries  FamilyMart UNY Holdings Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries  For the years ended February 28, 2017 and February 28, 2018 For the years ended February 28, 2017 and February 28, 2018 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars*  Millions of yen 2017 2018 2018 Equity attributable to owners of parent (From March 1, 2016 (From March 1, 2017 (From March 1, 2017 Other components of equity to February 28, 2017) to February 28, 2018) to February 28, 2018) Exchange Financial assets meaTotal equity Operating revenues ¥ 843,815 ¥1,275,300 $11,918,692 Common Treasury difference on translating forCash flow sured at fair value through other comRemeasurements of defined Retained attributable to owners Non-controlling Cost of sales (314,584) (573,136) (5,356,411) stock Capital surplus shares eign operations hedges prehensive income benefit plans Total earnings of parent interests Total equity Gross profit 529,231 702,164 6,562,280 BALANCE, MARCH 1, 2016 ¥16,659 ¥ 13,705 ¥(8,784) ¥(959) ¥ 6,366 ¥ 5,408 ¥244,889 ¥271,876 ¥11,646 ¥283,522 Net profit 21,585 21,585 2,717 24,302 Selling, general, and administrative expenses (473,562) (635,914) (5,943,121) Other comprehensive income 597 401 1,993 407 3,398 3,398 647 4,045 Equity in earnings of associates and joint ventures 731 908 8,486 Total comprehensive income 597 401 1,993 407 3,398 21,585 24,983 3,364 28,347 Other income 3,880 9,681 90,477 Purchase of treasury shares (211) (211) (211) Other expenses (27,304) (48,865) (456,682) Disposal of treasury shares 0 1 1 1 Operating profit 32,976 27,974 261,439 Cash dividends (10,536) (10,536) (1,649) (12,185) Finance income 3,301 3,273 30,589 Changes due to business combinations 226,761 8,553 235,313 5,678 240,991 Finance costs (2,582) (2,608) (24,374) Changes in ownership interests Profit before income taxes 33,695 28,639 267,654 in subsidiaries that do not result Income taxes (9,393) 7,913 73,953 in a loss of control (3,458) (3,458) (2,181) (5,639) Net profit ¥ 24,302 ¥ 36,552 $ 341,607 Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that result in a loss of control (1,303) (1,303) NET PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO: Others (61) (61) (61) Owners of parent ¥ 21,585 ¥ 33,656 $ 314,542 Transfer from other components of equity to retained earnings (131) (407) (538) 538 Non-controlling interests 2,717 2,896 27,065 Transfer from other components Net profit ¥ 24,302 ¥ 36,552 $ 341,607 of equity to non-financial assets (65) (65) (65) (65) Total transactions with owners 223,303 8,343 (65) (131) (407) (603) (10,060) 220,983 545 221,528 EARNINGS PER SHARE (Yen and U.S. Dollars): BALANCE, FEBRUARY 28, 2017 16,659 237,008 (441) (361) 336 8,228 8,203 256,414 517,842 15,555 533,398 Net profit 33,656 33,656 2,896 36,552 Basic earnings per share ¥ 195.07 ¥ 265.82 $ 2.48 Other comprehensive income (204) (133) 8,435 (1,350) 6,748 6,748 (120) 6,628 Total comprehensive income (204) (133) 8,435 (1,350) 6,748 33,656 40,404 2,776 43,180 Purchase of treasury shares (41) (41) (41) Disposal of treasury shares 0 4 4 4 Cash dividends (14,188) (14,188) (3,640) (17,828) Changes due to business combinations (223) (223) 11,684 11,461 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (IFRS) Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control (224) 4 (1) 4 (220) 19,366 19,146 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries  Others 0 (401) 37 (365) 401 37 For the years ended February 28, 2017 and February 28, 2018 Transfer from other components of equity to retained earnings (401) 1,350 950 (950) Thousands of Transfer from other components Millions of yen U.S. dollars* of equity to non-financial assets 21 21 21 21 2017 2018 2018 Total transactions with owners (224) (662) 25 (401) 1,350 974 (15,101) (15,012) 27,811 12,799 (From March 1, 2016 (From March 1, 2017 (From March 1, 2017 BALANCE, FEBRUARY 28, 2018 ¥16,659 ¥236,785 ¥(1,104) ¥(565) ¥ 228 ¥16,262 ¥15,925 ¥274,970 ¥543,235 ¥46,143 ¥589,377 to February 28, 2017) to February 28, 2018) to February 28, 2018) NET PROFIT ¥24,302 ¥36,552 $341,607  Thousands of U.S. dollars* OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME: Equity attributable to owners of parent Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Other components of equity Exchange Financial assets meaTotal equity Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 1,918 8,546 79,869 difference on sured at fair value Remeasurements attributable Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 398 (1,354) (12,654) Common stock Capital surplus Treasury shares translating forCash flow eign operations hedges through other comprehensive income of defined benefit plans Total Retained earnings to owners of parent Non-controlling interests Total equity Share of other comprehensive income of investments accounted BALANCE, FEBRUARY 28, 2017 $155,692 $2,215,028 $ (4,121) $(3,374) $ 3,140 $ 76,897 $ 76,664 $2,396,393 $4,839,645 $145,374 $4,985,028 for using the equity method 40 (14) (131) Net profit 314,542 314,542 27,065 341,607 Total of items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 2,356 7,178 67,084 Other comprehensive income (1,907) (1,243) 78,832 (12,617) 63,065 63,065 (1,121) 61,944 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Total comprehensive income (1,907) (1,243) 78,832 (12,617) 63,065 314,542 377,607 25,944 403,551 Cash flow hedges 401 (149) (1,393) Purchase of treasury shares (383) (383) (383) Disposal of treasury shares 0 37 37 37 Exchange difference on translating foreign operations 1,420 (542) (5,065) Cash dividends (132,598) (132,598) (34,019) (166,617) Share of other comprehensive income of investments accounted Changes due to for using the equity method (133) 142 1,327 business combinations (2,084) (2,084) 109,196 107,112 (550) (5,140) Data and Financial Section Total of items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 1,689 Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result Total other comprehensive income, net of tax 4,045 6,628 61,944 in a loss of control (2,093) 37 (9) 37 (2,056) 180,991 178,935 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ¥28,347 ¥43,180 $403,551 Others (3,748) 346 (3,411) 3,748 346 Transfer from other components of equity to retained earnings (3,748) 12,617 8,879 (8,879) COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO: Transfer from other components Owners of parent ¥24,983 ¥40,404 $377,607 of equity to non-financial assets 196 196 196 196 Non-controlling interests 3,364 2,776 25,944 Total transactions with owners (2,093) (6,187) 234 (3,748) 12,617 9,103 (141,131) (140,299) 259,916 119,617 Comprehensive income ¥28,347 ¥43,180 $403,551 BALANCE, FEBRUARY 28, 2018 $155,692 $2,212,944 $(10,318) $(5,280) $ 2,131 $151,981 $148,832 $2,569,813 $5,076,963 $431,243 $5,508,196 84 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 85 Data and Financial Section DATA AND FINANCIAL SECTION Consolidated Financial Statements History Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (IFRS) 1971 Feb. The Nishikawaya Chain Co., Ltd., HOTEIYA Co., 2009 Dec. The Company includes am/pm Japan Co., Ltd., in its Ltd., UNY K.K., and Shin-meihin Co., Ltd., merge to scope of consolidation as a wholly owned subsidiary FamilyMart UNY Holdings Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the years ended February 28, 2017 and February 28, 2018 form UNY CO., LTD. following the acquisition of shares. Thousands of 1976 Dec. UNY CO., LTD., lists its stock on the Nagoya Stock 2010 Mar. The Company integrates with am/pm Japan Co., Millions of yen U.S. dollars* Exchange. Ltd., by way of absorption merger. 2017 2018 2018 (From March 1, 2016 (From March 1, 2017 (From March 1, 2017 1978 Mar. Seiyu Stores, Ltd. (currently Seiyu GK), commences 2011 Apr. The Company integrates with am/pm Kansai Co., to February 28, 2017) to February 28, 2018) to February 28, 2018) convenience store operations on a franchise system Ltd., by way of absorption merger. CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES: basis. Profit before income taxes ¥ 33,695 ¥ 28,639 $ 267,654 Nov. The Company establishes Hangzhou FamilyMart Depreciation and amortization 47,494 65,180 609,159 Co., Ltd., in Hangzhou, China. 1981 Sept. The Company’s predecessor, Jonas Co., Ltd. (inacImpairment losses 14,568 33,389 312,047 tive at this time), acquires certain businesses and Dec. The Company establishes Chengdu FamilyMart Co., Equity in earnings of associates and joint ventures (731) (908) (8,486) assets by way of transfer from Seiyu Stores, Ltd., Ltd., in Chengdu, China. Decrease (increase) in trade and other receivables (5,672) (858) (8,019) and commences business after changing its name Decrease (increase) in inventories 1,068 (1,810) (16,916) to FamilyMart Co., Ltd. 2012 Feb. UNY CO., LTD., establishes UNY Group Holdings Increase (decrease) in trade and other payables (21,925) 14,884 139,103 Co., Ltd., as a preparatory step toward its shift to a 1984 Jan. UNY CO., LTD., establishes CIRCLE K JAPAN Co., Ltd. holding company framework. Increase (decrease) in deposits received (3,481) (7,743) (72,364) Increase (decrease) in assets and liabilities for retirement benefits (563) 1,543 14,421 1987 Oct. The Company establishes Okinawa FamilyMart Co., Apr. The Company acquires stock of SENIOR LIFE CREATE Other 30,093 20,896 195,290 Ltd., in Okinawa Prefecture. Co., Ltd. Subtotal 94,547 153,212 1,431,888 Apr. UNY CO., LTD., carries out a public tender for Circle Interest and dividends received 2,520 3,458 32,318 Dec. The Company lists its stock on the Second Section K Sunkus Co., Ltd., with the goal of including the Interest paid (2,464) (2,984) (27,888) of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. company in its scope of consolidation as a wholly Income taxes paid (11,251) (7,123) (66,570) owned subsidiary. 1988 Aug. The Company establishes Taiwan FamilyMart Co., Income tax refund — 6,166 57,626 Ltd., in Taiwan. Nov. The Company establishes Philippine FamilyMart Net cash generated by operating activities 83,351 152,729 1,427,374 CVS, Inc., in the Republic of the Philippines. CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES: 1989 Aug. The Company lists its stock on the First Section of Purchases of property, plant and equipment and investment property (49,370) (45,871) (428,701) the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Nov. The Company establishes Shenzhen FamilyMart Co., Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment and investment property 2,060 16,601 155,150 Ltd., in Shenzhen, China. Purchases of intangible assets (7,052) (9,413) (87,972) 1992 Sept. The Company establishes Siam FamilyMart Co., Ltd. (currently Central FamilyMart Co., Ltd.), in Thailand. 2013 Feb. UNY Group Holdings Co., Ltd., shifts to a holding Payments of leasehold deposits receivable and construction company framework. assistance fund receivables (27,391) (20,832) (194,692) Collection of leasehold deposits receivable and construction 1993 Apr. The Company establishes Minami Kyushu FamilyMart 2014 Jan. The Company establishes Wuxi FamilyMart Co., assistance fund receivables 10,981 10,489 98,028 Co., Ltd., in Kagoshima Prefecture. Ltd., in Wuxi, China. Purchases of investments (1,522) (8,489) (79,336) 1997 Sept. The Company acquires the stock of Libro Port Co., May The Company establishes Beijing FamilyMart Co., Proceeds from sales and redemption of investments 3,164 5,531 51,692 Ltd. (currently famima Retail Service Co., Ltd.). Ltd., in Beijing, China. Proceeds from acquisition of businesses 36,339 700 6,542 Proceeds from disposal of businesses 905 307 2,869 1998 Nov. UNY CO., LTD., includes SUNKUS & ASSOCIATES July The Company establishes DONGGUAN FamilyMart Payments for disposal of businesses (2,481) — — INC. in its scope of consolidation as a subsidiary Co., LTD., in Dongguan, China. Other 3,709 1,474 13,776 ­following the acquisition of shares. 2015 Oct. The Company includes Cocostore Corporation in its Net cash used in investing activities (30,657) (49,502) (462,636) scope of consolidation as a wholly owned subsidiary 2000 May The Company establishes famima.com Co., Ltd. CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES: following the acquisition of shares. (currently UFI FUTECH Co., Ltd.). Proceeds from bonds and borrowings 129,235 228,662 2,137,028 Dec. The Company integrates with Cocostore Repayments of bonds and borrowings (65,326) (143,039) (1,336,813) 2002 Feb. Taiwan FamilyMart Co., Ltd., lists its stock on the Corporation by way of absorption merger. Repayments of lease obligations (40,299) (28,666) (267,907) GreTai Securities Market, an over-the-counter stock Purchases of treasury shares (211) (41) (383) market in Taiwan. 2016 Sept. The Company changes its name to FamilyMart UNY Proceeds from sales of interests in subsidiaries to non-controlling shareholders — 18,800 175,701 Holdings Co., Ltd., following its integration with Purchases of interests in subsidiaries from non-controlling shareholders (6,585) (55) (514) 2004 May The Company establishes Shanghai FamilyMart Co., UNY Group Holdings Co., Ltd., by way of absorpLtd., in Shanghai, China. tion merger. Circle K Sunkus Co., Ltd., changes its Cash dividends paid (10,536) (14,188) (132,598) name to FamilyMart Co., Ltd., after assuming reCash dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders (1,846) (3,681) (34,402) sponsibility for the convenience store business. Sept. C&S Co., Ltd., CIRCLE K JAPAN Co., Ltd., and Increase (decrease) in commercial paper (10,000) (96,000) (897,196) SUNKUS & ASSOCIATES INC., merge to form Circle Sept. The Company lists its stock on the First Section of the Data and Financial Section Other 652 333 3,112 K Sunkus Co., Ltd. Nagoya Stock Exchange. Net cash used in financing activities (4,916) (37,875) (353,972) EFFECTS OF EXCHANGE RATE CHANGE ON CASH 2006 Sept. The Company establishes Guangzhou FamilyMart 2017 Nov. The Company transfers 40.0% of the issued shares AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 1,474 (466) (4,355) Co., Ltd., in Guangzhou, China. of UNY CO., LTD., to Don Quijote Holdings Co., Ltd. NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 49,253 64,885 606,402 UD Retail Co., Ltd., is established as a wholly owned CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING OF YEAR 139,036 188,289 1,759,710 2007 July The Company establishes Suzhou FamilyMart Co., subsidiary of UNY through a capital and business Ltd., in Suzhou, China. ­alliance with Don Quijote Holdings Co., Ltd. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF YEAR ¥188,289 ¥253,174 $2,366,112 86 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 87 Data and Financial Section DATA AND FINANCIAL SECTION Corporate Data / Investor Information Organization (As of June 1, 2018) Corporate Data Principal Shareholders FamilyMart UNY Holdings Co., Ltd. (As of February 28, 2018) (As of February 28, 2018) Number of Corporate name FamilyMart UNY Holdings Co., Ltd. Name of Shareholders Shares Shareholdings Board of Directors (%) (thousands) 1-1, Higashi-Ikebukuro 3-chome, Representative Director and President Toshima-ku, Tokyo 170-6017, Japan ITOCHU Corporation 49,930 39.40 Secretarial Office Telephone: (81) 3-3989-7301 Head office The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. Representative Director and From February 2019: (Trust account) 18,133 14.31 Executive Vice President Corporate Communications Office 1-21, Shibaura 3-chome, Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. Audit Office Minato-ku, Tokyo 9,124 7.20 CSO (Trust account) (Chief Strategy Officer) Incorporated September 1, 1981 Corporate Planning Division Corporate Planning Department NTT DOCOMO, INC. 2,930 2.31 CFO (Chief Financial Officer) Group Management Department Common stock ¥16,659 million Trust & Custody Services Bank, Ltd. 2,551 2.01 (Securities Investment Trust Account) CFO & Investor Relations Office Fiscal year March 1 to the last day of February Finance & Accounting Division CVS Finance & Accounting Department Nippon Life Insurance Company 2,510 1.98 CAO (Chief Administrative Officer) GMS Finance & Accounting Department A holding company for operators of STATE STREET BANK WEST Objective of business general merchandise stores and CLIENT-TREATY 505234 1,895 1.49 CIO CSR & Management Division Human Resources Department convenience stores, etc. (Chief Information Officer) BNP Paribas Securities (Japan) Limited 1,673 1.32 Legal Department Group’s net sales in ¥3,900,544 million Japan (Fiscal year ended February 2018) FamilyMart Business Partner CSR & General Affairs Department 1,388 1.09 Shareholding Association Number of IT Planning Department 17,777 (consolidated) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 5) 1,202 0.94 employees Board of Corporate Auditors IT Promotion Division GMS Information Systems Department Total 91,342 72.08 Authorized shares 250,000,000 CVS Information Systems Department Notes: 1. In addition to the above, the Company holds 177,428 shares of treasury stock. 126,712,313 Issued shares 2. Figures under shareholdings represent shares as a percentage of the total New Project Office (Treasury stock: 177,428 shares) number of issued shares. Number of 26,978 shareholders Distribution of Shares Stock exchange Tokyo Stock Exchange (First Section), (As of February 28, 2018) FamilyMart Co., Ltd. UNY CO., LTD. listings Nagoya Stock Exchange (First Section) Japanese individuals and others Foreign institutions 5.09% Corporate Planning Management Secretarial Office Securities code 8028 and individuals Division Supervisory Division 13.08% Development Trading unit of shares 100 shares Japanese financial Customer Service Franchisee Board of Directors Secretarial Office Division institutions and Office Relations Office Transfer agent Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited securities companies Board of Directors President Tenant Division 36.31% Chairman Marketing Division President Independent auditors Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC New Business UFD Project Office Food Division Other Japanese corporations Development Ordinary general Division meeting of May each year 45.50% Clothing and Corporate Auditors Household Division shareholders Information * Excluding shares of less than one trading unit Corporate Auditors Systems Division Corporate Planning Product, Logistics & Division Quality Control Division Administration Society & Division Stock Price (2008/2=100) Environment Store Operation FamilyMart UNY TOPIX Committee Division Finance & 300 Accounting Division Risk Management & Compliance Districts 250 Committee Store Development 200 Division Data and Financial Section 150 Management Division 100 Finance & Accounting Division 50 International 0 Business Division 2008/2 2009/2 2010/2 2011/2 2012/2 2013/2 2014/2 2015/2 2016/2 2017/2 2018/2 88 FamilyMart UNY Holdings Integrated Report 2018 89 Sunshine60, 17F 1-1, Higashi-Ikebukuro 3-chome, Toshima-ku, Tokyo 170-6017, Japan Telephone: (81) 3-3989-7301 Printed in Japan 2018.07
