ABOUT THE REPORT The Corporate Social Responsibility Report is a main tool for sharing Fransabank’s various responsibilities with its stakeholders. It describes the Bank’s conscientiousness towards the society and the environment. Our CSR reporting reflects the requirements set in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). It is prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option. Moreover, we report on the progress we have made in implementing the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact and disclose cases where we assist in order to attain the Sustainable Development Goals. These international guidelines formed the basis for the selection of Fransabank’s material issues that are covered in this report, for an accountable communication with our stakeholders. It is our Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact for the 2017 financial reporting year. All reporting and performance data are restricted to information on Fransabank SAL – the parent company of Fransabank Group, We welcome and value your feedback and suggestions, unless stated otherwise. which help improve our reporting. The report adds up to Fransabank’s yearly reports, along with Fransabank Annual Report 2017 which provides detailed Contact information related to our financial results and risk management practices. Mrs. May Rihan You can find the reports on Head of CSR www.fransabank.com, along with our periodic publications; all providing Ms. Camille Saadé regular updates on our responsible Senior CSR officer achievements. Email: csr@fransabank.com. Fransabank Center, Hamra Str. Beirut, Lebanon FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 0-1 CONTENTS 2 VISION, MISSION AND VALUES 4 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMEN 6 ABOUT FRANSABANK 8 OUR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 10 OUR CONTRIBUTION TO THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS) 11 OUR INVOLVEMENT IN SUSTAINABLE INITIATIVES 12 OUR STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND COMMUNICATION 14 OUR MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT 16 WHAT WE DID... IN A NUTSHELL OUR RESPONSIBILITY IN BANKING 23 Corporate Governance Framework 24 Managing Risk 25 Business Ethics 26 Protecting the Bank’s and its Customers’ Information 27 Respecting Human Rights OUR RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ECONOMY 31 Lending Responsibly 31 Financial Inclusion 38 “Belt & Road Initiative”, a Global Visionary Strategy 40 Accessible Homeownership 41 Customer Service, a Top Priority 43 Supply Chain Management OUR RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 47 Investing Responsibly 55 Our Approach to Minimizing our Impact 58 Favoring Green Initiatives OUR RESPONSIBILITY AS AN EMPLOYER 63 Taking on Diversity 64 A Culture of Performance and Development 66 Investing in the Youth 66 Enriching our Employees Loyalty OUR RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE COMMUNITIES 73 Youth Financial Education and Inclusion 79 A Culture on the Go 82 An Aspiring Society SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 88 Select Awards 90 Our Contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 92 Putting into Practice the UN Global Compact Ten Principles 93 Global Reporting Initiative GRI Standards Content Index 98 Code of Conduct and Professional Ethics 99 Information Security VISION, MISSION AND VALUES Our CSR approach is echoed in all aspects of our business Vision Mission We aspire to be the leading We are determined to be a leading financial institution within both banking group, the trusted the local and regional markets, while providing quality services to our partner and the responsible customers, through innovative, cutting edge, and value added banking contributor in the communities services and financial solutions. To achieve our mission, we are we serve. committed to: • C  onsolidating and expanding our presence in selective regional and international markets • A  dopting and implementing the highest international banking and finance norms, standards, corporate governance, and diligent compliance practices • E  xceeding our customers’ expectations, and fulfilling their needs and demands • S  triving for a distinguished quality service to our existing and potential customers • P  romoting within our Group, professional development, quality performance, decision-making and teamwork • G  enerating increasing value for our shareholders in a dynamic manner and on solid sustainable grounds • A  ligning responsible business practices and social investments, in order to create long-term value and sustainability for our Group along with its respective communities. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 2-3 Values INTEGRITY LOYALTY CREDIBILITY ACCOUNTABILITY TRANSPARENCY Gaining the trust Showing devotion Demonstrating Taking Providing our of our customers, and faithfulness high level of responsibility for customers with colleagues to our institution trustworthiness all our actions. all relevant and other and our and expertise in information stakeholders customers. all what we do. regarding their by embracing rights and duties. moral and ethical principles. MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMEN Adnan Kassar | Chairman Adel Kassar | Deputy Chairman Successful financial strongly emanates from the their activities, through investing performance does not, alone, interests of our stakeholders in a Sustainable Energy Finance lead to a group being recognized and so we conduct our business program. We are also supporting as a trusted financial partner. while respecting the interests rural and socio-economic People’s choices, nowadays, are of internal and external players. development through our SME shifting towards businesses that This required a harmonious and microbusiness credit loans, are real responsible corporate thinking, at all levels, to attain and focusing on youth economic citizens who create shared successful results. integration through financial values. We, at Fransabank, are educational initiatives as well as doing exactly this by lining up our It has been one year since we inclusion programs. Corporate Social Responsibility last updated our CSR Strategy to with our core businesses. integrate a holistic sustainable Moreover, our Bank has always approach at the Bank, and we supported communities We are convinced that it is have been able to measure through philanthropy, another important for us to conduct palpable outcomes in our important means for us to make our business in a way that is strategic lines. Fransabank a difference. However, after sustainable and that creates has adopted a development many years of giving, we refined greater opportunities for present strategy aiming to boost the our approach by combining and future generations. The year private sector’s investments, financial commitments with 2017 was no exception. While we mainly in clean energy. Our capable partners, evidence-based continue to track our financial Bank is actually encouraging solutions and direct investments performance, we attach great our customers to reevaluate and of our people’s time and importance and weight to ethical reduce their energy consumption expertise. We are confident that operations. Our long-term vision and the environmental impact of the distinctive know-how of the FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 4-5 private sector, when teamed with continue to endorse strategic Since long-term results are non-profit organizations and international agreements. what we aim for, we ensure public sector entities, can induce We ensure our initiatives are sustainability is a strategic goal a serious positive change that is in compliance with the ten within all our activities. Our up to the level that our country principles of the United Nations achievements in this context truly deserves. Global Compact (UNGC) and the perfectly reflect Fransabank’s Business for Peace Platform. progress as a responsible In parallel, we are certain that Also, we contribute to the corporate citizen; thus we shall our success lies in our people realization of the UN Sustainable continue to deploy all necessary and so we focus on creating an Development Goals (SDGs); efforts to build a sustainable inclusive environment which having selected six SDGs on bright future. supports our employees’ which we report our projects personal and professional and achievements as related to The present report provides growth and aspirations. As a them. Nationally, we have joined information on an array of result, we are keen to capitalize initiatives whose objectives are initiatives we have embarked on our human resources, while in accordance with our vision, on during the year 2017, according great importance being a board member in the consolidating our role as a to how we achieve our targets UNDP Lebanon Lobbying reliable partner in the markets rather than what are the targets Group, a board member in the where we operate, as we choose to be achieved. Steering Committee for Global to give back to our communities. Compact Network Lebanon and Through our commitment a champion in Lebanon Climate to responsible business, we Act. Sincerely, Adel Kassar Adnan Kassar Deputy Chairman Chairman ABOUT FRANSABANK As one of the leading Lebanese banks, Fransabank is committed to transmitting a financial knowledge and expertise to corporate, small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as to retail clients in Lebanon. Founded in 1921, Fransabank 1971 under the number 25699, market. Fransabank Group is Group ranks fourth today in in accordance with Articles 26 present in nine countries, namely Lebanon, in terms of total assets and 49 of the Lebanese Code of in Lebanon, France, Algeria, and customers’ deposits and Commerce). Belarus, Sudan, Iraq, Cuba, the third in terms of loans and UAE, and the Ivory Coast. The On the other hand, the Group has advances to customers. responsible approach to the largest local branch network, Furthermore, Fransabank is business adopted, combined including 125 branches spread listed first amongst with the dedication and expertise all over the Lebanese territory; registered banks – (It has been of the Bank’s employees, are the in addition to a total of 19 banking duly registered in the Register keys of Fransabank’s long-term and non-banking subsidiaries of Commerce since October 9, success. and associates in the same Main Holders of Common Shares as at May, 2018 PERCENT (1) Adnan Kassar 39.81 Adel Kassar 39.81 Deutsche Investitions und Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH (DEG) (2) 5.00 Al-Fadl Holdings Limited 2.70 The Public Institution for Social Security – Kuwait 2.00 Others (3) 10.68 TOTAL SHAREHOLDING 100 (1) Percent of total share capital consisting of 21,925,000 Common Shares as at 31.05.2018 (2) Deutsche Investitions und Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH DEG is one of Germany’s top development and investment banks. DEG is owned by Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau KfW, which, in turn, is owned by the German Government. (3) Each with less than 2%. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 6-7 FRANSABANK GROUP FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS AS END OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 Our business model is based PRODUCTS & SERVICES on our solid partnership with our customers, our employees’ Total Assets RETAIL BANKING proficiency and expertise, and naturally on our diverse products USD 22.06 • SME Financing and services. With 1,735 employees, we contribute to society as a billion • Payment Cards • Accounts • Loans financial intermediary, taxpayer, • Saving & Insurance Products and through our CSR initiatives, • Micro Credits which makes us a responsible • E-services player in our communities. Total Customers’ • Special Services Deposits Our focus on cultural, environmental, social and USD 16.59 CORPORATE BANKING • Working Capital Financing governance functions makes us a robust and more sustainable billion • Medium & Long Term Loans • Structured Finance Bank. Moreover, we ensure that • Trade Finance our business is managed in a • Overdrafts responsible way, and that we use • Leasing Services “Lebanese our expertise to build up financial Net Profit Leasing Company SAL” USD 179.3 confidence and access to financial • Real Estate “Société Générale Foncière SAL” services for our clients in particular and our society as a whole. million INVESTMENT BANKING in 2017 Financial Advisory • Mergers & Acquisitions • Equity Capital Markets • Private Investments • Corporate Equity/Debt Net Loans and Advisory Advances • Re-Organization to Customers • Balance Sheet Re-Structuring USD 6.48 Equity & Debt Financing • Corporate & Project Financing billion • Syndicated Financing • Feasibility Studies • Legal & Financial Due Diligence • Debt/Equity Structuring • Equity Placements • Debt Settlement Arrangement Total Customers PRIVATE BANKING / 401,889 ASSET MANAGEMENT • Advisory • Wealth Management • Capital Market/Brokerage • Structured Products • Research Total Employees 3,456 OUR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH Focusing on integrating CSR in To accomplish that, we resort to All these queries have helped the core business of the Bank, an enrichment of our practices, us define our CSR choices, not Fransabank has developed a by regularly cross-examining only by enhancing reputation but holistic approach that enables our performance. What are the also by improving the core value all divisions, departments and objectives of our CSR initiatives? creation ability through branches to engage, on common What benefits are being generated, addressing major strategic grounds, to achieve a higher and who makes them happen? issues and challenges. level of responsibility. Which of these initiatives helps us address our key strategic challenges and opportunities? Accordingly, three principles have been applied to attain this goal: .1. .2. .3. CONCENTRATING BUILDING A DEEP FINDING OUR CSR UNDERSTANDING THE RIGHT EFFORTS OF THE PARTNERS BENEFITS With limited resources Beside selecting the While searching for and time, we believe areas of opportunities, the right partners, we that the greatest the key remains in keep in mind the need opportunities lie finding symmetries for a win-win scenario where our business between our Bank and as well as a long-term significantly interacts, society and having open relationship, which which generates the and objective views on inevitably lead to greatest impact. issues, from both our greater opportunities Therefore, we considered business and social of success and addressing the core perspectives. sustainability. long-term needs of our stakeholders and the critical areas of our business having an added-value impact on society. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 8-9 Subject to the influence of the value creation, we contribute to • Youth financial education and United Nations Global Compact the society by providing: inclusion; mainly educating 10 principles and the 17 and integrating the youth in the Sustainable Development Goals •E  conomic development, which financial stream; to challenge poverty, inequality, is about promoting our positive climate change and other societal contribution to the economy • Community support, through issues that affect us and our through our corporate, SME, measuring our added-value planet, and following the update consumer and micro-credit contribution and impact on the of our CSR strategy in 2016, we loans; community; carried on, in 2017, with our five strategic themes that shape our • Sustainable energy financing, • And ultimately being a responsible CSR approach. Accordingly, while namely by showcasing positive corporation and employer. focusing on strengthening the environmental impact through link between corporate and societal our loans; CSR Strategy 2016 2018 FRANSABANK VISION, Our essence VALUES, STRATEGIC MISSION NATIONAL ECONOMIC GROWTH AND Our aim FINANCIAL STABILITY Youth Responsible Economic Sustainable financial Community corporation CSR strategic themes development energy education support and financing and employer inclusion The effective implementation of new sustainability practices in these strategic themes is their day-to-day work. Externally, constantly monitored through a our multi-stakeholder vigilant follow-up process. communication tools are Naturally, we make sure that strengthening interactions with most CSR initiatives have a improved transparency, measurable impact on society, loyalty, and trust. We believe all along with a direct or indirect these efforts are turning today’s contribution from our stakeholders. difficulties into tomorrow’s Internally, our employees, at all game-changing opportunities. levels, are further involved in our In a word, we are invested in a CSR manners, willingly integrating shared long-standing plan. OUR CONTRIBUTION TO THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS) The private sector, and specifically With each of the 17 goals being the corporate world, plays a key supported by highly cross-related role in achieving the sub-goals and targets, we have 17 Sustainable Development chosen to explore in greater detail Goals (SDGs), formally accepted several examples in which our by the UN General Assembly activities are directly contributing in 2015. Fransabank’s efforts to the attainment of specific are consistent with these goals. SDGs, in particular: In fact, we recognize our part • Goal 4 Quality Education, as a financial institution that • Goal 5 Gender Equality, connects the capital markets, • Goal 8 Decent Work and authorities, businesses and civil Economic Growth, society. Moreover, our innovative • Goal 9 Industry, Innovation financing solutions are being and Infrastructure, designed responsibly to address • Goal 11 Sustainable Cities all forms of inequality. and Communities, and • Goal 13 Climate Action. An exhaustive description of Fransabank’s contribution to the six chosen SDGs is reflected on pages 90-91. But then again, as the 17 SDGs are ambitious and concrete, with each goal supported by sub-goals and targets, and since they are highly cross-related, our contribution also indirectly benefits other goals. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 10-11 OUR INVOLVEMENT IN SUSTAINABLE INITIATIVES UN Global Compact (UNGC) UNDP – Lebanon: Network “Together Towards Sustainable Lebanon Development“ Fransabank has joined the Representing the banking sector in the United Nations Steering Committee of the Global Development Program project in Lebanon –Together towards Compact Network Lebanon Sustainable Development (T2SD), Fransabank worked with its (GCNL) on October 10, 2017, which is composed of leading peer representatives from the private sector to improve SDG 4 – organizations spanning various Quality Education, through a targeted initiative held on a national industries and sectors across level. Jointly with the Tripoli Special Economic Zone, a Skills Gap Lebanon. Analysis in Tripoli and the North was launched in 2017. Focusing on one of the most remote and impoverished areas in Lebanon, the The Global Compact Network Skills Gap Analysis highlighted potential employment Lebanon is a multi-stakeholder opportunities in the Northern region, by assessing existing initiative that promotes the UN Global Compact Ten Principles and programs, delivering new types of training that target workforce the 17 SDGs, provides signatories demand, and by suggesting means to implement them. The Skills with a forum to solve issues of Gap Analysis will be carried out through educational mutual interest, and supports programs and trainings that involve Vocational Training participants to report on their Education (VTE) – covering accounting, food safety, graphic arts, progress in sustainability and medical imaging and mechanics. social responsibility. T2SD will continue to coordinate with the Government, in order to address gaps and respond to the needs of society, and establish partnerships with the private sector. This initiative is Lebanon being implemented through the companies’ CSR frameworks; Climate Act for an improved business environment that will ensure growth by (LCA) establishing a greater market confidence for investors. Fransabank is a signatory to Lebanon Climate Act (LCA) initiative. Therefore, we attend WHAT IS T2SD? their annual Business Knowledge Platform. In 2017, Fransabank was rewarded with a token of T2SD is an innovative strategic policy initiative of UNDP Lebanon, which appreciation for its active responds to the achievement of the SDGs. It brings together businesses engagement in supporting committed to align their efforts with the Goals, presenting an opportunity Lebanon’s overall reduction of for business-led solutions and technologies to face Lebanon’s major carbon emissions and pollution. sustainable development challenges. The initiative aims at generating T2SD promotes economic and social development, inclusiveness, economic growth by dealing with environmental sustainability, education, entrepreneurship, and climate change challenges, and catalyzing the involvement of transparency, among other objectives. the private sector in the wider climate change community. The project was organized in line with Lebanon’s Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs), Lebanon’s climate change engagement at COP21. OUR STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND COMMUNICATION Engaging in open dialogues with understand societal expectations, selected stakeholders, on a range stakeholders allows Fransabank and gain an essential feedback of issues, through formal to have better insights on the on our strategy and priorities. stakeholder dialogue, at least society’s needs today, and even As a matter of fact, their opinion once a year. For others, we to anticipate those of tomorrow. is mutually beneficial and helps engage in a more targeted us grow and succeed on the long approach on a particular issue or This continuous consultancy term. initiative. Every year, we evaluate practice with our various our relationships in order to stakeholder groups enables us Resorting to a variety of methods identify gaps, if any, then take to identify environmental, and channels, both formal and action and address new concerns. economic and governance trends, informal, we actively engage with Our stakeholder engagement is summed up in the table below. Our Stakeholder Engagement Structure EMPLOYEES (Segmentation by: gender, age, and position) Key CSR features • Reward expertise and commitment SHAREHOLDERS • Cultivate respectable, honest and collaborative dialogue among all Key CSR features employees Openly sharing all facts and figures related to the Bank’s results and Engagement platforms achievements. • One-to-one meeting CUSTOMERS • Focus groups (Segmentation by: micro, SME, Engagement platforms • Regular communication campaigns corporate, and retail) • General meetings via intranet (e-newsletters) • Presentation to the Board of • Engagement surveys Key CSR features Directors of the CSR initiatives and • Publications • Provide long-term benefits to outcomes • Social media customers • Annual reports • Offer transparent operations • CSR reports • Monitor customer satisfaction • Handle customer complaints efficiently Engagement platforms • Satisfaction surveys • One-to-one meetings • Workshops and conferences • Financial consumer protection unit • Delivery channels (branches, call center, e-banking, mobile banking, social media, email…) FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 12-13 SUSTAINABILITY THE MEDIA, INTEREST INITIATIVES GROUPS AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES Key CSR features • Serve on the Board of the UNDP Key CSR features Lebanon • Share knowledge and expertise • Member of the steering committee • Create real value to all components of the Global Compact Network • Communicate relevant news Lebanon (GCNL) • A champion in Lebanon Climate Act (LCA) initiative Engagement platforms • Strategic collaborations Engagement platforms • In-person meetings • Meetings • Financial support (grants and • Annual conferences REGULATORY sponsorships) • Events AUTHORITIES • Employee volunteering • CSR reports • Events Key CSR features • Social media Partner with all financial sector • Publications, press releases players for greater economic standards Engagement platforms • Systematic reporting • Meetings and conferences • Periodic audits • Economic bulletin • Market index BUSINESS PARTNERS AND SUPPLIERS Key CSR features Act on ethical relations with all business partners and suppliers Engagement platforms • Meetings • E-mail communication OUR MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT Our materiality assessment prioritizing and reviewing our (SWOT) research, has allowed helps us have a better material topics. Based on the to identify and understand the understanding of different outcomes of this analysis, we significance of issues to our perspectives, identify key attuned our exercise with a few stakeholders. issues and report on them with noticeable changes in the transparency. importance attributed to some of Prioritization the previously identified issues. Based on the results of our The materiality assessment is identification process, we were not an exhaustive list of topics, it able to come up with an updated rather focuses on those issues A THREE-STEP PROCESS matrix, evaluating each issue that, we believe, are of greatest according to its more general importance to a In the process of selecting and social, environmental and majority of our stakeholder ranking the material issues, we economic impact, on a scale of 1 groups and to the long-term have adopted a three-step to 10 (1 being the least important business success of the Bank. It process that involves the and 10 the most important). is based on our ongoing dialogue identification, prioritization and with the stakeholders. review of material issues. Review Ensuring the marketability Fransabank’s annual materiality Identification assessment is approved by the assessment confirms the list of A series of practices, such as senior management. material issues formerly group presentations, open Subsequently, the report recognized and identifies discussions, financial sector includes all issues with the highest important new topics to address. benchmarking, and internal level of materiality, whereas Having previously completed Strengths, Weaknesses, issues of less materiality are materiality assessment with our Opportunities and Threats briefly discussed. stakeholders, we went through the list in 2017 by identifying, .2. .3. PRIORITIZATION .1. OF MATERIAL CONTENT REVIEW ISSUES & MANAGEMENT APPROVAL IDENTIFICATION OF MATERIAL ISSUES MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT The identified topics are presented on a graph, with the X-axis representing the importance level of issues to the business success, and the Y-axis the importance level to the stakeholders. The issues located on the top right corner of the graph are regarded as the most substantial. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 14-15 MATERIALITY MATRIX The material issues selected • Responsible lending Knowing that each stakeholder reflect Fransabank’s attention on • Complaints resolution process is differently affected depending its governance, economic, • Training & education on the material issue, we had to environmental, and social •D  iversity & equal opportunity draw boundaries for each issue. impacts. While the issues at the Boundaries helped identify the top right corner of the matrix Changes mostly occurred on the issues that have impact inside remained unchanged compared issues with a medium level of and outside Fransabank. It is with last year, a slight modification in materiality. Social investments clear that CSR activities address their ranking is recorded. Among and employees’ engagement a number of social issues with the issues with greatest importance witnessed a significant increase different targets and objectives. to both organizational in their level of importance from It is worth noting that the material success and stakeholders’ the stakeholders’ side, while aspects discussed throughout expectations, are the following: digital banking and regulations the report are relevant for positions remained almost Fransabank SAL operations, • Compliance unchanged. The issues given whereas, Fransabank Group • Information security & the lowest level of materiality local and overseas subsidiaries customers’ privacy remains child labour and the activities are not discussed. • Ethical conduct suppliers’ environmental • Eco-products & services assessment, while the In conclusion, we intend to carry • Sustainable development measurement of environmental on with our efforts to identify • Youth financial education impacts and occupational health relevant topics in the future in • Youth financial inclusion & safety registered a higher level order to proactively define new • Customer satisfaction of importance in 2017. challenges and their impact • Financial inclusion on both our stakeholders and business. WHAT WE DID… IN A NUTSHELL FOR AN ETHICAL FOR THE BUSINESS ECONOMY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RESPONSIBLE LENDING SME SUPPORT Fransabank corporate governance framework revolves essentially We support micro enterprise, small and medium businesses, EUR 75 million around the corporate governance corporate institutions and highcredit line granted by European code potential entrepreneurs to improve Investment Bank (EIB) to support Lebanon’s economy by fostering local SMEs and MidCaps Our Integrity, fairness, 20 million a balanced development, creating transparency, and job opportunities and fighting rural USD accountability inspire trust and exodus senior loan from SANAD Fund contribute to solid long-term relationships with our stakeholders More than USD 41.1 The total outstanding amount of SME loans reached more than MANAGING RISK million of assets used for the financing of USD 671 million at end-2017 The Board of Directors acknowledges over 20,747 that one of its primary objectives micro entrepreneurs We provide consultancy and is to explicitly enforce the collective at end-2017 advisory services to existing oversight and risk governance and potential customers responsibilities in line with the In 2017 alone, the outstanding value adopted risk management of microcredits reached around REACHING TO CHINA USD 5.86 framework Chairman, Mr. Adnan Kassar, was BUSINESS ETHICS million elected Honorary Chairman of the UN Maritime-Continental Silk Road We conduct business in accordance for a total of 3,716 Cities Alliance and Honorary microcredits clients Chairman of the Silk Road Chamber with the highest ethical standards of International Commerce 41% of microcredits and in full compliance with all applicable anti-money laundering, Fransabank is the only Lebanese bank financing of terrorism and corruption clients are women, with a total with a dedicated China Desk laws and regulations portfolio value of around USD 2.23 Fransabank lead the first shipment In 2017, 335 million in 2017 of Lebanese products to China through 3 Lebanese producers. employees Youth entrepreneurs aged between completed 1,340 18 and 30 years old constitute CUSTOMER SERVICE compliance training hours almost At year-end 2017, the total outstanding Our workforce abide by a well-developed Code of Business 30% of our microcredits portfolio with an amount for housing loans reached the c/v of Conduct and Ethics investment of around USD 874.56 Security standards and customers’ USD 1.73 million million information protection are among in 2017 our top priorities We are keen on supporting The Commerce Sector got the highest share in microcredits customers facing difficulties making loan payments through financing among other sectors continuous counseling and development of suitable options EQUITY PARTICIPATION We addressed 100% of Fransabank & Fransa Invest Bank acknowledged complaints are committed to six Venture received during 2017 Capital (VC) funds FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 16-17 FOR THE ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABLE ENERGY NEW ECO-PRODUCT FINANCE An ecological All conventional lighting were Fransabank has financed during the replaced by wooden frame past 3 years more than houses loan LED lighting USD 110 was launched with a 100% project in all our local branches million financing Old air conditioning chiller system projects worthy for: were replaced by a • Energy efficiency • Renewable energy MINIMIZING VRV air • Environmental and green building ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT conditioning system USD 40 million credit line 579 tons at the Headquarters received from the annual reduction of International Finance CO2 emissions The installation of the solar power Corporation (IFC) for at the Headquarters solution for Laboue branch, Sustainable Energy Finance. shifting completely its consumption The projects financed through this Energy consumption was reduced by to solar energy credit line allowed a decrease 30% to 40% of 2,500 tons of CO2 emissions and saved more than 4.2 million of Water 12.5% annual increase in e-banking users, kWhe/year. intake was reduced by reaching 57,455 users 3,054 m3 or 54.2% ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT 3 million annual increase in paper recycling, collecting 209 tons in 2017 SYSTEM Liters Implementation of an 1.6 tons of plastics were sent to recycling Environmental and Social in 2017 Management System (ESMS) in the lending process Energy Efficiency Partnerships Our ongoing partnerships Fransabank was rewarded, by Lebanon Climate Act, with a token of appreciation for its active engagement in supporting Lebanon’s overall reduction of carbon emissions. FOR THE EMPLOYEES GENDER INCLUSION TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT EMPLOYEES ENGAGEMENT 46% of employees are women 1,294 537 employees received specialized employees donated to the Children 8% trainings in 2017; being 75% of the workforce, an average of Cancer Center of Lebanon a total amount of of the Board of Directors are women 39.1 hours USD 350,778 45% of senior management are women of training per employee at end of year 2017 47% Fransabank Development 120 Programs employees from branches and of middle management are women > Talent Management departments were involved in > Polyvalence Enhancement 2 bonding activities Out of 114 newly recruited (enriching teamwork spirit, drive employees, > Potentials Development responsibility and creative thinking) 45% > Succession Planning are women 678 Lebanese financial regulation exam employees are enrolled in Employees Seniority: Fransabank Amicale Club coverage ratio reached 46% 60.9% of our employees have more than by Fransabank employees compared 100% 10 years of service to 53% market average ratio at the retention rate end of 2017 after parental leave INTERNSHIP PROGRAM 1,269 employees’ children 220 students were welcomed in the benefited from the support of schooling fees reaching over 2017 Internship Summer Program; benefiting from USD 2.9 240 hours million in 2017 of practical experience FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 18-19 FOR THE COMMUNITY SOCIAL INVESTMENT USD 1.1 million invested in 100 NGOs in 2017 YOUTH FINANCIAL EDUCATION & INCLUSION ART & CULTURE We engage in financial education at The Big Bank Challenge Launched the 2nd edition of Le an early age in order to build financial literacy cards game was Village Préféré des Libanais with youth financial confidence launched targeting the youth wishing L’Orient Le Jour, highlighting the to develop basic understanding of environment and banking products and services 79 students heritage of Lebanon among local residents as well as from 3 schools participated in Global Money Week 2017 grabbing 896 teens were financially informed via our Big expatriates the chance to learn how a bank operates and the different products Bank Challenge In 2017, we advanced an & services it offers innovative art – Calligraffiti, though the Operation White Wall promoting Other educational competitions an exceptional encounter between launched in 2017: calligraphy and graffiti Fransabank educational loans total UDesign Competition targeting LAU outstanding amount reached the students of Fine Arts c/v of USD 18.41 Université Saint Joseph (USJ) Entrepreneurship Awards 2017 COMMUNITY SUPPORT million as end2017 Sustainable Minds, a competition by Fransabank supports a wide range the UNGC network Lebanon of charitable organizations, targeting all society’s segments Pedagogical Competition with the General Secretariat of Catholic Schools Rewarding graduates from LAU Adnan Kassar School of Business with a Lifetime Membership to Beta Gamma Sigma, an honor society for business excellence Fransabank was the only bank in Lebanon selected by the Children & Youth Finance International to be included as a case study in its latest research on financial institutions Our Responsibility in Banking Corporate Social Responsibility focuses on corporate governance as a tool for incorporating social, environmental and ethical practices into the business decision-making process, thus benefiting all related stakeholders in a balanced way. Fransabank is committed to implement sound corporate governance practices by maintaining governance structures, policies and processes that best serve the changing needs of its employees, clients and communities, as well as, promoting a culture of integrity, diversity and ethical conduct across the Bank. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 22-23 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Fransabank corporate Our corporate governance for the assignment of responsibility governance framework revolves framework promotes the and accountability and is designed essentially around the corporate commitment of our Bank to the in a way that facilitates a clearly governance code. The code highest level of transparency, defined decision-making process. delineates a corporate governance integrity, fairness and It includes the General Assembly framework in line with the accountability and helps in of shareholders; the Board of regulatory requirements and disseminating a strong Directors; the Chairman; the international best practices governance culture within the Deputy Chairman; the various and sets the grounds for other Bank by setting the ‘tone at the top’. committees, control functions; governance policies and charters the external auditors; General which are therefrom periodically Corporate Governance and senior management and the updated to cope with the evolution Structure business and support functions. of the regulatory framework and to best serve the changing needs Our governance structure, aims of its stakeholders. to provide an efficient framework CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE The Board consists in its majority Financing of Terrorism a proper management of any of non-executive members and (AML/CFT) Board Committee. potential conflict of interest. is supported, in carrying out its oversight duties, by Board General and senior management Fransabank’s strategy remains Committees namely the Corporate execute their responsibilities, to standardize the governance Governance Committee, the supported by specialized practices across its entities and Board Risk Committee, the Audit management committees, to to strengthen its governance and Committee, the Remuneration ensure a proper segregation of control culture to ensure that the Committee and the Anti-Money duties and separation of functions, implementation of good Corporate Laundering / Combating the promoting an effective internal Governance is embedded at the control framework and ensuring Group level. MANAGING RISK primary objectives is to explicitly importance of integrity, enforce the collective oversight maintaining high quality staff Fransabank is charged with and risk governance responsibilities and public accountability. carrying out the duties of a in line with the adopted risk commercial bank in the interests management framework. In that respect, Fransabank of its stakeholders, all the more faces a broad range of risks emphasized by being one of the Key components of risk governance including those resulting from its largest banking groups in the include risk culture and risk core activities, mainly customers’ country and contributing to the appetite. The risk management deposit taking, lending and financial stability. framework seeks to ensure that running of complex payment and there is an effective process in IT systems to support its day-toThe Bank’s Board of Directors place to manage risks across the day operational activities. acknowledges that one of its Bank and that emphasizes the RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Risk Management Processes Include Fransabank operates in full compliance with all relevant local laws and regulations. We value highly our reputation as a responsible and ethical operator in the financial industry. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 24-25 BUSINESS ETHICS measures to ensure the UN, OFAC, EU, HM Treasury, compliance requirement is and Interpol. Fransabank oversees its respected within his area of Applying strict control measures business activities according to responsibility. Adequate training on wire transfers prior to universally recognized principles is thus provided, to enhance the processing them to make sure of corporate responsibility. As compliance culture across the that the payment is not directly an accountable Bank, the way in Bank. or indirectly in relation with which we conduct our business sanctioned countries, individuals, is as important as our financial Furthermore, specific policies entities, goods, vessels and performance. Accordingly, we go on dealing with corruption and ports. all-out to maintain a rigorous bribery are applied, as well as Conducting an Enhanced Due compliance, ethical culture, and a complete Sanctions Program Diligence (EDD) on high risk secured information to inspire aiming at being in full compliance customers, such as: trust in our business. with international standards and P  olitically Exposed Persons requirements. As such, all (PEP) Preventing Money employees are constantly called O  ff-Shore companies Laundering, Financing to strictly comply with AntiN  on-Profits Organizations Money Laundering (AML), P  recious stone dealers of Terrorism, and Combatting Financing of E  mbassies Corruption Terrorism (CFT), Sanctions and C  asinos Tax Information Exchange H  igh cash income professions Fransabank is committed to (FATCA & CRS) procedures in conducting business in force as for: Compliance Training accordance with the highest ethical standards and in full C  onducting a periodic review Compliance training is essential compliance with all applicable of the AML/CFT, Sanctions, for the Bank to help employees anti-money laundering, financing Anti-Bribery and Corruption, and understand the financial sector of terrorism and corruption FATCA & Common Reporting and governmental laws and laws and regulations. Actually, S tandard policies and regulations that are relevant Fransabank has in place written procedures to ensure to their tasks and duties at the policies, procedures and internal compliance with the updated workplace. For that reason, the controls reasonably designed to related requirements. compliance department has comply with local and international M  aking sure that appropriate training modules designed to rules and regulations in this Know Your Customer (KYC) target specific areas of interest context. due diligence procedures are such as fraud prevention, applied at the onset of the anti-money laundering and Anti-Corruption, relationship with the customer terrorist financing, professional Anti-Money Laundering, and renewed at every material secrecy, conflicts of interest and Countering Financing change in related data. ethics, anti-bribery and corruption, of Terrorism, and Tax Undertaking a close monitoring and sanctions requirements as Information Exchange on accounts’ movements and well as customer protection and (FATCA and CRS) daily executed transactions satisfaction. to ensure their consistency Fransabank’s Anti-Money with the customers’ net-worth To keep up with regular changes Laundering and Counter-Financing status and their economic and help our employees stay of Terrorism Policy includes activity reflected in the KYC informed about the latest procedures for customer due form. And accordingly handling regulations and international diligence, reporting, record system-generated alerts requirements, frequent trainings keeping, internal controls, risk showing any deviation between are to be completed by the management and communications mentioned and actual account Bank’s workforce. In 2017, 335 that are intended to prevent activity. employees (from Fransabank illegal activities and crimes. It is Performing a daily screening of SAL, Fransa Invest Bank SAL – not just the duty of the AML/CFT the customers’ names against the investment arm of compliance department to local watch and sanctions Fransabank and the Lebanese monitor and report these lists published by the Special Leasing Company SAL – the activities, but also part of every Investigation Commission as leasing arm of Fransabank) bank manager’s duty as each is well as those published by completed 1,340 compliance required to take organizational international bodies including training hours. 335 employees completed 1,340 compliance training hours in 2017 Compliance training sessions were mandatory to Fransabank branches’ employees (customer service representatives, tellers, through a well-developed and everything we do and where deputy branch managers and easily accessible Code of we operate. branch managers), as well as to Business Conduct and Ethics. • C onduct business in a employees from selected Our Code of Conduct reinforces transparent, prudent and departments / divisions at the the message that adherence to dependable manner. Bank as for the: our core values and principles is • Take responsibility and hold every employee’s responsibility each other accountable. Internal Audit Department and that we each have an • Raise concerns and ask Retail Banking Division obligation to: questions. Risk Management Division Loan Recovery Department • A  pply the values and principles expressed in our Code in Certainly, we take a zeroSecurity and Business Continuity tolerance approach to bribery Department and corruption; protecting The Corporate Banking Division Bank’s reputation, and Quality Service Unit safeguarding shareholder trust, The main objectives of International Banking Division reducing risk, and securing our Fransabank code of conduct Inspection Department assets. are: Compliance Department • To establish a common Keeping Fransabank employees well updated about changes in understanding of the standards PROTECTING THE of behavior expected of all BANK’S AND ITS laws and regulations related employees, to business is therefore crucial CUSTOMERS’ • To provide a clear framework for an increase in transparency, within which employees INFORMATION uniformity and standardization are expected to conduct across the Bank, whether in themselves, With the emerging cyber-attacks work methods or in the quality of • To maintain a work environment and threats, Fransabank has the services offered. in which honesty, integrity and made a top priority to enhance r espect for fellow employees, its security standards protecting Valuing the Bank’s and customers/clients the business integrity and Code of Conduct constantly reflect in personal customers’ information behavior and standards of confidentiality. Employees are the reflection conduct, and of an organization’s corporate • To remind employees of what Knowing that with the quick culture. This role is crucial to is expected from them as for advancement of the hacking the integrity and accountability their appearance and work techniques and the hackers’ of Fransabank. Therefore, our ethics. expertise, reactive actions based entire workforce strive to abide on detective and corrective security by highest ethical standards measures are not sufficient FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 26-27 anymore; proactive measures to On the other hand, as far as detect any attempt to penetrate Business Continuity Management in the internal environment are a is concerned a system is in the must in order to stop the hacker process of acquisition. The said before the damage is done. system provides instantly information on the affected A data system that is unceasingly services following a failure, and well protected and monitored, is guidance on the contingency part of Fransabank’s main concerns actions to be taken in such a being directly linked to all situation; this will ensure swift stakeholders’ trust. Hence, reaction to incidents, hence information security and maximum availability of the business continuity infrastructures banking services Fransabank are undergoing constant provides to its customers. improvements to be in parallel with the world technological advances. RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS In this perspective, Fransabank initiated the implementation of a Fransabank does its best to Security Operation Center (SOC) assume its responsibilities in by acquiring and implementing the area of human rights in a Security Information and Event accordance with the principles Management (SIEM) solution, on human and labour rights set being the corner stone toward out in the UN Global Compact. building a SOC. From the nature of our business, the direct linkage to such issues This will enable us to be would be the working relationship proactive in combating of and with employees and cybercrime by providing round customers. Our Code of Conduct the clock monitoring on our and Business Ethics are well technological platform end-todeveloped and abide by the end and to react swiftly to any human rights, as previously malicious activity. Not only mentioned. Yet, as we expect external hackers will be our partners and suppliers to addressed, but also any internal also abide by these laws; it is perpetrator will be depicted still challenging and difficult to and stopped timely. Moreover, monitor. additional tools will be acquired during 2018, e.g. vulnerability management tool, auditing tool and sandboxing solution, in order to complete to security matrix. LOOKING AHEAD We will keep up our transparent cooperation with local and international regulatory authorities; while, still protecting our customers information and developing best practices and programs to leverage the future challenges to the advantage of our business, clients, employees and communities. Our Responsibility for the Economy As a leading Lebanese bank, Fransabank deploys every effort to play a constructive role in society through its contribution to the national economic development that fuels growth, generates jobs, bolsters prospects and supports the public services on which we all depend. This falls within our pledge and commitment towards SDG 8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth. Therefore, we continuously work on understanding clients’ needs and expectations to improve our financial services, expand further microfinance opportunities, create job opportunities for small and medium-sized businesses, support the responsible use of credits and promote the prudent use of financial tools to improve households’ finances. Certainly, our core business activities are conducted in a responsible manner that takes into consideration the environmental, social and governance aspects of extending credits. Moreover, we make sure that our policies are in conformity with the international principles, such as human rights, labour rights and environment protection, and are duly applied by our customers. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 30-31 LENDING RESPONSIBLY FINANCIAL INCLUSION presence across Lebanon, and our on-the-move team represent Fransabank applies a professional By placing financial and human together Fransabank’s competitive credit assessment of the resources in enterprises that advantages. customer’s needs and financial generate a financial return and situation to be able to a positive social and/or In microfinance, investments responsibly grant loans and environmental sway, we believe are intended to give economically credit facilities. We believe that that we create long-term impact disadvantaged people access to such an approach is beneficial for investments. Whether through financial services. Our both, the Bank and the customer, micro enterprises, small and accomplishments in this field considering that credit facilities medium-sized businesses or benefited over 20,747 micro should only be granted when the corporate institutions, our aim is entrepreneurs at the end of 2017, customer is aware of the to develop financial products to with more than USD 41.1 million associated obligations and risks. support high-potential assets used for the financing entrepreneurs, therefore of microcredits. Naturally, the When dealing with private expertise of our employees was improving Lebanon’s economy individuals, we start by building a relentlessly available to support through a balanced development, responsible customer our commitment to delivering job creation and fighting rural relationship, offering proactive social and economic values to exodus. advice and assessing the the beneficiaries and their person’s financial situation. On communities. the other hand, when dealing Microfinance with business customers, in In 2017 by itself, the total number addition to evaluating the While we regard access to of microcredit beneficiaries customer’s requests and financial services as key drivers reached 3,716 clients. Similarly, repayment ability, we take into of progress and effective means the outstanding value of microconsideration the purpose for of empowering people, the credits reached around USD 5.86 which the resources will be used struggling economic environment million in 2017, compared with and assess possible Environmental, and lack of awareness, especially around USD 5.97 million in 2016, Social and Ethical (ESE) risks in remote areas, make people a yearly decrease of 1.8%. that might be in discord with our reluctant to approach a bank. corporate responsibility principles. That is why it is essential to Finally, we are confident that In such cases, we consult with make it faster and easier for our business contributes to the our customer on alternatives them to connect with partners creation of a more inclusive that would meet both parties’ dedicated to providing the society. Through our financial interests. necessary resources, know-how, support and partnership, we and trusted assistance. reach marginalized areas and It is noteworthy that our team of minority-owned businesses. We This supports our vision to work with restaurants, bakeries, experts are constantly trained change the way capital and and updated with the world barbershops, tailors, farmers, services flow to all segments among others, and make sure changing requirements in of the society. For that reason, order to offer the best possible women have personalized solutions. accessibility is crucial to serve customer experience. Their the financially excluded people. assistance is vital to ensure a Our partnership with Vitas – long-lasting financial partnership one the largest microfinance based on mutual understanding institutions in Lebanon, our wide and trust. Established in 1999, Vitas is a pioneering microcredit institution in Lebanon with regional and international outreach. It focuses on women, youth, and rural-based businesses. The majority of Vitas clients are located in rural areas. It is the first microfinance institution to receive a license from the Central Bank of Lebanon. Vitas became part of the Vitas Group in 2011, a global network of microfinance institutions operating in Lebanon, Jordan, Romania, among others. Microcredit highpoints over the past three years (2015-2017) TOTAL NUMBER OF MICROCREDIT TOTAL VALUE OF MICROCREDITS MICROCREDIT BENEFICIARIES BY SECTOR BENEFICIARIES (USD MILLION) 4,000 7 2.85% 0.06% 3.92% 3,500 3,716 6 3,564 5.97 13.30% 3,000 3,338 5.86 5 5.37 41.04% 2,500 4 2,000 3 2015 2015 1,500 15.58% 2 1,000 1 500 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 23.25% GENDER DISTRIBUTION 2.94% 0.13% 4.05% 14.00% 41.48% 63% 37% 60% 40% 59% 41% 2016 2015 2016 2017 14.24% AMOUNT DISBURSED PER AGE BRACKETS 23.16% AGE 2015 2016 2017 5.4% 2.5% Between 18 to 35 USD 2,292,012 USD 2,404,429 USD 2,526,299 4.4% Between 36 to 50 USD 2,098,109 USD 2,283,127 USD 2,125,683 41.4% Above 50 USD 987,004 USD 1,281,605 USD 1,206,313 12.1% 2017 PERCENTAGE OF BENEFICIARIES PER AGE BRACKETS 11.1% AGE 2015 2016 2017 23.1% Between 18 to 35 45.6% 42.5% 43.1% Between 36 to 50 36.6% 37.5% 35.6% Commerce Services Production Above 50 17.8% 20.0% 21.1% Contracting & Buildings Agriculture Transportation Home Improvement NUMBER OF JOBS CREATED 2015 2016 2017 2,278* 460** 1,473*** **The number of jobs was estimated based on the loan type and amount financed. **The number of jobs was calculated based on data gathered from the clients. ***The number of jobs was calculated based on the difference in the number of employees between the old loan and the new loan for retained clients and fresh employments for new clients. NUMBER OF JOBS SUSTAINED 2015 2016 2017 1,789 5,096 5,258 NON-PERFORMING LOAN RATIO AGE 2015 2016 2017 PAR > 90 days 1.17% 2.62% 1.95% PAR > 180 days 0.44% 1.35% 0.31% FRANSABANK FRANSABANK | CORPORATE | Corporate SOCIAL Social RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility 2016 | 32-33 2017| 28-29 Youth & Women Microcredit Beneficiaries (youth beneficiaries ages: from 18 to 30 years) YOUTH BENEFICIARIES’ BY SECTOR | 2017 Transportation 1.2% Agriculture 3.2% Housing 7.4% Production 8.1% Construction 14.2% Services 32.9% Commerce 33.1% 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30% 35% YOUTH BENEFICIARIES DISTRIBUTION YOUTH BENEFICIARIES DISTRIBUTION 1,111 BY AMOUNT | 2017 BY REGION | 2017 4.7% 2.1% youth 1.8% 6.4% clients benefited from our 16.5% 45.1% microcredits for a total value of USD 1.73 98.2% 25.2% million ≤ USD 6,999 ≥ USD 7,000 and ≤ USD 19,999 Mount Lebanon South Bekaa Beirut Nabatiyeh North in 2017 WOMEN BENEFICIARIES DISTRIBUTION WOMEN BENEFICIARIES DISTRIBUTION BY AMOUNT | 2017 BY REGION | 2017 2.9% 1.8% 2.3% 6.4% 9.5% 56.3% 22.1% 97.7% Mount Lebanon Bekaa Nabatiyeh 1,520 ≤ USD 6,999 ≥ USD 7,000 and ≤ USD 19,999 Beirut South North women WOMEN BENEFICIARIES’ BY SECTOR | 2017 entrepreneurs benefited from our Transportation 0.1% microcredits for a total Construction 0.2% value of Agriculture 1% USD 2.23 Housing 5.4% Production 8.1% million Services 36.9% 48.3% in 2017 Commerce 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% Women Microcredit Beneficiaries Testimonies STIMULATING RURAL KONAYNA AL-AKKARY DEVELOPMENT 40 years | Akkar Being committed to the SDG 8 Profession: Breeding cows | In business since 2007 which focuses on “promoting Current microcredit amount/tenor: USD 6,000/30 months sustainable and inclusive economic growth, full and Konyna, from Akkar in northern Lebanon, is a married woman and a mother of productive employment, and five, who started raising cattle ten years ago as she wanted to support her decent work for all” throughout husband a vegetable vendor, in providing additional income that would help cover increasing family expenses. So, she wanted to exploit their the Lebanese territory, and as small farmland next to the house. With her knowledge in raising cattle part of our cooperation with the (passed down by her father), Konyna confidently applied to Fransabank Michel Issa Foundation for & Vitas microcredits program. Subsequently, she bought a herd of cows to Local Development, Jbeil keep and produce calves and benefit from selling their milk when they are Municipal Council and Vitas, not in gestation. As much as her “experience with Fransabank and Vitas Fransabank carried on with this was smooth and successful [she] encourages motivated women to apply”. joint project launched in 2016. Konyna has so far benefited from three loans, the last of which was worth This project consisted in donating USD 6,000, which she used to buy milking machine, increase the number of loans as gifts and microloans to cows, and enlarge her farm to further improve her earnings. Consequently, support local micro businesses in she plans to use her next loan to buy the necessary equipment to widen her Jbeil area, particularly remote product range to include different types of cheese and yogurt. areas and villages in the region which suffer from displacement. MARWA FAWAZ The program mainly targeted 24 years | Kfar Kila Marjeyoun simple craftsmen whose circumstances may not allow Profession: Private tutor | In business since 2014 them to develop their careers Current microcredit amount/tenor: USD 3,000/18 months and trades, or in some cases can’t even bear the burdens of Marwa, from Kfar Kila Marjeyoun in South Lebanon, is a young married debt and interest payment. woman and a mother of one child, who graduated from university with a Degree in Science. In 2014, due to the lack of job opportunities in the country, Thus, in 2017, Fransabank paid she started tutoring students in her neighborhood. So far, she has taken USD 4,500, the equivalent of two loans from Fransabank & Vitas microcredits program. She invested total interests of 30 loans, the first loan in a laptop and stationary purchases. With the second loan, and paid 20 loans, as a gift to Marwa bought a small car so she can reach students in rural areas who the borrowers of Jbeil, whose are far from her residence.“These small amounts have helped secure a applications have been better future; which wouldn’t have been trouble-free without Fransabank and Vitas follow-up and support”. Today, Marwa is planning to rent a space accepted, for a total value of in order to open a tutoring center in which she would collaborate with other USD 20,000. teachers to reach a wider number of students in need of assistance. Our initiative was not the first initiative we launch specifically in Jbeil, and with our strategic HIBA SARAYA partners. It was indeed a 27 years | Rachaya continuation of our endeavors Profession: Tupperware and Avon representative in 2014, when we launched a In business since 2015 similar initiative and reaffirmed our economic strategic vision. Current microcredit amount/tenor: USD 1,500/12 months The program is not limited to Hiba, from Kfar Kouk village, Rachaya in West Bekaa, is a married woman grants and loans, but it also and a mother of two who works as a Tupperware and Avon representative includes advice and assistance. since 2015. She is a first time borrower from Fransabank & Vitas It shall remain an annual microcredits program. As she wanted to further support her family, she activity thanks to its benefits in decided to start working from home. Hiba was very satisfied with the loan supporting the rural economy she was granted. She described the experience as a “very fast and easy and enabling the villagers to process with little requirements”. She applied for a loan with the value of overcome the difficulties faced USD 1,500, which she used to buy the products she sells and to cover her work expenses. Hiba is looking forward to apply for a bigger second loan in the productive sectors. which would add up to her savings in order to open her own houseware shop. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 34-35 Financing Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SMEs) The mainstream of Lebanese Likewise, our subsidiary, the income households for home enterprises is small and mediumLebanese Leasing Company, improvement and purchase; sized and they greatly contribute to highly contributes to offering not to mention its direct impact job creation and national growth. various financial solutions to on the employment generation Yet, SMEs face the same obstacles borrowers and owners of this in the country. The loan from when accessing finance; some category of projects. SANAD to Fransabank is the may have a poor or non-existent first cooperation between both credit history, others may Thus, we support new and institutions, in the hope that it lack collateral, knowledge or established small and mediumwill further grow to our mutual know-how to achieve feasibility sized enterprises to reach their satisfaction. studies. Knowing that a whole potential, by inviting them to heap of Fransabank’s clients the table, making information are SMEs that rely on loans to available and proposing products develop, grow and boost their and services tailored to their performance, we aim to assist specific needs. Our longstanding these companies through a fair, relationships with international competitive and risk-adjusted financial institutions are helpful SANAD FUND lending policy, recognizing the to attain our goals in this Established in 2011, the SANAD importance of financial inclusion respect. In 2017, the European fund for MSME finances micro, for sustainable economic Investment Bank (EIB) granted small and medium enterprises progress. us a EUR 75 million credit line to and low-income households in finance the investment projects the Middle East and North In view of that, Fransabank’s of SMEs (firms with up to 250 Africa via qualified local lenders. financing products target all employees) and MidCaps (firms SANAD thereby fosters sectors such as industry, employing between 250 and economic development and commerce, tourism and 3,000 employees). The EIB funds job creation – including youth agriculture. Our facilities, in are allocated for financing projects employment – agriculture, terms of SME loans, are in all productive sectors of the affordable housing, and numerous, including and not economy. This was the EIB‘s sixth innovations in finance and limited to: Kafalat, subsidized transaction with Fransabank financial technologies. A loans, incentive loans, energy under its policy to support the public-private partnership, the loans, green loans, agriculture economic development of fund is advised by Finance in loans, commercial property loans, Lebanese enterprises, improve Motion GmbH, Frankfurt am overdrafts, Letter of Credits economic resilience, and foster Main, Germany. (LCs), Letter of Guarantees (LGs), economic recovery and job discounted bills and others. creation in Lebanon. At least 70% of the credit line amount is The Central Bank of Lebanon’s to be allocated to SME projects initiatives play an important role and up to 30% to finance MidCap in reinforcing local banks’ projects. financial capabilities, with a clear interest in supporting emerging companies, especially in the Furthermore, being one of the largest banks in Lebanon with a USD 671 areas of knowledge and technology. strong presence in rural areas million In addition to that, several and focusing particularly on the is the total low-cost credit lines are made small and medium-sized outstanding amount available through partnerships enterprise segment, SANAD of SME loans with renowned international fund chose to strengthen its as end of year 2017 institutions, such as the position in the market through a International Finance senior loan of USD 20 million to Corporation, the European Fransabank. This investment will Investment Bank, and major enable the Bank to diversify its development agencies and fund base and provide long-term regional and international funds. financing to SMEs and to lowSME LOANS DISTRIBUTION PER REGION Be that as it may, our responsibility goes beyond securing loans and funds. We also actively provide 7% strategic insights and guidance PARTNERING WITH 8% to our customers. Actually, KAFALAT CORPORATION Fransabank organizes seminars 8% and sectorbased information Fransabank offers SMEs 44% meetings in order to raise its financial solutions under the customers’ awareness, know-how umbrella of Kafalat; a and strengthen their loyalty to Lebanese financial company the Bank. These annual SME with a public concern that 33% workshops and trainings are assists SMEs to access provided to existing and potential commercial bank funding, clients across Lebanon. Giving by providing subsidized loan adequate access to education guarantees based on business Beirut and training and building the plans and feasibility studies. Mount Lebanon Bekaa skills that are in demand, are key South to the success of our mission and Kafalat loans target North to the socio-economic impacts enterprises operating in we aim to have. industry, agriculture, tourism, traditional crafts, and technology. Kafalat loans guaranteed benefit from interest Lebanon Start-Ups rate subsidy. Accordingly, they help bridge the gap for SMEs in Lebanon by allowing commercial bank financing and so, enabling SMEs to increase the financing of their business activities, which leads to better domestic investment, output, and employment. Start-ups are essential for an Venture capital funds with solid through venture capital, and innovative and healthy economic management team. entrepreneurship-focused growth in a knowledge-based business training. The main economy era. According to the Having faith in the capabilities of challenges have proven to be Central Bank of Lebanon young Lebanese entrepreneurs, corporate governance and access Circular No 331, banks are and retaining the means to to regional and international mostly entrusted with allocating support their growth, Fransabank markets. By removing the equity funding to its most is well equipped to help them barriers, start-ups can focus on efficient use by investing in: navigate in a competitive commercializing their ideas and Creative young entrepreneurs environment. In order to help developing their business model with innovative ideas, innovative entrepreneurs fulfill to stay attuned to their customers’ Ready-to-scale start-ups, their potential, our team has expectations and needs. Accelerators, been providing its expertise by Incubators, offering advice, access to funds FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 36-37 Our commitments to the sector through Venture Capital (VC) funds: LEBANON SEED BROADGATE Y CEDAR MUNDI IMPACT LEAP BERYTECH FUND SAL HOLDING VENTURES PARTNERS FUND FUND VENTURES FUND II Objective Targets seed and early Targets the current Targets the different Focuses on consumer Invests in growth stage, Capitalizes in early stage investments in gap in the Lebanese stages of the technology products well established and formative stage Lebanon, providing eco-system by aiming ecosystem and and services, companies that are start-ups with proven basically a Launchpad at seed and early providing access to consumer retail products ready to scale, inter innovation levels and to help develop viable stages startups in a club of renowned and services and alia, in the field of technology disruptions companies in a short Lebanon and abroad. professionals in the enterprise software. renewable energies, covering the Information period of time through industries invested in. fintech, online retail, and Communication seed funding, strategic education, and cyber Technologies (ICT) mentorship, and security. sector as well as other business training. knowledge based and creative industries (such as energy, creative and fashion design). 2017 investments USD 13.7 million USD 12 million were Circa USD 8.4 million USD 14 million were Circa USD 3 million were invested in 12 mainly invested in were invested in invested in companies, were invested in companies mainly augmented reality, companies, mainly in mainly in the field digital delivery, food in merchandizing, healthcare and the sectors of online of cyber security, and online streaming. image recognition, education. payments, technology, entertainment, heath, real estate, artificial and online publishing. and oil and gas intelligence, music companies. and fintech. Our commitment Fransabank SAL: Fransabank SAL: Fransabank SAL: Fransabank SAL: Fransabank SAL: Fransabank SAL: USD 750,000 USD 2,000,000 USD 3,500,000 USD 5,000,000 USD 6,000,000 USD 3,000,000 Fransa Invest Bank SAL: Fransa Invest Bank SAL: Fransa Invest Bank SAL: Fransa Invest Bank SAL: Fransa Invest Bank SAL: USD 250,000 USD 300,000 USD 500,000 USD 500,000 USD 1,000,000 Total fund size USD 13.5 million USD 46 million USD 40 million USD 70 million USD 71 million USD 51.5 million In this context, an internal study REGIONAL AND LOCAL ECONOMIC EVENTS entitled “Business Incubators Fransabank was actively present at regional, and local economic forums and and Accelerators in Lebanon: conferences promoting sustainable economic growth and financial inclusion, Start-ups and SMEs constitute entrepreneurship, financing opportunities and strategic cooperation. Per se, more than 90% of Lebanon’s we list: Economy” was prepared by the The Arab Economic Forum which tackled the post-instability period economy economic research unit at and the challenges of reform and investment, privatization, partnership and Fransabank. Its objective is to the role of private investment. expose the importance of The Lebanese Economic Forum which dealt with Lebanon’s economic future supporting startups companies taking into consideration the changing climate and the pivotal role being played and SMEs for the economic by the Central Bank of Lebanon, in ensuring monetary and fiscal stability. development. Among others… “BELT & ROAD INITIATIVE”, A GLOBAL VISIONARY STRATEGY Fransabank has led the drive And so in 2013, Fransabank Lebanon’s various productive to promote Lebanon’s strategic Group was the first to establish a sectors, and promote the trade, location and key human assets, China Desk, dedicated to serving business, education and cultural within the Banking Group’s the locals working and travelling exchange between both countries. strategy, to be a genuine nation to China and support the builder and economic supporter Chinese companies operating in In 2017, Fransabank conferences with the aim of fostering national our markets. It serves the and strategic events were sustainable economic growth banking, business, trade, cultural sustained to further consolidate for public good. While financial and tourism ties with China. In Lebanon’s strategic role in the institutions are undeniably today 2015, we foresaw the need for visionary “Belt & Road Initiative”. the backbone and foundation a reliable, trustworthy and safe Chinese investors and of the Lebanese economy, and mode of payment for our clients’ businessmen were invited to since growth is only possible in transactions in China, serving Lebanon for a country assessment developing and flourishing customers who travel to and and to better understand markets, we, at Fransabank, work with China, and supporting Lebanon’s strategic location, believe that we need to contribute the Chinese companies operating given China’s ongoing and to the uplifting of our markets’ in our markets, therefore, we anticipated role in the economies. Thus, Fransabank launched the first China Unionreconstruction of neighboring has actively acted using its Pay Card in Lebanon. countries. Chinese companies international and strong would benefit from partnerships relations with key investment Promoting Lebanon as a friendly with Lebanese companies, while institutions and countries, to nation and destination to the Lebanon has much to offer in promote Lebanon and improve Chinese was achieved through terms of friendly regulations, free its macroeconomic performance. various projects. transfer of funds and movement, A tour all over Lebanon was a talented multilingual population With over 60 years of unique planned and executed by and a beautiful touristic destination. historical relations with the Fransabank Group in order to For this purpose, Fransabank People’s Republic of China, attract tourists from China to the published a Lebanon Business Fransabank’s Chairmen, Adnan country. Fransabank invited and and Investment Guide to provide and Adel Kassar, strategically hosted the top 20 Chinese travel the Chinese and international chose to work on developing the agencies, giving them the full companies with clear information bilateral relations between local tourism experience, relaying about the market conditions, Lebanon and China and on their excellent experience and investment opportunities, as well promoting Lebanon as a feedback to their clients. The as regulations and means to strategic hub on the visionary Bank also elaborated several establish a presence in Lebanon. Belt & Road Initiative, an projects to promote closer unprecedented global networking between Lebanese In parallel, being aware that development strategy led by and Chinese companies that have China is today Lebanon’s number China. When Adnan and Adel the size and interest to trade or one trade partner with more Kassar started their dealings partner in beneficial business than USD 2 billion in annual with China in the early 1950s, opportunities. imports from China, an overview Chinese goods were almost of Lebanon’s investment non-existent in the Arab world. Subsequently, it was completed environment and business Fransabank Chairmen had to through two parallel projects: opportunities was prepared for exert serious efforts to promote the “One Belt, One Road in high level business delegations Chinese goods and Chinese Lebanon: Beirut2Beijing”, and visiting Lebanon comprising companies to the Arab markets. the “One Belt, One Road in top Chinese leading companies. Today, no promotion of China is Lebanon: Beijing2Beirut”. Their As a result, a Memorandum of necessary, being a leading global purpose was to effectively place Understanding was signed with economy, and the top trading Lebanon on China’s promising China Chamber of International partner for most Arab countries, and visionary Silk Road map, Commerce (CCOIC), the biggest and definitely number one for attract Chinese investments to business association in China, Lebanon. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 38-39 reflecting the launch of a comprehensive cooperation between Lebanon and China’s private sectors. In fact, A UN FORUM ON ENTREPRENEURSHIP FOR Fransabank’s efforts paid off SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT with the first shipment of Lebanese products to China. The World Entrepreneurs Investment Forum (WEIF) 2017 sought to A deal was signed between a leverage entrepreneurship and innovation for the implementation of the Chinese State Company and 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). three Lebanese producers, to send a shipment of wine, nuts, The opening session saw the designation of our Chairman, Mr. Adnan soap and olive oil to China. Kassar, as the Honorary Chairman of the United Nations MaritimeContinental Silk Road Cities Alliance (UNMCSR CA), an organization As a strategic partner with established by the United Nations and the Chinese Ministry of China, we are committed to Commerce. It was followed by a plenary session on the Maritimemake Lebanon a key hub for Continental Silk Road, a side event on private sector engagement for China on the Belt & Road SDGs, and bilateral meetings. Initiative where Chinese companies would base their The World Forum drew entrepreneurs of micro, small and medium regional headquarters in enterprises, as well as financial institutions to build and foster Lebanon. Such a hub is expected partnerships and share best practices. It was organized by the UN to see extensive Chinese Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) in partnership with the investments in key local Government of Bahrain. infrastructures. Fransabank Chairman, Mr. Adnan Kassar was named the Honorary Chairman of the Silk Road Chamber of International Commerce, the first Chamber of Commerce named after the Silk Road and which encompasses chambers from over 60 member countries. Fransabank is more determined to build on its privileged ties with China contributing as such to the positive growth of the economies where it operates, and building stronger win-win ties, within the mutual benefit principle preached by China. ACCESSIBLE HOMEOWNERSHIP As part of our private consumer national belonging, fostering products, we offer a range of their attachment to their mother housing loans tailored to the needs of our varied customer 12,555 country. base. Purchasing a house is considered an achievement when housing loans As products’ features should be clearly communicated, applications it comes to building a stable granted for diligently evaluated and associated future, mainly because of its high a total value of risks well explained to the cost. When considering applying for a house loan, people tend to USD 874.56 borrower to avoid an overload of grants. Therefore, our employees worry about the down payment, million intervene in times of difficulties the long period of repayment, at year-end 2017. to support clients and provide guarantees, among others. counseling, or rather solutions to Therefore, we try to simplify our put the client back on track with products offering to the most the due payments. Our assistance convenient solution, while taking approach remains aligned with into consideration customers’ As for the total outstanding our long-term goal of looking financial situation and payment amount for home purchases, after our customer satisfaction abilities. refinance and home improvement and building long-term loans, it reached the c/v of relations rather than worrying Our housing loans include a USD 874.56 million at year-end about short-term outcomes. variety of products targeting people 2017. from the public and private sector with flexible conditions. In 2017, we launched a new We list the following: Public product, the Land Loan, targeting Housing Establishment Housing Lebanese expatriates and Loan, Expatriates Housing Loan, residents who wish to build a Judges Housing Loan, Displaced secondary house. Through this Housing Loan, Internal Security product, not only did we help Forces Housing Loan, Housing customers secure the cash Loan Introduced by BDL 346, needed to become a landlord, General Security Housing Loan. but we also contributed to their FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 40.41 CUSTOMER SERVICE, A TOP PRIORITY Being the main source of our financial success, we believe that our clients are worthy of a top-notch banking experience; therefore, we constantly work on customizing our products and services, providing reliable assistance, advanced expertise, and processes simplification to ultimately offer best practices in customer service. Accordingly, as part of our open communication, we implement “The Principles of Banking and Financial Operations with Customers” as set in Circular No 134 issued by the Central Bank of Lebanon. the opportunity to raise their however, we need to ensure a Having well informed clients is concerns and inquire about any responsible transition to digital crucial for both ends’ rights and necessary clarification. financial services. Therefore, our duties; therefore, we make sure Furthermore, they can request digital transition is being carried clients: an explanation on the claim out in a smooth, careful and • have full information submission procedure, the time secure manner, trying to concerning the provided product limit needed to be notified of gradually adapt customers to or service, the outcome, and the mechanism the innovative technologies. • request all necessary applied to submit the claim to explanations to be able to stand other authorities whenever the Our online banking solutions, for by our requirements, customer is not convinced of the instance the e-banking, mobile • obtain a clear and complete outcome. banking, and the mobile payment explanation about the risks of solution, allows our customers any financial product, Most importantly, we make sure to manage banking transactions • are acquainted with the direct all our clients and potential at any time and place, in a and indirect fees of the product clients’ complaints are carefully practical and secure way. or service, analyzed, categorized and handled, These services complement • receive a periodic detailed by the concerned party, in an Fransabank Group’s local branch statement of account for each ethical, efficient and timely network which consists of 125 product, manner. Accordingly, we were branches spread from Rahbe in • refuse to sign a blank or able to assess and address 100% the North of Lebanon to Naqoura incomplete form and make sure of acknowledged complaints in the South. In addition to the all required fields and figures to received during the year 2017. largest branch network in be signed are correct. We believe that well-tackled Lebanon, we have 116 ATMs concerns are opportunities placed at strategic off-premises Acknowledging that for Fransabank to re-evaluate locations and, definitely, outside misunderstandings and and provide greater customer the branches building. objections are part of every service. Moreover, we are constantly business, we also have a developing self-service products well-developed financial Accessibility available around-the-clock, yet consumer protection unit. in a secure environment, to Customer expectations are increase accessibility for everyone. Several means are at our rapidly changing with the world Thus, we have introduced, at 16 customers’ disposal. Whether evolving technologies in the selected branches across the through our email that is financial sector. To keep in country, the cash deposit service displayed on all our customer touch with customers, various on our ATMs, some of which facing channels, call center approaches line up with the were specially designed with a representatives, or complaint changing social behavior. For low chassis in order to better boxes placed in all our branches, example, our digital reach has service our customers with we have conferred to customers been gaining in importance, special needs. With the increase usage of online Rewarding our Acts toward the interfaces, we have been Customers Public Sector communicating and reaching the communities we serve through Customers’ loyalty is the foundation A considerable fraction of our various platforms, sharing of a great financial performance, clientele works in the public among others special reports, that’s why we do our utmost to sector. This segment of the financial highlights, events, keep in touch with them, give population benefits from special new initiatives and products. As them incentives, and reward banking products tailor-made such, Fransabank social media their loyalty every now and then. to fit their financial capabilities. activities have reported a steady First of all, we conduct periodic increase in 2017, registering: In 2017, several promotions domiciliation campaigns to and rewarding campaigns were increase bankerization, reduce • 132,064 fans on its Facebook launched, targeting most of our operating costs and boost the page, an increase of 30% customers. The offers included efficiency of institutions. The compared with the end of 2016, increased cashback on payment 2017 domiciliation campaigns • 730 followers on its Twitter cards spending, trips to attend targeted the members of the account, an increase of 20% international sports events or Lebanese Army, Internal Security compared with the end of 2016, spend some quality time vacation, Forces, and General Security • 2,031 followers on its Instagram hotels and flights discounts, in Forces. Personal loans promotions page, an increase of 37% addition to special reductions at were also launched, especially compared with the end of 2016, selected local merchants. designed for the members of the • 4,643 followers on its LinkedIn Lebanese Army, General Security account, which was re-activated Forces, Internal Security Forces during the year. and State Security, with a longer Supporting Borrowers repayment period and a reduced interest rate. in Difficulty We have improved our approach to helping borrowers who are Responsible FACTS AND FIGURES Marketing struggling to pay their loan instalments, by focusing on 12.5% early intervention. We empower When we aspire after a higher employees through trainings to customer satisfaction and better support customers who prioritize our customers, they annual increase are having difficulties settling expect from us, to offer products in e-banking users their instalments. We have also and services that are openly enhanced our communication communicated. Whether through skills to provide better counseling our online outreach or through 13.3% annual increase and more clarity about the available options. other marketing tools, transparency and accountability are key principles to remain trustworthy in e-banking transactions Accordingly, we collaborate with of our customers. Happy and customers in financial difficulties satisfied customers are the mirror to avoid cancellation. For, our of our image. That is why objective is to maintain the Fransabank marketing materials USERS OF E-BANKING BY AGE are regularly reviewed to ensure relationship, bring customers AGE 2016 2017 back to a stable status and that products are clear, fair and support them through temporary comply with the regulations of Under 18 5.6% 5.1% Circular No 134 issued by the payment problems using deferrals, Between 18 and 30 14.7% 17.1% Central Bank of Lebanon, the interest-only periods, debt Between 31 and 45 44.8% 44% applicable laws and Fransabank’s restructuring, etc… Between 46 and 60 25.3% 24.6% policies. Above 60 9.6% 9.2% FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 42-43 Researches, “Is Lebanon really an oil and The index results, along with Studies, and gas producing country?” A study some of our research studies are on the oil and gas sector in also communicated as part of Publications Lebanon prepared by Fransabank our economic bulletin, which is Center for Economic Studies published quarterly. The bulletin Well-informed customers are provides a coverage of important an indicator of a healthy society. “Lebanon’s Real Estate Sector: Lebanese economic and Thus, Fransabank considers Current Status and Future monetary indicators. Thus, it is a itself responsible for providing Trends”, an in-depth study on valuable source of facts and economic information to its the real estate sector in Lebanon statistics for the interested clientele regarding Lebanon’s conducted by the Bank’s Center people. economic performance and for Economic Studies. other emerging business topics, whether in microeconomy or “Business Incubators and SUPPLY CHAIN macroeconomy. Subsequently, Accelerators in Lebanon: MANAGEMENT we published, in 2017, periodic Startups and SMEs constitute researches and studies underlining more than 90% of Lebanon’s Fransabank depends on an five from the latest topics: Economy”, showcasing the extensive supply chain, with a importance of supporting large number of suppliers from “Safeguarding Lebanon’s startups companies and SMEs a broad range of sectors. It Interests at Fast Forward for economic development. expects from these partners to Development”, an advisory note responsibly address risks and following the parliamentary Naturally, the quarterly release to conduct their business in a approval of the Lebanon Public of the “Beirut Traders Association socially and environmentally Private Partnership (PPP) Law, – Fransabank Retail Index” was responsible manner. Therefore, presented by Fransabank, in carried on. Since its launch in Fransabank suppliers’ course collaboration with Fransa Invest 2012 in collaboration with Beirut of action encloses guidelines Bank and CMS law firm, with a Traders Association, it is the first for promoting responsible and contribution by the High Council retail index issued in Lebanon transparent procurement for Privatization and Partnership. on the retail trade sector practices respecting human performance in Lebanon in rights, labour rights, employment Lebanon Investment and general, and its constituent laws and environmental protection. Business Guide 2017, a Beirut traders in particular. In fact, our purchasing contracts document reviewing Lebanon’s Its objective is to contribute to include specific requirements foreign investment framework improving the traders’ from individual suppliers. and intended to serve as a guide decision-making competences, that introduces the operational, which can now be based on incentive, and legal facets of thorough scientific studies. It conducting business in Lebanon, inevitably enhances traders’ predominantly from an inbound competitiveness in the market foreign investor’s standpoint. and adds value to the national economy and to the consumer. LOOKING AHEAD We will further expand our financial inclusion outreach across remote areas in Lebanon; notwithstanding the knowledge based economy of Lebanon. Of course, our investments in customer satisfaction and services will carry on delivering innovative solutions that help drive economic prosperity. Our Responsibility for the Environment Helping society undergo a transition to a low-carbon economy and supporting sustainable business activities has gained further recognition from various stakeholders. As a financial institution, Fransabank has placed environmental and climate protection at the center of its corporate responsibilities, given that the business impact on our planet has become decisive when developing our products and services. Moreover, sustainability issues have an important dimension as well when assessing our investments and credits. Internally, the matter has grown significantly as we are carrying out several operational measures to lessen our environmental footprint. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 46-47 INVESTING business line, to become one of RESPONSIBLY the Bank’s core activities. It is aimed at cultivating an efficient WHAT IS SUSTAINABLE Fransabank has a real potential to use of limited resources, via ENERGY? positively affect climate change. Energy Efficiency (EE) as well Sustainable energy refers Through the Bank’s core activities, as Cleaner Production (CP), and to the smart generation and we provide credit facilities to generating renewable energy. use of energy to meet current responsible clients. Our needs without compromising Eco-Business products vary in Fransabank has financed during future energy supply or order to adapt with the borrower’s the last 3 years more than harming the environment. This needs. USD 110 million worth projects includes improving Energy for energy efficiency, renewable Efficiency (EE) and harnessing We look at environmental energy, environmental and green Renewable Energy (RE). The management holistically to building projects. More than 175 Sustainable Energy Finance support sustainable development projects were given the chance (SEF) program was launched and manage risk, while focusing to start a different approach, hand-in-hand with leading financial institutions to enable on five categories: reducing energy bills, reducing businesses to finance their EE costs but reducing environmental and RE projects. Resource conservation, through bills and greenhouse gas managing the use of resources emissions as well. Source: International Finance such as energy, water, waste, and Corporation (IFC) paper. We have benefitted from a USD 40 million credit line from Advocacy, by advocating for IFC for Sustainable Energy Thanks to these important climate action through leadership, Finance. The projects financed achievements, Fransabank innovation, and a business through this credit line allowed was selected a model bank behavior that reduces ecological a decrease of 2,500 tons of CO2 committed to the UN’s SDG 13 footprints. emissions and saved more than on Climate Action. 4.2 million of kWhe/year. “Go Green” strategy, leading to SEF PROJECTS SUBDIVIDED BY: a comprehensive Sustainable 3% Energy Finance program; inciting 8% businesses to minimize their more than environmental impact, adopt renewable efficient energy and USD 110 project employ rigorous environmental million size management habits. worth projects for 89% energy efficiency, Risk management, emphasizing renewable energy, on the environmental risks in Corporate SME Retail environmental and corporate lending risk assessments 6% 2% and business plans. green building projects 3% 14% 10% 14% Serving clients, by growing an sector USD 40 eco-products portfolio that takes climate and environmental 26% issues into consideration. million 25% credit line from IFC for Industries Real estate/construction Education Sustainable Energy Sustainable Energy Finance Health Tourism Retail Other Agriculture Finance (SEF) Decrease of Fransabank’s Sustainable Energy Financing (SEF) program 2,500 tons of 40% energy 46% was initiated in 2012, as part of our Green Strategy, in order to CO2 emissions field address environmental saving more than sustainability. Although it cuts 4.2 million of kWhe/year. 6% 8% across all departments, it was Energy efficiency Renewable energy also devised as a standalone Renewable energy & Energy efficiency Special climate Thus, we were able to prove to clients that by implementing energy efficiency measures and renewable energy projects they were actually both increasing their production capacity and reducing their consumption. In addition, Fransabank offered energy assessments that helped customers identify areas of concern and potential business development actions. Our portfolio is much diversified, and special attention is given to industries through the energy loans targeting businesses covering multiple sectors: agriculture, industry, petrolSustainable Energy • R enewable energy projects stations, hospitals, restaurants, Finance (SEF) is worthy such as biomass, biogas, bakeries, schools, universities, etc. for businesses: small hydro, wind and solar Success stories in each sector energy, and geothermal 4 It allows businesses to cut or industry are being replicated • E nergy efficiency measures on their spending generating to produce the widest possible in buildings (upgrade or energy, water, heating and impact on the economy. Likewise, replacement of lighting, electricity savings. individuals benefit also from cooling and heating, air our eco-friendly products and compression, and building 4 It improves equipment services and partnerships management systems) performance and cleaner (i.e.: cooperation with the Union • N ew building construction: production: Older equipment of Municipalities of Jezzine, green building design. and technologies are highly Bkassine and Rachaya). inefficient in terms of production Methodology in yield, operating, maintenance Furthermore, to promote a and manpower costs. Implementing SEF sustainable way of doing For an effective implementation of business, an efficient 4 It creates environmental Environmental and Social and social responsibility: SEF, we had to focus on instilling a new internal culture at the Management System is being Sustainable energy promotes put in place in the credit approval cleaner energy production Bank. This is why Fransabank kick-started its efforts by engaging process, which would ultimately and minimizes greenhouse lead to a change in terms of gas emission. its employees and clients in becoming increasingly aware of client relations and related challenges and benefits. business development. Types of projects SEF A team of specialists has been covers : By adopting this approach, we developing the Bank’s related competencies. They conducted can go beyond financing a large Sustainable energy projects can volume of sustainable energy be found wherever energy is extensive training sessions, and shared best practices with or environmental projects, to produced, transmitted, delivered, spread the culture to all the consumed, or stored. Target international development banks. For instance, more than segments of the economy. borrowers for sustainable energy Fransabank planned a multifinance are energy end-users, 150 employees were trained on identifying and assessing energy layered impact on various service and technology providers sectors, achieving success of energy efficiency and renewable or environmental related projects. They were selected stories and accounting for energy products. Typical projects international best practice in include: from both branches and departments with the purpose areas as diverse as agriculture, • P rojects aimed at improving of further informing our sales industries, schools and the efficiency of energy use in teams on SEF objectives and buildings. industrial processes techniques. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 48-49 Environmental & Social Management System (ESMS) Fransabank was among the The ESMS is a framework that and Social (E&S) risks of financed first banks in Lebanon to adopt allows us to make sure that projects into the decision-making sustainability as a core value access to financial resources process, at all stages of the in its development strategy, promotes environmental credit cycle: implementing for this purpose stewardship, social justice and an Environmental and Social economic prosperity across management system (ESMS) in Lebanon, through integrating its lending process. assessment of the Environmental The due diligence will allow us to assign a risk category to each project at hand: CATEGORY A CATEGORY B CATEGORY C (HIGH RISK) (MEDIUM RISK) (LOW RISK) Corrective action plan Follow-up and corrective required measures required Minimal or no impact Sample projects Sample projects Sample projects • Oil and gas projects • Breweries • Retailers • Large infrastructure • Dairy operations • Software development • Major irrigation • Food processing • Financial services • Mining • General manufacturing plants • Service industries • Manufacture, storage and • Small scale mining • Consulting firms transport of hazardous • Metal plating • Residential projects below chemicals • Pulp and paper mills 15 floors • Queries • Textile plants • Forestry operations • Hotels/tourism • Hospitals • R  esidential projects above 15 floors This process adopted by Fransabank will urge businesses in all economic sectors to embrace sound environmental management practices leading eventually to reform their environmental impact and compliance across the country with international standards. The ESMS was first adopted in 2016, its implementation segregated into phases, whereby due diligences were completed for 35 clients benefiting from Sustainable Energy Finance loans categorized as: 63% medium risk profile and 37% low risk profile. The full integration of the ESMS to cover all corporate and SME credit files is scheduled for the year 2018. Building the Ecosystem To reach successful outcomes, Fransabank has been expanding its partnerships with all the players in the sustainable energy field whether locally, regionally, or internationally. Actually, we have been cooperating with: The main official actors of this Several international finance Several Non-Governmental market including but not limited institutions and development Organizations, some active to the Ministries of Energy and banks (International Finance associations in this field, the UN Water, the Central Bank of Corporation (IFC), European Development Program (UNDP), Lebanon as well as the Investment Bank (EIB), Agence etc… Lebanese Center for Energy Française de Développement Conservation (LCEC) (AFD), German Investment Corporation (DEG), Opec Fund for International Development (OFID), European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD)) Energy and environment consultants in markets, Equipment suppliers mainly in the solar photovoltaic market, and Some very specialized funds. Fransabank has adopted a complete customer value proposition as follows : • Identification of the clients’ needs • Assisting the client in its greening through energy assessments • Accompanying the client in all the steps of the procedure (for subsidized loans such as NEEREA and LEA with LCEC and the Central Bank of Lebanon) • Proposing adapted consultants • Offering solutions and list of suppliers in each domain • Proposing an adequate financing solution for each project. The Lebanese Center for Energy Conservation (LCEC) is a governmental organization affiliated to the Lebanese Ministry of Energy and Water. It is the technical arm of the Ministry in all subjects related to energy efficiency, renewable energy, and green buildings. It is the leading provider of energy efficiency and renewable energy programs to the public and private sectors in Lebanon. The National Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Action (NEEREA) is a national financing mechanism initiated by the Central Bank of Lebanon and dedicated to the financing of green energy projects in Lebanon, providing interest-free long-term loans to residential, commercial, non-profit and industrial users for all energy efficiency and renewable energy projects for new and existing facilities. The Lebanese Environmental Action (LEA) is another national financing mechanism developed by the Central Bank of Lebanon. It allows private sector entities to apply for subsidized loans for any type environmental conservation measure aiming to improve water condition, air quality, resource conservation, and the environment. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 50-51 Financing Partnerships and New Products In order to spread the culture of sustainable financing, we fostered partnerships and signed Memorandums of Understanding (MoU) with carefully selected sectors in the markets. The latest partnership was sealed in 2017 with the industrial sector. A MoU was signed between The Lebanese Leasing Company savings, while mitigating climate Fransabank and the Association (LLC), the leasing arm of change and supporting clean of Lebanese Industrialists with Fransabank, and the Green for energy technologies. As a result, the aim of elevating the Growth Fund (GGF) signed a loan businesses would decrease their industrial sector and its role in agreement of USD 5 million to energy costs and at the same supporting the economic and finance energy efficiency leases time lower CO2 emissions, in social development of Lebanon. to small and medium businesses line with the GGF mandate. Through this signature and mid-sized corporates in Ultimately, energy efficiency Fransabank and the Association Lebanon. This investment should measures financed with the shared common goals. Being support the LLC in further GGF loan are expected to create aware of the economic sectors expanding its energy efficiency annual primary energy savings energy crisis, the promotion leasing business, enabling it of approx. 10,000 MWh and CO2 of alternative and sustainable to grow the market and create emission reductions of approx. energy solutions would inevitably awareness, among corporate 3,000 metric tons. help reduce greenhouse gas clients, on the benefits of energy emissions and combat climate change, within our available resources as well as endorse a green culture. We believe that our contribution would encourage industrialists to adopt alternative energy, which would lessen the limitation of Lebanese industry regional competitiveness. Subsequently, workshops targeting industrialists in the Bekaa and North Metn regions were undertaken in 2017. The Green for Growth Fund invests in measures designed to cut energy use and CO2 emissions by a minimum of 20% in 19 markets across Southeast Europe, the Caucasus, Ukraine, Moldova, the Middle East and North Africa. The fund provides financing to local partners that on-lend to enterprises and private households, and it invests directly, primarily through the contribution of senior debt, in renewable energy projects. These cooperation agreements follow several MoUs signed in the previous years with: IPT petrol stations and Phoenix The Lebanese American The e-EcoSolutions for their Energy whereby IPT Gas Stations University (LAU) to fight Green School Certification would be transformed into green climate change, create public Program to support schools in and sustainable ones. The goal environmental awareness, as their green financing process. is to create an environment in well as, fund LAU’s sustainable The objective of the partnership which clean energy innovations energy projects. One of the is to help schools in Lebanon and infrastructure projects are major results we have been become “Green” through easier to finance and adopt. able to achieve with LAU is the sustainability measures in This would in turn encourage financing of two large projects: different environmental categories new investment opportunities to the construction of a certified and to empower future generations address other large scale projects. library on the Byblos Campus to become environmentally When we were approached by and the rehabilitation of an old responsible citizens. Fransabank the petrol station to finance university building in Beirut. A visited interested schools in the “greening” of one of their joint conference to create general order to finance their green stations, we offered to provide awareness is planned for 2018. projects, and assist them in all them with a full-scale energy matters related to the financing and environmental audit at their of their projects. A large Green specific location. After reviewing School Conference is planned for the outcome of our study, we 2018. decided to replicate the success story to all of the group’s petrol stations, including franchises. We proposed a tailor-made financing product, giving each The Chamber of Commerce, unit an array of possibilities they Industry, Agriculture of Tripoli can undertake to “green” their and North Lebanon and Phoenix facilities (i.e.: lighting, solar Energy to support the creation of photovoltaic, pumps efficiency, a solar farm destined to generate energy monitoring, car water 5MW electricity in Tripoli. reclaim and recycling system, wastewater treatment, central vacuum system and stage vapor recovery solutions…). This way they have the choice to make the financial and ecological decisions that suit their business best. We proved to our clients that by modifying a few procedures, they could reduce their energy bill, while substantially decreasing their environmental footprint. In parallel, targeting retail customers, we launched, in 2017, a special green loan for customizable and ecological wooden frame houses. The construction is financed up to 100% of the LCEC approved amount from the house cost as per NEEREA requirements. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 52-53 Forthcoming Projects In order to further strengthen our involvement in the environmental cause, we decided to issue Green Bonds, being the first Bank in Lebanon and in the Levant to do so. So, in 2017 a specialized team studied the launching of a USD 150 million program of Green Bonds with the first tranche of USD 60 million to be issued in 2018, funds that will be exclusively dedicated to finance energy related projects. Now, Fransabank’s objective is to enter this new era while supporting the following projects: A representative from IFC and real shift, beginning within the LCEC joined Fransabank team Group and branching out to • t he wind farms development to explain how the Bank can far-reaching activities in to produce around 300MW support the financing of Lebanon that implicate citizens. (with the first projects being sustainable energy projects to developed in Akkar, north the industrial sector in Lebanon. Furthermore, a representative Lebanon) It provided an overview of the from the Bank shared insights • the solar farms projects to Bank’s SEF initiative, LCEC on Fransabank strategy and ultimately produce not less actions, available financing achievements regarding SDG 13 than 300MW schemes, SEF best practices, as Climate Action. The first • the waste water and water well as tips and quick wins for contribution was part of the management projects that are industrials. Global Compact Lebanon still at their earliest stages in Network event “Lebanon Lebanon We were also selected to speak collaboration in the SDGs”; • the solid waste and waste at many conferences aimed at while the second intervention management and waste power raising awareness on the subject was at the Business Knowledge plants that could resolve the and achieve sustainable change. Platform organized by Lebanon Lebanese trash crisis. For instance, we had a distinctive Climate Act. session at the 8th edition of the International Beirut Energy Forum These efforts highlight Cultivating Client dedicated to energy efficiency Fransabank’s wish to set an Relations and renewable energy. Our session example and pave the way for was entitled “A Full-Fledge similar endeavors by playing Under the theme: “Energy Approach towards Sustainable a substantial role in raising Efficient & Renewable Energy Energy Financing”; it highlighted awareness, mobilizing individual Solutions and Available Financing the Bank’s achievements and as well as social conscience, and Schemes”, Fransabank organized partnerships in the field of changing mentalities to instate a two Sustainable Energy sustainable energy financing sustainable awakening. Financing workshops dedicated as well as an overview of to the Association of Lebanese Fransabank’s products and Industrialists. The objectives services in the same field. This were to create awareness among year again, the Forum attracted industrialists on Sustainable local and international delegates, Energy Finance and showcase visitors, speakers and exhibitors. the different energy and cost All programs and actions savings possibilities. undertaken to date have led to a Taking our Experience Overseas Global Warming and Climate In addition, we attended the Change have been at the forefront “Conference on Water of the news and debates for the Governance in MENA and wider last three decades. The scientific Mediterranean region” that was consensus on climate change is held in Barcelona in December that these changes are mostly 2017. The Regional Conference part caused by human activities. gathered around 140 decision The Paris Agreement resulting makers where representatives from the 21st Conference of of governments, civil societies, Parties (COP) was historic in international organizations, its achievement and the level of donors, financing institutions, commitment for 195 countries. It and the private and banking marked the beginning of a new sector, came together sharing era focusing on “Making finance experiences and discussing flows consistent with a pathway needs, challenges and next towards low greenhouse gas steps. emissions and climateresilient development” (Article Financing the global energy 2-c of the Paris Agreement). transition will be one key building block because demographic Within this respect, Fransabank change, increasing natural was invited for the third year, resource demands, urbanization to participate as a key speaker and the growing significance of in the Conference of Parties environmental aspects are (COP23) in Bonn, Germany; creating a growing need where we shared experiences for investment in all types of and exchanged best practices infrastructure. with main players in Sustainable Energy Finance. Fransabank with its ambition to be a pioneer and leader in this In parallel, we were asked to segment is working on catalyzing speak during the 20th Euro Finance the change in Lebanon, helping Week / 3rd Green Finance Forum in to define additional guidelines Frankfurt in November 2018 at and standards that would, with the panel Greening the Financial no doubt, prove to be beneficial Sector – Global Focus. During for the economy (innovation, the latter, Fransabank’s SEF job creation, etc.) and the Initiative was seen as a best environment (less greenhouse practice especially with regards gas emissions and instilling to the targeted sectors energy efficiency culture among (industries, education, and communities). municipalities). According to the panelists and moderators, Fransabank’s leadership in this field would stimulate the market opportunities improving regulations and risk management practices and benefiting the whole economy (innovation and job creation). FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 54-55 OUR APPROACH TO MINIMIZING OUR IMPACT As much as we work on spreading employees and providing (IFC) on our Headquarters, it awareness on the importance of high-performing workspaces. was concluded that a series of adopting green financing through green refurbishments should be our products and services, we A Green Audit executed. Thus, energy efficiency also have put in place an internal solutions were studied resulting strategy to minimize our internal Following the comprehensive in appropriate solutions. environmental impacts by creating green audit conducted by the efficiencies, educating our International Finance Corporation As a result, our internal engineering team has achieved the following: • Replaced all conventional lighting, with LED lighting in all Fransabank local network of 75 branches. • Replacing progressively conventional lighting with LED lighting in parallel with renovations at the Headquarters. The project was completed for parking and floors common areas. •A  ll decorative lightning were removed from the management offices. • Old air conditioning chiller system was replaced by the VRV air conditioning system at the Headquarters thus: Reducing energy consumption by 30% to 40%. Reducing water intake by 3,054 m3 or 3 million Liters. • Increasing demand control: lighting, A/C, escalators, and ventilation. • Lighting control was finished for the new Data Center area. • Night consumption control was completed for parking lighting and ventilation. Floors night control is being done by our night guards. • Escalators speed reduction is hard to implement on old escalators. Until a replacement project is implemented, we will install motion sensors that will turn off the escalators when not in use. • Implementing a full energy management program with clear targets. • The monitoring and targeting program for energy management has been completed for the VRV system. It was also finalized for the infrastructure of the Headquarters by end of March 2017. • Solar radiant heat barriers for windows were replaced by mirror reflective films decreasing our energy consumption. As for our Headquarters carbon footprint, a first study was executed to measure the impact of the previously listed completions. We have compared the past and current CO2 emission of the head office based on the Electricité du Liban (EDL) grid emission assumptions of 0.833KgCO2/KWh (as per LCEC and World Bank reports in 2009). We can deduce from the results that the current Headquarters Yearly average CO2 emissions footprint per employee (including all IT services: Before the implementation of the listed projects servers, systems…) is around (based on the years 2009-2010-2012 till 2015): 5.2 tons of CO2 emission. 4,257 Tons of CO2 per year After the implementation Of course, some energy of the listed projects efficiency upgrade projects are (based on the years 2016-2017): still in the pipeline: 3,677 Tons of CO2 per year • Parking ventilation retrofit and demand control project is scheduled for the year 2018; The total annual CO2 emission •T  he project of placing solar yearly reduction averages photovoltaics on the Headaround 579 tons of CO2 quarters roof (125 kWp) and façade (130 kWp) is under study. Through 2017, we reduced paper consumption by encouraging: HOW WE IMPROVE • Digital banking, with 57,455 • Recycling within the Bank’s EFFICIENCY IN OUR registered users to Fransabank Headquarters and branches. DATA CENTERS ? e-banking services compared We have made considerable with 51,068 at the end of 2016. progress in reducing paper 4 Automate fan and pump waste, reaching 209 tons of speed control • Intranet portal platform use. It recycled papers in 2017, and features digital signature/ attaining more than 588 tons 4 Raise temperature set points e ncryption, IP telephony since 2014. This accomplishment within recommended limits to mobility, and Skype for business. is a significant indicator of reduce energy usage The advanced intranet portal the changes in our corporate implementation provides, in culture which is leaning 4 Optimize and virtualize server addition to a more paperless t owards an environment friendly utilization environment, various benefits workplace. 4 Use raised floors for air such as improved collaboration delivery and communication, and better TONS OF RECYCLED PAPERS consolidation of information. 4 Create contained cold supply 250 air aisle • Shared printers and double200 209 sided printing across the Bank’s 150 137 135.5 4 Prevent unwanted mixing departments / divisions and 107.3 of hot and cold air and use branches as well as local 100 blanking panels on equipment entities, with a more widespread 50 where needed use of certified paper for the 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 4 Seal all unmanaged openings Bank’s publications. and place perforated tiles where needed FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 56-57 As for plastic waste, Fransabank and sent for recycling. This TONS OF RECYCLES PLASTICS employees have contributed to initiative which started as an 4 the recycling of more than 1.6 awareness internal campaign to 3.4 3 tons of recyclable plastics in 2017 coach Fransabank’s employees 2 alone. The plastics collected were on the importance of sorting and 1.5 1.6 sold, through arcenciel, (a recycling in order to preserve the 1 1 Lebanese socio-environmental environment has been gaining in 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 NGO), to a recycling company. recognition with the growing staff Since 2014, over 7.5 tons of contribution. recyclable plastics were collected Waste Management Approach Fransabank envisages the re-use and recycling of waste where and when possible. Method Explanation 1. The re-use of waste is a major priority. RE-USE Computers that are broken or redundant are delivered to the Information and Communication Technology Department which examines their potential scope for re-use. Other computers no longer needed are donated to schools or to NGOs. Furniture that is in usable state is kept at the warehouse for servicing and sent to branches/departments whenever needed. In addition, furniture that is no longer needed is donated to institutions in need. 2. Paper and plastic recycling. RECYCLING Placing recycling bins at selected branches. Whether papers, plastics, electricity, or other resources, employees 3. are entitled to manage their waste by reducing the consumption of REDUCE resources. Excavation of waste and debris left over during branch openings or 4. renewal is sent to disposal areas as designated by the municipality. EXCAVATION OF WASTE FAVORING GREEN INITIATIVES CASE STUDY FULL SOLAR POWER FUNCTIONAL BRANCH According to a UNDP study, Lebanon enjoys an advantageous location regarding its sun exposure, with around 300 sunny days a year and over 89 hours of daily sunshine. Considering this fact, Fransabank decided to make the most out of it by reducing the direct impact of its operations on the environment. The year 2017 witnessed the complete refurbishment of Fransabank Laboue branch, in the Bekaa region. The branch is strategically sited with #LebanonClimateAct reference to its solar power gains and benefits from serval Being a signatory to Lebanon Lebanon’s overall reduction of qualifications. The environmental, Climate Act (LCA) initiative, carbon emissions and pollution. climate and construction Fransabank attended the LCA’s In view of that, Fransabank, was conditions needed to adopt Business Knowledge Platform recognized for its actions as it has complete solar power were all marking the first year of the placed SDG 13 – Climate Action available. initiative. During the event, which as one of the main pillars for its Therefore, the installation of was organized in collaboration CSR strategy. the solar power solution for with the UNDP, Fransabank was Laboue branch was completed rewarded with a token of and became completely appreciation for its active functional. 12 panels were engagement in supporting installed on the roof, 32 batteries (6V-225Ah) and a 4000W inverter. The output of the solar inverter is connected to the 3kVA UPS input; accordingly based on 1680W load we must exceed 15 hours of autonomy at the branch (without any energy input). Ensuing to the project’s Lebanon Climate Act (LCA) is an success, we are studying the initiative run by the environmental feasibility of reproducing NGO Green Mind and the United this energy project at other Nations Development Program branches; of course subject to (UNDP), in partnership with the disposal of the requisite the Central Bank of Lebanon. It conditions. supports private sector actions on climate change. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 58-59 Going Green on TV Safeguarding our planet Earth In addition, following the The campaigns included very would fail without giving a positive feedback we received simple, straight forward dynamic proper education for the younger from our stakeholders concerning messages to reach the public at generations. When our children our green TV spots; Fransabank large and so introduced them to grow in a healthy environment green awareness campaign was effortless green ideas/initiatives. valuing natural resources and sustained in 2017 with its 60 TV The videos were run on a daily being aware of the consequences spots entitled “‫ ”ن َقي بيئتك‬being basis at peak times on TV and of its daily behavior on their replayed. Topics covered different are also available on our YouTube surroundings, we would be types of green initiatives and channel FransabankGroup. retrogressively contributing to steps that can be easily climate change. Therefore, and applied as daily habits. For as part of our strategic example, tips included ways partnership with e-EcoSolutions, of adopting recycling, how to mentioned previously, students have a cleaner garbage free enrolled at schools participating environment, how to differentiate in the Green Schools Certification between reusable, recyclable Program prepared videos that and organic waste, difference were shared on TVs, radios, between solid wastes and liquid cinemas, and social media wastes, how to prepare a showing us the true attitude of grocery shopping list and opt eco-citizens. Those future green for eco-friendly products, food leaders were chosen from safety… different backgrounds, age groups and regions. They revealed in their own creative styles their school’s green accomplishments. Tips and advices on how to go green and protect the planet were shared out in three languages (Arabic, English, and French). LOOKING AHEAD We will continue on creating awareness and implementing new ways to manage our environmental impact and helping clients succeed. Our approach entails new collaborations to minimize our environmental impact, additional credit lines to boost green investments, further sustainable practices in our products, and environmental sustainability education programs for our employees and clients. Our Responsibility as an Employer Being powered with an inclusive and engaging work environment, an organization is predisposed to achieve higher performance while standing for its core values. In the same way, Fransabank success has always been influenced by the skills, motivation and dedication of its workforce. Yet, to reach a best-in-class banking service, we should be able to recognize, attract and retain promising, knowledgeable and experienced employees that would derive optimum benefit for both the Bank and the clients. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 62-63 TAKING ON DIVERSITY gender segmentation has been SUBDIVISION OF NEW HIRES BY REGION sustained for years now, with an 79% In order to unlock a wider range of almost equal share among men business opportunities, a diverse and women employment, 54% 11% and inclusive workforce is a being males and 46% females. 4% prerequisite. Out of a total of 114 newly recruited employees, 45% of 4% The diversity of our personnel them were women. Thus, a 2% and their various skills, mindsets, balanced gender distribution knowledge and experience give Beirut Mount Lebanon South & Chouf is what we aim for at all ranks, us a better understanding of Bekaa North whether in managerial positions customers’ expectations, Regarding female employees in or at entry levels. backgrounds, while opening up the banking sector, it is not just wide-range business opportunities. The same principle applies for an issue of diversity that needs age diversification. For, we to be fostered rather than one Equal Employment believe that employees from of inclusion. This is why hitting Opportunities all age brackets diversify our quotas is not the solution. We customer service approach, and believe that our women Acting on the principle of making therefore, reach all society’s workforce has also the talent the best use out of our human categories. The percentage for great accomplishments and capital, we take care to observe of university degree holders should be recognized based on equal employment opportunity in our rose by 9.2%, reaching 78.5% its capacities and not just to recruitment, career development in 2017. This increase is due to increase ratios. The best and (or promotion), and compensation the continuous education policy the brightest are not limited policies and practices. It is implemented by our Bank, and to one gender but are directly strictly prohibited to knowingly certainly to our continuous linked to skills and knowledge and willingly discriminate on recruitment efforts. worth. Thus, women hold diverse the basis of anything other than EMPLOYEES GENDER COMPOSITION managerial and senior positions skills, knowledge and abilities in within Fransabank. Actually, 106 the workplace. women are employed within For Fransabank Management, Fransabank at senior ranks, “Equal Opportunity Employment” 54% 46% namely Head/deputy of division, is a way of life and an integral head of department, regional part of our corporate practice and manager, branch manager or culture.” deputy branch manager, out of a total population of 237 senior With a staff population of 1,735 NEW HIRES GENDER COMPOSITION managers. As for middle employees, Fransabank SAL has management positions, 140 registered a 1.4% growth rate women are either deputy head in 2017 and a 3.69% turnover of department, head/deputy of 55% 45% rate, which is among the lowest section, operational controller, recorded in the Lebanese banking commercial controller, or head/ sector. This relatively low deputy of unit, out of a total turnover rate is indicative of the population of 297 middle managers. presence of a loyal personnel. WOMEN EMPLOYEES FACTS AND FIGURES EMPLOYEES SENIORITY 8% Proportion of women in the Board of Directors 46% Proportion of women in senior positions 27% 45% 64% are between 30 and 50 years old 36% are above 50 years old 27% Above 10 years 5-10 years 0-5 years Proportion of women in middle management positions 47% 3% are below 30 years 73% are between 30 and 50 years old Splitting up the Bank’s population 24% are above 50 years old based on several aspects, we can have a representative idea Where necessary, we take specific working preferences, lifestyles and on our employees. In today’s life stages into account, and such cases include flexible working world, gender equality has conditions. Accordingly, 163 mothers of children aged 12 years old and become a basic requirement below, were allowed a special working schedule that help them for all institutions. Fransabank maintain a sound balance between work and life. RETURN TO WORK AND RETENTION AFTER PARENTAL LEAVE A CULTURE OF PERFORMANCE AND 45% Number of women given a parental leave DEVELOPMENT 100% Women’s retention rate after parental leave Fransabank employees Training and Development (T&D) programs 28% Number of men given a parental leave are conditioned to improve the quality of service and consultation, 100% Men’s retention rate after parental leave in order to better adapt our business to the changing market needs. We provide our employees Our compensation plans are aligned with our commitment to human with extensive training programs, rights and employees’ value. They are elaborated in accordance with whether seminars, e-learning, regulatory requirements and ruled by the Collective Labour Agreement. or outsourced courses. Employees Moreover, all employees are endowed for fair compensation, benefits are also assigned training and working conditions. Freedom of association is another important modules depending on their human rights concern, and our employees are totally free to join the area of responsibility and their association of their choice. career path. In our training program selection, we are keen on selecting the employees for EMPLOYEES’ DISTRIBUTION BY CONTRACT TYPE the right program to help them Full-Time develop professionally, while also perfecting our business 901 Full-time male employees requirement. It is crucial to avoid any misalignment between the 794 Full-time female employees expertise required to be competitive, the expertise available in the Contractual labour force and the expertise acquired from training courses. 34 Contractual male employees Consequently, Fransabank’s 6 Contractual female employees development programs include talent and potentials programs, polyvalence and succession Collective Agreement programs, and each program deals with specific abilities. Our 100% of Fransabank employees are part of the collective agreement human resources and managers thoroughly cooperate to secure the right career talented for identified employees. DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS OBJECTIVES Talent Polyvalence Potentials Succession Management Enhancement Development Planning Employees are selected The program focuses on Competent employees The planning initiates based on a combination improving employees’ are prepared for employees into future of personal skills, ability to handle multiple potentially occupying organizational educational background, functions and tasks. higher positions. requirements, or key and banking knowledge, positions at the Bank. to be enrolled in a Fast Track program to determine whether they can undergo Vertical and/or Horizontal Development. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 64-65 1,294 employees were trained in 2017, representing 75% of the Bank’s population 67,911 hours of training were given, with an average of 39.1 Seminars topics included ratio in Lebanese financial banking and financial techniques, regulation exam mentioned in management and behavioral the Central Bank of Lebanon skills, marketing and selling Circular No 103. Accordingly, hours of skills, information technology, overseas training or internal 98 Fransabank employees were given a certification in 2017. Our training training, and orientation coverage ratio reached 60.9% at per employee programs. the end of 2017, compared with a 53% market average ratio. The Moreover, T&D focuses on attributed certificates covered Performance significantly improving the coverage the following topics: Assessment and Remunerations Raising open and straightforward discussions on the progress of work BANK and giving continuous feedback CREDIT PROFESSIONAL BANKER to both the team and the top management are necessary for a work environment in continuous improvement. Likewise, we BANKING ETHICS acknowledge the importance of COMBATTING valuing and rewarding our staff FINANCIAL for their accomplishments in CRIMES order to preserve their motivation and interest, hence a better RISK IN LEBANESE service to our customers. FINANCIAL FINANCIAL On an annual basis, we review SERVICES REGULATIONS our employees’ performance based on the scale of their contribution to the achievement of our business goals. In fact, a steady Performance Appraisal As part of our development field relevant to banking, directly Review (PAR) system enables vision, we also encourage our related to the job currently held managers to evaluate the employees to further improve by the staff member or related performance and development their professional skills. to his/her career path. Eligible potential of their employees. Therefore, we are committed to employees are granted financial This annual evaluation of offering financial support to all facilities equivalent to 40 salaries, employees’ performance allows employees interested in pursuing reimbursed over 10 years, with to determine and directly link a professional certification as zero interest. merit and bonus to both individual well as graduate studies in any and team achievements and productivity. INVESTING IN THE YOUTH One of Fransabank’s main strategic CSR pillars is youth financial inclusion. That is why we offer attractive opportunities for young graduates who seek to pursue a long-term banking career. We are interested in young professionals and graduates’ input and contribution in raising new ideas and instilling dynamism within the Bank’s culture. Therefore, we closely work with leading universities to track graduate talents. Fransabank ENRICHING OUR was present at main universities’ 220 EMPLOYEES LOYALTY job fairs, assisting the young generation in achieving their Benefits to All ambitions. Students seeking students employment or those wanting to took part in the Summer While the salary is an important improve their existing careers Internship Program gaining benchmark for employees, it is 240 hours had the chance to visit our booth not their single concern. and learn more about the Bank’s Fransabank is keen on potential job opportunities or of practical experience highlighting additional benefits internship programs. In 2017, that should have an equal Fransabank participated for the importance for its employees. In first time at the Antonine University addition to providing decent and job fair, joining the American competitive salaries and offering University of Beirut (AUB), Our staff is keen on retaining career progress opportunities, Lebanese American University young talents in case of openings we invest in our staff work (LAU), Université Saint-Joseph in the Bank, but naturally, environment safety, health (USJ), and Ecole Supérieure des well-performing interns programs and family assistance. Affaires (ESA). interested in pursuing a longterm career at Fransabank have For instance, health and safety We also offer career guidance the priority. However, if the measures have been at the top for university students who wish position requires advanced skills, of our priorities for the past few to acquire further knowledge or we are committed to offering years. Thus, internal policies know-how on the financial and opportunities for ambitious were updated to safeguard our banking sector. Thus, we provide professionals recruiting based employment conditions and meet the youth with the appropriate on their professional achievements the required standards. We also training, mentoring and career and capabilities. We welcome have a dedicated team to ensure advice. Interested students are new comers in a smooth manner a continuous work and safety granted internship opportunities. and connect them to the tools improvement measures. In 2017, our Summer Internship needed to succeed and integrate Program welcomed 220 students. in the Bank, as it is the foundation We believe that by doing so, we The program is designed for of a productive employersare capitalizing on a devoted senior and junior students employees relationship. workforce, since satisfied and majoring in banking and finance, valued employees inevitably economics, or other businesslead to high-performance and related fields, providing 240 business success. The welfares hours of practical experience we provide are a reflection of our at Fransabank branches and/or commitment to the protection departments. and wider promotion of human rights. Being treated with respect and righteousness, would reflect in our employees conduct. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 66-67 Moreover, and by giving the it could also mean a friendly choice to our employees, we sports game or a full-day outing. EMPLOYEES’ BENEFITS added, in December 2017, Epsilon, Fransabank’s subsidized social CHECKLIST a medico-social association club, the “Amicale Club”, is a 4 Medical coverage for epilepsy, to our charitable way of bringing our employees 4 Paid annual leaves financial donation program. The together for a better employee 4 Transportation allowance association assists the epileptic engagement and teamwork spirit. 4 College tuition fees for patients in paying their bills and employees’ children medications, especially children, The Club is managed by a 4 Retirement plan and sheds light on this chronic Committee, composed of nine 4 Family allowance disorder and causes. Thus, members covering all the 4 Preferential loans employees could choose the Lebanese regions in conformity 4 Wedding gift center they would want to support with our branch network. 4 Cost of living adjustment and the monthly amount to A yearly budget is allocated 4 50% discount for tuition bestow (starting as low as for the Club’s activities and is fees at LAU LBP 1,000). spent on activities undertaken 4 Among others… throughout the year, including Internally, Fransabank employees an annual trip, nature outings, celebrated the International social events, banqueting… Women’s Day 2017 which was held this year under the slogan: Tickets to concerts, theater, 1,269 “Challenge and Fight for a Gender dinners, social activities and Inclusive World”. Believing in invitations for cultural and sports women empowerment and the events sponsored by the Bank, children vital roles they play in fostering are offered to employees, while benefited from our a healthy society, we decided to subsidized activities include support to employees’ #BeBoldForChange and support night outs and full day outings on children schooling fees; different causes that will truly weekends, in addition to special the total amount invested drive a well-deserved change deals from sports centers, reached over for women. A photo booth was shops, and diet centers, among USD 2.9 installed at the Headquarters, others. Family members are also where employees, of both genders, more than welcomed to join, gave live testimonies of since getting to know our million female-related causes they colleagues’ family members in 2017 would defend. brings out better social contact. Of course, staff have a say in Time off from Work selecting and proposing new activities, which increases Social Commitment After-work socialising activities take-up. For the past 12 years, we have among colleagues have been encouraged colleagues to growing in trend. Nowadays, Fransabank Amicale members support local community projects employees would enjoy a drink increased by 3% from the end of through fundraising and civic or coffee to de-stress after a 2016, reaching 678 members at engagement. Within this scope, long day at work. But, for others, the end of December 2017. Fransabank employees have been contributing to the treatment of children struggling with cancer since 2005. Employees willingly chose to donate a monthly amount out of their salary to the Children Cancer Center of Lebanon (CCCL) “Partner in Life Employee Giving Program”. At the end of 2017, 537 employees were happily enrolled in the program leading to the collection of USD 350,778. In 2017, 59 employees joined the program contributing to USD 44,464. In addition to that, and for the first year, two bonding activities were initiated, involving 120 employees from Fransabank branches and departments. In light of that, and with a very friendly spirit, a group of 20 coworkers visited, in October 2017, Deir el Qamar town. The bonding activities objectives are to enrich teamwork spirit, drive responsibility and creative thinking. The goals were reached through interactive techniques such as enigma solving and creativity workshops. With the same spirit, another similar activity took place in December, where 100 Fransabank employees took part in another bonding activity in Arz El Barouq, Chouf area. We trust that more positive relationships resulted from these enthusiastic activities, paving the way for a better communication and a solid teamwork. Fransabank also supports sports activities among its employees and competitive banks. Our Blue Knights Basketball team succeeded in maintaining its first rank in the fourth edition of “BDL Banks Basketball League 2017”. Furthermore, Fransabank won the awards of Best Coach, Best Player and Best Team Manager. The year 2017 also witnessed the participation of our team in the Dubai Banks Basketball tournament, where it successfully reached the semi-finals in its first regional participation abroad. Our team has the full support of the Bank’s top management as we strongly believe that sports activities positively affect co-workers relationship, giving them lessons on teamwork, how to overcome differences for better productivity, and to collaborate effectively by trusting one another. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 68-69 Keeping our Employees Informed Reaching out to all employees Fransabank is committed to the through internal communication periodic publication of Zapping, is also a vital part of the Bank’s its internal corporate newsletter. mission to ensure an inclusive In 2017, Zapping had two issues culture. For this reason, dedicated to CSR topics. An issue was assigned for Fransabank youth financial education and inclusion strategy and highlighted our approach and achievements in this respect (discussed further in chapter 5). An issue exposed the Sustainable Development Goals to better enlighten our staff about their purpose, in addition to a discussion on the Bank’s selected 6 SDGs and its achievements in each goal. Thus, our newsletters were used as CSR awareness tool to better infuse the concept into our employees. LOOKING AHEAD We will work on increasing our training programs to build up our employees’ learning skills, and further empower them to achieve their aspirations. Employees’ social engagement is on the move as well; helping foster a motivated workforce and a culture of inclusion. Our Responsibility towards the Communities Through its communal support, Fransabank has an ambition to create shared we have invested a total of around values that serve individuals and generate inclusive communities, USD 1.1 namely by supporting basic human rights, diffusing knowledge, spreading broad awareness, and empowering people to make better choices. Our million dedication took many shapes. It has always been our firm conviction to in 2017 act as strategic partner and sponsor to various good causes, mainly focusing on the fields of arts and culture, health, disparities and sports. Moreover, promoting youth financial education and inclusion has grown on us with time, 28% where a particular importance was attributed to related initiatives. Therefore, 37% we support hand-picked partner organizations through funding and Education Art & Culture professional expertise, in order to enable social and humanitarian projects Social & Health to reach the top. Accordingly, we engage with a range of local stakeholders, including civil society, to better understand the local context. We deal with approximately 100 partner organizations whether educational, cultural, 35% or social. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 72-73 YOUTH FINANCIAL EDUCATION & INCLUSION In 2017, we embarked on a key initiative consisting of a financial literacy cards game. The “Big Bank Challenge” game was developed in collaboration with the Institut des Finances Basil Fuleihan (IoF); its objective was to test the concepts learned during the day. Besides being a fun game for the students, it is basically an educational demonstration of the knowledge acquired, through questions on current and saving accounts, credits and debit cards, loans and money transfers, among others. For we believe ultimately that the teaching material, which was carefully prepared, When assessing the rationale behind working with the youth, we, as a improves children’s and young Bank, look farther from short-term profitability and return on investment people’s financial knowledge in (ROI). Investing in this category sets an influential CSR plan and creates an inspiring way, delivering them interesting opportunities to help improve long-term customer relationships basic knowledge of some of the and guarantee a top position in banking innovation. It also falls under banking life skills needed when our commitment to SDG 4 – Quality Education. starting to deal with the real finance world. Since education and entrepreneurship and corporate well-mastered financial skills social responsibility. drive economic empowerment and social mobility, Fransabank In fact, 79 students from three youth education initiatives aim different schools in the 15-18 GLOBAL MONEY WEEK at improving access to quality age bracket, participated in Global Money Week (GMW) is education in general and financial our mimic of the GMW 2017, an annual money awareness education in particular. which demonstrated how a bank campaign built to inspire children operates. Throughout the day, and young people to learn about We encourage children and students attended a presentation money matters, livelihoods and young people to learn about on the Lebanese banking sector entrepreneurship. GMW started personal finance at an early age highlights followed by a presentation in 2012 as Child Finance Day/ in order to build their financial on Fransabank banking products Week and has since touched the confidence. Thus, Fransabank and services, and its corporate lives of 7.8 million children and participated for the second social responsibility strategy young people through 23,738 year, in the Global Money Week and initiatives. Additionally, a organizations in 137 countries, (GMW), an initiative raising the guided tour through the different involving schools and universities’ financial literacy among the youth. departments was conducted, students in events, activities, The GMW is launched annually in including a visit to the Bank vault. projects, competitions… related collaboration with the Children During visits to the departments, to financial management; Youth Finance International real situations were reproduced because children and youth (CYFI), the United Nations by students, in the roles of need to receive the knowledge Development Program (UNDP), tellers, customers, relationship and develop skills to make and the Higher Council for officers… Furthermore, students smart financial decisions Childhood under the Ministry of were taught how to properly throughout life. Social Affairs. It stimulates the formulate a safe signature and learning process of the youth in informed about the proper conduct Source: www.globalmoneyweek.org terms of money saving, generating of a bank, starting from the attire livelihoods, employment, to workplace behaviors. On the other hand, stepping educational experience they forward in this edition of the deserve. It is worth noting that, Global Money Week, we hosted an while introducing these students exceptional day for students with to our internal CSR initiatives, THE BIG BANK special needs. Blind and deaf one of the students presented CHALLENGE© students attended presentations their school green initiatives at Fransabank Headquarters such as recycling, planting trees, Big Bank Challenge is a fun along with their mediators and and waste sorting. This school game where kids aged 15+ can translators, and the proper was, in fact, a Green School gain a basic understanding adjustments to the informative certified by e-EcoSolutions of banking products and process were made in order environmental consultancy firm. services. In the game, they to acquire the full financial are challenged to earn money and decide themselves to save Spreading Out Financial Education it up by opening a new account in the bank. The winner is the Our volunteer activities strategically focus on consolidating employees’ first one who ends up saving skills and knowledge. Accordingly, trainings were held to familiarize 10 million Lebanese pounds. our employees with the game concept, then, volunteer employees acted as mentors to young students, helping to improve their financial Players face challenging education. situations and dilemmas, thus the game provides these @Université Saint Joseph them in learning the basis of young people with better banking and the importance of knowledge of clients rights Our Big Bank Challenge was saving money. Sessions perfectly and duties, on the types of addressed for college students conveyed to interested students banking transactions they during the Journées Bancaires the rights of customers, and might need to undertake and organized by the Université Saint the different ways to deal with a a simple understanding of Joseph (USJ). Throughout the bank. While playing the game, banking products’ benefits four days spent at USJ campuses, various questions were raised or disadvantage to achieve three volunteers from Fransabank which is the main objective of a financial target. This will employees initiated the young this educative game. give them the opportunity for into bank products and services planning their future life and in a fun and interactive way. @Le Salon du Livre stimulates their capacities to Through our partner the IoF, Francophone de Beyrouth reach their financial dreams. and our volunteers, we reached 111 USJ students, raising thus Our second stop was at Le financial awareness. Salon du Livre Francophone de Beyrouth, an annual book Volunteer employees had to and educational exhibition that attract students and involve welcomes schools from across Lebanon. Four employees from the Bank volunteered to participate in our initiative, and reached a total of 129 students coming from 10 different schools. For five days, our volunteers called on students to enlighten them as to the importance of dealing with a bank, the facilities it can offer them at all stages of life, and most importantly the rights and duties of customers. The feedback was much enthusiastic, with a curiosity to find out more about the benefits of dealing with a bank. Issues were debated by students during the game, which was even more enjoyable with the competitive spirit to win the Big Bank Challenge. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 74-75 @Beirut International Arab the 15-16 age bracket. A total of 896 teens Book Fair 500 clients’ children received, the game which was delivered Our third event was at the Beirut to their respective branches for were International Arab Book Fair – an pick-up. financially informed annual gathering of via our Lebanese and Arab publishing In parallel, the Big Bank Challenge houses and libraries. Once again, students were introduced game gained recognition among Big Bank Challenge our staff. We actually received to the Big Bank Challenge game several inquiries from parents by two volunteers from the Bank. Over five days, 62 students from working at the Bank; as a result, 15 games were dispatched interGame nine different schools took the nally to our interested parents. challenge and were introduced to new banking concepts, products and services, among others. The Big Bank Challenge had a Each participant student positive feedback from the received the Big Bank Challenge students, their game. instructors and parents, so we hope that teenagers @Fransabank branches enjoyed playing the game Last but not least, Fransabank among friends or family, offered the Big Bank Challenge introducing the game for clients holding education game to their parents too, saving plans and insurance product who would also benefit where the beneficiaries are in from further knowledge. Other youth financial education initiatives in 2017, included: “UDESIGN” LIFETIME UNIVERSITÉ SAINT COMPETITION MEMBERSHIP TO JOSEPH (USJ) BETA GAMMA SIGMA ENTREPRENEURSHIP For the third year in a row, HONOR SOCIETY AWARDS 2017 Fransabank launched the UDesign competition to strengthen the Twenty-eight LAU outstanding The USJ Entrepreneurship students’ financial literacy students and recent graduates Awards 2017 targeted students knowledge through their field of from Adnan Kassar School with business projects in social study. It targeted the Lebanese of Business were awarded a entrepreneurship, with an American University (LAU) lifetime membership to Beta objective of promoting economic students of Fine Arts. Participants Gamma Sigma, the premier viability in consort with social were asked to prepare a short honor society recognizing and environmental impacts. movie about money spending business excellence. The honorees Candidates presented ideas that and saving and present it to a were awarded a certificate, a could be developed to start-up jury that was composed of two pin, an honor cord with tassel phase within a three-year LAU professors and two and a medal. frame. Fransabank distributed Fransabank representatives. cash prizes of USD 10,000 for The first prize was a full the three winning projects out of scholarship to the University 7 projects tackling environmental of Salzburg worth USD 7,000 and technological fields. The provided by Fransabank to the competition was in collaboration winning student out of seven with “la Fédération des Anciens” contestants. Fransabank reward and Berytech. was not just monetary but has also put forward millenials’ attention, through their project research, on how to deal with the financial system. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 76-77 SUSTAINABLE MINDS PEDAGOGICAL These initiatives create a shared COMPETITION value in our society. They contribute Sustainable Minds, a competition to the creation of a rich and organized by the UNGC network The pedagogical competition diversified national fabric. In fact, Lebanon aimed at raising was launched with the General promoting financial inclusion awareness among 10th grade Secretariat of Catholic Schools; and financial capability for students in public and private whereby Fransabank distributed children and youth will somehow schools across Lebanon on the USD 27,000 cash awards to 21 enable them to find employment importance of sustainability in students out of 180 participants, or undertake entrepreneurship business. They had to choose in the “Talents for Lebanon” and become economically active one of the 10 Global Compact educational contest launched by members of society. By principles, and submit a short the Bank. recognizing the capabilities of 2-3 minute creative video the younger generation, and demonstrating their making use of those assets, understanding of the chosen identifying opportunities, principle. Ideally, students had nurturing positive ties and to select a problem faced in providing the necessary support Lebanese organizations and to build on their leadership demonstrate how the application strengths, we shall create a of one of the principles can climate of resilience and build up be a potential solution to the hope in the future generations. problem. Fransabank rewarded five students with an internship opportunity at the Bank. Fransabank in CYFI Report on Financial Education & Inclusion Resulting from our efforts to enhance the SDG 4 – Quality Education on a national level, Fransabank was the only bank in Lebanon selected by the Children & Youth Finance International (CYFI) to contribute to its latest study on financial institutions in Georgia, Lebanon, Tanzania and Yemen. The document examines the strategic aspects that banks need to consider when designing, delivering and evaluating Child and Youth Friendly financial services. Thus, Fransabank youth financial education and inclusion initiatives were reported as Lebanon’s case study. To access the report online: goo.gl/hUd3DJ Serving our Young Clients As part of Fransabank’s to pursue their education either LEAD ACCOUNT youth-focused strategy and in Lebanon or abroad at very wider financial inclusion tactics, competitive rates and flexible Applicants should be between we offer youth friendly bank repayment periods. 16 and 25 years old. accounts coupled with multiple Accounts are offered free of specific benefits; while providing In 2017, the total outstanding charge in addition to a preferential at the outset, a mentor role amount of educational loans interest rate. initiation that would simplify the reached the c/v of USD 18.41 Benefits cover a wide range of banking services and products million at year-end 2017, compared services such as: and clarify the importance of to USD 16.36 million at year-end saving money at an early age and 2016. • Free Prepaid PayPass Card having a trustworthy banking with the contactless tap to partner in all life stages. In view Moreover, as parents’ duty is to pay service (ages below 18) of that, we train our personnel provide a proper education for • Free Debit Card or Free on the way to engage with the their children, we offer Fransabank Prepaid PayPass Card (ages youth at all touch points and Education Saving & Insurance 18 and above) better understand their needs Plan “Fransajeunesse”. Being • Free Prepaid Internet Card and lifestyle. able to save ahead of time and • No transaction fees when ensure the funds for their children’s withdrawing cash from Therefore, we have re-launched, future college education, brings Fransabank ATMs in 2017, our youth targeted peace of mind to our parent • No transaction fees when LEAD account, adding to customers especially with today’s making purchases at POS it a new microsite increasing tuition fees. The and no interests applied fransabankleadaccount.com, success of the plan resides in its • In addition to a 20% discount where our youthful clients flexibility. Premium payments on the Beirut Circle Card and their parents, can find all can start with as low as USD 25 a privilege and lifestyle the needed information on one per month with the possibility of card offering special rates, interactive platform, and increasing the payments at one’s discounts and promotions therefore, have better prospects convenience. At contract maturity, at prominent hospitality for their future. the children may choose to and entertainment places in receive the amount saved either Lebanon. On the other hand, and since we as a lump sum or as annual believe that education is vital to payments. Of course, parents social unity, mutual acceptance, are free to modify the contract and communal advancement, duration, the insured capital, Fransabank Educational Loan the schooling amounts and their makes education accessible to yearly increase, beneficiary, as all people, regardless of their well as the premium amount and background, and circumvents the frequency. They may carry any financial obstacle that would out additional feedings and benefit impede them from achieving from the return on savings. their ambitions. In view of that, our Educational Loan offers eligible students the opportunity Fransabank educational loans total outstanding value reached the c/v of USD 18.41 million at year-end 2017 FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 78-79 In conclusion, we make sure our retail personnel is constantly well-informed of the new generation surging needs and expectations. For instance, Fransabank participated in a workshop organized by the Lebanese Ministry of Social Affairs and the Child & Youth Finance International to gain further knowledge on the development and marketing strategies and tools of child and youth-friendly banking products. We are confident in our incessant efforts to attract millennials, “Children as Potential Future Investors” adolescents, as well as parents, focusing on a welcoming Holding savings accounts in childhood is linked with being twice more responsive approach. Similarly, likely to own saving accounts, twice more likely to own credit cards and we believe that when we build a four times more likely to own stocks in young adulthood, compared with sound trustworthy relation, the not having savings account in childhood. It reflects a positive relationship outcome would be beneficial for between the ownership of a savings account and higher levels of both our society and the Bank. economic and financial well-academic achievement and educational attainment. Source: Friedline and Eliott research study A CULTURE ON THE GO Art and culture are often seen as vehicles for social change. They have the power to mark opinions, and not only do they translate experiences, but also emotions felt in a particular place at a particular time. Considered as the source of a society’s reminiscence, culture grants people from different backgrounds and different generations the chance to connect via heritage, images and tales. Ecotourism for Rural Development Following the success and areas. And, as advocate of the Chebab, Bhamdoun, Hasroun, interest aroused by “Le Village private sector’s role in generating Maasser el-Chouf, Qleile, Sir Préféré des Libanais” contest in national growth, we saw in this Denniyé, Tannourine and its first edition, Fransabank and strategic partnership an initiative Tebnine, proudly strived to L’Orient-Le Jour launched the that portrays our conviction. display its little treasures of second edition, echoing the desire culinary or artisanal specialties. to preserve the environment The début of the competition, In 2017, Sir El-Denniyé in North and heritage of Lebanon, through this year, had a special taste. The Lebanon and Bhamdoun in the promotion of tourism among ten contending villages brought Mount Lebanon, were our two local residents as well as their own crops, provisions and finalists. The number of voters from expatriates. craft production, to meet in the Lebanon and abroad increased open area space in downtown from 122,000 voters in 2016 to Rural tourism in Lebanon has Beirut near Fransabank’s Foch more than 178,000 voters in been recently witnessing a branch. This outdoor market was 2017. It was the village of Sir remarkable development, well-thought out in partnership El-Denniyé that ultimately won especially with the establishment with Souk el-Tayeb*. Each of the the title of the Most Favored of touristic projects in rural villages of Aqoura, Anjar, Beit Village, with 46.5% of the votes. *Souk El Tayeb is an open-air weekly farmers market in Lebanon specialized in organic food products. On the other hand, youth were particularly encouraged to participate and express their preference through another parallel social media competition. Alongside this voting process, a photo competition on Instagram was conducted in partnership with LiveLoveBeirut**. Users were called to participate and share the beauty of Lebanon by posting pictures of the chosen 10 villages using the hashtag #FransabankVPL. The top three winners were offered in turn a Mavic Pro Drone, a GoPro Hero 5 Black and a USD 250 cash prize. Furthermore, this initiative lines up with Fransabank’s pledge to advance SDG 11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities, along with its strategic interest in devoting efforts to the principles SIR EL-DENNIYÉ of sustainable development, Population: consolidating the Lebanese Around 10,000 with about 4,000 people’s love and sense of constant residents. belonging to the homeland. Altitude: **LiveLoveBeirut is a crowd-sourced love campaign made for Lebanon. It was created by Live Love Lebanon, a youth Between 850 and 950 meters, it NGO, whose main goal is to re-image Beirut as city of culture, sports, history and innovation. is rich in water resources with more than 316 water springs. Weather: Art, the Language of Communication With its mild climate in both winter and summer, Sir is known to be a Today, art and creation in patronage of three main artists holiday’s destination. Lebanon are in their utmost renowned for their talent in flourishing, reflecting a civilized mixing Arabic and Latin Number of hotels and restaurants: image of a philosophy of alphabets: El Seed, Yazan The village has four hotels, and coexistence, and a sign of cultural Halwani, and Niels Shoe 12 restaurants famous for their maturity, openness and modernity. Meulman. quality traditional food. Fransabank has long been committed to the service of all Other Lebanese and international Not to be missed when visiting: artists joined them in bridging The Zahlan grotto, the old souk kinds of fine art. In 2017, it chose to spotlight an innovative art – the gap between eastern and with its artisans and pastries, valley hiking with beautiful Calligraffiti, though the Operation western cultures throughout the waterfalls, neighboring the White Wall which was led by the walls of Beirut. They were called village the roman temple of Sfiré. French Institute in Lebanon to to transform urban spaces into a promote an exceptional encounter unique lingering gallery. between calligraphy and graffiti. By replacing the canvas by the In this context, Fransabank seeks streets of Beirut, White Wall to reflect the vitality and diversity initiative revealed the importance of emerging contemporary arts in of culture, and its greater value Lebanon, confirming once again when it is accessible to all. The the strategic role of the Bank as initiative is perfectly consistent a strong supporter of the art and with Fransabank’s strategy and the cultural influence of future deep conviction that art is an generations. The Operation White exchange and contributes to Wall was held under the dialogue amongst cultures. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 80-81 NIELS ‘SHOE’ EL SEED YAZAN HALWANI MEULMAN El Seed, a French-Tunisian artist Yazan Halwani, a young Lebanese Niels ‘Shoe’ Meulman, the founder that blends the historic art of artist in calligraffiti. He was, of Calligraffitti is a visual artist, Arabic calligraphy with graffti to actually, discovered by Fransabank graffiti writer, graphic designer and reveal messages of beauty, poetry artistic committee to participate art director, based in Amsterdam. and peace across the world. in the 9th edition of JABAL, in After his inaugural exhibition 2013. He has since acquired an in 2007, Calligraffiti has spread international reputation. throughout the entire world. Meulman’s designs and artwork are part of the permanent collections of the Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam and The San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. Lebanese Architect Awards Fransabank’s commitment to art carries on this year with the Bank rewarding our Lebanese architects who are prominent for their creativity and talent. Thus, we were a proud sponsor of the Lebanese Architect Awards organized by the Federation of Lebanese Engineers. During this event, 36 executed projects designed by Lebanese studios Since 1998, Fransabank has been encouraging young Lebanese artists were displayed to the public. and their creativity through the initiative JABAL – Jeunes Artistes des Ten winners were selected by Beaux-Arts du Liban. This approach allowed the creation of JABAL an international jury composed exhibitions, which opened new horizons for emerging artists, of six foremost professional discovering their talents, accompanying them in their journey to success, Lebanese architects and archiand raising awareness among the general public. Over the years, more tecture critics. Our participation than 350 artists have exhibited in JABAL, more than 50 are today a in this event exemplified Fransabank’s pride for the nation and have made their way to international recognition. engagement to empower the Lebanese potentials in all sectors, and help them dazzle. Reaching our People through Cultural Events With the increasing number of summer festivals spread across Lebanon, Fransabank through its widespread branch network has been extending its support to different cultural events in the show business, and is convinced more than ever in the impact of these events in bringing people closer and in fostering balanced economic development. As a matter of fact, Fransabank partnered, as accustomed, with Kfarnabrakh, Jezzine, Bourj major annual festivals all over el Moukouk, Tripoli, Ain Ebel, Lebanon, from Beiteddine, to among others. Big or small, Baalbeck, Al Bustan, Ehden, these social events reflect the Batroun, Jounieh, and Tannourine; dynamism of the Lebanese then added some new festivals people, their mutual energy and collaborations such as those of shared love for culture. Beirut, Zahlé, Bikfaya, AN ASPIRING SOCIETY When talking philanthropy, Fransabank grasps investment opportunities. Our strategic community partnerships are selected based on scalable and measurable impacts knowing that our utmost goal is to support an inclusive society with the potential of generating sustainable development. Whether through partnerships, donations, sponsorships, or corporate volunteerism we target all society’s segments from children, youth, women, seniors, disabled people, and families living in distress. Road Safety They subsequently obtained certificates in collaboration with Within Fransabank’s continuous aid In 2017 the American University of Beirut to Roads for Life in its mission to provide Post Trauma Care 80 doctors Medical Center (AUBMC). from different hospitals In addition, Roads for Life partnered services through its ATLS® took the ATLS course, with Hypco gas stations, providing courses to doctors in emergency amongst which drivers who wish to grant their rooms, we have further extended our support to optimize the 30 doctors support with “My Way” Hypco Loyalty Card. By joining this chances of survival for victims in from the program, 62 Fransabank the “Golden Hour of Trauma” or Lebanese Armed Forces. employees willingly contributed the first 60 minutes following an in ensuring that trauma patients accident, reaching, this year, the all over Lebanon are receiving a public sector. high quality prehospital patient care. All they had to do is to join 490 the loyalty program, fill their vehicle tanks at Hypco stations, swipe the loyalty card through ER doctors the designated machine and have been trained since the enter the number of litres filled. inception of Roads for Life The more they fill at Hypco, the in 2011 higher the accumulated points and so the bestowment. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 82-83 Fransabank has continuously stood by the ATLS program (Advanced Trauma Life Support) since October 2011, providing doctors in emergency units in Lebanese hospitals with a safe, reliable and standardized method for immediate management of the injured patient. As a result, Chairman Adnan Kassar, representing Fransabank, received a Trophy of Appreciation from Roads for Life, being among the first to believe in the organization’s cause and mission. Likewise, the Corporate rewarding their achievements on Responsibility in Banks on Traffic Mother’s Day by offering every Safety 2017 forum was organized mother who visited our branches by the Union of Arab Banks, in a colorful tulip. cooperation with the National Council for Traffic Safety. Fransabank representatives Quality Time with attended the forum which Children and Seniors highlighted the role of banks in Children and seniors are a major Affairs and Development Office promoting roads safety, such as segment of our society. Whenever of the United Arab Emirates the role of the Central Bank of we think of spending quality time Embassy to orphans of legitimate Lebanon in issuing motivating with people in need we cannot charities and associations in circulars addressed to banks in but think of orphans and elderly Lebanon. Through this program, order to support traffic safety. whose biggest need is to have Fransabank expressed its keenness Fransabank considers such some company and emotional to contribute to the service of the social awareness initiatives, interaction. community and especially the essential in drawing a safe path human being. Consequently, Fransabank in the lives of all the Lebanese signed with the Humanitarian In addition, believing in our duty citizens. and Development Affairs Attaché to share love and spread kindness, at the UAE Embassy in Lebanon we welcomed, as customary, Paying Tribute to and the Zakat Fund of Lebanon’s more than 200 orphans coming Mothers Dar Al Fatwa a cooperation from the Social Welfare Institutes agreement on sponsoring the orphanages. Employees from To all the great mothers who the Bank volunteered to join the orphans in Lebanon. Fransabank hold tomorrows in their arms, kids and share their enthusiasm would issue prepaid cards Fransabank was keen on and happiness while playing and distributed by the Humanitarian participating in the recreational activities and shows, and soon after gathered around for iftar, which was an opportunity for Fransabank family to share the special spirit of the Holy month of Ramadan. Furthermore, an iftar was organized for the elderly in Dar Al Ajaza Al Islamia welcoming 50 residents. Employees from Fransabank came forward spreading out the importance of sharing a meal with the older generation whom, we believe, is a second childhood worthy of our attention. Sports for a Healthier Society There is an overwhelming amount of scientific evidence on the positive effects of sport and physical activity as part of a healthy way of life. If our children indulge in sports activities, they will not just be physically fit, but will also develop social relations, a sense of teamwork, leadership skills and better reflexes. Being aware of these advantages, Fransabank is pleased to support local sports and activities. In 2017, we sponsored the Furthermore, Fransabank Heath Tips on TV sustained its annual support to Directorate General of the different sports clubs, such as With the objective of promoting a Internal Security Forces tenth Byblos Sporting Club, Tripoli healthier lifestyle, Fransabank “Race against Drugs” half Al Moutahed El Riyadi, and sponsored a Health Tips TV program marathon in Beirut, which Collège Notre Dame de entitled ”‫”�صحتكن بالدين‬. It consisted included runners from 16 years Jamhour inter-scholar sports’ of animated straightforward old and above from different tournaments. messages on daily habits that sport clubs, universities; as well would lead to a happier and as solo runners, including racers improved life. Topics tackled the with special needs, in addition to importance of food, beverages sponsoring the Tripoli Marathon. and sports activities in our life and the impact of adopting positive changes. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 84-85 Bringing Life, Health and Hope Fransabank supports a wide range of charitable organizations, from those assisting children with special health needs, to those providing financial support to reduce poverty. In 2017, several causes caught our attention; to wrap up the Bank’s contributions, we list, among others, the following partners: Salim El Hoss Bioethics and Bassma, assisting social THE SKOUN MODEL Professionalism Program at the development and combat poverty American University of Beirut through the rehabilitation of its Prevention means better (AUB), an interdisciplinary most important unit family. preparing our children for resource for faculty, students, the future. With 15% of the and healthcare providers who Donner Sang Compter, a Lebanese youth under the are involved in bioethics education, centralized organization that age of 16 knowing someone research, and consultation. holds a database of potential with drug addiction, Skoun’s blood donation volunteers. mission is to help people with OpenMind, a fund established to Brave Heart Fund, it covers the addiction problems claim enable the AUB Medical Center’s cost of surgeries and hospitalization their lives by providing a Special Kids Clinic (ASKC) for needy children suffering from nonjudgmental and caring conduct research, empower the coronary heart disease. environment of clientcommunity through education centered treatment and and awareness, provide early Ahlouna, provides sustainable counseling. detection, expert diagnosis, and educational and social services coordinate total care for targeted towards disadvantageous In 2017 alone, Skoun has been developmentally and people in Saida, southern able to provide care to over neurologically impaired children. Lebanon. 500 individuals thanks to its Oum el Nour, which is committed to Cénacle Libanais pour la team of doctors, counselors, prevent and treat substance abuse. protection de l’environnement, psychologists, and nurses. work is dedicated towards sustainable environmental Fransabank’s contribution of protection. USD 10,000 has helped raise approximately 30% of Skoun Al Tanmia, with the mission of projected budget for the delivering a better humanity coming year; allowing them stressing on orphans and seniors. to carry on their drug addiction treatment and prevention services. LOOKING AHEAD We will sustain our community support to thoroughly selected social partners increasing the impact of our financial contribution; be that as it may, the youth will still have the highest share of investment. SELECT AWARDS H.E. Mr. Adnan Kassar and Fransabank received select awards and recognitions. HONORARY CHAIRMAN OF THE UNITED NATIONS AWARD FROM THE FORMER EXECUTIVE MARITIME CONTINENTAL SILK ROAD CITIES DIRECTOR OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT ALLIANCES Mr. Kassar received an award from the former Mr. Adnan Kassar was named Honorary Chairman of Executive Director of the UN Global Compact, the United Nations Maritime Continental Silk Road Mr. Georg Kell for his role, as president of the Cities Alliances in the Kingdom of Bahrain at the International Chamber of Commerce, in the founding World Entrepreneurs Conference as a recognition for of the UN Global Compact with then Secretary his contributions and continuous efforts for General of the UN, Mr. Kofi Annan, in 2000 at the strengthening the Arab and international private CSR Conference that was held in Beirut, Lebanon in economic sectors, as a prominent player in advancing March 2013. the Arab-Chinese and international-Chinese economic relations, and actively supporting the launch of the Silk Road. ICC MERCHANT OF PEACE AWARD Mr. Kassar received the ICC Merchant of Peace HONORARY CHAIRMAN OF THE SRCIC Award from the former ICC Chairman Mr. Gerard Worms in Doha in April 2013, on the occasion of Mr. Adnan Kassar was elected as Honorary ICC’s World Chambers Congress, for his devotion Chairman of the Silk Road Chamber of International and calls for global peace through partnerships in Commerce (SRCIC) in 2017; aiming to promote the business. renaissance of the Silk Road trade and culture, founded to develop the “Silk Road Economic Belt” and a “21st Century Maritime Silk Road” (the Belt CERTIFICATE OF APPRECIATION and Road). Mr. Kassar received a certificate of appreciation for his distinguished contribution to the 2013 Beirut OSLO BUSINESS FOR PEACE HONOUREES 2014 Conference entitled “Economy for Mankind”, which gathered more than 500 Muslim and Christian Mr. Kassar has been named a Business for Peace business leaders that shared ideas for progress Honourees by the Business for Peace Foundation’s based on Corporate Social Responsibility and opened independent Award Committee consisting of the way for new perspectives for global economic Nobel Prize winners in Peace and Economics. He and social development respectful of human dignity. was selected amongst over 120 nominations from over 50 countries, as an Honouree for being, as described by Per L. Saxegaard, chairman, Business TRADE AWARD 2017 FOR EXCELLENT for Peace Foundation, a businessperson “who, PARTNERSHIP IN THE YEAR 2016-2017 through his own actions and commitments, promote socially responsible and ethical business practices Chairmen Messrs. Adnan and Adel Kassar received in an outstanding way, and stand out as examples to the Trade Award 2017 for Excellent Partnership in the world”. the Year 2016-2017 from Commerzbank AG. UNITED NATIONS INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT GREEN RECOGNITIONS DURING THE 7TH EDITION ORGANIZATION (UNIDO) AWARD OF THE INTERNATIONAL BEIRUT ENERGY FORUM 2016 Mr. Kassar was awarded by UNIDO Director General, Mr. Li Yong, for his role in empowering women and Mr. Kassar was named the Energy Ambassador of youth celebrating UNIDO’s 50th anniversary in the Year 2016 as an acknowledgement to the efforts Vienna, Austria in November 2016. exerted by the Bank to finance energy projects and create general awareness in Lebanon. Fransabank received the Energy Awareness Award – the category of Pioneers of Sustainability for the launch of its Eco-Business Loans. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 88-89 2017 BEST ISSUING BANK PARTNER IN MIDDLE EAST & NORTH AFRICA Fransabank received IFC’s “Best issuing bank partner in Middle East & North Africa” for the year 2017 as symbol of success and commitment especially in the trade finance business. The Bank was recognized during the 8th IFC Trade Awards which targeted IFC partners with ‘leadership in providing trade finance in emerging markets’. 2015 ELITE QUALITY RECOGNITION FOR OUTSTANDING ACHIEVEMENT OF (NEXT LINE) BEST-IN-CLASS MT103 STP AT A RATE OF 99.67% Fransabank received JP Morgan Chase’s “2015 Elite Quality Recognition Award for Outstanding Achievement of (Next Line) Best-in-Class MT103 STP” at a rate of 99.67%”, which indicates the high quality of payment transactions processed by Fransabank. JP Morgan, singled out Fransabank for the exceptionally high quality of its payment transactions, attaining the highest percentage among banks. QUALITY RECOGNITION AWARD 2016 Fransabank received the Commerzbank Straight through Processing (STP) Award, in recognition of its excellence in the delivery of commercial payments and financial institution transfers drawn on the Bank’s EURO account with Commerzbank AG. MASTERCARD CHAMPION PARTNER BANK AWARD Fransabank won MasterCard Champion Partner Bank Award in the first “MasterCard Forum for Innovation 2016” in Eastern Europe. OUR CONTRIBUTION TO THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) SDGs OBJECTIVE OUR CONTRIBUTION CROSS-REFERENCE PAGES Goal 4: • participating in several financial education and Youth Financial Quality Education inclusion initiatives among which the Global Education and 73-74-75-76 Fransabank ensures Money Week, Fransabank internship program, Inclusion 77-78 inclusive and equitable lectures at universities and schools, among quality education other... A Culture of and promote lifelong • launching a financial educational cards game Performance and learning opportunities the Big Bank Challenge, Development 64-65 for all, by: • r unning youth competitions that derive innovation and tackle today’s challenges, • providing educational loans and scholarships, • encouraging advancement education program for our employees, • supporting local educational institutions in collaboration with partner organizations, and • adopting volunteerism initiatives for promoting financial education among universities and schools. Goal 5: • s ecuring a diverse and inclusive work Taking on Diversity 63-64 Gender Equality environment, and Fransabank helps • supporting women empowerment through Financial Inclusion 31-32-33-34 in achieving gender financial inclusion programs, and though its 35-36-37 equality and participation in equity funds. empowering all women and girls, by: Goal 8: • acting as an responsible active corporate Lending Responsibly 31 Decent Work and citizen towards the economy and society, Economic Growth • adhering to responsible lending practices, Financial Inclusion 31-32-33-34 Fransabank promotes • promoting microcredits and SMEs’ loans for 35-36-37 sustained, inclusive greater financial inclusion, Customer Service, and sustainable • financially supporting young entrepreneurs a Top Priority 41-42-43 economic growth, full through financing or participating in equity and productive funds, Taking on Diversity 63-64 employment and • assisting businesses in their growth process, decent work for all, by: and A Culture of • modernizing our services and researches to Performance and stay informed and updated in a fast evolving Development 64-65 business and economic environments. Goal 9: • promoting inclusive and sustainable development Lending Responsibly 31 Industry, Innovation through our products and services, and Infrastructure • increasing the access of SMEs to financial Financial Inclusion 31-32-33-34 Fransabank works on services, including affordable credits and 35-36-37 building resilient flexible conditions, infrastructure, • financing renewable energy and energy promoting inclusive efficient projects, and sustainable • actively contributing to the Lebanese start-up industrialization and sector, and fostering innovation, • continuously weighing environmental and by: social management risks related to the lending activities. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 90-91 SDGs OBJECTIVE OUR CONTRIBUTION CROSS-REFERENCE PAGES Goal 11: • advancing eco-friendly projects, Investing Responsibly 47-48-49-50 Sustainable Cities • signing partnerships with different public and 51-52-53-54 and Communities private institutions to promote sustainable Financial Inclusion 31-32-33-34 Fransabank contributes green cooperation, 35-36-37 to making cities and • assisting clients through counselling, auditing, Accessible human settlements and follow-ups in their green efforts, and Homeownership 40 inclusive, safe, resilient vigorously applying the Environmental Social and sustainable, by: Management System (ESMS) in the credit Customer Service, a processes, Top Priority 41-42-43 • providing affordable and flexible products and services for the community (housing loans, A Culture on the Go 79-80-81-82 personal loans…), • having the largest branch network in Lebanon, • strengthening efforts to protect and safeguard the community’ cultural and natural heritage, and • supporting positive economic, social, and environmental risks in the community with special attention to rural areas. Goal 13: • providing sustainable energy finance loans for Investing Responsibly 47-48-49-50 Climate Action businesses and eco-friendly loans for individuals, 51-52-53-54 Fransabank takes • joining forces with international and local Our Approach to pressing action to financial institutions for its sustainable energy Minimizing our Impact 55-56-57 combat climate change finance initiative, and its impacts, by: • signing partnerships with different public and private institutions to promote sustainable green cooperation, • sharing best practices in sustainable energy finance with international financial institutions and local businesses, • vigorously applying the Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) in the credit processes. • assisting clients through counselling, auditing, and follow-ups in their green efforts, • signing MoUs with different key players in the Lebanese market; the latest being with the Association of Lebanese Industrialists, • minimizing our environmental impact through numerous internal initiatives, and • implementing the outcome of the IFC green audit on the Bank’s Headquarters. PUTTING INTO PRACTICE THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES Fransabank has been sharing its Communication on Progress (COP) for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since its adherence in 2013. Once more, we restate our commitment to abide by internationally recognized human rights, have suitable working conditions, protect the environment, and combat corruption. The table below describes our COP on the UNGC’s 10 principles. HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach of internationally proclaimed human rights; and to environmental challenges; 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental abuses. responsibility; and Implementation 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Fransabank business is carried out in a fair and equitable manner vis-à-vis all our stakeholders, • international human rights are the foundation of our relationship with employees, partners, Implementation customers, and other stakeholders, • Fransabank has proved to be a pioneer Lebanese • we follow deeply rooted values aligned with a bank in promoting clean energy and eco-friendly well-developed code of conduct, and abide by a loans through its Sustainable Energy Finance (SEF) firm corporate governance framework including a loans, culture of transparency, responsibility, accountability, • we have been reevaluating our energy consumption and fairness. and switching to clean energy technologies in our operations, • internally, we are working on reducing our ecological footprint through a waste management approach LABOUR that goes beyond paper recycling to include energy efficient equipment, reduced CO2 emissions…; while 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association our corporate culture encourages individual and the effective recognition of the right to collective contribution to the protection of the environment. bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; ANTI-CORRUPTION 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its employment and occupation. forms, including extortion and bribery. Implementation Implementation • Fransabank employees are free to join the Bank’s • Fransabank procedures are always updated with employees’ union, new local or international requirements and • all forms of forced labour are prohibited including regulations to guarantee a full compliance to child employment, anti-corruption laws, • recruitment process and performance assessment • we emphasize on ethical practices, whereby are based on the nature and scale of their contribution transparency, disclosure, and sustainability are to the achievement of our business goals, constantly shared with stakeholders, • rewards and compensations are evaluated on a • information security is a key element for a strong yearly basis, governance framework. All employees conform to • a team work culture is what we aim at, taking into the banking secrecy law and digital information is account employees’ constructive criticisms. by all means safeguarded. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 92-93 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) STANDARDS CONTENT INDEX DISCLOSURE NUMBER DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER/NOTES PAGES GRI 102: General Disclosures Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Fransabank 6-7 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services About Fransabank 6-7 102-3 Location of headquarters Fransabank headquarters is located on Hamra Main Street, Beirut in Lebanon. 102-4 Location of operations About Fransabank 6-7 Number of countries where the organization operates, and Fransabank Annual Report 2017 the names of countries where it has significant operations https://goo.gl/nca1oc and/or that are relevant to the report’s topics. 102-5 Ownership and legal form About Fransabank 6-7 Fransabank Annual Report 2017 https://goo.gl/nca1oc 102-6 Markets served About Fransabank 6-7 Including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types Fransabank Annual Report 2017 of customers/beneficiaries. https://goo.gl/nca1oc 102-7 Scale of the organization About Fransabank 6-7 Including total number of employees, total number of Fransabank Annual Report 2017 operations, net sales or net revenues, total capitalization, https://goo.gl/nca1oc quantity of products and services provided. 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Taking on Diversity 63-64 a. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by gender. b. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by region. c. Total number of employees by employment type (full-time and part-time), by gender. 102-9 Supply chain Supply Chain Management 43 A description of the supply chain, including its main elements as they relate to the organization’s activities, primary brands, products, and services. 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its Fransabank Annual Report 2017 supply chain https://goo.gl/nca1oc a. Significant changes to the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or supply chain, including: i. Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions; ii. Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Managing Risk 24 Whether and how the organization applies the Precautionary Investing Responsibly 47 to 54 Principle or approach. 49 Environmental and Social Management System 102-12 External initiatives Fransabank is a participant in the United Nations A list of externally-developed economic, environmental and Global Compact (UNGC), the Business for Peace social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the initiative, the UNDP Lebanon Lobbying Group, and organization subscribes, or which it endorses. Lebanon Climate Act. 102-13 Membership of associations Fransabank is active in many organizations and A list of the main memberships of industry or other associations, particularly those that focus on core associations, and national or international advocacy business. Some of our significant and strategic organizations. memberships include the Association of Banks in Lebanon (ABL), Union of Arab Banks, Beirut Stock Exchange, Chambers of Commerce Industry and Agriculture, the UNGC, the GCNL, the UNDP Lebanon Lobbying Group, Lebanon Climate Act as well as other strategic alliances. DISCLOSURE NUMBER DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER/NOTES PAGES Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Message from the Chairmen 4-5 A statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy for addressing sustainability. Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Vision, Mission and Values 2-3 Business Ethics 25-26 Governance 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance Framework 23 a. Governance structure of the organization, including Fransabank Annual Report 2017 committees of the highest governance body; https://goo.gl/nca1oc 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, Our Stakeholder Engagement and 12-13 and social topics Communication 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance Corporate Governance Framework 23 body and its committees Fransabank Annual Report 2017 https://goo.gl/nca1oc Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Our Stakeholder Engagement and Communication 12-13 organization 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Taking on Diversity 63-64 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders with whom Our Stakeholder Engagement and Communication 12-13 to engage 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Our Stakeholder Engagement and Communication 12-13 Including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. 102-44 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Our Stakeholder Engagement and Communication 12-13 through stakeholder engagement, including: i. how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting; ii. the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial About the Report 0 statements Fransabank Annual Report 2017 aA list of all entities included in the organization’s https://goo.gl/nca1oc consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. bWhether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. 102-46 Define report content and topic boundaries Our Materiality Assessment 14-15 aAn explanation of the process for defining the report content and the topic boundaries. bAn explanation of how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for defining report content. 102-47 List of the material topics Our Materiality Assessment 14-15 A list of the material topics identified in the process for defining report content. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 94-95 DISCLOSURE NUMBER DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER/NOTES PAGES 102-48 Restatements of information No information has been restated from previous Report the effect of any restatements of information given in reports. previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. 102-49 Changes in reporting Our Materiality Assessment 14-15 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the list of material topics and topic boundaries. 102-50 Reporting period for the information provided About the Report 0 102-51 Date of the most recent previous report Our last CSR report was for the fiscal year 2016, issued in July 2017. 102-52 Reporting cycle We publish a comprehensive report on a yearly basis. 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About the Report 0 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI This report has been prepared in accordance with Standards the GRI Standards: Core option. 102-55 GRI content Index Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards Content 93-94-95 aThe GRI content index, which specifies each of the GRI Index 96-97 Standards used and lists all disclosures included in the report. b. For each disclosure, the content index shall include: i. the number of the disclosure (for disclosures covered by the GRI Standards); ii. the page number(s) or URL(s) where the information can be found, either within the report or in other published materials; iii. if applicable, and where permitted, the reason(s) for omission when a required disclosure cannot be made. 102-56 External Assurance Fransabank did not seek external assurance for A description of the organization’s policy and current the report. practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Our Corporate Social Responsibility Approach 8-9 a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Our Materiality Assessment 14-15 b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes a description of: i. where the impacts occur; ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. 103-2 The management approach and its components Our Materiality Assessment 14-15 a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Information unavailable due to confidentiality constraints. Topic Specific Standards GRI 200: Economic Standards GRI 201: Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. Financial Inclusion 31 to 37 Investing Responsibly 47 to 54 A Culture of Performance and Development 64-65 Investing in the Youth 66 Youth Financial Education and Inclusion 73 to 78 A Culture on the Go 79 to 82 An Aspiring Society 82 to 85 Fransabank Annual Report 2017 https://goo.gl/nca1oc DISCLOSURE NUMBER DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER/NOTES PAGES GRI 202: Market Presence 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the Taking on Diversity 63-64 local community. GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported. Financial Inclusion 31 to 37 Investing Responsibly 47 to 54 Accessible Homeownership 40 Investing in the Youth 66 Youth Financial Education and Inclusion 73 to 78 A Culture on the Go 79 to 82 An Aspiring Society 82 to 85 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts. Financial Inclusion 31 to 37 Investing Responsibly 47 to 54 Accessible Homeownership 40 Investing in the Youth 66 Youth Financial Education and Inclusion 73 to 78 A Culture on the Go 79 to 82 An Aspiring Society 82 to 85 GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption. Business Ethics 25-26 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption Business Ethics 25-26 policies and procedures. GRI 300: Environmental Standards GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization. Our Approach to Minimizing our Impact 55-56-57 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption. Our Approach to Minimizing our Impact 55-56-57 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method. Our Approach to Minimizing our Impact 55-56-57 GRI 400: Social Standards GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover. Taking on Diversity 63-64 401-3 Parental leave. Enriching our Employees Loyalty 66-67-68-69 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal Enriching our Employees Loyalty 66-67-68-69 agreements with trade unions. GRI 404: Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee. A Culture of Performance and Development 64-65 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and A Culture of Performance and Development 64-65 transition assistance programs. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 96-97 DISCLOSURE NUMBER DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER/NOTES PAGES GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees. Taking on Diversity 63-64 Fransabank Annual Report 2017 https://goo.gl/nca1oc GRI 408: Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Respecting Human Rights 27 incidents of child labor. Supply Chain Management 43 GRI 413: Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, Our Stakeholder Engagement and Communication 12-13 impact assessments, and development programs. Financial Inclusion 31 to 37 Youth Financial Education and Inclusion 73 to 78 An Aspiring Society 82-83-84-85 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 417-1 Requirements for product and service information Customer Service, a Top Priority 41-42-43 and labeling. GRI 418: Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of Protecting the Bank’s and its Customers’ customer privacy and losses of customer data. Information 26-27 Customer Service, a Top Priority 41-42-43 CODE OF CONDUCT AND PROFESSIONAL ETHICS CODE OF CONDUCT Employee Behavior • General employee conduct • Physical appearance and dress code Dress code policy for women Dress code policy for men • Non-smoking policy Non-smoking areas Sign requirements Implementation of the non-smoking law • Working hours, attendance, and punctuality • Gossips and rumors • Bank property • Social media and bank image Personal social media Business social media Reporting Illegal or Unethical Behavior • Incident reporting • Accounting complaints PROFESSIONAL ETHICS Conflict of Interest • Outside employment • Improper personal benefits • Service on boards and committees Customers Relations • Clarity of information • Confidential information and banking secrecy • Quality of service • Anti-Money Laundering (AML) • Politics Accepting gifts, meals, and entertainment from customers, suppliers, and others doing business with Fransabank Fraudulent or Illegal Acts Theft Relations with other Banks • Exchange of information • Competition • Announcements and advertisements FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 98-99 INFORMATION SECURITY The Information Security Section reviews periodically the “End User Security Guide”, the set of security policies that addresses risks directly related to the users’ work environment, in order to integrate newly emerging threats. All employees should make sure to read and abide by its content. Below is a brief summary of that document. EMAIL USAGE COMPUTER SECURITY Email is a communication tool and is allowed for business All computer devices should be properly protected by purposes only. Everyone is held responsible for his/her restricting access to it. Similar devices include sensitive email account. information that must be restricted to authorized personnel only. Employees using Fransabank computers shall consider the sensitivity of the information and use them responsibly. CLEAN DESK Fransabank employees should protect paper documents, REMOVABLE MEDIA mass storage devices, and optical media by locking them away while leaving for prolonged period of time. Only Fransabank owned removable media devices are allowed for usage and that to prevent the transfer of any virus to Fransabank network. MEDIA DESTRUCTION Proper media disposal is necessary to prevent unauthorized SOFTWARE INSTALLATION use after removal from service. Hard copy materials should be shredded on daily basis while electronic devices Software installation is the sole responsibility of the should be destructed as per Fransabank Electronic Media Information and Communication Technology Division. Destruction Procedure. LAPTOP ACCEPTABLE USE INTERNET USAGE Portable devices should be properly protected while in use. Fransabank restricts internet access usage for employees Those devices should not be left unattended. who need it in their daily operations. Non-work related websites are blocked by default. USER PASSWORD MANAGEMENT POLICY User ID and password is granted to employees for accessing systems owned by Fransabank. It is expected to properly protect credentials and keep them away from unauthorized individuals. Complex passwords should be used and changed as per Bank policy. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 | 100-101 The environmentally friendly paper used in this report is from sustainable sources and adheres to strict international guidelines for the preservation of the world’s forests and ecosystems. This page was intentionally left blank © 2018 All rights reserved.
