Sustainability Report Näsby Castle Residential Development, Sweden Table of contents Sustainability – a long term commitment ............................................................................................................................ 4 Founded in 1998. NIAM is experience and local presence ............................................................................................................................... 5 Offices in Stockholm, Helsinki, Oslo and Copenhagen. 57 employees (~63% real estate professionals). NIAM is making progress ........................................................................................................................................................ 6 Assets under management of €3.6 billion. Sustainability at NIAM ........................................................................................................................................................... 9 Creating value through active asset management including The key to NIAM’s success is its people ............................................................................................................................. 10 NOI increasing activities, tenant improvements, technical upgrades, redevelopments and developments. NIAM is transparency and responsibility ......................................................................................................................... 12 Currently managing 4 close-ended private equity real estate funds. NIAM is getting better and greener ..................................................................................................................................... 14 Niam Nordic V (2011) Niam Nordic VI (2015) Case – BRICKS Lund ............................................................................................................................................................. 15 Niam Nordic Core-Plus (2012) NIAM is measuring performance ........................................................................................................................................ 16 Niam Nordic Core-Plus II (2016) Niam Fund VI with €800 million in equity is the largest Case – CC Varehus ...................................................................................................................................................................17 opportunistic real estate fund raised in the Nordics. From global principles to local stakeholder expectations ............................................................................................... 18 Blekholmen, Sweden Näsby Castle Residential Development, Sweden Sustainability NIAM is – a long term experience and commitment local presence It is at the core of our business to develop properties to approach sustainability. With a long term perspecNiam AB, founded in 1998, is a leading private equity real estate in a way that they are occupied by quality tenants and tive, and always in a systematic way. It is important firm in Northern Europe with real estate assets under management that we can increase the effectiveness in the use of for us to use third party standards and certifications of approximately €3.6 billion as of December 31, 2017. resources required to operate buildings and spaces. as it increases the trustworthiness in our relation To take into account environmental concerns truly to our stakeholders. These standards and systems, goes hand in hand with that. It clearly does affect the including INREV, ISO-standards, building certificaThe head office is located in Stockholm, Sweden, We are also one of the largest private owners of way our tenants value us in terms of property owners, tion schemes to mention a few, all contribute to us with local offices in the Nordic capital cities of real estate in the Nordic region. We follow an active and it is also clearly linked to all our energy and water staying alert. Helsinki, Oslo and Copenhagen. Niam employs asset management strategy, including project efficiency measures. In this report we highlight some 57 people and has one of the largest real estate teams development, which involves regular interaction projects that show we work to improve assets during Our employees continue to show that they are specifically focused on the Nordic Region with with property managers, tenants, city planners, our holding. engaged and committed. In a time when attracting 36 acquisitions and asset management professionals. politicians and authorities to understand their talent is a challenge for many, we are very proud interests and perspectives. We continue to commit ourselves to the UN Global to see that our employees stay with us and that we A key competitive advantage for Niam is its local Compact and its 10 principles and are proud to say continue to give them a chance to develop. This is presence and hands-on real estate competence. that this is our first report that we publish as our what really delivers value to our clients, and to all The top 20 real estate professionals average over 25 Communication on Progress. This is how we like of us as individuals. years of direct real estate experience. Simply stated… Niam’s success is driven by its people. 4 5 NIAM is making progress 2014 In January 2014, the property Kremmertorget, a 13,700 sqm shopping center in Norway, became the first BREEAM classified shopping center in Norway 2010 Niam became a member of Sweden 2012 Green Building Council Niam began reporting to GRESB. LEED Gold® certi2016 fication awarded to Niam5 properties were 2003 owned property Stockholm Waterfront Building, certified according to BREAAM Niam became a a 25,000 sqm office building member of INREV in central Stockholm 2015 11 properties were BREAAM 2009 certified through Niam’s Niam’s internal Management System environmental initiatives for quality and environmental assurance was certified in accordance with 2017 ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 14001:2004 By March 2018, Niam had 21 certified 2013 properties (38 %), within its current holdings. 7 properties are certified Niam Fund IV achieved top tier according to LEED®, 13 properties performance in its peer group 2011 according to BREEAM and 1 property as measured by GRESB. Niam classified as a Green building. Additionally completed its first sustainability Niam launched Niam 9 properties are currently in the process report in accordance with GRI Green, outlining internal of being certified. Niam completed its first G3. BASTA criteria became sustainability guidelines sustainability report as a Communication required for larger developments, on Progress to the UN Global compact avoiding hazardous materials 6 7 Sustainability at NIAM Niam aims to optimize operational efficiency and sustainability in all of our properties. One way of doing this is by managing Niam’s environmental impact to further enhance its financial performance. To understand the environmental performance of a property, technical and environmental due diligence are mandatory parts of the acquisition process. To be able to offer our tenants attractive premises, Our criteria to certify a property is met if the comwe work with them to understand their current and pleted inventory shows that with reasonable investfuture needs. This includes an evaluation of the ment requirements, the resulting certification would qualities of the building, the indoor work environresult in a favorable financial position in negotiations ment, floor plans and capacity. We sometimes acquire with tenants, future buyers, NOI improvement, etc. buildings that may be considered old or obsolete, Niam is well-aware of the benefits of incorporatwith the intention to convert and improve them. It is ing sustainable investments and initiatives into its then important to provide assurance to the tenants properties since it provides cost savings, value to its that the property will meet their future needs which customers and capital partners as well as benefits to will enable us to maintain or improve the financial the wider society. A way of creating premises that is performance. For example, a major maintenance more attractive and optimizes the use of them, is for program may require an uplift of technical standards us to focus more on digital solutions. As one example, and installations. Once a program is executed, many we communicate with our tenants about public transcertification targets are likely to be fulfilled. One way port departures or waste management, etc., through to provide this assurance is then through environdigital display boards. Bulevardi 56, Finland mental certifications. 8 9 The key to NIAM’s success EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES In the Nordics, the real estate sector and private 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 equity sector have a history of an uneven gender 4.5 4.6 4.8 4.6 4.5 composition. This has started to change and we see is its people an increase of women in these two sectors, at all Employee satisfaction is measured through an annual levels. At Niam we also see a change in our worksurvey which engages all employees in the process force where we are now almost reaching a 50/50 of evaluating the work environment and identifying distribution. Though, in our management team we areas for improvement. The survey is conducted still have 80% men and 20% women. in cooperation with the Great Place to Work Institute and it covers areas such as credibility, respect, Niam recognizes that we operate in a competitive and ever changing marketplace where fairness, pride, camaraderie and values. The response employees should have the courage to be entrepreneurial and where minor mistakes rate to the employee satisfaction survey, which was 57% 57% 54% 62% 64% form part of the natural learning process. Niam’s employees are encouraged to use their 100% in the 2017 survey, has been consistently high Men expertise and experience to take action and responsibility. over the years, which is a clear indication of high Women employee engagement. 43% 43% 46% 38% 36% The management encourages a holistic approach to make all employment-related decisions and actions INDIVIDUAL EFFORTS – SHARED SUCCESS developing its people by using coaching and feedback without regard to a person’s race, gender, sexual Niam has fully embraced a plan-do-check-act 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 to guide and support employees. Niam is highly foorientation, age, disability or other characteristics approach across all strategic aspects of the business cused on attracting and developing the best people to protected by law. Niam has had no incidences of including company goals, fund specific objectives, CARING ABOUT PEOPLE move the organization forward because, simply put, reported discrimination or sexual harassment. property performance and, most importantly, emNiam endeavors to provide a secure workplace, both the key to its success is its people. All employees have ployee development. We utilize a Performance Manphysically and psychologically, for our employees permanent employment with us and when required, EMPLOYEES STAY, AND THEY STAY ENGAGED agement system to strengthen our entrepreneurial and those who work on behalf of us in our properties Niam engages specialists on a consultancy basis. Satisfied employees are a prerequisite for satisfied culture and clearly communicate company goals and and projects. Compliance with applicable laws and clients and investors. It is our people who interact individual development expectations. All employees certain work environment requirements are ensured PLAYING IT FAIR with the real estate community to deliver the perforreview their annual goals and development objecthrough active efforts to maintain a healthy work A cornerstone of our Code of Conduct is Fair Emmance expected from a full service institutional fund tives three times per year with their manager and atmosphere. Since 2013, Niam has reviewed incident ployment Practice, in which rules for employment, manager. Therefore, we are proud to maintain strong, individual targets and training needs are established. reports from our property managers and is focused employee conduct and remuneration is outlined. consistent employee satisfaction over the years and The corporate objectives and individual development on improving the requirements through our conWhen hiring new people, management base employa low employee turnover. In 2017 the employee turngoals are strongly aligned and linked to employee tractual agreements which include a commitment to ment decisions on job qualifications and merit and over was 0%. compensation incentives and reviewed regularly. Niam’s Code of Conduct. 10 11 NIAM is HOW WE MANAGE RISK REGULATORY AND FINANCIAL AUTHORITY transparency and To improve transparency, Niam has also been a OVERSIGHT member of the European Association for Investors in Niam AB is an Exempt Reporting Adviser under the Non-Listed Real Estate Vehicles (INREV) since 2003, US Investment Advisers Act of 1940. The initial regsupporting their objective to improve transparency, istration pursuant to the Dodd Frank Act was made professionalism and best practices across the real in April 2012, and Niam AB is subject to the U.S. responsibility estate sector in order to make the asset class more acSecurities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In 2014, cessible and attractive to investors. With the INREV Niam AB was registered as an Alternative Investment goals and our investors’ interests in mind, we are Fund Manager pursuant to the Directive on Alternaworking to integrate INREV’s recommended reporttive Investment Fund Managers (AIFMD) and also ing initiatives. Our Core-Plus funds also comply with became a subject to the Swedish Financial SupervisoINREV’s reporting guidelines in interim financial rery Authority. The AIFMD controls our organization, porting. All of our financial reporting also follow local functions and processes and requires, for example, We understand the importance of continuous improvement and communicating openly GAAP and IFRS financial reporting standards. that we have an independent function for risk and and transparently toward investors, regulatory agencies and other key stakeholders. compliance, valuations of our assets and an indeThis report, referencing the UN Global Compact, is one example of Niam adopting global Our commitment to rigorous internal controls and pendent internal audit function. It also requires us standards and increasing transparency. We also report to the Global Real Estate risk management is reflected in our Management Systo provide quarterly reports to the Swedish Financial Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) in order to properly measure and communicate tem where our operating processes are documented Supervisory Authority. Niam was the first real estate our sustainability efforts in the Niam Nordic Core-Plus fund. and reviewed regularly. The Management System was private equity firm to complete this registration in certified in 2009 according to the ISO standard of Sweden. Risk Management is one of the primary quality, 9001:2004, and environment, 14001:2008. In purposes of the AIFMD and by being registered as 2017 our Management System was updated according an AIFM, Niam has a structured way of identifying Hvidts Gaard, Denmark to the new standards, ISO 9001:2015 and 14001:2015. and managing risks, which benefits all of our stakeThrough that, we adopt a process-driven approach holders but most importantly our investors. All Niam when developing, implementing and improving the employees are trained regularly in risk management effectiveness of a qualityand environmental and compliance. management system, including risk management, to enhance customer satisfaction and performance. On May 25, 2018, the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) became effective, replacing CODE OF CONDUCT, RESPECT FOR PEOPLE the Data Protection Directive. GDPR was designed AND BUSINESS to harmonize data privacy laws across Europe, to Niam has adopted a Code of Conduct which incorprotect and empower all EU citizens data privacy porates the Niam values to ensure that all company and to reshape the way organizations across the activities comply with the highest standards of ethics region approach data privacy. Organizations handling and integrity and are fully in accordance with all personal data must have a clear purpose and legal applicable laws. The Code of Conduct establishes ground for processing and retaining personal data. standards to govern the actions of all company emThe GDPR also entitles data subjects the right to ployees, officers and directors and all Niam personnel access, rectification, data portability and erasure. are responsible for understanding its content. Key The regulation also includes requirements on safeaspects of the Code of Conduct include fair treatment guards to ensure that the data is protected properly, and privacy policies, conflict of interest, anti-corrupand any breaches must be reported to the Swedish tion, anti-money laundering, anti-bribery policies Data Protection Authority and the data subject. and the sustainability statement. Niam has had no incidents of corruption, money laundering or bribery Niam have adapted its processes to comply and all employees have been trained on issues related with GDPR. to the Code of Conduct. 12 13 Strömbergintie, Finland NIAM is getting BRICKS Lund, Sweden better and greener BRICKS Lund In 2017 our Management System was updated meters in our properties and collects the data in BRICKS Lund, located outside Lund center, is a mul• Installation of a new, more energy-efficient, according to the new standard ISO 14001:2015. a portal. The system enables us to store, analyze, ti-let office building totaling more than 25,000 sqm. industrial dishwasher Since 2009, we have had a certified system and prodiagnose and better report all consumption data. The property, previously called Gamla Vattentornet, • Upgraded the building monitoring system (BMS) actively focus on managing our environmental impact Additionally, the system facilitates that selective was originally single-let to Ericsson, but in 2015 they to optimize operation to further enhance our financial performance. measurements are taken place so that we can identify decided to vacate half of the premises. Niam decided We have improved our criteria for regularly measurwhere we can reduce our carbon footprint. to convert the property to a multi-let product, and By adjusting the heat, ventilation and cooling, Niam ing our environmental impact and when the approthe property was re-branded under the name BRICKS expects the operating costs to be reduced by 20-30%. priate measurements were identified, we introduced GRESB collects and assesses the environmental, Lund. Within the concept of Bricks Lund there is an The municipality is planning for a tramway from the energy targets. In 2017 the target in the Core Plus social and governance (ESG) performance from office hotel, meeting rooms and auditorium available city center in 2020. With a tram stop in close confund was to have a 2% lower aggregated energy real estate owners around the world. Niam annually for rent by the day. The concept also includes a popunection to the property, it will facilitate people using consumption across the fund. report to GRESB in order to benchmark our ESG lar café and lunch restaurant which attract customers public transport to work rather than taking the car. performance against our peers. The result gives from the adjacent area. Today the property is a modIn April 2018, the property was certified according to Niam Green is Niam’s corporate initiative to reduce us guidance where we can improve performance ern office building with a high technical standard and BREEAM In-Use -Very Good. its environmental impact. The policy guides Niam’s related to these issues and is a tool to monitor and the vacancy rate has dropped significantly. employees as well as its business partners to develmanage ESG risks and opportunities. In 2017 Niam op more sustainable properties. The policy involves received a score of 67 out of 100, a higher score This conversion resulted in a number of property certifications, energy saving measures and than average among our peers. The sections relating green activities: Location: Lund, Sweden other initiatives such as preventing the usage of to governance and management and policy was • Adjustments of heat, ventilation and cooling Property Type: Multi-let office building hazardous materials. specifically highly scored. • Solar film on all windows that are exposed to sun Freehold/leasehold: Freehold to handle heat radiation Number of Properties / Size: 1 / 25,000 sqm In order to monitor our properties performance in • Conversion to LED lights in the converted parts Certification: BREEAM In-Use Very Good terms of energy consumption, Niam uses the softof the office ware system Mestro. Mestro electronically reads the • Installation of charging stations for electric cars 14 15 NIAM is measuring performance Through Niam’s environmental management system we monitor and evaluate consumption each year. By keeping track of our buildings energy consumption CC Varehus, Norway we can clearly target our actions to reduce the impact on the environment. CC Varehus ENERGY CONSUMPTION WATER USAGE During 2017, energy consumption represented 21% In 2017, Niam’s properties consumed 119 000 m3 (electricity 11%, heating and cooling 10%) of all compared to 148 000 m3 in 20161. However, conoperating expenses across the funds. It is fair to say sumption per sqm was 0,4 m3 in both years. All water that energy consumption has a substantial impact used at our properties is from the municipal water not only on our environmental performance, but supply and consumption is measured at least annualso has a large financial impact. In order to decrease ally. As opposed to electricity and heating meters, CC Varehus, located at the gate of Drammen, is a shopping center 30 minutes from Oslo and consumption, objectives are set property-by-properwater readers are often read manually instead of easily accessible by bus and train. CC Varehus, previously owned by Oslo Areal, was acquired ty depending on the specific technical status of the electronically. In those cases, we request the property buildings. In 2017, the total energy consumption of managers to report the consumption data. by Niam in 2012 as part of a portfolio. At acquisition, CC Varehus had a high vacancy and held Niam’s properties was 119 GWh or 126 kWh/sqm in the highest percentage of non-retail areas in the portfolio. The short-term goal at acquisition the Core plus funds and 172 kWH in the opportunisBUILDING CERTIFICATIONS IN PLACE was to identify and prepare for new anchor tenants, and the long-term strategy was to impletic funds. The consumption corresponded to approx. As part of our internal guidelines, Niam Green, ment a commercial restructuring of the property. 5 000 tons of carbon emissions. The corresponding building certifications should be pursued when they numbers in 2016 was 132 kWh/sqm in the Core plus are financially sound for new construction and major During Niam’s holding period an extensive restruc• Street heating adjusted according to outside funds and 164 kWH in the opportunistic funds1. renovations. A sustainability target in our Core Plus turing of CC Varehus has been performed in order temperature In some cases when the tenant owns the contract, funds is to perform and evaluate energyand envito make it more attractive to tenants, visitors and • Energy follow-up according to BREEAM unfortunately we have no access to the data. ronmental inventories on all newly acquired assets. potential buyers. The internal structure of the build• VAV-system (Variable Air Volume) in the entire The result is a good foundation when deciding to ing has been improved and several green activities center to improve indoor air quality WASTE MANAGEMENT enter a certification process. Niam has not committed has been performed: • New air heating systems at the entrances Unfortunately monitoring waste consumption and itself to any specific certification but uses the type of • Improved isolation, including windows weighing waste is not possible in all locations where certification that is most suitable in each case. • Heating system replaced with a new one that Niam is currently going through the process of having Niam is operating. However, property managers are As of March 2018, Niam had 21 buildings certified recycles heat CC Varehus certified according to BREEAM. requested to have waste management policies in with, LEED (7), BREEAM (13) and Green Building • Recycling from the ice water circuit that keeps place and to regularly follow up and improve where (1). That is 38% of total possession. An additional the building cool applicable. Waste is mainly generated by our tenants’ 9 buildings are in the process of being certified. Location: Drammen, Norway • New central operating management system for operations and therefore it is important that our the entire property and new automatization on Property Type: Retail tenants have the facilities required to sort their waste. 1 Residential properties excluded. all existing ventilation systems Freehold/Leasehold: Freehold In cases where Niam is involved in construction • Upgraded ventilation system Number of Properties / Size: 1 / 15,466 sqm work, waste management is agreed with the con• External lighting replaced by LED Main tenant: Norgesgruppen, GMAX struction firm. 16 17 From global SCOPE OF DATA influence utility performance and purchasing policies. This is our third sustainability report. All data reportAlso a few properties with triple net leases, where the ed is for the fiscal year 2017 unless otherwise stated. tenant owns the consumption contracts, are excluded There have been no significant changes regarding the since Niam has no control of the actual consumption size, structure or ownership of Niam, nor have there nor data. principles to been significant changes from the previous reporting period regarding scope and measurement methods or Data concerning employees covers all operations any re-statements of information stated in the earlier of Niam AB. For joint ventures and co-owned propreport. The real estate performance measurements erties, data is presented pro rata to the respective fund’s ownership. LEED®, and its related logo, local stakeholder and associated definitions are in accordance with GRESB unless otherwise stated. is a trademark owned by the U.S. Green Building Council® and is used with permission. The same The report covers real estate performance measureapplies to any other logos used in this report. ments for all Niam Funds with the exception of the expectations owner occupied residential properties in Fund V and Fund VI (approximately a total of 350 thousand sqm) where we do not measure consumption. They are excluded since Niam has a limited opportunity to UN GLOBAL COMPACT REFERENCE TABLE JOINING THE GLOBAL COMPACT A task group, consisting of representatives from In May 2017, Niam AB signed the UN Global Compact fund management, project development, investor PRINCIPLES PAGE REFERENCE AND COMMENTS (UNGC) and we are on the signatory engagement relations and external experts (TomorrowToday), Human Rights All major contracts include a commitment to level. We thereby commit ourselves to working in were involved in defining the scope and content of Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Niam’s Code of Conduct. Fair employement practice accordance with the UN Global Compact’s 10 our sustainability report. Niam has been reporting to protection of internationally proclaimed human is a cornerstone of our Code of Conduct. p.13 principles. This report constitutes our first official GRESB since 2012. We find the GRESB framework rights; and Communication on Progress (COP). The report is to be highly relevant when defining the content of Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human accessible to the public on our website and in the this report, as it has been developed to meet investor rights abuses. UN Global Compact participant portal. expectations regarding their assessment of environLabour All major contracts include a commitment to mental, social and governance performance. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Niam’s Code of Conduct. Fair employement practice Our Code of Conduct (2016) is aligned with the association and the effective recognition is a cornerstone of our Code of Conduct. p.10-11, p.13 principles of Global Compact. It covers fair treatment When determining the relevant objectives for Niam, of the right to collective bargaining; we focus on sustainability initiatives with respect Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and and privacy policies, conflict of interest, anticorrupto Niam as a company, Niam’s employees and the compulsory labour; tion, anti-money laundering, anti-bribery policies Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and and a sustainability statement. impact on our properties. For determining significant Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect environmental aspects, Niam has used the Swedish of employment and occupation. STAKEHOLDERS AND OUR USE OF REPORTING government’s sixteen environmental quality objecEnvironment Niam has an environmental policy covering GUIDELINES tives as a framework. We are currently updating our Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary these principles. p. 14-17 Our key stakeholders are Niam employees, municiManagement System according to the new standard, approach to environmental challenges; pal politicians and officers, tenants, debt providers, ISO 14001:2015, a process that also included a review Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater investors and regulatory authorities. Our debt and of our environmental aspects. In June 2017, Niam was environmental responsibility; and equity providers, some of which are signatories of audited by LRQA according to the new standard and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), in June 2018 we will have our re-certification audit of environmentally friendly technologies. show an increasing focus on responsible investment according to ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 9001:2015. Anti-corruption Niam has a zero-tolerance to bribery and corruption. and our sustainability report is a tool for commuPrinciple 10: Businesses should work against corruption in We uphold all laws relevant to countering bribery and nicating our focus on sustainability initiatives and all its forms, including extortion and bribery. corruption in all the jurisdictions we operate, including but not limited to the UK Bribery Act 2010 as well responsible investments. as Swedish and US law. p.13 18 19 For further questions regarding this report, its content or Niam in general please contact: RIKARD HENRIKSSON Head of Asset management Tel +46 8 5175 8563 rikard.henriksson@niam.se JENNIFER ANDERSSON COO, Head of Investor Relations & Business Development Tel +46 8 5175 8559 jennifer.andersson@niam.se Niam AB – Stureplan 3, STOCKHOLM | Box 7693 | Tel +46 8 51 75 85 00 | www.niam.com
