Sysmex Sustainability Report 2018 Lighting the way with diagnostics Contents Corporate Philosophy and Core Behaviors ······················································ 2 Message from the Chairman and CEO ······························································ 3 Sysmex and Its Relations with Society ····························································· 5 Management and CSR ····················································································· 8 Long-Term Management Targets , Mid-Term Management Plan ············································ 8 CSR Management ································································································· 12 The UN Global Compact ·························································································· 30 Highlight 1：Resolution of Medical Issues through Products and Services Offering Superior Technologies to Help Eliminate Malaria ········································································· 31 Highlight 2：Environmental Consideration Initiatives to Protect the Environment in the Long Term ··················································· 33 Society ············································································································ 35 Resolution of Medical Issues through Products and Services ··············································· 35 Responsible Provision of Products and Services ······························································ 49 Realization of an Attractive Workplace ········································································ 66 Respect for Human Rights ······················································································· 88 Corporate Citizenship Activities ················································································ 90 Environment ··································································································· 98 Environmental Consideration ···················································································· 98 Governance ···································································································· 124 Corporate Governance ···························································································· 124 Compliance ········································································································· 125 Risk Management ·································································································· 135 External Evaluation ························································································· 139 Fiscal 2017 Performance Data ·········································································· 143 Social Data ·········································································································· 143 Environmental Data ······························································································· 148 Governance Data ·································································································· 159 Corporate Information/Disclosure System/Editorial Policy ······························ 161 -1Sysmex Group Corporate Philosophy Sysmex Way Mission Shaping the advancement of healthcare. Value We continue to create unique and innovative values, while building trust and confidence. Mind With passion and flexibility, we demonstrate our individual competence and unsurpassed teamwork. Our Core Behaviors To our Customers We deliver reassurance to our customers, through unmatched quality, advanced technologies,superior support, and actions that consistently reflect the viewpoint of our customers. We constantly look out for our customers’ true needs, and seek to generate new solutions to satisfy those needs. To our Employees We honor diversity, respect the individuality of each employee, and provide them with a workplace where they can realize their full potential. We value the spirit of independence and challenge, provide employees with opportunities for self-fulfillment and growth, and reward them for their accomplishments. To our Business Partners We deliver commitment to our client companies through broad-ranging partnerships. We strive to be a company that can grow in step with our trade partners, through respect and mutual trust. To our Shareholders Our shareholders can rest assured that we will continue to improve the soundness and transparency of our management policies, while promoting information disclosure and close communications. We commit ourselves to a consistent yet innovative style of management, in order to achieve sustainable growth and increased shareholder value. To Society We carry out our business in strict compliance with laws and regulations, as well as in adherence to high ethical standards. As a responsible member of society, we play an active role in resolving environmental issues and other problems that impact our society today. -2Message from the Chairman and CEO Identifying Priority Issues (Materiality) high-value testing and diagnostic technologies. with a View to Resolving the World’s In May 2017, we identified our priority issues (materiality). In addition to the “resolution of medical issues through Medical Issues products and services” which is the contribution we make In line with our mission of “shaping the advancement of through our business, the priority issues include the healthcare,” which is defined in the “Sysmex Way,” the “responsible provision of products and services,” “realization corporate philosophy of the Sysmex Group, Sysmex works to of an attractive workplace,” “environmental consideration” contribute to the development of healthcare and the healthy and “governance.” Through priority initiatives in these five lives of people. areas, we aim to help resolve social issues and contribute toward the realization of a sustainable society. February 2018 marked the 50th anniversary of our establishment. Since the time of its founding, Sysmex has Formulating Long-Term Management been involved with medical testing, playing an important role in disease prevention, early detection, and determining Goals for the Sysmex Group in Recourses of treatment. We have created new diagnostic value sponse to Increasingly Diverse Healthto enhance the quality of life (QOL) of patients and other people, and we have striven to establish testing technologies care Needs that help lighten their burden. In the field of in vitro We expect the global healthcare market to continue growing diagnostics, we currently provide products, services, and as advanced countries endeavor to raise healthcare support in more than 190 countries and regions throughout efficiency to hold down medical costs. Meanwhile, against a the world. backdrop of economic development, demand is growing in emerging markets and developing countries to put The global medical environment is undergoing significant healthcare infrastructures in place and increase the quality of changes. Advanced countries are characterized by aging healthcare. At the same time, artificial intelligence (AI), big populations and increasingly diverse healthcare needs, and data analytics, and other leading-edge technologies are emerging markets are marked by medical infrastructure being applied in the healthcare domain. We also see other developments and a rising quality of healthcare. Meanwhile, opportunities for further growth, in such areas as addressing three major infectious diseases (HIV/AIDS, personalized medicine—including genomic medicine that tuberculosis and malaria) is a serious issue in developing incorporates advances in molecular diagnostic countries. In September 2015, the United Nations adopted technologies 1 —and regenerative medicine. the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which set 17 globally consistent targets. As a healthcare company, Sysmex Sysmex views these changes in the healthcare environment aims to contribute toward achieving these goals by providing and increasingly diverse healthcare needs as business -3By creating innovative testing and diagnostic technologies, we aim to resolve the world’ s medical issues, realize a sustainable society, and enhance corporate value. opportunities. As such, we have formulated new long-term of healthcare. Furthermore, we have joined the Malaria management goals for the period ending in fiscal 2025, with Consortium in a bid to eliminate malaria—one of the world’s the aim of achieving sustainable growth of the Sysmex three major infectious diseases—and are developing Group and reinforcing the management foundation to hematology instruments that will contribute to malaria support this growth. We have also established our long-term testing. Through such endeavors, we are helping to put in vision as a “Unique & Advanced Healthcare Testing place healthcare infrastructures and raise the level of Company”, and our positioning based on this vision. We aim healthcare in emerging markets and developing countries. to achieve further growth by strengthening and expanding 1 Technologies for identifying diseases by studying the proteins, DNA, RNA, our conventional core business portfolio in the IVD field. In and other molecules contained in tissues and body fluids. the primary care domain, involving diagnosis at locations 2 A diagnostic reagent kit that is designated to analyze the mutation, near patients, we will create new services that take proliferation and fusion of multiple genes having diagnostic significance for advantage of diagnostic techniques accumulated through cancer. IVD and IT. In addition, we will create new diagnostic technologies that contribute to personalized medicine Celebrating our 50th anniversary in 2018, Sysmex has through the fusion of our proprietary technologies and new formulated a new corporate message, “Lighting the way with technologies achieved through open innovation. We also aim diagnostics,” to promote the Company’s advance to the next to transform our business structure by monetizing stage. This new message embodies the idea of enhancing businesses centered on the life science field. Furthermore, diagnostic value with innovative testing to bring greater we will recruit and foster the human resources essential to trust and confidence to healthcare. supporting the future expansion of our business activities and achieving the Group’s strategic goals. At the same time, Through innovative testing and diagnostic technologies, we we will enhance environmental considerations and initiatives will continue taking on challenges as the future of healthcare to reinforce our management foundation, including the areas unfolds, working to enhance corporate value and realize a of corporate governance and risk management. sustainable society over the medium to long term. I would like to ask for your continued support and understanding of In the area of personalized medicine, in fiscal 2017 we our endeavors. welcomed into the Sysmex Group a pioneer in genetic July 2018 analysis technology, Oxford Gene Technology IP Limited of the United Kingdom, thereby fortifying our technology base. Meanwhile, Multiplex Gene Panel Testing to Advancing Hisashi Ietsugu Personalized Medicine using the cancer-related gene panel 2 Chairman and CEO testing system, which we jointly developed with the National Cancer Center, received advanced medical care approval. In these ways, we aim to use gene testing to augment the level -4Sustainability Sysmex and Its Relations with Society Sysmexʼs Businesses ■ Corporate Philosophy, Core Behaviors Please click here for information on the Sysmex Way, the corporate philosophy of the Sysmex Group, and our core behaviors. ■ Sysmexʼs Businesses -5Click here for “Sysmex Near You,” an introduction of some of the Sysmex products that are in use around you. -6Sysmex Initiatives on Priority Issues Click here for information on materiality. -7Management and CSR Management Plans The corporate philosophy for the Sysmex Group, the “Sysmex Way,” deﬁnes its mission as “Shaping the advancement of healthcare.” On this basis, we have established a LongTerm Management Goals and a Mid-Term Management Plan aimed at contributing to the advancement of healthcare and a healthy life for people around the world. Sysmex Group Long-Term Management Goals (2025) Positioning Creating innovative diagnostic value as a global top-ﬁve company in IVD Aim to become a global top-ﬁve company through sustained growth in our core businesses In addition to increasing our share of the IVD market, which continues to grow globally, create new diagnostic value A leading company in personalized diagnostics for optimizing medical treatment Create new testing and diagnostic value that contributes to the selection of treatment methods Fuse our measurement platforms with new technologies and knowledge acquired through open innovation and others -8A solution provider contributing to the advancement of primary care diagnostics Leverage the diagnostic technologies and IT we have cultivated in the IVD domain Provide solutions that contribute to increased access to healthcare An attractive company providing value and instilling conﬁdence Earn support from diverse stakeholders through distinctive technologies and business model, dynamic human resources and sound and advanced corporate management One Sysmex carrying out high-speed management Provide attractive workplaces where diverse human resources can exercise their talents Make use of sophisticated teamwork to achieve eﬃcient and high-speed management Mid-Term Management Plan (Fiscal Years Ending March 31, 2018 to 2020) -9(1) Enhance proﬁtability through market expansion in the hematology ﬁeld ・Achieve an undisputed No. 1 position in the United States (strengthen sales promotion on the West Coast, introduction at prominent commercial labs) ・Strengthen sales to second-tier and lower hospitals in China ・Realize high rates of growth in emerging markets (2) Expand the urinalysis testing business by increasing new product sales ・Realize an eﬃcient work ﬂow for urinalysis testing through a new concept (Urine chemistry + sediment + imaging instrument + data management) (3) Bolster proﬁtability by increasing our global share in the hemostasis ﬁeld ・Accelerate global development by leveraging our alliance with Siemens ・Accelerate introduction of ﬁbrin reagents* (China, Japan, etc.) * Used to test for clotting abnormalities and thrombosis (4) Expand business and improve proﬁtability in the immunochemistry ﬁeld in Japan, China and other parts of Asia ・Expand business in the hepatic disease domain ・Launch unique parameters in China and other parts of Asia TM (hepatic ﬁbrosis test reagents, such as the M2BPGi assay kit) ・Improve proﬁtability by reducing cost of sales and expand sales (5) Establish a foundation for the FCM business ・Launch clinical FCM products ・Step up sales promotion for research and industry use (6) Increase the life science business ・Promote the lab assay businesses of RIKEN GENESIS and Inostics ・Enter the clinical PCR market, expand business related to gene testing ・Expand the market for rapid detection of lymph node metastasis based on the TM OSNA method (7) Commercialize business in other new ﬁelds TM ・Generate business in ultrahigh-sensitivity HISCL , cervical cancer screening systems, glucose AUC (postprandial hyperglycemia monitoring system) and other new areas 10 (8) Enhance manufacturing speed and quality ・Strengthen development and production capacity by establishing a biodiagnostic reagent base ・Maintain customer trust through high levels of quality and an enhanced system for stable supply (9) Reinforce IT platforms to optimize operating processes ・Optimize supply chain processes ・Optimize engineering chain processes (10) Strengthen human resource cultivation and human resource management to support Group growth ・Step up recruiting and cultivation of human resources who are next-generation leaders and who have advanced specialties ・Foster a working environment that embraces diverse human resources (Promote further diversity) <Contribute to a sustainable society> (11) In addition to eﬀorts to resolve healthcare issues through our products and services, we will work to be environmentally considerate, reinforce corporate governance and promote diversity, thereby providing unique and new value to diverse stakeholders and contributing to the development of society. Financial targets (Fiscal year ending March 31, 2020) Net Sales ¥350.0 billion (CAGR* = 11.9%) ¥72.0 billion (CAGR* = 11.7%) Operating income (Operating margin of 20.6%) ROE 20% or more Operating cash ﬂow ¥55.0 billion Free cash ﬂow ¥30.0 billion Exchange rate assumptions: 1USD=¥110, 1EUR=¥115, 1CNY=¥16 *CAGR (compound annual growth rate): For ﬁscal years ending March 31, 2018 to 2020 11 CSR Management Basic Policy and Structure Message from the Executive in Charge By practicing the “Sysmex Way,” we are working toward the realization of a sustainable society. Sysmex believes its CSR is to build trust and conﬁdence among stakeholders by putting into practice the “Sysmex Way,” the corporate philosophy for the Sysmex Group. To practice CSR, Sysmex has identiﬁed priority issues (materiality). We are addressing these issues in accordance with our action plans: a Mid-Term CSR Plan through ﬁscal 2019 and an annual plan. Important CSR themes, such as identifying materiality and formulating mid-term CSR plans, are discussed and reported at management meetings. In addition, we have established the CSR Promotion Department, which is dedicated to the Yukio Nakajima Member of the Managing Board formulation of CSR activity plans and the dissemination of CSR information. and Senior Executive Oﬃcer Senior Managing Director Sysmex will continue working toward the creation of a fulﬁlling and healthy CFO society through its business activities, provide a working environment that allows diverse human resources to maximize their skills, and work proactively to address global environmental problems, which are growing increasingly severe. In these ways, we are contributing toward the realization of a sustainable society. 12 Basic Policy Our CSR is to put the “Sysmex Way” into practice, thereby building trust and conﬁdence among stakeholders. The “Sysmex Way,” the corporate philosophy for the Sysmex Group, indicates the way the most basic corporate activities ought to be conducted, consisting of three elements necessary for continued growth through contributing to society: Mission, Value and Mind. The mission expresses the expansion of our business from activities centered on the ﬁeld of in vitro diagnostics̶a focus since our establishment̶to the broader healthcare domain with its even closer connection to human health. In this manner, the mission asserts our aim of contributing toward the realization of a society ﬁlled with abundance, health and joy. The Sysmex Wayʼs Core Behaviors clarify provision of speciﬁc value to customers, employees, business partners, shareholders, society and all our stakeholders. For example, to provide reassurance to all members of society we carry out our business in strict compliance with laws and regulations, as well as in adherence to high ethical standards. We also consider it important to play an active role in resolving environmental issues and other problems that impact our society today. Please click here for our corporate philosophy and core behaviors. CSR Management Structure We have set up various committees, headed by executives, to promote activities according to key CSR-related themes, including compliance, risk management and the environment. We have also established the CSR Promotion Department as the specialized department for planning, promoting CSR activities and disseminating CSR-related information both inside and outside the Company. Important CSR themes, such as identifying materiality and formulating mid-term CSR plans, are discussed and reported at management meetings attended by members of the Managing Board. We also analyze expectations and requests from society and extract our tasks from this information. Related departments then reﬂect the tasks in their execution plans and activities, resulting in a PDCA cycle. 13 CSR Management Stakeholder Relations Stakeholder Communications Through communication with its stakeholders, Sysmex checks whether it is responding to stakeholdersʼ requests and expectations through its business activities. The results are reﬂected in various business activities. Main Dialogue Achievements in Fiscal 2017 Dialogue with Customers Conducted survey on degree of customer satisfaction in each region Held scientiﬁc seminars in each region Held user group meetings to communicate accurate product knowledge in each region Held customer training program incorporating customer feedback in each region For details, see “Responsible Provision of Products and Services.” Dialogue with Employees Conducted employee questionnaires and interviews Held hearings for all employees about their aspirations in relation to career design (voluntary reporting system)1 Held dialogues with labor unions2 1 Sysmex Corporation 2 Sysmex Corporation, Sysmex Shanghai, Jinan Sysmex, Sysmex Wuxi, Sysmex Vietnam, Sysmex Thailand, HYPHEN BioMed For details, see “Realization of an Attractive Workplace.” Dialogue with Business Partners Conducted supplier brieﬁngs Held meeting for distributors For details, see “Responsible Provision of Products and Services.” Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors Held Ordinary General Meeting and informal meeting with shareholders Held the Technology Presentation for institutional investors and analysts Held informational meetings and Company tours for individual investors For details, see the “IR Library.” 14 Dialogue with Members of the Local Community Held event for local community interaction at R&D core Technopark Engaged in dialogue with community through social contribution activities around the world For details, see “Corporate Citizenship Activities.” Stakeholder Dialogue Sysmex identiﬁes priority issues, materiality, and develops speciﬁc action plans, which it pursues through its CSR activities. We recently engaged in dialogue with a third-party expert concerning Sysmexʼs materiality, as well as our thoughts and directions for promoting CSR going forward. “Sysmexʼs Materiality and CSR Ideals” Date: December 19, 2017 Location: Sysmex Corporationʼs head oﬃce Participants: ＜Stakeholder＞ Katsuhiko Kokubu Professor, Graduate School of Business Administration, Kobe University ＜Sysmex＞ Noriko Okada Executive Vice President, Corporate Communication Division Emiko Takahashi Vice President, CSR Promotion Department, Corporate Communication Division ＜Moderator＞ Eriko Nashioka Representative Director of IEMA, CPA Katsuhiko Kokubu Eriko Nashioka 15 Stakeholder Comments (Excerpt) Category Comments As a company involved in healthcare and based in Kobe, the epicenter of the Great Hanshin Earthquake, Sysmex is deeply aware of its The Signiﬁcance of CSR at responsibility to society. Sysmex needs to have a broad understanding Sysmex of societyʼs needs in order to remain a company that society considers to be necessary. Out of all the numerous issues society faces, it is important to clarify the reasons for selecting speciﬁc materiality items and taking action on Materiality them. Rather than frequently revising materiality items, it is best to pursue activities for around three years, employing the PDCA cycle. KPIs are necessary when pursuing CSR activities, but it is not necessary Setting KPIs for CSR to assign numerical targets to all issues. It is ﬁne to set numerical Activities targets as KPIs for areas that require improvement; for areas that do not require improvement, the KPI could be to maintain target levels. CSR should be positioned as a topic for debate at meetings of the Managing Board; it is important to link CSR and governance. CSR Ideals The Social Contribution Point Program is a good example of how employees take a leading role in promoting CSR and of support for employeesʼ corporate citizenship activities. Sysmexʼs Comments We plan to reaﬃrm why materiality is important to us and consider the timing of revisions and the setting of KPIs. We will take on board the opinions we have heard today as part of our broad understanding of societyʼs needs, and incorporate them into our CSR activities going forward. 16 CSR Management Materiality Considering Materiality Sysmex has identiﬁed priority issues, materiality, with a view to realizing a sustainable society and achieving sustainable growth for the Group. We are currently developing a speciﬁc action plan based on these identiﬁed materiality and are taking actions accordingly. Identifying Materiality The Process of Identifying Materiality We analyzed societyʼs requirements based on international guidelines, such as the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4), the United Nations Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs) and ISO 26000, as well as screening content from sustainability assessment bodies. We compared these requirements against the current state of the Sysmexʼs CSR activities, extracting and identifying related aspects. We then conducted an overall assessment of the related aspects identiﬁed in STEP 1 along two axes: the degree of importance for Sysmexʼs stakeholders (size of impact on decision-making by stakeholders) and, from the perspective of risks and opportunities, the degree of importance for Sysmex (size of the Companyʼs impact on the economy, environment and society). Through this process, we discovered the most important aspects requiring priority initiatives. The materiality organized as a result of STEP 2 were approved at a management meeting chaired by the chairman and CEO. 17 STEP 1 Understand and Organize the Issues STEP 2 Prioritize Sysmexʼs business activities impact society in various ways throughout the value chain. The Sysmex Group comprehensively evaluates these impacts along two axes, according to the “degree of importance for Sysmexʼs stakeholders” and, from the perspective of risks and opportunities, by the “degree of importance for Sysmex.” We then select aspects of topmost importance requiring priority initiatives. The Company contributes to society by promoting CSR initiatives across the value chain. 18 Recognized Social Issues, Expectations of Sysmex In advanced countries, as populations age the need is growing to reduce healthcare costs and extend healthy lifespans. Emerging markets and developing countries, meanwhile, face the issues of building healthcare infrastructure in line with population growth and ensuring the availability of healthcare. We recognize the need to contribute to the resolution of these various healthcare issues through research and development. Main CSR-Related Aspects* Resolution of medical issues through business activities Improvement in accessibility to medical services by means such as familiarizing products Securing of product quality and safety Environmental consideration through the product lifecycle Recognized Social Issues, Expectations of Sysmex The scope of corporate responsibility is broadening. In addition to the quality of raw materials, companies are being called on to take into account human rights, labor practices and consideration for the environment in their procurement activities. We believe in the importance of working with our business partners for the responsible provision of products and services. Main CSR-Related Aspects* Securing of product quality and safety Assessment and management of the supply chain Compliance Environmental consideration through the product lifecycle 19 Recognized Social Issues, Expectations of Sysmex In recent years, societyʼs demands have increased in relation to product quality and safety. Accordingly, we believe in the importance of thorough compliance with laws, regulations and standards and assurance of high product quality and safety. Main CSR-Related Aspects* Securing of product quality and safety Reduction in environmental burden through activities at business oﬃces Environmental consideration through the product lifecycle Compliance Recognized Social Issues, Expectations of Sysmex We believe in the importance of addressing environmental issues, such as reducing GHGs through improved distribution eﬃciency and raising the recycle rate. Main CSR-Related Aspects* Environmental consideration through the product lifecycle Recognized Social Issues, Expectations of Sysmex As a global company, we develop business in countries and regions that face healthcare issues, and we are called on to help address these issues. Furthermore, we believe in the importance of creating long-term, trust-based relationships with customers through initiatives to enhance customer satisfaction, appropriate information disclosure and stable product supply. Main CSR-Related Aspects* Resolution of medical issues through business activities Improvement in accessibility to medical services by means such as familiarizing products Appropriate disclosure of information regarding products and services Compliance 20 Recognized Social Issues, Expectations of Sysmex We believe in the importance of building long-term trust-based relationships with customers through initiatives to boost customer satisfaction, the collection of quality information globally and in a timely manner, responses in the event of troubles, and sharing information globally about bugs and malfunctions, as well as corrective and preventive action. Main CSR-Related Aspects* Reduction of environmental burden through activities at business oﬃces Appropriate disclosure of information regarding products and services Compliance * CSR-related aspects: Aspects selected after analyzing GRI Guidelines (G4), United Nations Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs), ISO 26000 and other international guidelines, and screening content from SRI and other assessment bodies, and reﬂecting on the status of Sysmexʼs CSR activities. Sysmexʼs Materiality Matrix 21 STEP 3 Conﬁrm Suitability, Establish Materiality Sysmexʼs Materiality Materiality GRI Standard Related Perspective SDGs Targets Resolution of medical issues through products and services Resolution of medical issues through Indirect economic impact business activities Local communities Improvement in accessibility to medical services by means such as familiarizing products Responsible provision of products and services Supplier environmental Securing of product quality and safety assessment Appropriate disclosure of information Supplier social assessment regarding products and services. Customer health and safety Assessment and management of the Product and service labeling supply chain Realization of an attractive workplace Employment Provision of a comfortable working Training and education environment Diversity and equal opportunity Development of human resources Promotion of diversity Environmental consideration Raw materials Environmental consideration through the Energy product lifecycle Water Reduction in environmental burden Emission into the atmosphere through activities at business oﬃces Eﬄuents and waste Ethics and integrity Governance Governance Corporate Governance Environment Compliance Compliance Anti-corruption Risk Management Anti-competitive behavior Socioeconomic compliance 22 Recognition of the Issues, Approaches Resolution of Medical Issues through Products and Services ＜Recognition of the Issues＞ In relation to aging populations in advanced countries, in recent years the need has been growing to reduce healthcare costs and extend healthy lifespans. At the same time, the establishment of medical infrastructure is unable to keep pace with growing populations in emerging markets and developing countries, and some 400 million people around the world are not receiving necessary levels of healthcare*. Boosting access to healthcare services is therefore an issue. Meanwhile, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set targets for human health and welfare, prompting growing expectations for global companies to undertake initiatives to resolve medical issues. Under these conditions, the in vitro diagnostics (IVD) domain, which plays an important role in disease prevention, early detection and determining courses of treatment, is expected to contribute to a healthy society by creating new value and solving healthcare issues, including the three most deadly infectious diseases (HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria). Sysmex believes the resolution of medical issues through its business activities and activities that improve access to healthcare contribute to social sustainability and will bolster corporate value through the creation of new technologies and markets. *Source: WHO “Universal Health Coverage” ＜Sysmexʼs Approach＞ Since the time of our founding, Sysmex has expanded its product lineup and strengthened its services and support in response to testing needs, working to provide accurate test data swiftly. In recent years, we have been conducting research and development on gene testing and other advanced, high-value testing and diagnosis technologies that lead to early detection and treatment with a view to realizing personalized medicine. To boost access to healthcare in emerging markets and developing countries, we are promoting business activities aimed at raising local levels of healthcare by enhancing lab quality and promoting the training of healthcare professionals. By leveraging the unique technologies we have cultivated to date, as well as our global network, we will continue to contribute toward the development of healthcare and the healthy lives of people. Please click here for information on activity results in relation to the resolution of medical issues through products and services. 23 Responsible Provision of Products and Services ＜Recognition of the Issues＞ A recent spate of issues involving product quality and recalls have drawn attention to societyʼs demands for product and service quality and safety. Furthermore, in recent years the scope of corporate responsibility has expanded to encompass the entire supply chain, including business partners. The Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs) also include goals related to the responsibility of manufacturers. Sysmex engages in the global development of business in the healthcare ﬁeld, involves peopleʼs lives and health. Accordingly, we work to ensure the quality and safety of our products and services, disclose information appropriately and conduct CSR-considerate procurement activities. We believe these moves are important in earning the trust of our stakeholders. ＜Sysmexʼs Approach＞ Sysmex has created a global quality management system, through which it is consistently striving to maintain or increase quality levels. As initiatives to enhance customer satisfaction, we oﬀer services and support that are closely tailored to customersʼ needs, creating a framework we call “Voice of Customer (VOC)” to incorporate customer input into our product development and quality improvements, and provide the most recent scientiﬁc information. Furthermore, as a company developing its business globally we are reinforcing our systems for delivering a stable supply of products, promoting CSR-considerate procurement activities and aiming to grow in a sustainable manner in tandem with our business partners. Going forward, we will continue striving to earn the trust of our stakeholders and instilling conﬁdence by oﬀering responsible products and services. Please click here for information on activity results in relation to the responsible provision of products and services. 24 Realizing an Attractive Workplace ＜Recognition of the Issues＞ In order to achieve sustainable growth, it is considered important for companies to promote diversity and create decent and attractive workplaces. Also, the SDGs include goals pertaining to gender equality, decent work and reduced inequalities. Sysmex considers human resources an important management asset necessary for sustainable growth. We believe that creating attractive workplaces helps ensure superior personnel, reinforcing our corporate competitiveness. ＜Sysmexʼs Approach＞ Sysmex has in place a human resource development system that develops capabilities in an ongoing and systematic manner. We promote diversity and inclusion and have introduced various systems to create a workplace that provides peace of mind and enables diverse employees to maximize their skills. As we strive toward sustainable growth, we will continue in our eﬀorts to build a workplace in which diverse human resources can maximize their potential and provide opportunities for their individual growth. Please click here for information on activity results in relation to the realization of an attractive workplace. 25 Environmental Consideration ＜Recognition of the Issues＞ We recognize that mitigating climate change; using water, mineral and other resources; and protecting biodiversity are critical to sustainability of the global environment. As the going into force of the Paris Agreement and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) demonstrate, around the world a growing number of initiatives make addressing the environmental problem a priority issue, and companies are being called on to play a greater role. As a company developing its operations globally, Sysmex recognizes increasingly serious environmental issues as a topmost priority. We also understand that large-scale environmental damage due to climate change is a signiﬁcant business risk because they have the potential to halt our resource procurement and manufacturing functions. ＜Sysmexʼs Approach＞ To guide the Groupʼs environmental management over the long term, along with long-term management goals for the Sysmex Group, Sysmex has formulated the Sysmex Eco-Vision 2025. This vision sets long-term environmental targets to be achieved by ﬁscal 2025. We are promoting environmental preservation across product and service life cycles and throughout the value chain of our business activities. Going forward, along with the pursuit of sustainable growth we will continue striving to reduce environmental impact̶a vital social issue. Please click here for information on activity results in relation to environmental consideration. 26 Governance ＜Recognition of the Issues＞ Numerous corporate scandals related to corporate governance, risk management and compliance have come to light in recent years, and their impact on society has increased. In this environment, Japanʼs Corporate Governance Code went into eﬀect in June 2015, calling on companies to take governance into consideration in non-ﬁnancial areas, as well as on the ﬁnancial front. In addition to strengthening governance and internal control, companies are being called on to buttress their management foundations for promoting risk management and compliance. Sysmex believes that reinforcing governance helps ensure stakeholder trust and is an important management issue in terms of enhancing mediumto long-term corporate value. ＜Sysmexʼs Approach＞ Sysmex has established the Audit and Supervisory Committee and is strengthening the supervisory function by external members of the Managing Board, as well as enhancing the Managing Boardʼs eﬀectiveness and reinforcing governance in other ways. In line with these changes, we are putting in place systems to fortify the groupwide risk management function and have established a Compliance Committee and an internal reporting system as initiatives to strengthen our base with a view to sustainable growth. We will continue aiming to maximize the overall corporate value of the Group through management robustness, better transparency and improved management speed and eﬃciency. Please click here for information on activity results in relation to governance. 27 Objectives and Results Fiscal 2017 Objectives Fiscal 2017 Results Fiscal 2018 Objectives Resolution of Medical Issues through Products and Services Continue participating in the Malaria Consortium, which connects Promote activities to prevent the industry, government and academia Continue activities to prevent the spread of three major infectious Develop and launch hematology spread of three major infectious diseases analyzers that can measure malarial diseases Promote support measures to raise plasmodia and other infected red Promote support activities to raise the level of healthcare in emerging blood cell parameters1 the level of healthcare in emerging markets and developing countries Promote scientiﬁc support activities markets and developing countries in Mongolia and other emerging markets and developing countries Responsible Provision of Products and Services Conducted brieﬁngs for business Expand scope of CSR surveys to partners on such topics as CSR include secondary suppliers in procurement and overseas laws and Japan regulations (participating Conduct CSR awareness activities Conduct CSR surveys companies: 233) for business partners (implementation rate for primary Used the common SAQ2 created by Enhance CSR survey topics and secondary suppliers in Japan: GCNJ3 to conduct CSR surveys of all 80% or more) business partners (implementation Follow up with primary suppliers in rate at primary suppliers in Japan: Japan based on CSR survey results 81%) Realization of an Attractive Workplace Utilize diverse human resources Obtained certiﬁcation for Sysmex Formulate and implement diversity and promote diverse working styles Harmony Co., Ltd., as a special promotion plans Rate of employment of people subsidiary for promoting the Rate of employment of people with disabilities: 2.0% employment of people with with disabilities: 2.2% or more (Group companies in Japan) disabilities (Group companies in Japan) Percentage of female managers: Rate of employment of people Percentage of female managers: 10% with disabilities: 2.0% 12% (Sysmex Corporation) (Group companies in Japan) (Sysmex Corporation) Completed introduction of a working-at-home system (131 registered employees, of whom 99 used the system) Conducted education and training for female leaders Percentage of female managers: 8.62% (Sysmex Corporation) 28 Environmental Consideration Promote environmental activities to achieve the objectives of EcoCompleted the formulation of Vision 2025 Set mediumto long-term Group Sysmex Eco-Vision 2025 and midReduce CO2 emissions environmental objectives term environmental objectives Reduce water consumption (ﬁscal 2017–2019) Promote resource circulation Protect biodiversity Governance Revised the guidebook on Promote compliance activities Promote measures to reinforce competition laws related to competition laws and Group compliance Conducted training related to antianti-bribery Continue and improve bribery Evaluate the eﬀectiveness of the eﬀectiveness evaluations of the Evaluated the eﬀectiveness of the Managing Board Managing Board Managing Board 1 For research use; only in Japan 2 CSR procurement self-assessment tool set http://ungcjn.org/activities/topics/detail.php?id=229 3 Global Compact Network Japan 29 Management and CSR The UN Global Compact Participating in the UN Global Compact Sysmex signed the United Nations Global Compact in February 2011 to proactively promote its CSR initiatives. Sysmex refers to the 10 principles of the Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which the United Nations adopted in September 2015, when identifying priority issues (materiality) and promoting CSR activities. Click here for information about the relationship between The UN Global Compact the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the priority issues to be addressed (materiality). Click here for information about the UN Global Compactʼs 10 Principles The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 30 Highlight 1 Resolution of Medical Issues through Products and Services Offering Superior Technologies to Help Eliminate Malaria Recognition of the Social Issue Malaria is one of the world’s three major infectious diseases. Although the Malaria Infections and Deaths number of infections and deaths due to malaria has been falling for the past several years, annually around 200 million people are infected and some Malarial infections per year Deaths per year 450,000 die from the disease. In Africa, one child under the age of five dies from malaria every two minutes*. Around Around 200 450,000 The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations in million people people 2015 address a number of medical issues, and the World Health Organization (WHO) has set the goal of cutting malaria-related deaths, and the number of people infected by the disease, by 90% by 2030, compared with 2015 levels. *Source: World Malaria Report 2017 Malarial Infections Globally (Millions 240 of People) Sysmex’s Policy on Addressing Medical Issues 200 Target 160 90 % Reduction Sysmex has identified the “resolution of medical issues through products and 120 services” as a priority issue (materiality item) with a view to realizing a 80 sustainable society and achieving sustainable growth for the Company. By 40 leveraging our technologies, we aim to contribute toward measures to fight the three major infectious diseases in the IVD field. 0 2000 2015 2030 (Year) (Target) Source: World Malaria Report 2010, World Malaria Report 2017 Relation to the SDGs The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations consist of 17 goals to be met by 2030. Goal 3, to “Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages,” targets the following objectives. ●Reduce maternal mortality ●Reduce premature mortality from ●Reduce the mortality of newborns and non-communicable diseases children under five years of age ●Ensure access to essential healthcare ●Eradicate AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and services, medicines and vaccines tackle other communicable diseases ●Develop the skills of, and conduct training for, health workers in developing countries 31 COMMENT Comment from a Stakeholder Partnership Aimed at Overcoming Tropical Infectious Diseases Not Present in Japan We have succeeded in eradicating malaria in Japan; nobody in this country is infected. Overseas, however, the situation remains largely unchanged. With the emergence of drug-resistant malarial plasmodia and insecticide-resistant mosquitos, in some countries the number of infections and deaths have actually increased. Changing this situation and protecting from malaria the children who represent the future of the world requires a well-concerted, three-pronged approach: prevention, diagnosis and treatment. I find it Kiyoshi Kita Nagasaki University very encouraging that Sysmex and other Japanese companies that aim to contribute to global health are School of Tropical Medicine taking the lead in a consortium to eliminate malaria through superior tools and specific strategies. I have and Global Health great expectations for the success of this effort and its subsidiary benefits. Dean, Professor Specific Initiatives for Eliminating Malaria Developing Products to Help Eliminate Malaria Promoting a Partnership to Eliminate Malaria Sysmex has developed and begun selling1 the XN-30 Such worldwide issues as malaria cannot be resolved by a multi-parameter automated hematology analyzer, which single company. Rather, it calls for strong partnerships that allows the detection of blood infections from malarial leverage the strengths of industry, the government, and plasmodia. academia, as well as nonprofit organizations and local communities. As well as measuring infected red blood cell parameters such as malarial plasmodia2, the XN-30 provides information Since 2016, Sysmex has been participating in the Malaria indicating the quantity of infected red blood cells and the type Consortium, a joint effort between industry, government, of malarial plasmodia present. This information is important, and academia. We are taking on a role in the field of blood as the treatment method generally varies depending on the testing. type of malarial plasmodia. We are also working on The Malaria Consortium proposed P3 (Public -Private technologies to identify asymptomatic carriers—people who Partnership) from Japan for Malaria Elimination in Asia and have malarial plasmodia in their bodies but do not have the Africa to the Japanese government in April 2018. It aims at illness themselves—as addressing this situation is considered malaria elimination by combining Japanese companies' one way of preventing the spread of the infection. technologies. The XN-30 is being used for basic research. The Research Institute for Microbial Diseases at Osaka University is using this instrument in an effort to discover new anti-malarial drugs. In addition to our next model, which will feature certain improvements, going forward we will seek to obtain regulatory approval in various countries so that the instrument can be Malaria Consortium Initiatives used in laboratories and other clinical facilities. 1 In Japan only 2 Research parameter •Develop insecticide-treated mosquito Preventing nets, sprays and mosquito-repellant paint XN-30 Features Occurrence •Develop infection-preventing drugs •Provide health guidance 1. Fast (measurement in approximately 1 minute) Testing and •Gene testing 2. Simple and accurate Diagnosis •Blood testing: Sysmex’s role No need for the technical skills required for conventional testing by Drug Discovery and microscope •Develop drugs for treatment Treatment 3. Highly sensitive Capable of measuring XN-30 multiparameter automated hematology analyzer malarial plasmodia and other infected red blood cells at concentrations of 20cells/µL 32 Highlight 2 Environmental Consideration Initiatives to Protect the Environment in the Long Term Recognition of the Social Issue Global environmental sustainability—curtailing climate change; utilizing water, Keeping the rise in mineral and other resources; and protecting biodiversity—is becoming an urgent Measures average air temperature to to Address issue. As the enactment of the Paris Agreement and the adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) show, around the world environmental Climate Change 2℃ or less initiatives are considered priority issues, and expectations for the role of the The Paris Agreement calls for keeping the rise in average air temperatures well business sector are increasing. below 2°C above pre-industrial levels, and for efforts to hold this rise to 1.5°C. Sysmex’s Policy on Undertaking Environmental Activities 40 % People Facing or more As a company that is developing its operations globally, Sysmex has identified Water Shortages of the world’s population materiality issues that include “environmental consideration throughout the By 2050, around 3.9 billion people (more product life cycle” and “reduction in environmental burdens through activities at than 40% of the global population) living business offices,” and is working proactively to reduce its environmental impact. in river basins are forecast to face severe water shortages. Furthermore, we have revised our environmental policy in line with our transition to ISO 14001:2015, an international environmental management system, and are Source:OECD Environmental Outlook to 2050 (2012) steadily pursuing environmental initiatives throughout the Group. Relation to the SDGs The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations consist of 17 goals to be met by 2030. Goal 6, to “ensure access to water and sanitation for all;” goal 7, to “ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all;” goal 12, to “ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns;” and goal 13, to “take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts,” target the following objectives. ●Substantially improve the efficiency of ●Double the rate of improvement water usage, ensure the sustainable in energy efficiency extraction and provision of fresh water, ●Reinforce the ability to prevent and resolve water shortages and respond appropriately to the ●Reduce waste emissions by promoting dangers and natural disasters prevention, recycling and reuse resulting from climate change 33 COMMENT Comments from the Environmental Management Officer We are promoting environmental conservation across the entire life cycle in an effort to realize a sustainable society. Resolving global environmental issues requires a mediumto long-term perspective. To date, Sysmex has formulated long-term environmental objectives and engaged steadily in measures to reduce its environmental impact. Even so, companies are now being called upon to increase their environmental responses. We have recently formulated long-term management goals for the period ending in fiscal 2025. Along with our aim of further growth, we have recast our long-term environmental objectives. We will step up our environmental consideration to achieve a balance between economy and society. In addition to setting clear reduction targets to be achieved by fiscal 2025, we are engaging in environmentally-friendly business activities such as reducing the consumption of energy and water from Junzo Yamamoto the use of our products. Member of the Managing Board and Senior Executive Officer, Managing Director Formulating Sysmex Eco-Vision 2025 Along with the Sysmex Group’s long-term management goals, Major Changes from Eco-Vision 2020* we have formulated Sysmex Eco-Vision 2025, which concludes in Fiscal 2025. ● Expanded the scope of environmental consideration across the entire value chain and all business activities This vision clarifies Group-wide targets, taking into account ● Set targets for biodiversity protection the social situation, needs and expectations related to ● Expanded the coverage of business sites (accounting for 80% or environmental issues, including climate change and recycling, more of sales) as well as the Group’s environmental impact and scope. We * The long-term environmental action plan setting targets to be achieved by will step up our environmental conservation efforts across our fiscal 2020 (set in fiscal 2010). product and service lifecycles—spanning development, Please see the “Environmental Management” section for results based on manufacturing, sales, service and support—as well as our this plan. value chain. Long-Term Environmental Vision Sysmex remains committed to protecting the global environment by setting environmental objectives for the product/service life cycle and the value chain of its business activities through the year ending March 31, 2026. 1. We reduce CO2 emissions to contribute to prevention of climate change. 2. We promote resource consumption reduction and resource circulation to help to enhance sustainability of natural resources. 3. We contribute to biodiversity protection under a full awareness of the impact of our business activities on the natural environment. Long-Term Environmental Objectives (Fiscal 2025) CO2 Reduce CO2 emissions Reduce water consumption Promote resource circulation Protect biodiversity By 15 % when using instruments By 15 % when using instruments Increase the recycle rate in business activities Expand the line using alternatives to animal-derived By 50 % in By 15 % in to 93% or higher substances business activities business activities By 15% when shipping Base year: Year ended March 31, 2017 34 Society Resolution of Medical Issues through Products and Services In relation to aging populations in advanced countries, in recent years the need has been growing to reduce healthcare costs and extend healthy lifespans. At the same time, the establishment of medical infrastructure is unable to keep pace with growing populations in emerging markets and developing countries, and some 400 million people around the world are not receiving necessary levels of healthcare*. Boosting access to healthcare services is therefore an issue. Meanwhile, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set targets for human health and welfare, prompting growing expectations for global companies to undertake initiatives to resolve medical issues. Under these conditions, the in vitro diagnostics (IVD) domain, which plays an important role in disease prevention, early detection and determining courses of treatment, is expected to contribute to a healthy society by creating new value and solving healthcare issues, including the three most deadly infectious diseases (HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria). Sysmex believes the resolution of medical issues through its business activities and activities that improve access to healthcare contribute to social sustainability and will bolster corporate value through the creation of new technologies and markets. * Source: WHO “Universal Health Coverage” Since the time of our founding, Sysmex has expanded its product lineup and strengthened its services and support in response to testing needs, working to provide accurate test data swiftly. In recent years, we have been conducting research and development on gene testing and other advanced, high-value testing and diagnosis technologies that lead to early detection and treatment with a view to realizing personalized medicine. To boost access to healthcare in emerging markets and developing countries, we are promoting business activities aimed at raising local levels of healthcare by enhancing lab quality and promoting the training of healthcare professionals. By leveraging the unique technologies we have cultivated to date, as well as our global network, we will continue to contribute toward the development of healthcare and the healthy lives of people. 35 Resolution of Medical Issues through Products and Services Resolution of Medical Issues through Business Activities Innovation Management We believe that it is our mission to contribute to ongoing developments in healthcare and human health. As such, we are working to create testing and diagnostic technologies to realize healthcare optimized for individuals. An R&D Structure That Generates Combinations of a Variety of Technologies Sysmex develops technology platforms to analyze genes, cells and proteins. Through the multifaceted application of these platforms, we create new testing and diagnostic technologies that are useful to patients. At Technopark, our hub for R&D, a congregation of researchers and engineers in a host of ﬁelds̶electrical, mechanical, biological, chemical and IT, among others̶interact, collaborate, and engage in R&D on instruments, reagents and software in response to customer needs. We have built up a global R&D structure comprising R&D facilities in the United States, Germany and other countries. In addition to expanding our own technology platforms, through open innovation we are pursuing collaboration with research institutes, universities and medical institutions in Japan and overseas. As part of this eﬀort, we have set up an open innovation lab within Technopark, where we can conduct collaborative R&D with researchers from outside the Company, and we are promoting R&D toward the realization of personalized medicine. About Personalized Medicine 36 Click here for details on the R&D structure. Click here for information on open innovation. Topics Related to Our R&D Structure (From Press Release in Fiscal 2017) RIKEN GENESIS Establishes RIKEN GENESIS Innovation Genome Center to Provide Lab-Assay Services for Genetic Testing Sysmex Acquires UK Company to Expand into New Business Domains toward Personalized Medicine ̶Expanding Our Portfolio and Reinforcing Our Technology Base in the Life Science Business Sysmex Opens New R&D Facility with a View toward the Realization of Personalized Medicine Sysmex, RIKEN GENESIS and MKI Sign Comprehensive Collaboration Agreement with a View to Joint Promotion of Genomic Medicine Commencement of Collaborative Research on Measurement of Exosomes in Blood from Cancer Patients Japanʼs ﬁrst-ever industry-academia alliance to realize the development of innovative medicine in Japan̶Implementation of a one-stop bioresource project in Kyoto University, and the establishment of KBBM Co., Ltd. as a model of “industry-in-the-academia” industry-academia partnership Contributing to the Early Detection and Treatment of Cancer As of 2015, there were some 17.5 million cancer patients around the world, with deaths from cancer numbering an estimated 8.7 million. Between 2005 and 2015, the number of cancer cases increased by 33%. Of this ﬁgure, 16.4% was attributable to societyʼs aging, 12.6% to population growth and 4.1% to increasing age-speciﬁc incidence rates. Although varying widely by country and region, around the world it is said that one in three men and one in four women will contract cancer at some point in their lives, making cancer one of the most prevalent diseases*. Through genetic testing and other technologies, Sysmex's working to contribute to the early detection and treatment of cancer, helping to improve the quality of life of individual patients. * Source: Global Burden of Cancer 2015 37 Promotion of R&D in the Field of Cancer Diagnosis Sysmex Corporation has signed a comprehensive collaboration agreement with the National Cancer Center (2013), and we have engaged in joint development on more than 10 projects. In 2015, in the aim of accelerating R&D in the ﬁeld of cancer diagnosis to encourage the proliferation of genomic medicine1 and clinical sequence testing2, we opened the Sysmex Cancer Innovation Sysmex Cancer Innovation Laboratory (SCI-Lab) within the National Cancer Center Japan Laboratory(SCI-Lab) Hospital. This lab meets ISO151893 international standards for clinical laboratories. We operate this lab in conjunction with RIKEN GENESIS, a Sysmex Corporation subsidiary with extensive experience in gene analysis. The lab employs next-generation sequencers to conduct clinical research involving comprehensive genetic testing to measure around 100 gene types related to various types of cancer. This research is expected to contribute to decisions on appropriate treatment methods and use of drugs. We will continue to collaborate closely with the National Cancer Center Japan and RIKEN GENESIS, promoting research in the aim of realizing new cancer diagnosis methods and clinical sequence testing as soon as possible. 1 This type of medicine involves analyzing the relationship between genetic information and disease in order to predict the onset risk of diseases and aid in selecting the most eﬀective course of treatment. 2 Comprehensive analysis of disease-related genes for diagnosis and prevention of cancer and similar diseases. 3 This international standard speciﬁes requirements for quality and competence in medical laboratories. 38 1 Providing a Lab Assay Service for Research , with a View toward the Realization of Personalized Medicine Sysmex Corporation provides a lab assay service for research related to gene testing through the Sysmex BMA laboratory and the Sysmex IMP laboratory in the Kobe Biomedical Innovation Cluster (Port Island). In December 2017, in collaboration with our subsidiary, Sysmex Inostics, we launched a lab assay service (for research) using Sysmex BMA laboratory BEAMing technology for detecting minute quantities of cancerderived DNA in the blood in Japan, following our oﬀering of the service in Germany and the United States. As a result, we expect to reduce the burden of specimen transport for customers in Japan (research institutions, universities, medical institutions and pharmaceutical companies), and report results more quickly. In addition, we provide the Curebest™ 95GC Breast assay service2, which provides research data to predict recurrence by analyzing breast cancer tissue. By providing a variety of research-use assay services such as these, we aim to contribute to personalized medicine, or healthcare that is optimized for individual patients. 1 Provision of laboratory testing results as services 2 An analysis service for measuring the expression amounts of 95 genes related to breast cancer prognosis 1 Proliferation of Regenerative Medicine by Making Use of iPS Cells iPS cell transplantation therapy is divided into two methods: autologous transplantation, where cells produced from iPS cells derived from a patientʼs own body are used, and allogeneic transplantation, which uses cells produced from iPS cells derived from a donor who meets certain criteria (allogeneic iPS cells). At issue with autologous transplantation is the signiﬁcant time and cost required to prepare cells for transplantation. Allogeneic transplantation, on the other hand, may have the potential to provide cells with assured quality for transplantation therapy timely, stably and inexpensively, because allogeneic iPS cells are managed in cell banks2, and cells for transplant are produced systematically in standardized processes. For this reason, allogeneic transplantation appears to hold promise for the proliferation of regenerative medicine. That said, since allogenic transplantation̶the treatment method using donor-derived allogeneic iPS cells̶may induce post-transplant immunorejection3, it is necessary to develop a new testing method to conﬁrm prior to transplantation whether cells are suitable for transplant, including the possibility of immunorejection. 39 In July 2016, Sysmex Corporation, HEALIOS K.K. and Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma Co., Ltd., commenced joint R&D on a pre-transplant immune reaction testing method for using retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells derived from allogenic iPS cells. Sysmex will use its imaging ﬂow cytometry and protein analysis technologies to develop the pre-transplant immune reaction testing method for RPE cells derived from allogenic iPS cells that have been jointly developed by HEALIOS and Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma targeting patients with macular degeneration4 and other ocular diseases. Through collaborative R&D employing leading-edge technologies, we will contribute to the popularization of regenerative medicine. 1 An abbreviation for induced pluripotent stem cells, iPS cells that are produced from human skin cells or others by transfection of several factors are capable of diﬀerentiation into many types of cells organizing 2 To produce ﬁnal products on a sustained and stable basis, cells that have been prepared from a single cell under deﬁned conditions (cultivation in advance) are dispensed into multiple containers and stored under deﬁned conditions. For iPS cells, a project of “iPS Cell Stock for Regenerative Medicine” is underway by using cells harvested from healthy Japanese volunteers. 3 In this reaction, the body works to protect itself by resisting the invasion of foreign substances, activating immune cells to block the invasion. As this reaction is central to the success or failure of tissue and cell transplants, currently immunosuppressive agents are used to control the rejection reaction. 4 Retinal maculae play an important role in the ability to see, but damage due to advancing age can cause degeneration, resulting in illness in which the eyesight is impaired. In one type of age-related macular degeneration, the macular structure takes on an “atrophic form” along with advancing age. In another, the “exudative form,” new vessels form just below the retina (neovascularity), causing damage to the maculae. Topics Related to the Proliferation of Regenerative Medicine Using iPS Cells (From Press Release in Fiscal 2017) Sysmex Invests in Megakaryon Corporation to Contribute to the Practical Realization of Platelet Preparations Derived from iPS Cells The Spread of Testing Having a Low Physical and Economic Impact Sysmex is pursuing R&D aimed at the realization of testing to reduce the physical and economic burden on patients, ensuring that as many people as possible have access to appropriate healthcare. Creating a Next-Generation Diagnostic Drug for Alzheimerʼs Disease In line with aging populations, the number of people around the world diagnosed with dementia is rising each year. Some 9.9 million people develop dementia every year, and globally the number of people with dementia is expected to rise from 46.8 million in 2015 to 74.7 million in 2030 and 131.5 million by 2050*. Early detection and early treatment can slow the progress of Alzheimerʼs disease, so early diagnosis is extremely important. However, issues exist with the brain imaging examinations and cerebrospinal ﬂuid examinations that are necessary for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. These issues include an insuﬃcient number of facilities for examinations, high costs and the invasiveness of the testing. 40 Sysmex Corporation has signed a comprehensive agreement in the ﬁeld of dementia with Eisai Co., Ltd., which has a wealth of knowledge and technologies related to drug discovery in the ﬁeld of Alzheimer's disease (February 2016). While we have the technology to measure genes, proteins and cells with a high degree of sensitivity, by leveraging each otherʼs technologies and knowledge, the two companies aim to discover next-generation diagnostic drugs that will enable early diagnosis, selection of the treatment options and the regular monitoring of the eﬀects of treatment for dementia. * “World Alzheimer Report 2015,” Alzheimerʼs Disease International Sysmex Super-Resolution Fluorescence Microscope Wins Good Design Gold Award 2017 The super-resolution ﬂuorescence microscope developed by Sysmex Corporation received the Good Design Gold Award 2017 (Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry Award). This microscope, which enables the observation of the morphology of proteins measuring only tens of nanometers, is being used in joint research for Alzheimerʼs disease with Eisai Co., Ltd. Super-Resolution Fluorescence Microscope In addition to its functionality, speciﬁc areas in which the product was considered superior, and therefore selected for the Good Design Gold Award, included the fact that it needs less dedicated space than conventional super-resolution ﬂuorescence microscopes and does not require a specialized environment such as a darkroom, enabling its introduction at facilities where installing those conventional microscopes are problematic. The product also earned high marks for its exterior design, which is simple and evokes a sense of innovation. Further Product Popularization through the Expansion of Our Product Lineup Sysmex provides products and services in the hematology, urinalysis and immunochemistry ﬁelds in more than 190 countries around the world. Global demand for testing is increasing each year, evidenced by evermore sophisticated healthcare in advanced countries and the establishment of healthcare infrastructure in emerging markets. In tandem with this demand, there exists a growing need for automated system products that boost productivity in line with facility characteristics, including laboratory scale, the number of tests processed, and the number of clinical laboratory technologists. Sysmex proposes myriad combinations and systems that conform to the environments of customer facilities by making products more compact, faster and adopting a modular concept*. * Individual modules can be combined to create a diverse variety of product conﬁgurations. The series also allows for ﬂexibility in testing throughput, increasing or reducing capacity in line with customer needs. 41 Product and Service Topics (From Press Releases in Fiscal 2017) Sysmex to Launch the Semi-Automated Urine Chemistry Analyzer UC-1000, a Compact Model in the Field of Urine Qualitative Analysis, in Overseas Markets Sysmex Expands XN-Series Product Lineup in the Hematology Field̶Achieving Further Productivity Improvements in Hematology Testing Through Footprint Reduction Sysmex to Commence Sales of “Revohem PT” Reagent for Measuring Prothrombin Time, a Key Testing Parameter for Monitoring Anticoagulation Therapy̶First Japanese PT Reagent Using Recombinant Protein Mass Produced by Silkworms Sysmex Launches the Revohem FVIII Chromogenic, a Coagulation Factor VIII Assay Reagent̶ Helping to Diagnose and Assist in Treatment of Hemophilia A Insurance Coverage of Lymph Node Metastasis Testing for Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer Using the OSNA™ Method Sysmex Acquires CLIA Waiver for New Automated Hematology Analyzer̶The First Automated Hematology Analyzer to Receive Such Approval Sysmex to Commence OncoBEAM™ Lab Assay Services (for Research) in Japan, as well as in Germany and the United States, to Analyze Genetic Mutations Related to Circulating Tumor DNA Sysmex to Launch the Automated High-sensitive Immunoassay System for Research Applications HI-1000̶Promoting R&D on New Biomarkers Aimed at Achieving Personalized Medicine through Liquid Biopsy 42 Resolution of Medical Issues through Products and Services Improvement in Accessibility to Medical Services by Means such as Familiarizing Products People in some parts of the world have diﬃculty in receiving appropriate healthcare due to poverty or because healthcare environments and systems and frameworks for providing healthcare are underdeveloped. Addressing one of its responsibilities as a company developing its business globally, Sysmex is working to improve access to healthcare so that as many people as possible can receive appropriate healthcare. Initiatives Targeting the Three Major Infectious Diseases Known as the three major infectious diseases, HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria claim about 3 million lives each year. Of the many infectious diseases that exist, these three have long existed on a global scale. In recent years, the spread of therapeutic drugs and vaccines has helped to stem the scale of infection, but economic, social and cultural factors also come into play, and the medical services required for prevention and treatment have not yet reached many poor and socially disadvantaged people. Impaired health can also aﬀect economic growth, as it lowers labor capabilities, reduces labor productivity and leads to rising healthcare costs.* By leveraging the detection technologies it has accumulated in the area of clinical testing, Sysmex is moving forward with the development of products that assist in diagnosing disease. We are also collaborating with government and academia on initiatives to address the three major infectious diseases. * Source: “Knowing the Three Major Infectious Diseases”, Friends of the Global Fund, Japan Initiatives to Eliminating Malaria Malaria is one of three major infectious diseases. Although the number of cases has trended downward over the past several years, each year some 200 million people are infected and around 450,000 die from the disease1. Africa accounts for more than 90% of these deaths, with one child under the age of ﬁve losing its life by the disease every two minutes2. To eliminate malaria, Sysmex is working to improve access to healthcare through its ﬁelds of business, the testing and diagnostic domains. For detailed activity highlights, see “Oﬀering Superior Technologies to Help Eliminate Malaria.” 1 “WHO World Malaria Report 2017” 2 Malarianomore.org.uk 43 Participating in the Global Health Innovative Technology Fund (GHIT Fund) Sysmex is working on development of testing technologies targeting malaria, dengue fever, HIV/AIDS and other diseases, as well as developing products to contribute to the diagnosis of infectious diseases in emerging markets and developing countries. Since 2015, we have also participated in the Global Health Innovative Technology Fund (GHIT Fund) which states its vision for action as “one in which the crushing burden of infectious disease no longer prevents billions of people in the developing world from seeking the level of prosperity and longevity now common in the GHIT Fund Framework industrialized world.” The GHIT Fund has entered its second phase of activity (2018-2022), shifting from the initial focus on product development toward activities to provide these products to the people who need them. Sysmex will continue to participate in the fundʼs secondphase activities. By promoting activities aimed at developing and providing new reagents for infectious diseases through Japanese technological innovation, we will contribute toward the eradication of infectious disease in developing countries. Annual Deaths from the Three Major Infectious Diseases in 2016 44 Providing Healthcare Opportunities through the Donation of Mobile Laboratories Regions lacking electrical equipment and other infrastructure cannot make immediate use of the products and services provided in advanced countries, pointing to the need to provide products and services suited to the needs of those regions and their people. In some regions, knowledge of healthcare is insuﬃcient, and there exists a lack of understanding about the eﬀects of testing and treatment. Patient education and awareness are important issues Mobile laboratory in such areas. In 2016, at the Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD VI) in Kenya, we unveiled a mobile lab1. We donated this vehicle to the Beyond Zero Campaign2, which is working to raise awareness of maternal and child health and measures to address infectious diseases. We see introducing a mobile lab as a way to oﬀer a regular traveling clinic, as well as to educate and promote awareness among patients in the aim of reducing the percentage of deaths from infectious diseases by contributing to their early detection and treatment. Sysmex will continue working to provide appropriate healthcare to as many people as possible and aims to help resolve the worldʼ s healthcare issues by enhancing awareness of healthcare among patients. 1 Sysmex Corporation exhibited this lab in collaboration with Toyota Tsusho Corporation and Hino Motors, Ltd. 2 This awareness campaign on maternal and child health and measures to address infectious diseases was launched by the wife of Kenyaʼs President Kenyatta in January 2014. In addition to spurring government eﬀorts and raising awareness among the people, the campaign aims to distribute mobile laboratories throughout the country and includes such activities as a charity marathon supervised by Ms. Kenyatta. Cooperation with a Program for Improving the Health of Mothers and Children In December 2017, Sysmex Corporation participated in the “the Project for Improvement of Maternal and Child Health Department in Lambaréné Region,” in cooperation with the Fiscal year 2017 Grant Assistance for Grass-Roots Human Security Projects in Gabonese Republic, Africa. Through this cooperation, we installed our automated hematology analyzer and provided training to medical staﬀ at the hospital. We aim to improve the health of mothers and children by increasing free testing opportunities for pregnant and nursing mothers who live in areas with less access to healthcare. 45 Helping to Raise Local Healthcare Levels As one of its initiatives to help the development of healthcare infrastructure and raise healthcare levels in Asia, Sysmex has supported eﬀorts to raise the quality of healthcare testing in six countries: China, Mongolia, Cambodia, Myanmar, Thailand and the Philippines. We are also providing laboratory quality control support and supporting the education of healthcare professionals in the African countries of Namibia, Zambia and Zimbabwe. Collaborating with the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) to Promote Quality Control Support at Clinical Laboratories to Match International Standards Sysmex provides laboratory quality control support in the Republic of Namibia, Africa, which faces shortages of healthcare personnel and healthcare infrastructure, as well as the issue of ensuring the quality of healthcare. Speciﬁcally, Sysmex is providing a mentorship* program that makes use of the Sysmex Quality Guidance Manual̶a quality control system operational manual for clinical laboratories Operator training at a lab (Namibia) conforming to international standards̶to facilities under the jurisdiction of the Namibia Institute of Pathology, which is overseen by the Namibian government. To date in Africa, we have already been engaging in the same type of initiatives to raise laboratory quality by working with the health ministries of Zambia and Zimbabwe. We will use this track record as a steppingstone to promote horizontal development into surrounding African countries. * Rather than simply managing people, mentorship is the concept of seeking the growth and success of all people related to a business after making the organizationʼs directions and values clear. This concept encompasses management that motivates people, provides guidance on position and skills that leads toward enhanced capabilities, and provides a framework to invigorate an organization. 46 Conducting Scientiﬁc Support Activities to Standardize and Raise the Quality of Clinical Testing To date, Sysmex Corporation has entered into agreements with government institutions in China, Mongolia, Cambodia, Myanmar, Thailand and the Philippines to conduct scientiﬁc support activities aimed at enhancing the quality of clinical testing. The accumulation of expertise and standardization related to “blood morphology testing,” which is essential to the diagnosis, treatment and follow-up assessments for leukemia and other blood disorders, has become a social issue in Mongolia in recent years. As its support activities so far in the ﬁelds of hematology, clinical chemistry and immunochemistry have earned high marks, in July 2017 Sysmex Corporation expanded its support to include the ﬁeld of blood morphology testing. In addition to providing technological and academic expertise to local clinical laboratory technologists, by supporting the construction and operation of a nationally implemented external quality control framework for a blood morphology testing, we aim to help improve the level of healthcare in Mongolia. Going forward, Sysmex will continue with initiatives aimed at standardizing and increasing the quality of clinical testing in emerging markets and developing countries. 47 Supporting the Education of Healthcare Professionals In addition to preparing healthcare infrastructure in place, having in place appropriately trained healthcare professionals is an essential part of improving access to healthcare. Sysmex provides educational support to raise the quality of clinical laboratories and to standardize and raise the quality of clinical testing. We also conduct seminars and study sessions targeting healthcare professionals, imparting leading-edge scientiﬁc information. Click here for information on Customer Relations 48 Society Responsible Provision of Products and Services A recent spate of issues involving product quality and recalls have drawn attention to societyʼs demands for product and service quality and safety. Furthermore, in recent years the scope of corporate responsibility has expanded to encompass the entire supply chain, including business partners. The Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs) also include goals related to the responsibility of manufacturers. Sysmex engages in the global development of business in the healthcare ﬁeld, involves peopleʼs lives and health. Accordingly, we work to ensure the quality and safety of our products and services, disclose information appropriately and conduct CSR-considerate procurement activities. We believe these moves are important in earning the trust of our stakeholders. Sysmex has created a global quality management system, through which it is consistently striving to maintain or increase quality levels. As initiatives to enhance customer satisfaction, we oﬀer services and support that are closely tailored to customersʼ needs, creating a framework we call “Voice of Customer (VOC)” to incorporate customer input into our product development and quality improvements, and provide the most recent scientiﬁc information. Furthermore, as a company developing its business globally we are reinforcing our systems for delivering a stable supply of products, promoting CSR-considerate procurement activities and aiming to grow in a sustainable manner in tandem with our business partners. Going forward, we will continue striving to earn the trust of our stakeholders and instilling conﬁdence by oﬀering responsible products and services. 49 Responsible Provision of Products and Services Securing of Product Quality and Safety Product Quality and Safety Policies Sysmex has constructed a system to ensure compliance with laws and regulations around the world based on the Quality Policy, the Core Behavior and the Sysmex Corporation Quality Compliance Policy, and we act accordingly. Quality Policy By shaping the advancement of healthcare, our global business activities contribute to the creation of a fulﬁlling and healthy society. Core behavior 1. We understand our customer's needs, and provide products and solutions that meet or exceed their expectations. 2. We act based on our customer's viewpoints by realizing that Quality is customer satisfaction . 3. We seek to reassure our customers by establishing the highest quality assurance standards and using them to enhance the quality of all aspects of our business. 4. We continually create innovative value for our stakeholders by developing and applying new and unique technologies and knowledge. 5. We comply with all relevant national or regional regulations and standards to provide safe products. 6. We maintain and continually improve the eﬀectiveness of our quality management system. 7. We establish quality objectives consistent with this quality policy, and measure our performance against them. Revised in May 2007 50 Quality Management Building a Global Quality Management System All of Sysmexʼs production facilities* have obtained certiﬁcation under the international standards ISO 9001 or ISO 13485. In addition, we regularly hold the Global RAQA (regulatory aﬀairs/quality assurance) Meeting, at which people in charge of quality assurance at Group companies in Japan and overseas gather. In this way, we are working to share quality information throughout Global RAQA Meeting the Group and reinforce our structure. * Wholly owned subsidiaries Sustainable Improvement Programs Reinforcing Structures for Maintaining and Enhancing Quality Used in laboratory testing, Sysmexʼs products play a vital role in protecting peopleʼs lives and good health. Being fully aware of this responsibility, Sysmex is making constant eﬀorts to maintain and improve product quality by building various systems, not to mention complying with safety standards around the world at the design and development stages. In the product development stage, we verify product quality by setting ﬁve quality gates in the process leading up to market launch. Also, when we market products that are manufactured by others, we verify their quality by conducting audits of the manufacturers and meticulously inspecting the products. As well as these eﬀorts, in the unlikely event of a defective product we have systems in place to quickly identify and respond to the problem. At factory sites, each month we monitor manufacturing processes and the status of supplier nonconformities. We designate appropriate quality improvements at suppliers with high nonconformity rates, and have a system of ensuring quality through regular quality audits. In addition, our global quality complaint processing system allows us to gather quality information in a timely way from markets around the world. When we receive information about a bug or malfunction, we immediately look into the cause and cease distribution of the product. Sharing information globally about bugs and malfunctions, as well as corrective and preventive actions, helps us maintain and enhance product quality. 51 Employee Training Focusing on Specialized Quality and Safety Training In addition to quality policy education for all employees, Sysmex Corporation conducts basic and specialized quality education targeting speciﬁc departments and job types. In ﬁscal 2017, we conducted training on good vigilance practice (GVP) for safety management employees in charge of manufacturing and sales. This training was aimed at gathering safety management information related to the causes of health hazards and ensuring Group training an accurate understanding of how to use this information. Being a company that provides products and services in more than 190 countries and regions around the world, we conduct education on individual countriesʼ regulatory systems for engineers in development divisions, making a thorough eﬀort to develop products in accordance with laws and regulations. 52 Responsible Provision of Products and Services Appropriate Disclosure of Information Regarding Products and Services Quality and Safety Information Sharing Customer Feedback within the Group A direct link exists between a manufacturerʼs ability to provide safe, quality products and the trust it engenders. Sysmex established the Vigilance Division to ﬁeld the various inquiries it receives from outside the Company, as well as to investigate and analyze the information it receives; share this information with the design, manufacturing and other divisions; and improve quality. In addition, we have put in place a structure for incorporating this information in the next generation of new products. Product Quality and Vigilance Control System 53 Recall and Repair Information Posted on Our Website Sysmex posts information about product recall and repair on its website under “Important Product Notices”. Please click here for important product notices. (Information for Japanese market) Working Aggressively to Stamp out Counterfeit Reagents To assure accurate testing results, Sysmex asks its customers at healthcare facilities to use Sysmex branded instruments and reagents together. In recent years, however, reagents whose names and container shapes have been disguised to look like Sysmex reagents have been found in circulation in some areas. The use of such counterfeit reagents cannot guarantee the reliability of testing results and, in some cases, can be harmful to patients' health. For this reason, Sysmex continuously monitors markets for counterfeit reagents. When they are discovered, we work with local government institutions and judicial organs to ensure the swift and thorough enforcement of our intellectual property rights. We also caution medical institutions against the use of counterfeit reagents by placing advertisements in newspapers. 54 Responsible Provision of Products and Services Assessment and Management of the Supply Chain Core Behaviors We deliver commitment to our client companies through broad-ranging partnerships. We strive to be a company that can grow in step with our trade partners, through respect and mutual trust. Supply Chain Management Promoting CSR Procurement in the Supply Chain Sysmex considers procurement fundamental to supporting its business activities. We have formulated a procurement policy in line with core behaviors, and we select suppliers and build supply chain management on this basis. We have also created green procurement standards that indicate our fundamental perspective regarding environmental consideration in relation to procurement activities. Sysmex has publicized its statement on the Sysmex UK website indicating its appropriate response to the U.K. Modern Slavery Act, which went into eﬀect in March 2015 and provides for the elimination of forced labor, child labor, human traﬃcking, exploitation and other such practices in the supply chain. Click here for information on green procurement. Click here for information on the U.K. Modern Slavery Act (Sysmex UK website). 55 Procurement Policy In shaping the advancement of healthcare, the Mission set forth in the Sysmex Way corporate philosophy, we deliver commitment to our business partners through equitable and fair procurement activities. We also strive to be a company that can grow in step with our trading partners in a spirit of mutual trust and encouragement. Operating in strict compliance with laws, regulations, and contracts, and adhering to high ethical standards, we carry out consistent procurement of components and raw materials that meet the levels of quality required by healthcare providers. We closely follow these policies in our endeavors to supply products that customers worldwide can use with conﬁdence. Similarly, we hope that our business partners will cooperate with us in the following seven areas as we continue to create and enhance unique and creative values. We ask our valued business partners to: 1. Assure quality to the requisite degree for healthcare products 2. Build a system for reliable supply 3. Reﬁne technological capabilities that contribute to the development of healthcare 4. Create stable business foundations and formulate business continuity plans (BCP) 5. Promote business activities and CSR in compliance with the laws, regulations and social conventions of host countries 6. Carry out environmental management to help conserve the global natural environment 7. Supply products at reasonable prices and engage in aggressive cost-reduction programs Revised in March 2014 Conducting CSR Surveys To conﬁrm its business partnersʼ CSR activities, Sysmex Corporation conducts surveys of existing and new business partners on the status of these activities. In ﬁscal 2017, we surveyed some 230 existing business partners and three new ones. From ﬁscal 2017, we adopted the common CSR survey form prepared by Global Compact Network Japan in our survey of existing business partners. This survey contained a number of survey items, including those related to human rights, labor practices, corruption, the environment and conﬂict minerals. (Refer to the PDF ﬁle of the common CSR survey for details.) We elected not to conduct business with new business partners that had problems with their CSR initiatives. In addition to CSR surveys, we conducted management interviews at new business partners. We conduct the same sort of initiatives for overseas business partners. In particular, people in charge of procurement make local visits to determine the status of child labor and the workplace environment, conﬁrming that no problems exist. Click here for information on the CSR/Sustainable Procurement Self-assessment Tool Set, the common CSR survey form prepared by Global Compact Network Japan. 56 Aiming to Improve the Quality of Supplied Parts and Raw Materials Sysmex Corporation designates a Quality Assurance Agreement that clearly deﬁnes quality requirements. Counterparties sign this agreement after conﬁrming their understanding of our procurement policy. We conﬁrm the quality of supplied parts and conduct quality audits when we determine that corrective or preventive measures are needed. We conduct quality audits of new suppliers and ensure that appropriate quality control is in place. Relations in the Supply Chain We strive to enhance relations with our business partners so we can conduct business together based on their understanding of our business directions and procurement policy. In ﬁscal 2017, we held supplier brieﬁngs for major business partners in Japan. We explained our procurement policy, CSR activities, overseas legal and regulatory trends, and other aspects of CSR. In this way, we strive to ensure mutual understanding and Supplier brieﬁng strengthen relations. Conducting Internal Awareness Activities to Ensure Compliance with ProcurementRelated Legislation Sysmex Corporation has in place an electronic procurement system (Sysmex Trade Mission, or STM). In addition to preventing the reduction of payments to inappropriate levels, as well as avoiding product returns, each year we conduct training on this system. Also, all members of the Procurement Department undergo training on the Subcontract Law. For people newly assigned to this department, we also provide training on our procurement policy, CSR, green procurement and procurement risk. 57 Responsible Provision of Products and Services Customer Relations Enhancing Customer Satisfaction Conducting Customer Satisfaction Surveys in Japan and Overseas Sysmex conducts customer satisfaction surveys in a variety of countries and regions. We feed back the opinions and requests we receive to the appropriate divisions, so they can make use of this information in their routine business activities. Sysmex America surveys all customers who purchase blood testing instruments, conducting satisfaction surveys each year. In ﬁscal 2017, 97% of customers responded that they were satisﬁed. Also, Sysmex ranked top among manufacturers of hematology analyzers in an IMV ServiceTrak survey (sponsored by IMV) of customer satisfaction for 17 consecutive years. In ﬁscal 2017, Sysmex Shanghai conducted customer satisfaction surveys of approximately 2,300 hospitals all over China, receiving high marks in multiple categories, such as after-sales service quality and response speed. We also conduct regular customer satisfaction surveys in the EMEA* and Asia Paciﬁc regions. * EMEA: Europe, the Middle East and Africa Enhancing Service and Support Responding to Inquiries Rapidly and Responsibly In Japan, Sysmex Corporation maintains a Customer Support Center, where experienced staﬀ members with expert knowledge cater to customers 24 hours a day, 365 days a year (separate agreement required). By creating a database containing maintenance histories and the details of past inquiries from customers to ensure quick reference, the center responds to inquiries and requests both quickly and carefully. Requests and other comments received through the support center and other means is gathered by the Voice of Customer (VOC) Group. After analyzing this information from various angles, it is provided as feedback to related divisions so it can be utilized in new product development and operational improvements. In ﬁscal 2017, we gathered some 18,000 customer comments in the Japanese market. We have received a positive response to instruments with new functions and instruments that we have added as a result of customer input, which are indicated by the VOC mark we use in our product catalog. 58 To provide customers with even better service, in ﬁscal 2017 Sysmex Spain strengthened its customer service center functions. Several times each year, its employees visit customer companies to hear requests directly. By engaging in dialogue in this manner, the company is working to build better relationships. Inquiries to Customer Support Center Responding to inquiries at the Customer Support Center See “Fiscal 2017 Performance Data” for results over the past three years. Utilizing Networks to Provide Customer Support At hospitals and other healthcare institutions, instrument and reagent precision is controlled to maintain consistent testing data reliability. In most cases, the condition of instruments and reagents is checked by comparing the measurement results of materials known as “control substances” with reference values and results on a daily basis. Sysmex supports customersʼ quality control by providing control substances in various ﬁelds. Customer Support Center Customer instruments are connected to the Customer Support Center via our online Sysmex Network Communication Systems (SNCS). Measured values of control substances sent via the SNCS from customer instruments are received by the Customer Support Center, which tallies and compares these values with its other data results on the same instruments, detects signs of abnormalities and returns the analysis results to the customer. SNCS employs a remote service that enables communication with customers. With this system, we can share data processing screens and use Web cameras to conﬁrm the status of instruments. This service also helps to prevent trouble by using information from the sensors placed on various section of instruments, such as the number of operations, maintenance periods, and log and temperature information. 59 Disseminating Information That Is Useful for Customers As part of our customer support activities, we disseminate information on the “Support Information” section of our website. Up-to-date information is sent out using an e-mail magazine distribution service. We also oﬀer a “personal page” function for managing content and viewing histories. In these ways, we are consistently enhancing functionality to facilitate customer use. “Support Information” site Utilizing ISO to Increase the Quality of Clinical Testing Recently, the ﬁeld of clinical testing has met with strong demand for improvement in the quality of test results, and awareness of international standards is increasing around the world. One such standard is ISO 15189 (Medical laboratories Requirements for quality and competence). The number of clinical laboratories that have obtained this certiﬁcation is increasing, with the certiﬁcation having become obligatory in some countries. Sysmex has received certiﬁcation under the ISO/IEC 17025 international standard for clinical testing calibration institutions and the ISO 15195 standard, verifying that Sysmex meets the international standards for the quality of the calibration service it provides on its automated hematology analyzers. We are the ﬁrst company in Japan to receive the accreditation in the ﬁeld. A calibration certiﬁcate that Sysmex issues is accepted as a globally recognized document that ISO 15189 requires to ensure traceability and traceable calibration. As of March 31, 2018, Sysmex had issued such certiﬁcates on more than 3,690 instruments. Furthermore, SNCS/eQAPi1, an external quality assessment service Sysmex provides, is the ﬁrst in Japan in any industry to receive certiﬁcation under ISO/IEC 170432 (Conformity assessment̶General requirements for proﬁciency testing). 1 Sysmex Network Communication Systems (SNCS) is a service that uses a network to provide quality assurance on diagnostic instruments, monitor failure and oﬀer maintenance support. eQAPi is an external quality assurance service that covers multiple instruments and reagent manufacturers. 2 International standard on conformity assessment general requirements for proﬁciency testing. 60 ISO/IEC 17025: ISO/IEC 17043: ISO/IEC 15195: International standard on International standard on International standard as a general requirements for the conformity assessment reference measurement competence of testing and general requirements for laboratory for clinical testing calibration laboratories proﬁciency testing Reference Measurement Reference Measurement Quality Control Services, Name of Entity Laboratory, Sysmex Laboratory, Sysmex Sysmex Corporation Corporation Corporation Certiﬁcation date February 14, 2014 March 17, 2015 February 12, 2014 Certiﬁcation RNL00440 RCL00440 PTP00010 number M19.2 Number concentration M19 Number concentration M51 Medical testing M19.3 Mass concentration (red blood cell count, white Scope of (urinalysis, hematology, (red blood cell count, white blood cell count, platelet certiﬁcation clinical chemistry , blood cell count, platelet count, hematocrit value, immunology, other testing) count, hematocrit value, hemoglobin concentration) hemoglobin concentration) First accreditation in Japan First accreditation in Japan First accreditation in Japan Remarks in the area of blood cell in the area of blood cell in all industries count count Scientiﬁc Activities Sysmex holds seminars targeting healthcare professionals in Japan and other Asian countries to provide them with most up-to-date medical information. We also work with various countriesʼ ministries of health, other national institutions and major academic societies on scientiﬁc activities aimed at helping to increase the level of healthcare. 61 Holding Scientiﬁc Seminars for Clinical Professionals Sysmex hosts scientiﬁc seminars and study sessions in various regions for doctors, clinical technologists and other healthcare professionals working on the front lines. We began oﬀering scientiﬁc seminars in 1978 to provide the most recent information in the ﬁeld of clinical testing and share that knowledge. June 2017 marked the 40th year of such seminars. 40th Sysmex Scientiﬁc Seminar The theme of the ﬁscal 2017 seminar was “Further Leaps Forward (Japan) in Hematologic Disease Medicine: the Forefront and Future Prospects.” The seminar took place at 15 venues in Japan and, for the ﬁrst time, was transmitted to three overseas locations (Mongolia, South Korea and Indonesia). A record 1,855 people attended the seminar. This ﬁgure brought the cumulative number of participants above 40,000. Through initiatives such as this, we build trust-based relationships with numerous healthcare professionals. At the same time, the accumulated medical knowledge helps to raise the quality of healthcare. Principal Scientiﬁc Seminars Held for Healthcare Professionals Region Theme Attendees Japan and other parts of “Further Leaps Forward in Hematologic Disease Medicine: 1,855 people Asia the Forefront and Future Prospects” 20th Scientiﬁc Seminar “Clinical Applications of Hematology Approximately China and Urinalysis” 1,500 people Approximately Belgium 7th European Scientiﬁc Symposium 500 people 66th Congress of the Japanese Association of Medical Approximately Japan Technologists, “Recent Topics in Lung Cancer Screening” 300 people Approximately Turkey 2nd Scientiﬁc Symposium 300 people 10th International and 15th Nationwide Congress on Clinical Approximately Iran Testing 200 people Approximately Indonesia 7th Sysmex Scientiﬁc Seminar 170 people 62 Overseas Case Study (Asia Paciﬁc): Conducting Support Activities to Raise the Quality of Clinical Testing Sysmex is working with governments and academic societies in Asiaʼs emerging markets and developing countries to support the standardization of through external quality control program. In ﬁscal 2017, we provided external quality control in Mongolia, Thailand, the Philippines and Cambodia. We also signed an agreement related to scientiﬁc support in Myanmar. Through these eﬀorts, we are working to raise the quality of clinical testing in various countries. Click here for information on the resolution of medical issues through business activities. 63 Responsible Provision of Products and Services Stable Supply Establishing a Stable Supply Structure As a healthcare company, we recognize that we have an obligation to provide a stable supply of quality products and services. To fulﬁll this role, Sysmex operates factories in Japan and overseas and has established a global supply structure to meet demand eﬃciently. We have also been proactive in securing multiple business partners from which to procure raw materials, allowing to achieve cost eﬃciencies and providing a backup structure. Response in Times of Disaster (BCP) Almost every year, disasters occur worldwide, killing a great many people and causing signiﬁcant damage to the local and world economies. In the past 30 years (1984-2013), more than 2.47 million people have been killed and more than US$2.4 trillion in damage has occurred*. Earthquakes and other large-scale natural disasters occur frequently in Asia, a situation that calls for disaster preparedness and quick response when disaster strikes. Sysmex has formulated a business continuity plan (BCP) to ensure the continuity of important operations in the event of an earthquake, tsunami or other large-scale disasters, as well as rapid recovery. To diversify risk related to reagents, we procure key raw materials from multiple sources. Also, we select production locations based on the concept of local production for local consumption. At the same time, we are building a system through which factories can provide supplies to each other in emergencies, and we have secured alternative transportation routes. We have created an internal BCP manual on product supply and conduct simulation training that assumes a disaster situation. Just after the earthquakes in Kumamoto occurred in April 2016, we set up a product supply countermeasures headquarters that quickly ascertained the status of all suppliers, determined the degree of impact on our product suppliers and worked rapidly to select alternative products. As a result, there was no impact on our production plan. * Source: Ministry of the Cabinet, website page on Disaster Management in Japan Click here for information on disaster countermeasures. 64 Responding to Demand Increases Expanding Factories and Installing Equipment in Preparation for a Rise in Global Demand Sysmex works to respond swiftly to changes in global demand for its instruments and consistently ensure a stable supply of its products. To achieve these goals, we maintain appropriate inventory levels of each product at each location, ensure that inventories are located near their markets, and communicate with local subsidiaries to accurately determine the demand status. We are also building new factories and expanding equipment in anticipation of further growth in demand for reagents. In July 2017, we completed the expansion of our reagent factory in the United States, Sysmex Reagents America, and commenced full-ﬂedged production. By increasing production capacity to 1.8 times its former level, we expect to be able to provide a stable supply to meet demand growth in the Americas over the medium to long term. Going forward, we will continue working to bolster production capacity in line with demand in each region. We will also create regional logistic hub functions in each region to further ensure stable supply. We will continue improving production lines and logistics to ensure a stable supply of products to meet global demand. 65 Society Realization of an Attractive Workplace In order to achieve sustainable growth, it is considered important for companies to promote diversity and create decent and attractive workplaces. Also, the SDGs include goals pertaining to gender equality, decent work and reduced inequalities. Sysmex considers human resources an important management asset necessary for sustainable growth. We believe that creating attractive workplaces helps ensure superior personnel, reinforcing our corporate competitiveness. Sysmex has in place a human resource development system that develops capabilities in an ongoing and systematic manner. We promote diversity and inclusion and have introduced various systems to create a workplace that provides peace of mind and enables diverse employees to maximize their skills. As we strive toward sustainable growth, we will continue in our eﬀorts to build a workplace in which diverse human resources can maximize their potential and provide opportunities for their individual growth. 66 Realization of an Attractive Workplace Provision of a Comfortable Working Environment Fair Evaluation and Treatment Equitable Personnel Evaluation Based on Abilities and Accomplishments Sysmex values the spirit of independence and challenge, provides employees with opportunities for self-fulﬁllment and growth, and rewards them for their accomplishments. We remunerate employees appropriately, according to factors such as their occupations and qualiﬁcations, and base salaries are the same, regardless of gender. Based on the principle of fair treatment, our basic approach toward evaluation is to reward employees for capabilities that contribute to the enhancement of corporate value as well as for producing accomplishments. In addition to evaluating employees for their successes, we evaluate the processes of producing achievements (competency evaluations). To achieve fairness and ensure that employees understand their evaluations, we show employees their evaluation results and their superiors' comments. Basic Principles of the Personnel Management System 1. Ensuring long-term employment Establishing a double-linear-type competence-based rating frame that enables a diversity of employees to maximize their skills, and providing opportunities for self-realization and growth 2. Promoting the development and cultivation of diverse human resources Establishing competence-based rating standards and promoting cultivation of human resources and normalization of career advancement through clariﬁcation of promotion criteria Evaluating not only accomplishments but also the processes of producing achievements (realization capability) in order to promote human resource development and the reform of corporate culture 3. Rewarding employees for capabilities that contribute to the enhancement of corporate value as well as for producing accomplishments Simplifying the relationship between evaluation and reward Creating a remuneration structure that is easy for everyone to understand and that rewards employees in accordance with their contribution, role, competency and accomplishments 67 Supporting Employee Career Design Sysmex Corporation employs a voluntary reporting system for all employees. Under this system, each year we hold hearings for each employee to learn about their mediumto long-term career, overseas work and job category aspirations. The system aﬀords each employee with the opportunity to consider their own career directions and life plan, as well as to aﬀect their own skills development and placement according to the content of their reports. The ﬁscal 2017 hearing included reporting by 90.8% of employees. Promoting and Improving the Treatment of Contract and Temporary Employees Sysmex Corporation actively hires contract employees and temporary employees as regular personnel. We have clariﬁed our internal regulations for hiring people working ﬁxed-term contracts, oﬀering them fair opportunities for promotion. We put this information on our intranet to encourage thorough understanding of these rules. To provide a more comfortable working environment, we extended the ﬂex-time system and began applying our welfare programs “cafeteria plan*” to contract employees, as well as regular employees. This system enables employees to eﬃciently arrange their own working hours to suit individual circumstances, such as visiting the hospital or raising children. Going forward, we will revise our systems as appropriate to enhance our treatment of employees. * Under this system, each year the Company provides employees with “cafeteria points,” which they can use as they choose to pay the costs of speciﬁc types of welfare (to improve the work-life balance). See “Fiscal 2017 Performance Data” for results over the past three years. Introducing Internal Awards Systems to Motivate Employees Sysmex introduced the Group CEO Award system for recognizing individuals, divisions or groups that contribute most signiﬁcantly to the realization of the Sysmex Way, our Group corporate philosophy, sharing these achievements throughout the Company each year. We provide awards for one individual and one group. To motivate R&D engineers and heighten awareness of intellectual property, we have also introduced three patent award systems: the Patent Grand Prize/Patent Prize of Distinction, the Patent Meister and the Filing Commemoration Prize. In addition, we present a Quality Award for success in quality improvements. 68 Eﬀorts to Enhance Employee Satisfaction Sysmex conducts corporate culture surveys once every two years targeting all employees of the Sysmex Group. Employee satisfaction is one aspect of the surveys. Survey results are fed back to individual departments, where they serve as a basis for enhancing satisfaction levels further. Departments whose survey scores are ﬂat receive visits from human resources department members, who oﬀer advice on improvements. Members of human resources departments conduct interviews at the individual as well as the departmental level, to identify problems and consider improvement measures for reforms of organizational culture. Understanding of and Support for a Work-Life Balance Promoting the Use of Systems that Support a Work-Life Balance Sysmex Corporation provides a dedicated site on the Internet to provide easy-to-understand explanations of its programs for supporting a work-life balance. We also hold brieﬁngs to promote awareness. In addition, we promote the use of these programs during diversity roundtables, where employees exchange opinions freely on such broad-ranging themes as careers, work-life balance and cultural understanding. Click here for information on diversity roundtables. 69 Systems to Support a Balance between Work and Child Rearing Providing a Host of Leave Systems and Supporting Child-Rearing with an In-House Daycare Center Sysmex Corporation has created diverse programs to provide support, from pre-natal to child-rearing. In addition to leave systems for fertility treatments and morning sickness, we oﬀer child nursing leave until a child reaches two years of age (above the statutory requirement), a system for shorter working hours until a child reaches junior high school age, a working-at-home system and a ﬂex-time system that diﬀers by type of work. When In-house daycare center, an employee needs to take time oﬀ work to nurse a child, they can Sysmex Kids Park do so under a program that allows them to use accumulated paid leave in half-day increments in addition to statutory leave. We also strive to smooth the return to work following childcare leave by conducting seminars prior to returning to work and distributing newsletters to employees on childcare leave. In line with the growing demand for male employees to participate in childcare, we are considering a system that would allow men to Next-generation support certiﬁcation take special leave prior to their spouse giving birth, oﬀering two logo (nicknamed Kurumin ) additional days to be taken within one month of the birth to make any necessary preparations. Employees are also eligible for nurturing leave, under which they can take special leave of three consecutive days to care for children up to one year of age. We have set up Sysmex Kids Park, an in-house daycare center that accepts babies and toddlers, at Technopark, our core R&D base. The center oﬀers short-term as well as fulltime daycare, so that employees whose spouses work on a part-time basis or who ﬁnd it diﬃcult to take care of their children due to caretakersʼ illness, bereavement or other circumstances may also temporarily utilize the service. In recognition of its planned implementation of such systems, Sysmex Corporation received the nextgeneration support certiﬁcation logo (nicknamed Kurumin *) from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. * Based on the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children, companies that formulate business plans as general business operators, meet the targets designated by these plans, and meet certain standards may receive “Kurumin” certiﬁcation as “companies that support child-rearing” by the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare. 70 Systems Related to Children 71 Other Systems to Support a Work-Life Balance Supporting Nursing Care, Corporate Citizenship Activities and Others Among its programs aimed at realizing a work-life balance, Sysmex Corporation has prepared various types of programs related to nursing care. We have introduced a program of that allows employees who need to attend family members in hospital to take short-term nursing care leave and accumulated paid leave for up to 40 days in halfday increments. We also have a working-at-home system that enables employees to care for family members who require nursing care or other types of support. In addition, we have introduced a unique “income indemnity system” to provide a nursing care leave stipend, aiming to help oﬀset the loss of income from taking leave, as well as unexpected expenses, for people taking one month or more of nursing care leave. Furthermore, we have a system for rehiring employees whose careers have been interrupted due to nursing care. We hold brieﬁng sessions to explain the purpose of these systems, as well as how to prepare for nursing care to alleviate the uncertainties surrounding it. As well as these programs, we have introduced a volunteer leave system (up to10 days of leave in a year, two of which are accounted for as paid leave) and a system of donor leave, whereby internal organ and other donors receive up to ﬁve days each time. These systems are aimed at making it easier for employees to take leave and support a work-life balance in various ways. 72 Systems Related to Nursing Care Supporting a Return to the Workplace Following Leave To facilitate a smooth return to work following leave for child rearing or nursing care, three months prior to their return to work Sysmex Corporation provides employees with tablets and notebook PCs that give them access to internal email and allows intranet access. This system provides support from an IT perspective. Enabling access to Company information in real time facilitates communication with the workplace, helping to alleviate a sense of feeling lost upon their return and eliminate gaps returning employees 73 feel with the people in the workplace. When returning employees start to use these devices, we also provides them an opportunity to meet with superiors in their departments. Activities at Other Group Companies Company Activity Introduction of a ﬂex-time system and a working-at-home system Introduction of a childcare leave system (for fathers and mothers) that exceeds statutory requirements Introduction of family support systems (child-rearing support, family leave, assistance payment when employees need to use support systems oﬀered by outside institutions when family members are ill) Sysmex America ＜Third-Party Awards and Commendations＞ Selected for the Companies that Care Honor Roll for 10 consecutive years Click here for information on selection for the Companies that Care Honor Roll. Introduction of a ﬂex-time system and a working-at-home system Establishment of a parent–child room Introduction of a childcare leave system (for fathers and mothers) Child-rearing support system (assistance payment when employees need to use support systems oﬀered by outside institutions) Sysmex Europe ＜Third-Party Awards and Commendations＞ Selected as a Great Place to Work for three consecutive years Received the Family Friendliness award from the German Federal Ministry for Family Aﬀairs, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth (June 2017) Introduction of a ﬂex-time system Sysmex Shanghai Child-rearing support system (medical insurance assistance) Introduction of a ﬂex-time system and a working-at-home system Child-rearing support systems (medical insurance assistance, Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc provision of scholarships) Sysmex Malaysia ＜Third-Party Awards and Commendations＞ Sysmex Indonesia Named the HR Asia Best Companies to Work for In Asia 2017 (sponsored by HR Asia) (Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc, Sysmex Malaysia) Parent–child room (Sysmex Europe) 74 Employee-Related Data Click here for employee-related data. 75 Realization of an Attractive Workplace Development of Human Resource Basic Policy on Human Resource Management As a global company based in Japan, we promote the development of and cultivate the capabilities of diverse human resources based on the assumption of long-term employment. We also reward employees for capabilities and successes that contribute toward increased corporate value. Core Behaviors To our Employees We honor diversity, respect the individuality of each employee, and provide them with a workplace where they can realize their full potential. We value the spirit of independence and challenge, provide employees with opportunities for selffulﬁllment and growth, and reward them for their accomplishments. Development of Human Resources Promoting Global Human Resource Development Throughout the Group, Sysmex has more than 8,445 employees (as of March 31, 2018) building its business globally, with overseas employees accounting for more than 58% of this total. In order to put into practice the “Sysmex Way,” our Group corporate philosophy, under these circumstances and instill conﬁdence in people around the world, augmenting the skills of individuals is important. We believe it is also essential to foster communication among diverse human resources, encouraging the mutual sharing of values and fostering new insights that will lead to new values and deepen cultural awareness through the joining of creative forces. In this spirit, we have created a groupwide global human resource development system in ﬁscal 2014. We cultivate a sense of unity in business activities and the workplace and develop nextgeneration human resources. We are also reinforcing networks within the Group and undertaking various measures to foster intercultural understanding. 76 Human Resource Development Based on Four Concepts Based on its four concepts for human resource development (“link training, evaluation and work (show results),” “promote globalization of the Sysmex Group,” “invest in ongoing human resource development” and “be a company that cultivates human resources and personal growth”), Sysmex Corporation operates a training system oﬀering selective, rank-based and elective training that seeks to nurture personnel in a planned and gradual manner. New employee training In ﬁscal 2017, on average each employee underwent 15.4 hours of training, and average per-employee expenditure amounted to ¥103,000*. We have also opened the Global Communication Center (GCC) in Ashiya, Hyogo Prefecture, to serve as a gathering place for people of diverse cultures and values, both inside and outside the Company. At the GCC, we conduct various types of training based on Sysmexʼs human resource development system, as well as cross-divisional study sessions and joint retreats for global personnel. * This ﬁgure indicates training provided by the Human Resources Division and excludes certain types of training, such as selfdevelopment and training related to specialized work for divisions. See “Fiscal 2017 Performance Data” for results over the past three years. Three Core Training Systems Training Type Objective Cultivate global leaders Selective training Cultivate future management personnel Acquire the minimum level of understanding and expertise in management and issue Rank-based training resolution required at each level Promote communication between departments Elective training Obtain practical expertise, knowledge and skills on business execution (Sysmex College) Gain various types of business management expertise Global Communication Center (theater room) 77 Main Programs for Cultivating Human Resources Program / Measure Objective, Overview Promote exchanges of Japanese and overseas personnel, Global Personnel Exchange Program strengthen ties through deeper mutual understanding Dispatch young employees to overseas Group companies to help Global Apprentice Program them gain work experience Provide hands-on training in the knowledge and skills necessary to Training at the Monozukuri Training Center manufacture Sysmex instruments Strengthen teamwork and proposal-making capabilities among R&D Innovation Activities R&D personnel Sysmex Academy Gain product-related knowledge and skills (Sysmex Europe) HR Academy Enhance “soft skills,” such as team-building, leadership and (Sysmex Europe) language proﬁciency Sysmex University Online training that can be used by all employees (Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc) Interacting with employees in other regions through operational Cross-cultural experience training experiences 78 Realization of an Attractive Workplace Promotion of Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Signiﬁcance of the Initiatives Sysmex considers human resources an important management resource for achieving sustainable growth, and we have evolved from the practice of “diversity,” which simply welcomes diverse human resources, to the more extensive practice of “diversity and inclusion.” This approach involves creating a working environment that is suitable for a wide variety of human resources. Through synergies arising from diﬀerent values, perspectives, experiences and capabilities, we are working to create a culture of innovation and generate value. Working to Achieve Diversity and Inclusion To promote diversity and inclusion, in April 2017 Sysmex Corporation established the Diversity Promotion Section within its Human Resources Division. Sysmex is working to cultivate an organizational culture that promotes further understanding of diversity and LGBT*. In ﬁscal 2017, we set up a diversity portal site on our intranet to disseminate information and promote understanding. We also conduct awareness surveys related to diversity, welcoming frank comments from employees and developing our initiatives in this regard. Sysmex America conducts measures based on its aﬃrmative action program, aiming to erase prejudice and discrimination. * Acronym referring to sexual minorities (lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender) 79 Ensuring Diverse Human Resources Aiming to Equalize Employment Opportunities Sysmex Corporation recruits new employees based the evaluation of individuals, without regard for nationality, race, gender, age, employment history or disability status. Speciﬁcally, we instituted yearround hiring to oﬀer equal opportunities to people who had already graduated or had studied overseas and therefore might be at a disadvantage. To ensure our ability to recruit personnel around the world, we conduct Company brieﬁngs and interviews overseas, as well as conducting Web-based brieﬁngs and interviews. As in the previous year, we continued to host interns in ﬁscal 2017, strengthening our measures to help overseas human resources gain a better knowledge of Sysmex. Due to such eﬀorts, foreign nationals accounted for 7.8% of new graduates hired in ﬁscal 2017. Promoting Employment of People with Disabilities Sysmex encourages the employment of people with disabilities. Targeting long-term employment, we design working conditions to maximize individualsʼ aptitudes and skills. In ﬁscal 2017, employment of people with disabilities amounted to 2.04% of Group employees in Japan. In April 2017, we established Sysmex Harmony Co., Ltd., in Kobe, Hyogo Prefecture, a special subsidiary*. By creating a workplace Operations at Sysmex Harmony where people with various sorts of physical, intellectual and psychological disabilities can work in keeping with their characteristics and disabilities, we aim to foster an environment in which everyone, regardless of disability, can work and grow together enthusiastically and with peace of mind. For the past 15 years, Sysmex Europe has worked with an organization that endeavors to support the independence of people with disabilities. The company subcontracts packaging work at a manufacturing line of its reagent factory in Germany to people with disabilities. We strive to maintain high levels of motivation among these workers through sharing our mission, as well as through periodic training and support from employees. * A subsidiary that has been certiﬁed by the director of a public employment security oﬃce for special consideration in the employment of people with disabilities. Having labor regulations separate from the parent company enables such subsidiaries to give more consideration to work capabilities and labor conditions of people with disabilities in their labor regulations and workplace environments, thereby making it easier to increase employment for people with disabilities. 80 Employing Seniors System for Reemploying PostMandatory Retirement Age Workers Sysmex Corporationʼs mandatory retirement age is 60, but we have in place a system for rehiring until age 65 people who have retired at the mandatory retirement age and still wish to work. In ﬁscal 2017, 38 people who had reached the mandatory retirement age were rehired according to internal rules. Promoting Womenʼs Career Activities Sysmex Corporation has been an active proponent of diversity. In addition to respecting the individuality of our employees, we strive to provide them with a workplace where they can realize their full potential. One aspect of these activities involves establishing an in-house daycare center, providing childcare leave that exceeds statutory requirements. Also, based on the Act on Promotion of Womenʼs Participation and Advancement in the Workplace, in April 2016 we formulated the “Action Plan Under the Act on the Promotion of Womenʼs Active Participation,” to cultivate female leaders and promote diverse working styles. As a result of these eﬀorts, the percentage of female employees at Sysmex Corporation has risen from 19.9% in ﬁscal 2005 to 29.4% in ﬁscal 20171. The percentage of female managers has also increased over that period, from 2.4% to 8.6%2. Also, the percentage of female managers for the Sysmex Group as a whole was 15.2% in ﬁscal 2017. 1 Based on the number of people employed. 2 Director level or above Receiving the Highest-Level “Eruboshi” Certiﬁcation as an Excellent Company Based on the Act on Promotion of Womenʼs Participation and Advancement in the Workplace Sysmex Corporation honors the individual of each employee and provides them with a workplace where they can realize their full potential. In September 2016, we met all ﬁve criteria set by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare for the promotion of womenʼs participation and received the highest ranking, Level 3, as an “Eruboshi” company, indicating superior initiatives to promote the active participation of women. Click here for information on the Act on the Promotion of Womenʼs Participation and Advancement in the Workplace (Ministry of Health, Labour “Eruboshi” mark and Welfare) 81 Percentage of Female Managers (Sysmex Corporation) Percentage of Female Employees* (Sysmex Corporation) * Based on the number of people employed. Promoting and Showing Understanding Diversity Education Sysmex Corporation holds diversity roundtables, where employees exchange opinions freely on such broad-ranging themes as careers, work-life balance and cultural understanding, creating a community that goes beyond internal divisions. In ﬁscal 2017, we held these roundtables six times, including some in English. Sysmex America and Sysmex Europe have formed employee groups to conduct diversity education and promote diversity in an eﬀort to foster understanding. 82 Realization of an Attractive Workplace Occupational Safety and Health Assurance of Safety and Health at Workplaces Explicitly Ensuring “Safety and Health at Workplaces” in the Global Compliance Code Sysmex's Global Compliance Code clearly states the Company's goal of 8-4 Assurance of safety and health in the workplace and we are conducting a number of activities in this vein. Click here for information on the Global Compliance Code Promoting Cooperation between Executives and Employees on Safety and Health To ensure the health and safety of its employees, Sysmex Corporation has formulated Safety and Health Regulations and strives to create a safe working environment. In ﬁscal 2016, we established the Central Health and Safety Committee (meets twice each year), which targets Group companies in Japan. This committee aims to reinforce and enhance domestic Group companiesʼ occupational safety and health systems. To this end, the committee formulates policies and targets, ascertains the status of occupational health at individual business sites, considers improvement measures and reports its results to executives via the Risk Management Committee. The committee set companywide safety and health targets for ﬁscal 2017: zero work-related injuries, and the promotion of health and productivity management for an increase in employee vitality and productivity through investment in improving employee health. Each of our companies and oﬃces worked to carry out these initiatives, centered on their Safety and Health Committees. Health and Safety Committee meetings are held regularly at each oﬃce. In addition to examples of near misses, the committee tours workplaces to eliminate identiﬁed risks and, from a risk management perspective, determine causes and introduce preemptive shortand long-term measures. As preparation for an accident or sudden illness, employees are given safety training on appropriate emergency and evacuation measures and how to handle machinery and raw materials that are potentially dangerous. We also hold comprehensive ﬁre drills based on a hypothetical large-scale disaster. We conduct training on the use of AEDs and hold regular courses to train citizen emergency response personnel. In particular, we hold initial-response drills that involve checks to be performed in the event of a disaster: quickly conﬁrming and ensuring employeesʼ safety, checking and sharing the disaster situation of oﬃces and customers as well as the status of product supplies. Sysmex Brazil has acquired OHSAS 18001* certiﬁcation, an international standard for occupational health and safety management systems. 83 * This standard, issued in 1999 based on BS 8800, which was, developed by the British Standards Institute (BSI) in 1996, consists of some 30 certiﬁcation bodies and standardization organizations in various countries. Frequency of Work-Related Injuries / Severity Rate (Sysmex Corporation) Preventing Overwork To prevent overwork, we focus on reducing long working hours, which can impair physical and mental health. In addition to complying with related legislation, we have in place internal standards for working outside regular hours or on holidays that are stricter than the guidelines set by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. When employees exceed these standards, we will communicate this fact with their superiors and seek to make workplace improvements. We ask employees to submit a voluntary check form and, if necessary, meet with an industrial physician. In April 2018, we began automatically recording when individual PCs were booted up and switched oﬀ in an eﬀort to ascertain working hours. We also began training aimed at preventing overwork and introduced speciﬁc measures. 84 Promoting Health and Productivity Management Maintaining and Improving Employees' Health Sysmex Corporation believes that maintaining and improving employeesʼ physical and mental health is an essential part of creating a safe and comfortable workplace. We encourage employees to undergo thorough physical examinations and cancer tests speciﬁcally for women, in addition to regular health checkups, for the early detection of illness. As a company in the business of handling medical instruments, our employees could come into contact with infectious substances in the course of their duties. For this reason, in addition to statutory special health examinations we conduct our own medical checkups twice each year that include testing for hepatitis B and C. In December 2015, we registered as a partner company in the Cancer Screening Corporate Action1 and Know about Hepatitis2 projects. We also trained employees who received education as hepatic medicine coordinators. In November 2016, we signed the Agreement to Promote an Increase in the Rate of Cancer Screening with Hyogo Prefecture. Kokoro no Health Checks are also performed annually to conﬁrm mental health and uncover any harassment-related situations. We track results over time and strive to make workplace improvements. Furthermore, we provide channels for health consultations throughout the Company, and have in place systems where employees can meet with industrial physicians and public health nurses. We also have established an employee assistance program (EAP), enabling employees to seek help easily. As welfare facilities to encourage health maintenance, on the grounds of the Solution Center Sysmex provides sports grounds and tennis courts, as well as a gymnasium with ﬁtness equipment, along with systems for ongoing assistance in using sports facilities. We hold events and seminars as needed to raise employee awareness of physical health maintenance. We have also introduced a “cafeteria plan3” which includes programs to promote health, and employee cafeterias oﬀer healthy menu options. In commemoration of our 50th anniversary of establishment, in January 2018 we began soliciting global “personal health challenge declarations” from employees and developing health promotion measures. As a result of these activities, in February 2018 we were recognized for the second time by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry for excellence in health management of “companies that excel in health management” (White 500). 85 1 This project is undertaken on behalf of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. The ministry aims to raise Japanʼs cancer screening rate to 50% through workplace initiatives. 2 The Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare campaign aims to encourage early detection and treatment by disseminating easyto-understand information about hepatitis and the importance of testing for the hepatitis virus. 3 This is part of our system of welfare programs. Each year, the Company provides employees with “cafeteria points,” which they can use as they choose to pay the costs of speciﬁc types of welfare (to improve the work-life balance). In addition to the eﬀorts described above, overseas Group companies engage in a variety of measures to ensure employee health. Company Activity Establishment of an in-house ﬁtness room Sysmex America Provision of a health and ﬁtness allowance Subsidies for health checks and inﬂuenza vaccines Establishment of an in-house ﬁtness room Provision of a health management program in which sports professionals Sysmex Europe and dieticians are invited to provide advice Provision of free lunches at the cafeteria Establishment of a 24-hour telephone counseling system related to health Sysmex UK Third-party stress risk assessments Provision of free fruit and water at the cafeteria Assistance with sports club membership fees Sysmex Spain Provision of health management programs related to relaxation and diet Provision of free fruit in the cafeteria Provision of sporting courses in which employees can participate at lunch Sysmex Partec time or after work Sysmex Shanghai Establishment of an in-house ﬁtness room Provision of a half-day health check each year for each employee and Sysmex Taiwan his/her spouse or one parent Assistance with sports club membership fees Introduction of commendations for participating in health events conducted Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc by health ministries and an award system Provision of free fruit in the cafeteria Supporting for marathons and cycling events through lending folding Sysmex Malaysia bicycles to employees and other measures Sysmex Indonesia Provision of free fruit and water Sysmex Vietnam Holding of sports activities targeting all employees Sysmex Korea Establishment of in-house ﬁtness and refreshment rooms 86 Realization of an Attractive Workplace Respecting Workersʼ Rights Upholding the Freedom of Labor Association and Recognizing the Right to Collective Bargaining Participating in the UN Global Compact and Supporting the ILOʼs Core Labour Standards Sysmex respects workers rights to labor association and collective bargaining, based on its participation in the UN Global Compact and support for the ILOʼs Core Labour Standards. All Sysmex Corporation employees, except executive employees and some in managerial posts, are members of the Sysmex Union, the in-house labor union. In ﬁscal 2017, membership accounted for 62% of employees. Overseas Group companies, including Jinan Sysmex, Sysmex Wuxi, Sysmex Thailand, Sysmex Vietnam and HYPHEN BioMed, have also formed labor unions. Labor–Management Dialogue Engaging in Dialogue with Labor Unions at Group Companies Each year, Sysmex Corporation engages in collective bargaining with the Sysmex Union. In addition to regular council meetings, in ﬁscal 2017 labor and management met to discuss healthenhancing activities, the management of working hours, welfare and beneﬁt systems and other measures. We also hold similar types of dialogue with labor unions of overseas Group companies. Employee Opinions Reﬂected in Management To reﬂect employee opinions at the managemet level, Sysmex conducts a Corporate Culture Survey once every two years, covering all employees. We analyze the results of this survey and promote improvement initiatives targeting any problems or issues. 87 Society Respect for Human Rights Policies and Initiatives Related to Respect for Human Rights Adhering to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ILOʼs Core Labour Standards, and the UN Global Compact In accordance with the item of the Sysmex Global Compliance Code, “8. To Respect Human Rights and to Improve Occupational Health and Safety,” we practice corporate management that respects the human rights of all employees and engage in initiatives to enhance the working environment. This code is in keeping with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights provision that “All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights” and the gist of the ILOʼs Core Labour Standards, which deﬁne minimum labor standards that must be preserved in the workplace. To ensure that these perspectives are eﬀectively put into practice, Sysmex has clariﬁed conformance rules and action guidelines proscribing discrimination, harassment, forced labor and child labor. We also conduct various types of training to ensure employee awareness. Sysmex began participating in the UN Global Compact in February 2011, and we have clariﬁed our corporate stance in relation to the compactʼs 10 principles regarding human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. In view that it promotes human genome and genetic analysis research, as well as clinical research, Sysmex has established an internal committee to ensure thorough consideration for subjectsʼ human rights, and we follow speciﬁc guidelines in this regard. Click here for information on the Global Compliance Code. Click here for information on research ethics. 88 Identifying Risk to Human Rights (Human Rights Due Diligence) According to item “8. To Respect Human Rights and to Improve Occupational Health and Safety” of the Sysmex Global Compliance Code, we believe it is necessary to conduct “human rights due diligence,” which involves identifying negative impacts on human rights, and preventing or reducing them through our business activities throughout the entire supply chain. Speciﬁcally, we have incorporated into CSR surveys of our business partners such topics as prohibiting forced and child labor and eliminating discrimination due to gender, disability, race or other factors. To ensure that Sysmexʼs activities are not involved or complicit in human rights abuses, we ascertain impacts on human rights in advance and put in place measures to ensure prevention. With the U.K. Modern Slavery Act going into eﬀect, Sysmex UK has publicized its statement in this regard on its website and operates in compliance with this act. Click here for information on the U.K. Modern Slavery Act (Sysmex UK website). Click here for information about procurement policies that take into consideration human rights in the supply chain. Consultation and Reporting Systems Related to Human Rights Sysmex has established internal reporting systems in Japan and overseas to handle human rights consultations, including those related to sexual harassment and workplace bullying. Click here for information on our internal reporting system Education and Training On Understanding Respect for Human Rights Conducting Training to Prevent Human Rights Abuses Sysmex strives to prevent human rights abuses by conducting training on prevention of harassment and regulations related to labor standards. In ﬁscal 2017, we conducted training for 130 newly appointed managers on such topics as harassment, including LGBT*, personnel administration and the Workers Dispatch Act. We also held training for new employees and mid-career hires. * Acronym referring to sexual minorities (lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender) 89 Society Corporate Citizenship Activities Policy on Corporate Citizenship Activities and Philanthropy Sysmex actively carries out corporate philanthropic activities to promote a healthy society and vibrant community, and also facilitates our employees' personal participation in volunteer eﬀorts. Contribution to a healthy society Sysmex actively utilizes its resources in the healthcare ﬁeld to carry out philanthropic activities and promote the building of a healthy society. Cooperation toward a vibrant local community Sysmex acts as a responsible and socially-conscious corporate citizen by cooperating with the local community through donations, sponsorships and involvement in philanthropic programs. Facilitation of employees' volunteer eﬀorts Sysmex will facilitate employees' participation in volunteer eﬀorts as citizens of the world, members of Sysmex group that contribute to healthcare in the world, and emphasize community involvement and development. Established May 2012 90 Corporate Citizenship Activities Corporate Citizenship Activities Sysmex contributes toward the creation of a healthy society and the establishment of a vibrant community through activities based on “To society” deﬁned in Sysmex Wayʼs Core Behaviors and its policy on corporate citizenship. Creation of a Healthy Society Participation in the Kobe Medical Industry Development Project The Kobe Medical Industry Development Project aims to create a focal point among members of the healthcare industry in Kobe through industry–government–academia cooperation. Sysmex has set up labs within the Translational Research Informatics Center (TRI), one of the projectʼs core facilities, and the Center for Biomedical Research Activities (BMA), where we promote clinical research and collaborative research with a variety of healthcare institutions and other companies. Contributing to Healthcare by Funding University Courses Since ﬁscal 2004, Sysmex Corporation has contributed funds to a course of assessment of clinical testing at the Kobe University Graduate School of Medicine and promoted joint research on new clinical testing technologies. This course is currently collaborating with Sysmexʼs Central Research Laboratories on the development of highly precise yet simple diagnosis technologies for determining the risk of cardiovascular disease by evaluating the function of high-density lipoproteins. In ﬁscal 2017, we established two new funded courses in the ﬁeld of international clinical cancer research. The courses aim to apply leading-edge technologies, such as artiﬁcial intelligence and robotics technology, to the surgical domain and establish surgical treatment methods for cancer that are minimally invasive and oﬀer complete cures. In collaboration with these funded courses, Sysmex will promote R&D of next-generation medical care and new medical devices by utilizing its liquid biopsy technologies and Medicaroidʼs robotics technologies. Contributing to Healthcare through Foundations In 1984, Taro Nakatani, the founder of TOA MEDICAL ELECTRONICS CO., LTD. (current Sysmex Corporation) established the Nakatani Foundation of electronic Measuring Technology Advancement. In 2012, the foundation changed its name to the Nakatani Foundation for Advancement of Measuring Technologies in Biomedical Engineering. The foundationʼs core activity is to provide grants for leadingedge technology development in the ﬁeld of biomedical engineering measurement, providing awards to researchers and oﬀering technology exchange grants. 91 From the time of its launch through ﬁscal 2017, the foundation has provided 445 grants amounting to a cumulative* ¥1,680 million. * The cumulative amount of grant money includes long-term and large-scale research grants and special research grants, which are for multiple years. Activities Theme Content Company Human Resource Cultivation of engineers in collaboration with a university (Shanghai Sysmex Shanghai Cultivation Medical Instrumentation College) Joint development of a system to operative vehicles for supplying Healthcaredrugs as a disaster countermeasure (collaboration with the Hyogo Related Sysmex Corporation Pharmaceutical Society and Shinkai Transport Systems) Physical Support Click here for details. Participated as a partner company in the Cancer Screening Corporate Action, a national project aimed at achieving a 50% rate Sysmex Corporation for cancer screening Production of illustrated books to promote education and awareness Sysmex Corporation Awareness Participation in the Making Strides charity walk to eliminate breast Sysmex America Activities cancer Participation in the Rowing against Cancer Charity, a charity event Sysmex to eliminate cancer Europe Cooperation in the Wacoal Pink Ride movement to eliminate breast Sysmex cancer Malaysia Contributions to International Hosting of JICA trainees (44 people from 37 countries) Sysmex Corporation Cooperation Donation to the Global Health Innovative Technology Fund (GHIT Sysmex Corporation Fund) Donation to ILFAR, an NPO dedicated to building an HIV/AIDS Sysmex Corporation treatment infrastructure in Kenya Donation to the Zero Malaria 2030 Campaign (Malaria No More Donations and Japan, a designated NPO), a publicity activity toward creating a Sysmex Corporation Sponsorship malaria-free world Donation to Kindney Kids NZ, an organization that provides support Sysmex to children with kidney disease New Zealand Donation to the Ronald McDonald House, which provides Sysmex accommodation to children with diseases, as well as their parents New Zealand 92 Illustrated books to promote Participated in charity walk “Making Participation in the Rowing against education and awareness Strides 2017,” aiming to eradicate Cancer Charity, a charity event to （Sysmex Corporation） breast cancer eliminate cancer （Sysmex America） （Sysmex Europe） Establishment of a Vibrant Community Sponsorship of the Kobe Marathon 2017 Sysmex Corporation has been a special sponsor of this event since its inception. With a theme of “Thanks and Friendship,” the Kobe Marathon is meant to express the gratitude of the people of the Kobe area to everyone who assisted in the reconstruction of the region following the Great Hanshin-Awaji Earthquake. As a special sponsor of the Kobe Marathon 2017, held in November 2017, we provided runnersʼ bib numbers and exhibited at the Kobe Marathon EXPO. We also ﬁelded volunteers who Employee volunteers handing out provided operational support. water Holding Events for Communication with the Local Community Every year, Sysmex Corporation invites community residents to its oﬃces to strengthen its relationship with the local community. In May 2017, we opened the gardens at Technopark for an event in which some 750 members of the local community joined and strolled about the grounds. On the day, we held a lecture themed on “diabetes and post-prandial blood glucose.” Participants also took part in a health check using ASTRIM FIT, our product for checking estimated blood hemoglobin levels without sampling. Technopark Festa (Sysmex Corporation) 93 Helping to Repair Homes for Low-Income People and Being Selected for the Companies That Care Honor Roll Sysmex America supports activities conducted by Habitat for Humanity, an international NGO. This organization takes part in eﬀorts to provide homes for low-income people in more than 70 countries around the world. The company provided donations for home repairs and support through employee volunteers. The company was also selected for the Companies That Care Honor Roll 2018, sponsored by Companies That Care, a U.S. nonproﬁt organization. For 10 consecutive years, Sysmex America has been selected for this honor roll, which identiﬁes companies of excellence in a variety of areas, such as cultivating leaders, employee compensation, extensive welfare, work–life balance, a pleasant working environment and volunteer activities in the region. Helping to repair homes for lowSelected for the Companies That income people through Habitat for Care Honor Roll for the 10th Humanity consecutive year (Sysmex America) (Sysmex America) 94 Activities Theme Content Company Holding of on-site lecture, “Blood Is Important” Hosted the Try-yaru Week workplace experience program Participation in the Science Fair in Hyogo, an event including Cultivation of the companies, universities and research institutions Sysmex Corporation Next Generation Hosting of overseas interns Participation in Global Human Resource Development Community, a public–private partnership study-abroad program Support to Stimulate the Local Economy and Opening of Minato Ijinkan to the public Sysmex Corporation Contribute to Cultural Development Signing of aﬃliation agreements with ﬁgure skaters Mai Mihara and Support for the Kaori Sakamoto Promotion of Sysmex Corporation Sports Sponsorship of Vissel Kobe, a Japanese professional J. League soccer club Nature Forest conservation activities through the Sysmex Forest Preservation and Sysmex Corporation Clean-up Activities Employee clean-up activities around business oﬃces Introduction of Ride High, an in-house charity to support poor Sysmex UK children Participated in the “My Future Project” to support poor students, Sysmex Hong Kong provided work experience opportunities and conducted education Local Support for vocational training of youths with disabilities (helping Communities Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc make ice cream) Participated in the “PERTIWI Soup Kitchen,” which provides support Sysmex Malaysia for the homeless, distributing food to around 1,000 people Invited orphans and held an exchange event with employees Sysmex Malaysia 95 On-site lecture (Sysmex Corporation) My Future Project, employment PERTIWI Soup Kitchen, support for support for poor students (Sysmex homeless people Hong Kong) (Sysmex Malaysia) Events interacting with orphans (Sysmex Malaysia) Employee Volunteer Activities Sysmex encourages employee volunteer activities. To promote these activities, we have introduced a Social Contribution Point Program. Under this program, employees earn points for participating in social contribution activities, as well as social contribution (Left) © UNICEF/UNI150956/Asselin events sponsored by the Company, and the Company (Center) © UNICEF/UNI108970/Asselin (Right)© UNICEF/UNI179689/Markisz makes donations based on the number of points. Some Courtesy of: Japan Committee for UNICEF 37% of Sysmex employees in Japan, or 1,319 people, participated in this program, resulting in around ¥1.60 million in donations. Japan Heart, an NPO receiving donations through the Social Contribution Point Program held an event inviting child cancer patients and their families to Kidzania Koshien. Fifteen Sysmex employees volunteered to take part in the activity, accompanying participants and taking photos. Employees at business oﬃces planned volunteer activities, donating used books and clothes to NPOs and foster homes. 96 Volunteer activities at Kidzania Donations of used books and clothing Koshien to foster homes Employees at Sysmex, which provides the testing instruments used for blood donations, are also active participants in blood donations. Sysmex Corporation has been registered as a “blood donation supporting company” since ﬁscal 2014, and around 400 employees of Group companies in Japan took part in blood donations in ﬁscal 2017. Sysmex America, Sysmex Thailand, Sysmex Indonesia and Sysmex New Zealand also regularly conduct blood donation activities. 97 Sustainability Environmental Consideration We recognize that mitigating climate change; using water, mineral and other resources; and protecting biodiversity are critical to sustainability of the global environment. As the going into force of the Paris Agreement and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) demonstrate, around the world a growing number of initiatives make addressing the environmental problem a priority issue, and companies are being called on to play a greater role. As a company developing its operations globally, Sysmex recognizes increasingly serious environmental issues as a topmost priority. We also understand that large-scale environmental damage due to climate change is a signiﬁcant business risk because they have the potential to halt our resource procurement and manufacturing functions. To guide the Groupʼs environmental management over the long term, along with long-term management goals for the Sysmex Group, Sysmex has formulated the Sysmex Eco-Vision 2025. This vision sets long-term environmental targets to be achieved by ﬁscal 2025. We are promoting environmental preservation across product and service life cycles and throughout the value chain of our business activities. Going forward, along with the pursuit of sustainable growth we will continue striving to reduce environmental impact̶a vital social issue. 98 Environmental Consideration Environmental Management Environmental Policy Environmental Policy By shaping the advancement of healthcare, our global environmental conservation activities contribute to the creation of a fulﬁlling and healthy society. Core behaviors 1. We deliver reassurance to all people by carrying out business activities in an environmentally conscious manner. 2. We promote environmental management in throughout the life cycles of products and services and the value chain of our business activities, so that we can contribute to climate change mitigation, sustainable resource use (waste reduction, recycle, water conservation), protection of biodiversity, and proper control of chemical substances. 3. We comply with all applicable national or regional environmental regulations, standards and agreements. 4. In order to improve environmental performance, we continually improve our environmental conservation activities and work diligently prevent pollution and minimize the impact our products and services have on the environment. 5. We contribute to society through environmental conservation activities as a member of the community, while educating and raising the environmental consciousness. 6. We establish environmental objectives consistent with this environmental policy, and measure our performance against them. Revised April 2018 Click here for information on “11. To Preserve the Global Environment” in the Sysmex Global Compliance Code. 99 Sysmex Eco-Vision 2025 Formulating Sysmex Eco-Vision 2025 To coincide with the formulation of the new long-term management goals for the Sysmex Group, we formulated “Sysmex Eco-Vision 2025”. These set forth the long-term environmental vision that Sysmex aims to attain by 2025, and requires us to promote environmental conservation more than ever throughout the product/service life cycle and across the entire value chain of our business activities. For details on Sysmex Eco-Vision 2025, see the activity highlight in the “Initiative to Protect the Environment from a Long-Term Perspective.” Environmental Management System Group Environmental Management System Sysmex has formulated Global Environmental Management Regulations to clarify the responsibilities and roles of each Group company. We have assigned a managing director, a member of the Managing Board, of Sysmex Corporation as an environmental management oﬃcer to oversee and control Group environmental management. Promoting the Acquisition of ISO 14001 Certiﬁcation Sysmex is working toward the acquisition of ISO 14001, the international standard for environmental management, for the Groupʼs principal aﬃliated companies. As of April 30, 2018, we had acquired certiﬁcations at 16 Group companies, and the percentage of employees at locations that had received certiﬁcations amounted to 60% of the total number of Group employees. By centralizing the environmental activities at Group companies in Japan, we are working to ascertain the state of progress on activities and any issues, as well as to reinforce management activities, and four companies (Sysmex Corporation, Sysmex International Reagents, Sysmex RA and Sysmex Medica) comprising nine locations have obtained integrated certiﬁcation. As a result, we are now able to systematically share information related to environmental management. Also, in ﬁscal 2016 we completed the transition to the amended ISO standards (ISO 14001:2015). 100 Status of ISO 14001 Certiﬁcation Company Scope Site Acquired in Manufacture of reagents for clinical November Reagent factory Sysmex Europe testing 1999 (Acquired ISO 50001 Sales and after-sales services for certiﬁcation) Head oﬃce clinical testing instruments, various types of analyzers, testing reagents, October 2011 testing information systems and Sysmex Deutschland healthcare-related software Kakogawa Factory April 2000 Technopark February 2002 Head oﬃce February 2002 Sysmex Corporation Development, design, manufacture, sale and after-sale service of clinical November Solution Center testing instruments, various types of 2005 analyzers, testing reagents, testing i-Square February 2015 information systems and healthcareSysmex International related software, as well as sale of Ono Factory March 2001 Reagents custom proteins Seishin Factory June 2007 Sysmex Medica March 2001 Sysmex RA June 2008 Manufacture and sale of reagents for Sysmex Brazil February 2009 clinical testing Sales and after-sales services for Sysmex America clinical testing instruments, various types of analyzers, testing reagents, December testing information systems and 2009 Sysmex Reagents America healthcare-related software, as well as manufacture of testing reagents Design, development, installation and support of healthcare information systems and services, as well as sales and after-sales Sysmex New Zealand services for clinical testing May 2011 instruments, various types of analyzers, testing reagents, testing information systems and healthcarerelated software Sales and after-sales services for clinical testing instruments, various Sysmex France types of analyzers, testing reagents, February 2012 testing information systems and healthcare-related software 101 Company Scope Site Acquired in Manufacture of reagents for clinical Sysmex India March 2012 testing Sales and after-sales services for Head oﬃce clinical testing instruments, various types of analyzers, testing reagents, Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc testing information systems and April 2012 healthcare-related software, as well Reagent factory as manufacture and sale of reagents for clinical testing Sales and after-sales services for clinical testing instruments, various Sysmex Espana types of analyzers, testing reagents, April 2012 testing information systems and healthcare-related software Development and manufacture of Sysmex Wuxi June 2013 reagents for clinical testing Manufacture and sale of reagents for Jinan Sysmex January 2016 clinical testing Conducting Environmental Auditing In line with environmental management system requirements, we perform regular internal and external environmental audits at locations that have obtained ISO 14001 certiﬁcation. In ﬁscal 2017, four nonconformities were found during internal environmental audits of the four Group companies and nine locations for which certiﬁcation in Japan has been integrated. One slight nonconformity was found in external environmental audits. Corrective measures have been completed. 102 Long-Term Environmental Objectives and Results of Mid-Term Environmental Objectives Long-Term Environmental Objectives of the Sysmex Group Environmental Action Plan (Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020) and Sysmex Group Medium-Term Environmental Objectives and Results Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020 Mid-term Environmental Long-term Environmental Activities/Achievements in FY2017 Objectives (FY2015 –2017) Objectives (Revised Edition) Continued working to reduce electricity use and achieve better compactness in the development of new products Continued eﬀorts to develop alternatives for animal-derived substances in reagents To reduce waste, increased the number of instrument varieties Promote eco-friendly Promote eco-friendly employing reusable packaging products and service products and service materials models models Increased the percentage of customer inquiries and service requests resolved via telephone and network services (compatibility with remote connection) (thereby reducing Environmental CO2 emissions by decreasing the consciousness number of visits made using in product life vehicles) cycle process Click here for details For exports, promoted shift from air to ocean transport Optimized product package sizes and conducted loading simulations to increase container loading eﬃciency Reduce carbon dioxide Reduce carbon dioxide Promoted local procurement of emissions for logistics by emissions for logistics by disposable products 50% (per unit of non45% (per unit of nonResults (per unit of non consolidated sales)1 consolidated sales)1 consolidated sales): Base year: FY2010 Base year: FY2010 Fiscal 2017: 4.924 (t-CO2/hundred million yen) Base year: 7.252 (t-CO2/hundred million yen) Against base year: Down 32% Click here for details 103 Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020 Mid-term Environmental Long-term Environmental Activities/Achievements in FY2017 Objectives (FY2015 –2017) Objectives (Revised Edition) Environmental Reduced use of electricity by consciousness improving production eﬃciency at business (Sysmex International Reagents) oﬃces Reduced CO2 emissions by using solar power (Sysmex Europe(Reagent factory in Germany）, i-Square) Switched to high-eﬃciency air conditioning units (Solution Reduce greenhouse gas Reduce greenhouse gas Center) emissions at business emissions at business Converted to the use of oﬃces by 50%(per unit of oﬃces by 40% (per unit of renewable energy for electricity 2 2 consolidated sales) consolidated sales) (Sysmex Europe, Sysmex Base year: FY2008 Base year: FY2008 Deutschland, Sysmex Europe (reagent factory in Germany)) Results (per unit of consolidated sales): Fiscal 2017: 7.16 (t-CO2/hundred million yen) Base year: 10.07 (t-CO2/hundred million yen) Against base year: Down 29% Click here for details Reused as a road paving material the glass waste formerly processed at landﬁlls Achieve a recycle rate of Achieve a recycle rate of (Technopark, Solution Center) 93% or higher at all 92% or higher at all Reused packaging material on 3 3 business oﬃces business oﬃces purchased items (Sysmex Wuxi) Results: Fiscal 2017: 91.3% Click here for details 104 Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020 Mid-term Environmental Long-term Environmental Activities/Achievements in FY2017 Objectives (FY2015 –2017) Objectives (Revised Edition) Reused reverse-osmosis (pure) wastewater through improvement of ultrapure water plant (Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc) Reduce water usage at Reduce water usage at Reused industrial waste water reagent factories by 10% reagent factories by 7% after treatment (Sysmex India) (per unit of amount of (per unit of amount of Results (per unit of production): 4 4 production) production) Fiscal 2017: 23.2 Base year: FY2008 Base year: FY2008 (m³/thousand boxes) Base year: 21.5 (m³/thousand boxes) Against base year: Up 8% Click here for details 1 Scope of data: Sysmex Corporation 2 Scope of data: Factories and major business oﬃces (13 factories, 7 business oﬃces) [Factories] Sysmex Corporation (Kakogawa Factory, i-Square), Sysmex International Reagents (Ono Factory, Seishin Factory), Sysmex Medica, Sysmex RA, Sysmex Europe (Reagent factory in Germany), Sysmex Brazil, Sysmex Reagents America, Sysmex India, Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc, Jinan Sysmex, Sysmex Wuxi [Major Business Oﬃces] Sysmex Corporation (head oﬃce, Technopark, Solution Center), Sysmex Europe, Sysmex America, Sysmex Shanghai, Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc 3 Scope of data: Factories and major business oﬃces where products and/or chemical substances are handled (13 factories, 3 business oﬃces) [Factories] Sysmex Corporation (Kakogawa Factory, i-Square), Sysmex International Reagents (Ono Factory, Seishin Factory), Sysmex Medica, Sysmex RA, Sysmex Europe (Reagent factory in Germany), Sysmex Brazil, Sysmex Reagents America, Sysmex India, Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc, Jinan Sysmex, Sysmex Wuxi [Major Business Oﬃces] Sysmex Corporation (head oﬃce, Technopark, Solution Center) 4 Scope of data: Reagent factories (9 factories) Sysmex International Reagents (Ono Factory, Seishin Factory), Sysmex Europe (Reagent factory in Germany), Sysmex Brazil, Sysmex Reagents America, Sysmex India, Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc, Jinan Sysmex, Sysmex Wuxi Environmental Risk Assessments Performing Environmental Risk Assessments As part of the Groupʼs risk management, Sysmex assesses the impact of business activities on increasingly severe environmental issues from the perspectives of compliance and environmental impact, in an eﬀort to reduce risk and create business opportunities. We conduct risk assessments once every two years under its risk assessment system. 105 Environmental Education Conducting Environmental Education and Training Sysmex Corporation conducts general education for all employees to foster an awareness of the impact of the Groupʼs environmental activities and individual operations. We conduct specialized training for individuals designated by their divisions as people responsible for and in charge of environmental management system promotion. We also conduct specialized and emergency response training for each division, as necessary. Examples of Environmental Education (Fiscal 2017) General environmental training (e-learning): For all employees at business sites having integrated ISO certiﬁcation Regulatory system seminar: For people in charge of business sites and development 106 Environmental Consideration Environmental Consideration through the Product Lifecycle Eco-friendly products and services Environment-Friendliness in Product Design Sysmex has formulated regulations related to product life cycle management in an eﬀort to contribute to energy conservation and waste reduction when customers use our products. These guidelines, aimed at conserving IVD instrumentsʼ use of electricity and lowering reagent quantities, are incorporated into technical development. Examples of Initiatives Method Results of Initiatives Reduced resources used in containers and packaging materials Adopting Concentrated Substantially reduced waste generated at laboratories Reagent By reducing weight and volume, improved transportation eﬃciency and reduced CO2 emissions Use of Environmentally By switching to more environment-friendly and safer reagents, eliminated the Considerate Raw Materials need for processing waste liquid with neutralizing agents XN-Series Using Reagent Concentrated 25 Times Compared with Conventional Reagents 107 Environmental Consideration in the Production of Raw Materials To curtail the use of natural resources, Sysmex has established a production method using recombinant silkworms as an alternative to the use of animal-derived proteins in its reagents. In the past, producing these substances used substantial amounts of energy. However, as silkworms can be cultivated in typical rooms, simply by using shelves and breeding containers and providing them with food, we anticipate a stable supply, as well as energy savings and waste reduction. Silkworms to produce proteins We use proteins produced by silkworms in Revohem PT, a reagent we launched in ﬁscal 2017. This is the ﬁrst such product to obtain regulatory certiﬁcation. Our protein production contracting service business using this technology has also been fully operational since ﬁscal 2012, and we are already taking orders from a number of pharmaceutical companies. Comparison of Method Using Silkworms and Conventional Method (Revohem PT) 108 * Comparison of in-house product (through joint research with Tokyo City Univercity) Response to Laws and Regulations on Harmful Substances Application of the revised RoHS Directive* (which was amended in July 2011) to Sysmexʼs diagnostic instruments and diagnostic instruments for animals began in July 2016. Sysmex has completed parts surveys and the switchover to alternative parts on products destined for the European Union, and we declared our compliance in ﬁscal 2015. * A directive prohibiting the use of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic devices sold in the European Union. This directive calls for the cessation of use of heavy metals (lead, cadmium, mercury and hexavalent chromium) and speciﬁed bromine containing ﬂame retardants (PBB and PBDE). Environmentally Conscious Procurement (Green Procurement) Cooperating with Business Partners to Promote Environmentally Conscious Procurement Sysmex has established Green Procurement Standards, which describe its fundamental stance on environmental considerations in procurement activities. We also conduct annual CSR surveys of our business partners to check whether they have in place policies on environmental management, as well as targets and plans for CO2 reduction and energy conservation. Click here for information on our procurement policy. History of Revisions and Updates of Disclosure Information Related to Green Procurement 109 Green Procurement Standards Through our global corporate activities in the healthcare ﬁeld, we are contributing to the creation of a fulﬁlling and healthy society. 1. Objectives In accordance with its environmental policy, the Sysmex Group strives to fulﬁll its corporate social responsibility by promoting global environment conservation. Accordingly, we endeavor to promote the manufacture of environmentally friendly products by encouraging the procurement of raw materials and parts that have low impact on the global environment. Sysmex aims to cultivate motivated environmental conservation activities among our suppliers and enable us to work together toward the development of a sustainable society. 2. Green Procurement Initiatives The Sysmex Group practices green procurement to ensure that its procurement activities promote a reduction in the environmental impact of the Company's products and reduce the environmental impact of all production activities, including those of our suppliers. We promote the two items below as speciﬁc green procurement initiatives. 1) Promote the procurement of raw materials and parts that have lower environmental impact. 2) Expand business with suppliers that take a proactive approach toward environmental conservation. 3. Scope of Application These standards apply to the procurement of raw materials, parts and products by Sysmex Group companies. 4. Control of Chemical Substances in Products The Sysmex Group requires the selection of materials and parts for the products it develops and produces to be based not only on the requisite quality, performance and economic feasibility, but also on the minimization of environmental impact. Therefore, raw materials and parts that do not employ the chemical substances described below shall be adopted: 1) Substances prohibited according to restrictions on chemical substances contained in products shall not be contained. 2) Those in which the chemical substance amounts deﬁned under restrictions on chemical substances contained in products shall be monitored. 3) Those for which the environmental impact of the chemical substance in terms of atmospheric pollution, water contamination, soil pollution, etc. shall be low. 4) Environmental impact data for materials shall be disclosed. 5) In relation to packaging materials, when all of the aforementioned factors are identical, that with the lowest volume of contained chemical substances shall be selected. Revised November 2014 110 1. Conﬁguration and Operation of Environmental Management Systems When commencing transactions with business partners, the Sysmex Group indicates clearly the importance it places on motivated environmental conservation activities. To this end, we conﬁrm whether potential suppliers have in place environmental management systems certiﬁed by third parties. 1) ISO 14001 certiﬁcation 2) Simpliﬁed environmental management system certiﬁcation 2. Provision of Environmental Information on Raw Materials and Parts The Sysmex Group asks suppliers to provide the following environmental reports in cooperation with Sysmex's environmental conservation activities. 1) Data on harmful chemical substances contained in raw materials and parts 2) Certiﬁcation against the use of substances targeted by European RoHS regulations 3) Information on raw materials and parts compliant with European RoHS regulations 3. Environmental Measures by Suppliers to Their Outsourcing Partners The Sysmex Group also asks suppliers to request that their outsourcing partners conﬁgure environmental management systems and cooperate in providing environmental information. We ask suppliers to take responsibility for managing their outsourcing partners in this respect. Revised November 2014 Specifying Prohibited Substances, Substances to Be Reduced and Target Countries Based on its green procurement standards, Sysmex discloses the following items in dealing with chemical substances (substances with environmental impact) contained in the products it manufactures and sells, as well as their constituent parts, devices and materials. 1. Prohibited substances (substances whose use is prohibited), revised on May 31, 2018 Prohibited substances 2. Substances to be reduced (substances whose use must be reduced) , revised on May 31, 2018 Substances to be reduced 3. List of target countries (countries and regions whose environmental laws and regulations provide the basis for prohibited substances and substances to be reduced), revised on May 31, 2017 List of target countries 111 Environment-Friendly Logistics Eﬀorts to Lower CO2 Emissions in Japan-Domestic and Inter-Regional Transportation of Products As Sysmexʼs global business continues to expand, it is working to curtail CO2 emissions by reviewing its logistics processes and systems as distribution grows increasingly diverse and moving forward with packaging reforms. As a result, in ﬁscal 2017 we achieved a 32% reduction compared with ﬁscal 2010, the base year under Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020. We have also set CO2 reduction targets when shipping under Sysmex Eco-Vision 2025, which we formulated in ﬁscal 2018, and are continuing with our initiatives. Reefer container Results of Reviewing Logistics Processes, Systems and Packaging Method Result of Reviews We shifted our mode of transporting reagents, which are considered hazardous materials, from aircraft to ship, using reefer containers*, for reagents destined Modal Shift for Germany. This move reduced the annual aircraft transport volume by around 380 tons. Following the China region, we set up a regional logistics hub warehouse in Increasing Transportation Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc. Concentrating transportation within the region is reducing Eﬃciency CO2 emissions. To reduce transport frequency, we have stepped up loading simulations. As a result, we have improved our container loading ratio from 52% (ﬁscal 2013) to more than 70% (since ﬁscal 2015). Loading Simulations In the Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc supply chain, we have introduced the “container optimizer” to automatically calculate optimal loading ratios, resulting in eﬀective transport. * A container with equipment to maintain its internal temperature at a speciﬁed level 112 CO2 emissions from logistics Notes: Range of calculation is CO2 from warehouse in Japan to customers within Japan and that to overseas seaport or airport. Saving Resources by Revising Packaging Materials To conserve resources, Sysmex has introduced reusable packaging for instruments shipped within Japan. In ﬁscal 2017, this move resulted in a savings of approximately 14 tons of cardboard. In addition, for the steel materials introduced for shipping products overseas, we have increased transport strength and encouraged recycling at delivery locations, helping to reduce environmental impact. Furthermore, to reduce waste from packaging materials Sysmex Switzerland has introduced reusable boxes for refrigerated cargo. Introduction of Reusable Packaging Materials That Can Be Folded up When Returning 113 Environmental Consideration Reduction in Environmental Burden through Activities at Business Oﬃces: Responding to Climate Change Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Eﬀorts to Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions at Business Oﬃces We are undertaking a variety of eﬀorts to reduce direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by business oﬃces. In ﬁscal 2017, unit greenhouse gas emissions decreased by approximately 2.7% year on year. Against our Eco-Vision 2020 targets, emissions (unit per consolidated sales) were down 29% compared with our base year (ﬁscal 2008). LED Lighting(Ono Factory) Initiatives to Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions Initiative Company Content We introduced an electricity management system (demand monitoring function)1 to understand and control overall electricity use. We used this analysis to introduce energy-saving measures tailored to business oﬃce characteristics. Monitoring room temperatures in summer and Energy Conservation Sysmex Corporation winter Measures Installing moving detectors to activate staircase lighting Upgrading to energy-saving air conditioning equipment Introducing LED lighting, other Sysmex Europe Introduced a new air conditioning system At the Solution Center, switched to high-eﬃciency air Sysmex Corporation conditioning equipment that does not use gas Shifted to highSwitched to LED lighting in principal reagent ﬁlling Sysmex Europe eﬃciency equipment rooms Switched to a refrigerant with lower global warming Sysmex Wuxi potential in cold storage 114 Initiative Company Content At i-Square, installed solar panels and introduced Sysmex Corporation natural lighting in working areas to save electricity Introduced renewable energy Sysmex Europe Used all renewable energy for electricity Sysmex UK Shifted to renewable energy for some electricity Gave Greener Sysmex Points to employees who use Sysmex Malaysia hybrid vehicles to commute to work, reduced energy use and decreased CO2 emissions Employee Encouraged employees to use public transportation to Awareness Sysmex Australia commute to work Conﬁrmed that all employees who use their own cars Sysmex India to commute to work have received PUC certiﬁcation2 1 Functions for continuously measuring maximum electrical demand (demand value) for 24-hour periods and sounding an alarm if the level exceeds target values, as well as reporting on electricity use on a daily and monthly basis. 2 An acronym for pollution under control, PUC certiﬁes that vehicle emissions are below pollution control standards. Indian law requires vehicles to undergo semiannual PUC testing, and PUC certiﬁcation is obligatory. (The PUC certiﬁcation period is one year for new vehicles.) Greenhouse gas emissions at business oﬃces Notes: Scope of the data: Factories and major business oﬃces [Factories] Sysmex Corporation (Kakogawa Factory, i-Square), Sysmex International Reagents (Ono Factory, Seishin Factory), Sysmex Medica, Sysmex RA, Sysmex Europe (Reagent factory in Germany), Sysmex Brazil, Sysmex Reagents America, Sysmex India, Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc, Jinan Sysmex, Sysmex Wuxi [Major Business Oﬃces] Sysmex Corporation (head oﬃce, Technopark, Solution Center), Sysmex Europe, Sysmex America, Sysmex Shanghai, Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc 115 Decreasing CO2 Emissions from Domestic Company's Cars To curtail fuel use and reduce CO2 emissions from some 400 company cars in Japan, we are making use of our intranet to visualize travel distances and gasoline used by each Company car and heighten driver awareness. We are also introducing fuel-eﬃcient vehicles and hybrid cars. CO2 emissions by Company cars in Japan were down approximately 6% year on year. Complying with Related Laws and Regulations Based on the Energy Conservation Act, Sysmex Corporation has submitted to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry a mediumto long-term plan that summarizes its regular reports aggregating annual energy usage amounts and its energy reduction plan. Going forward, we will continue promoting energy conservation activities throughout the Company to achieve these nonbinding targets in Japan. 116 Environmental Consideration Reduction in Environmental Burden through Activities at Business Oﬃces: Resource Circulation Managing and Recycling Waste Reducing Waste and Promoting a Stable Recycling Rate Sysmex engages in ongoing initiatives to reduce waste and increase the recycling rate. As our business grows, our total amount of waste increases due to the establishment and expansion of new locations and to a rising number of employees. However, as a result of business oﬃce initiatives our Group recycling rate remains high, at 91.3%. Waste-Reduction Initiatives Company Initiative Reuse the glass waste formerly processed at landﬁlls as a road paving material, Sysmex Corporation achieving material recycling of glass waste Introduction of ethanol reuse equipment to process previously incinerated waste Sysmex RA ethanol, reducing the amount emitted as waste to one-seventh Sysmex Wuxi Reuse of the polyethylene bags used to package purchased parts as trash bags 117 Business oﬃce recycling rate Scope of data: Factories and major business oﬃces where products and/or chemical substances are handled [Factories] Sysmex Corporation (Kakogawa Factory, i-Square), Sysmex International Reagents (Ono Factory, Seishin Factory), Sysmex Medica, Sysmex RA, Sysmex Europe (Reagent factory in Germany), Sysmex Brazil, Sysmex Reagents America, Sysmex India, Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc, Jinan Sysmex, Sysmex Wuxi [Major Business Oﬃces] Sysmex Corporation (head oﬃce, Technopark, Solution Center) Using Water Resources Eﬀectively Reducing Water Use and Appropriately Processing Wastewater Sysmex uses water, both above-ground and underground water, in its business activities, such as its core reagent production. Recognizing the reduction of water use as an important social responsibility, Sysmex sets targets for the reduction of water use in Sysmex Eco-Vision 2025, and is working to improve the eﬃciency of water use at individual sites. In ﬁscal 2017 our water usage (per unit of production volume) improved approximately 9% year on year, resulting in an 8% increase against our Eco-Vision 2020 base year for water usage. Major Initiatives at Business Oﬃces Company Initiative Promote improvements in production eﬃciency, reduce work hours and decrease Reagent factories in Japan water use Upgrade of the ultrapure water plant and recycling waste water through reverse Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc osmosis when the factory is not in operation Recycle industrial wastewater after treatment, use for watering greenery around Sysmex India factory 118 Water Use at Reagent Factories Scope of data: Reagent factories (9 locations) Sysmex International Reagents (Ono Factory, Seishin Factory), Sysmex Europe (Reagent factory in Germany), Sysmex Brazil, Sysmex Reagents America, Sysmex India, Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc, Jinan Sysmex, Sysmex Wuxi Reducing Paper Use Promoting Digital Data Sysmex Corporation is working to reduce the use of paper by utilizing personal computers, tablets and smartphones to send and receive data electronically. These eﬀorts have boosted operating eﬃciency and cut down on paper use and waste volume. The use of electronic data facilitates the sending of agenda information to meeting attendees ahead of time. Checking and considering this information in advance has made meetings more eﬃcient and shorter. Eschewing the use of paper for storing materials also helps reduce the risk of internal information leaks. Sysmex Korea has installed an approval system that has reduced paper use by 20,000 sheets. We have also begun cutting down on paper use by providing suppliers with product drawings as electronic data rather than on paper. 119 Environmental Consideration Reduction in Environmental Burden through Activities at Business Oﬃces: Preventing Pollution Managing Chemical Substances Determining the Status of Storage and Use and Managing Harmful Substances Sysmex uses chemical substances in its product R&D and manufacturing processes. In addition to preventing losses or leaks, we strive to manage chemical substances appropriately to prevent damage to the health of employees working on-site. Methods for Managing Harmful Substances Company Initiative We have established a Chemical Substance Management Committee and are reducing chemical accidents, educating related divisions and otherwise enhancing the management system (Technopark). Sysmex Corporation At the Scientiﬁc Laboratory, we conduct thorough chemical substance management based on the Scientiﬁc Aﬀairs Division Standards for Laboratory Management (Solution Center). Sysmex International We use ID cards and ﬁngerprint recognition to prevent unregistered personnel Reagents from entering areas where deleterious and hazardous substances are stored. Emission of Harmful Substances and Management and Processing with Regard to Their Release into the Water and Atmosphere Managing and Processing Harmful Substances As preparation against the danger of infection by biological substances, we strictly control the locations where such substances are stored and used, based on manuals. Also, these substances are carefully segregated from general waste for proper disposal. For other harmful substances, we work to prevent aerial drift, dispersion and groundwater permeation through countermeasures addressing both facilities and management methods. In these ways, we endeavor to keep emissions below statutory standard values. 120 Wastewater Management and Processing Sysmex prioritizes the protection of water quality. We have created our own emission standards that we use to manage the wastewater from development locations and factories that use chemical substances, ensuring that waterways and underground water are not aﬀected. Methods of Managing and Processing Wastewater Company Method At the Ono Factory, we have introduced an alarm system that sounds an alarm Sysmex International when biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) exceeds standards, preventing the Reagents emission of liquids containing organic matter. We have introduced waste liquid processing equipment to heat-sterilize Sysmex RA infectious waste, rendering it harmless before direct release into sewerage systems. The company has introduced a new wastewater processing system at its Sysmex America reagent factory, removing boron-containing compounds from the waste produced during reagent manufacturing. Management and Processing Related to Atmospheric Emissions In response to the Fluorocarbons Emission Control Law, a revised version of which went into eﬀect on April 1, 2015, Group companies in Japan established response manuals for individual companies. We clariﬁed ﬂuorocarbon-containing equipment we own or manage and worked to determine appropriate use, conducted inspections and determined calculated leakages. Sysmex Medica has installed local exhaust equipment in its cleaning chamber, using activated carbon to process gas being treated with organic solvents, reducing the oﬀ-premise impact. 121 Environmental Consideration Biodiversity Protection Involvement with Biodiversity Sysmex uses water in its core reagent production and understands that it receives a host of beneﬁts from the worldʼs living things as part of its business activities. Accordingly, we recognize that preserving the forests that contribute to local watershed protection is an important social responsibility. We also aim to contribute to the preservation of biodiversity. Click here for information on our shift in animal-derived protein materials (recombinant silkworms) in our diagnostic reagents. Forest Conservation Activities Contributing to Biodiversity Preservation through the “Sysmex Forest” In ﬁscal 2013 we began taking part in forest maintenance activities based on the Enlist the Participation of All Citizens in Creating Woodland project being promoted by the Hyogo Prefectural Government. To this end, we took responsibility for a two-hectare portion of the 17-hectare Kawai Kaiteki Forest near our reagent factory in the city of Ono, Hyogo Prefecture. We dubbed this portion the Sysmex Forest and set about making the Satoyama (a human-inﬂuenced natural environment) a place of tranquility for people and wildlife. In ﬁscal 2017, a total of 205 people participated in these activities, which took place 10 times. Initiatives at the Sysmex Forest Initiative Activity Protection of endangered species (such as protecting the habitat of the clouded salamander1 and planting plants to attract the chestnut tiger Preservation of Biodiversity butterﬂy2) Protection of rare wild plants (cultivating the Japanese lily to aid its recovery) Conducting programs so that children can enjoy coming into contact with nature (hand-painting houses for small birds, cultivating plant cuttings, vegetables and shiitake mushrooms, and taking part in other activities） Registered for the Green Wave, a program being promoted by Japanʼs Education and Awareness Ministry of the Environment, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, and Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. (invited by the United Nations to take part in the International Day for Biological Diversity (May 22) in 2017) 122 1 These small Cryptobranchoidea (primitive salamanders) are designated as Vulnerable II in the Ministry of the Environmentʼs Red Data Book. 2 These butterﬂies are unusual for their long migratory routes; most of them arrive in Japan in spring and migrate around 2,000km in autumn to Taiwan and other southern climes. They are designated as a quasi-endangered species in Chiba Prefectureʼs Red List. Click here for information on our system for promoting employee volunteers. Click here for information on the “Sysmex Forest.” Sysmex Forest Sysmex Forest (participants in forest maintenance (protecting scarce wildlife) activities) Activities in Other Regions Company Activity Participation in a biomass energy project to promote renewable energy and Sysmex Spain preserve the environment Support for initiatives to return unique ﬂora and fauna to their previous state, Sysmex New Zealand such as the kiwi bird, which has been threatened with extinction by European pioneers Sysmex India 50 trees planted by employees Eﬀorts to help preserve the kiwi bird Aﬀorestation activities in India in New Zealand 123 Sustainability Governance Numerous corporate scandals related to corporate governance, risk management and compliance have come to light in recent years, and their impact on society has increased. In this environment, Japanʼs Corporate Governance Code went into eﬀect in June 2015, calling on companies to take governance into consideration in non-ﬁnancial areas, as well as on the ﬁnancial front. In addition to strengthening governance and internal control, companies are being called on to buttress their management foundations for promoting risk management and compliance. Sysmex believes that reinforcing governance helps ensure stakeholder trust and is an important management issue in terms of enhancing mediumto long-term corporate value. Sysmex has established the Audit and Supervisory Committee and is strengthening the supervisory function by external members of the Managing Board, as well as enhancing the Managing Boardʼs eﬀectiveness and reinforcing governance in other ways. In line with these changes, we are putting in place systems to fortify the groupwide risk management function and have established a Compliance Committee and an internal reporting system as initiatives to strengthen our base with a view to sustainable growth. We will continue aiming to maximize the overall corporate value of the Group through management robustness, better transparency and improved management speed and eﬃciency. Click here for information on corporate governance. 124 Compliance Compliance Management Group Policy Pursuing Open and Aboveboard Business Activities Based on our Group philosophy, the Sysmex Way, we deﬁne our view of compliance as the conduct of open and aboveboard business activities on the basis of observance of laws and regulations and high ethical standards. In accordance with this deﬁnition, we have established a Global Compliance Code, in which particularly important conformance rules and behavioral guidelines for all Group executives and employees to abide by are compiled. Sysmex Group Global Compliance Code 1. Ensuring the Safety of Our Products and Services to Customers In all our corporate activities, we shall make it a matter of priority to provide our customers with safety and security in the operation and use of our products and services. 2. Promoting Fair Dealing and Free Competition We shall comply with the laws and regulations of each country and region concerning the promotion of fair and free competition, deal fairly with all our customers and other business partners and conduct transactions under appropriate conditions. In addition, in relation to other companies in the same business, we shall not illegally, dishonestly or unreasonably restrict their business, nor shall we defame them. 3. Fair and Proper Information Disclosure and Exercise of Complete Information Control Our corporate information, such as our Groupʼs ﬁnancial condition and business activities, shall be disclosed in a fair, prompt, correct, and clear manner in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, and we shall exercise strict control over conﬁdential information collected through our business activities so as not to infringe the rights of third parties. 4. Implementation of Appropriate Research and Development Activities When carrying out research and development, we shall protect the dignity, privacy, and human rights of trial subjects, and shall comply with applicable laws and regulations to carry out our research activities in accordance with high ethical standards. 5. To Respect Intellectual Property We respect both the rights of our Groupʼs intellectual property and the intellectual property of others. We shall not unlawfully acquire or use any conﬁdential business information or the proprietary assets of others. 125 6. To Maintain International Peace and Safety We shall comply with exportand import-related laws and regulations, and shall not engage in any transaction which may impede the maintenance of international peace and safety. 7. To Conduct Proper Accounting and Appropriate Tax Payments We shall always apply the appropriate accounting measures and recognize the tax obligations set forth in applicable tax laws and accounting regulations and standards. 8. To Respect Human Rights and to Improve Occupational Health and Safety We shall support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Core Labour Standards, and respect fundamental human rights, and shall not commit acts such as discrimination or harassment. We shall also comply with applicable laws and regulations and endeavor to improve occupational health and safety. Further, we shall not commit any unfair labor practices against the personnel of the company. 9. Prohibition of Conﬂicts of Interest We shall not attempt to gain any personal proﬁt in the performance of our duties, and shall not make any unauthorized use of our Groupʼs assets, goods or information, nor shall we perform personal acts that may cause harm to the Groupʼs business activities or reputation. 10. To Maintain Sound Relationships with Society We shall comply with applicable laws and regulations related to anti-bribery statutes and comply strictly with applicable laws regarding making political donations. The company shall not be intimidated by antisocial activities, behavior and groups, nor maintain any relationship with them. 11. To Preserve the Global Environment We shall comply with environment-related laws and regulations, and respect the environment throughout our business activities, based on applicable laws and international standards, in an endeavor to preserve and improve the global environment. Revised May 2017 Click here for the full text of the Sysmex Group Global Compliance Code. 126 Operating an Internal Reporting System in Japan and Overseas Sysmex has established and operates an internal reporting system for all Group companies. In Japan, we have set up “Campanula Lines” as an internal reporting system. Through this system, we ﬁeld consultations related to compliance-related issues such as bribery and human rights abuses and work to resolve any issues quickly. The “Campanula Lines” allow our employees to seek consultations and ﬁle reports via e-mail, postal mail or telephone through two lines (in-house and external). We have also established a line via the Audit and Supervisory Committee that enables employees to seek consultations and ﬁle reports related to the management team. Information received through these lines is handled anonymously and based on the Whistleblower Protection Act to protect people consulting or providing information from any disadvantage. The “Campanula Lines” Internal Reporting System Overseas, consultation and reporting lines provide local-language response. In ﬁscal 2017, we ﬁelded 32 consultations from Japan and overseas. We conducted factual inquiries for these consultations and dealt with each of them appropriately. Compliance Education Continuously Providing Education on Compliance To ensure thorough compliance, compliance managers are in place at each Group company, and Sysmex provides compliance education. In addition to educating new employees about the Groupʼs perspectives on compliance and the Sysmex Global Compliance Code, we conduct training for managers and e-learning on speciﬁc individual themes, thereby instilling thorough compliance awareness. 127 Main Compliance Education in Fiscal 2017 (Japan) Conducted compliance training for new employees Conducted compliance training for newly appointed managers Conducted training for Group employees in Japan on competition laws and anti-bribery Conducted training for Group employees in Japan on the revised Personal Information Protection Act Conducted human rights training related to harassment, including LGBT*, as well as personnel administration and the Workers Dispatch Act, for new employees, mid-career recruits and newly appointed managers Conducted Sysmex Promotion Code training to promote fair trade * Acronym referring to sexual minorities (lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender) (Overseas) Conducted compliance training for new employees Conducted training in line with revisions to the Global Compliance Code Conducted compliance training for managers 128 Compliance Security Export Control Policy on Security Export Control In line with Sysmex Global Compliance Code item “6. To Maintain International Peace and Safety,” we comply with export-related laws and regulations of individual countries and regions, and do not engage in transactions likely to impede the maintenance of international peace and safety. Click here for information on the Global Compliance Code. Structure Sysmex has established the Security Trade Control Committee, which is under the direct control of the president, to prevent illegal exports. We have also assigned people at overseas regional headquarters to take charge of managing security export control, and have conﬁgured a global operational structure. Initiatives Ensuring Thorough Management and Promoting Eﬃciency Recent years have seen an increase in the number of opportunities for Sysmex to export products between its overseas locations, presenting the need to reform and systematize our processes and respond to increasingly complex logistics in order to ensure thorough trade management and promote eﬃciency. In ﬁscal 2017, we held the Second Global Security Trade Control Council, a gathering of people responsible for and in charge of security export control in individual countries. Going forward, we will conduct coordinated global activities, promoting groupwide initiatives. Conducting Ongoing Education Once each year, Sysmex Corporation conducts e-learning on the fundamentals of security trade management for all employees. We also hold workshops on the recent global situation and regulatory systems, brieﬁng sessions on newly introduced systems and oﬀer various other types of education on an ongoing basis to increase awareness of security trade management. Training 129 Compliance Intellectual Property Management Policy on Respect for Intellectual Property Sysmex accords third-party intellectual property rights the same level of respect as it does its own. As deﬁned in item “5. To Respect Intellectual Property” of the Sysmex Global Governance Code, we will not unlawfully acquire or utilize any conﬁdential business information or the proprietary assets of others. We promote a thorough understanding of these rules for compliance by all executives and employees throughout the Group. Click here for the Sysmex Group Global Compliance Code. Structures When applying for patents to protect our own intellectual property and responding to third parties' intellectual property rights, members of the intellectual property, R&D and business development departments conduct and discuss patent reviews globally for each new product development project. Initiatives We conduct level-based (beginner, intermediate, advanced and senior management) training in our R&D and business development divisions on the importance of obtaining intellectual property rights, managing these rights appropriately, and respecting their signiﬁcance. In this way, we are enhancing the awareness of intellectual property. 130 Compliance Research Ethics Research Ethics Conducting Appropriate R&D Activities As deﬁned in “4. Implementation of Appropriate Research and Development Activities” of the Global Compliance Code, when carrying out research and development, Sysmex protects the dignity, privacy, and human rights of trial subjects, and complies with applicable laws and regulations in individual countries and regions to carry out its research activities in accordance with high ethical standards. In addition, Sysmex has adopted the Ethics Regulations on Clinical Research and Development and Human Genome and Genetic Analysis Research and also established a Research Ethics Examination Committee, which includes outside members such as legal and science experts, in order to review research content. The list of committee members and deliberation results are disclosed on our website, thus ensuring transparency. Click here for information on the “Ethics Regulations on Clinical Research and Development and Human Genome and Genetic Analysis Research.” Click here for information on the activities of the Research Ethics Examination Committee. Consideration for Animal Experiments Item “4.4 Animal experiments” of the Global Compliance Code states that when conducting animal experiments, we shall comply with applicable laws and regulations related to animal protection, and we shall limit such experiments to a minimum by studying the use of alternative methods. When animal experiments are necessary, we shall take all reasonable steps to minimize the animalsʼ pain. We conduct animal experiments in line with internal regulations that conform with public guidelines. Our Testing Control Committee rigorously deliberate testing plans to ensure their regulatory conformance. Guidelines Sysmex Follows Act on Welfare and Management of Animals (Ministry of the Environment) Standards Relating to the Care and Management of Laboratory Animals and Relief of Pain (Ministry of the Environment) Fundamental Guidelines for Proper Conduct of Animal Experiment and Related Activities in Academic Research Institutions (Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology) Guidelines for Proper Conduct of Animal Experiments (Science Council of Japan) Click here for the Sysmex Group Global Compliance Code. 131 Compliance Anti-Corruption Preparation of Standards and Provision of Education on the Prevention of Bribery As one of its voluntary corporate eﬀorts in accordance with the spirit of the UN Global Compact, Sysmex undertakes thorough eﬀorts to prevent bribery, in line with Principle 10, which states that “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.” The momentum of eﬀorts to eradicate corruption is gathering pace throughout the world, and various countries are enacting laws and stepping up enforcement. Against this backdrop, Sysmex clearly prohibits bribery in its Global Compliance Code, which applies to all executives and employees. In addition, we are encouraging a thorough understanding throughout the Group of our anti-bribery regulations, which cover such topics as banned items, due diligence, the provision of education, and management systems. We have also prepared guidebooks related to legal systems in key countries, including Japan, the United States, the United Kingdom, and China, and conduct e-learning and other types of education and training. Overview of Anti-Bribery Regulations 1. Sysmex prohibits the provision of money and other tangible or intangible beneﬁts to public oﬃcials, and people who are not public oﬃcials, for the purpose of obtaining illicit proﬁts, such as acquiring business or for the sake of business convenience.* * Such acts include avoiding or simplifying administrative procedures, obtaining or maintaining business opportunities, obtaining accommodation on bids, or obtaining conﬁdential information. 2. Prior to conducting new transactions, or during mergers and acquisitions, in addition to routine checks of a counterpartyʼs origin, background, and business details, Sysmex investigates whether the counterparty has relationships with public oﬃcials or past involvement in bribery cases. 3. Sysmex prohibits the payment to business partners and other parties of bribes or other payments that could be construed as bribes. 4. Sysmex has in place and operates a system for conducting regular education and training of Group executives and employees in relation to bribery prevention. 5. Group oﬃcers and employees who become aware of actions that contravene, or that could be construed as contravening these regulations must report such actions promptly to a compliance manager. Click here for information on the Sysmex Promotion Code. 132 Transparency in Relationships with Medical Institutions Responses in Japan Transactions based on a high level of ethics are required at every stage of our operations̶from research and development to manufacturing, sales and after-sales support̶as the number of opportunities for collaboration with medical institutions and medical professionals is increasing. Sysmex Corporation and Sysmex International Reagents, which are members of the Japan Association of Clinical Reagents Industries, concur with the philosophy outlined in the associationʼs “Guidelines on Transparency of Relationships between Corporate Activities and Medical Institutions” (2011), and disclose information related to funding provided to medical institutions. Click here for information on the Japan Association of Clinical Reagents Industries “Guidelines on Transparency of Relationships between Corporate Activities and Medical Institutions” (Japanese only) (PDF/1.07MB) Click here for Funding details. Responses Overseas Sunshine Acts have been enacted in the US, France and Belgium. We report relevant payments or transfers of value to each government regularly.* * We also disclose this on our web site. Click here for Funding details. 133 Compliance Tax Strategy Tax Policy Sysmex has established item “7. To Conduct Proper Accounting and Appropriate Tax Payments” in the Sysmex Group Global Compliance Code to heighten tax transparency. Furthermore, in line with the international consensus we employ OECD guidelines when pricing internal transactions among Group companies overseas. Click here for information on the Global Compliance Code. Tax Payments We disclose Group payments of corporate and other taxes in ﬁnancial and other reports, as well as the reasons for diﬀerences with eﬀective statutory tax rates. Click here for our annual securities report (Japanese only). Click here for the Sysmex Report (Financial and Other Information). Tax Strategy in the United Kingdom Click here for information on our tax strategy in the United Kingdom 134 Risk Management Risk Management Structure Risk Management Structure Promoting Risk Management by Establishing a Dedicated Committee To control groupwide risk management activities, Sysmex has established a Risk Management Committee (RM Committee). The committee is chaired by a risk management oﬃcer, a senior managing director. Committee members include some members of the Managing Board, as well as executive oﬃcers, who handle risks. The RM Committee regularly assesses various risks, such as those related to corruption, business ethics and other aspects of compliance, human resources, occupational safety and health, the environment, and accounting and ﬁnance, including tax payments. The committee identiﬁes major risks aﬀecting the Groupʼs operations and prepares countermeasures. The RM Committee monitors the status of risk management being conducted by the Compliance Committee, other related committees, individual divisions and subsidiaries. The committee also deliberates responses to any emerging risks that have a major impact on Group management. 135 Risk Management Structure Click here for information on corporate governance. 136 Risk Management Disaster Response Creation of a Structure for Responding Swiftly in Times of Emergency Sysmex has formulated individual business continuity plans (BCPs) for manufacturing, procurement and other functions, to ensure the Company is able to meet its social responsibility of providing a stable supply of products and services to medical institutions in the event of disasters and other crisis situations. Our BCPs identify products to be given provision priority so that our instruments can continue to function in a stable manner at healthcare institutions even in crisis situations. We have also prepared disaster-response regulations and manuals, including basic disaster-response regulations, putting in place systems that enable us to respond swiftly in emergencies. We have introduced safety conﬁrmation tools at Group companies in Japan as a means of emergency communication. Sysmex has also installed wireless digital equipment at business oﬃces in Japan, putting in place a system for communicating in the event of a communication blackout. We have also amassed stockpiles of supplies and other items to assist stranded personnel, setting aside enough items for every employee. Furthermore, we conduct e-learning on disaster prevention and response, BCP awareness education and simulation training to augment BCP eﬀectiveness. The groupwide backbone IT system that Sysmex operates is located at external, disaster-resistant data centers. In addition, we created a backup structure so that we can quickly switch to a backup system in the event that disaster renders our regular system inoperable. Click here for details on response in times of disaster (BCP). 137 Risk Management Information Security Enhancing Information Security Sysmex handles data about its customers, as well as on the entities with which it collaborates on R&D and other testing as well as information on the Companyʼs proprietary technologies. We recognize the importance of upholding information such as this, as well as of other important corporate secrets, and view the leak of such corporate secrets as an important risk for the Group. Accordingly, we have in place structures to prevent this risk from materializing. We have formulated consistent global regulations for information security and corporate secrets for all Group companies, strengthening measures to prevent information leaks and counter cyber threats. Group companies in Japan also regularly conduct e-learning related to information security and corporate secrets. Sysmex CNA has obtained certiﬁcation under ISO 27001*, the international standard for information security management systems, ensuring conﬁdentiality, completeness and availability of information related to service and support. * The service and support division has obtained certiﬁcation from 2016. 138 Sustainability External Evaluation Incorporation in Sustainability Indexes and Rankings Selection for Global Sustainability Indexes A growing number of investors are evaluating companiesʼ sustainability not only from a ﬁnancial perspective, but also from the non-ﬁnancial, environment, society and governance (ESG) perspective, in the aim of responsible investing from a long-term viewpoint. Around the world, a number of sustainability indexes are used to benchmark responsible investment. Being a highly sustainable company, Sysmex has been selected for numerous sustainability indexes and rankings. Dow Jones Sustainability World Index1 (from ﬁscal 2016) Dow Jones Sustainability Asia Paciﬁc Index1 (from ﬁscal 2012) FTSE4Good Index2 (from ﬁscal 2008) FTSE Blossom Japan Index3 (from ﬁscal 2017) MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes4 (from ﬁscal 2011) MSCI SRI Indexes4 (from ﬁscal 2013) MCSI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index5 (from ﬁscal 2017) MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index6 (WIN) (ﬁscal 2017) Ethibel Excellence7 (from ﬁscal 2011) Ethibel Pioneer7 (from ﬁscal 2014) Ethibel Sustainability Index(ESI)8 (from ﬁscal 2015) Global 100 (100 most sustainable companies in the world)9 (2017, 2016 and 2012) 1 An ESG investment index developed though collaboration between S&P Dow Jones Indices of the United States and Robeco SAM of Switzerland. This index evaluates corporate sustainability through the perspectives of the economy, the environment and society, and selects companies that are expected to achieve long-term sustainable growth based on comprehensive and advanced initiatives. The World Index targets the worldʼs listed companies, while the Asia Paciﬁc Index targets listed companies in the Asia-Paciﬁc region. 2 An ESG investment index announced by FTSE Russel, of the London Stock Exchange Group of the United Kingdom. Excellent companies are selected, based on an evaluation of ESG (environment, society, governance) information disclosed to the general public by the worldʼs leading companies. 3 FTSE Russell of the United Kingdom selects Japanese companies based on superior response on ESG (environment, society, governance) matters. The index uses FTSE4Good standards derived from international standards, such as the United Nationsʼ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 4 An ESG investment index developed by MCSI Inc. (Morgan Stanley Capital International), of the U.S. Morgan Stanley Group. Companies are selected based on an evaluation that includes ESG issues considered important by various indices based on the industry characteristics of the companies it targets. 5 An ESG investment index of MSCI of the United States. The index selects companies with relatively high ESG ratings in individual sectors from among the top 500 Japanese stocks by market capitalization. 6 An ESG investment index by MSCI of the United States. The index selects companies in various sectors that excel in gender diversity from among the top 500 Japanese stocks by market capitalization. 139 7 An index developed by Forum Ethibel, a Belgian non-proﬁt organization. Companies are selected that exhibit high performance from the perspective of corporate social responsibility. The index includes two sub-indices, Pioneer and Excellence. Companies in the Pioneer index are selected from among those in the Excellence index as being particularly excellent. 8 This index comprises companies selected for Ethibel Excellence, based on such limiting conditions as ﬂoating market capitalization. 9 The 100 Most Sustainable Companies in the World, selected by Corporate Knights of Canada. The selection was announced during the World Economic Forum, held in Davos, Switzerland. Recognition and Commendation by Third Parties From ﬁscal 2015 to 2017 2018 March Selected for the Companies That Care Honor Roll* 2018 for the tenth consecutive year (Sysmex America) * Companies That Care Honor Roll: A corporate ranking that designates companies that contribute to the welfare of employees, their families and local community, based on a survey conducted by the Center for Companies That Care, an NPO. March Recognized for the second time by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry for excellence in health management of “companies that excel in health management” (White 500) February Received an award of excellence in the environmental report division at the 21st Environmental Communication Awards for the Sysmex Sustainability Report 2017. 140 2017 November Super-resolution ﬂuorescence microscope received the Good Design Gold Award 2017 November Ranked 18th in The Best-Performing CEOs in the World 2017, published by Harvard Business Review October Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc selected for HR Asia Best Companies to Work for in Asia 2017 September Selected for inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index August Named in Forbesʼ The World's 100 Most Innovative Companies (27th) June Received the Work & Family in 2017 award (Sysmex Europe) April Received the Fiscal 2017 Commendation for Science and Technology by the Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, Prize for Science and Technology March Selected for the Companies That Care Honor Roll 2017 (Sysmex America) February Recognized by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry for excellence in health management in the ﬁrst year of “companies that excel in health management” (White 500) February Received the Award for Excellence at the 20th Environmental Communication Awards (Jury Awards) for the Sysmex Sustainability Report 2016 January Selected for the 2017 Global 100 (100 most sustainable companies in the world), the third time 2016 November At the ﬁscal 2016 Kinki Local Commendation for Inventions, received the Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology Prize for one invention and the Encouragement Prize for Inventions for three inventions November Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc and Sysmex Malaysia selected for HR Asia Best Companies to Work for in Asia 2016 October Ranked 27th of 462 Companies in the Nikkei ranking of “Companies that Motivate People” September Received the highest ranking, level 3, as an “Eruboshi” company, based on the Act on the Promotion of Womenʼs Participation and Advancement in the Workplace September Selected for the ﬁrst time for inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index September Sysmexʼs automated blood coagulation analyzer certiﬁed under the 5th Heritage Program of Legacy Analytical Instruments/Scientiﬁc Instruments September Ranked ﬁfth in Forbes Japanʼs “Managers that Move Japan” and 28th on the Forbes 2016 List of the Worldʼs Most Innovative Companies August Won the 14th Annual Merit Award from the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry for Collaborative Achievement Between Industry, Academia and Government for the worldʼs ﬁrst practical realization of a system for diagnosing hepatic ﬁbrosis using glycosylation June Sysmex International Reagentsʼ Ono Factory received the City of Ono Fireﬁghting Society Excellent Business Site Award May Received the ACE-Award, sponsored by Conﬁrmit (Voice of Customer and Contact Center divisions) (Sysmex America) 141 March Selected as a Great Place to Work (Sysmex Europe) March Selected for the Companies That Care Honor Roll 2016 (Sysmex America) 2015 December Received an award as a model for formulating a system for Good Distribution Practice (GDP)* in the in vitro diagnostics (IVD) industry that Taiwanʼs FDA is moving into law. * A model for verifying that the quality (eﬀectiveness, safety) of pharmaceuticals that are produced, distributed and stored by manufacturing companies up to customers, as well as for preventing theft and accidents, and ensuring against counterfeit drugs and altered products being mixed into the supply route. November Received the Japan Investor Relations Associationʼs 20th IR Grand Prix Award October Named by the Securities Analysts Association of Japan for Excellence in Corporate Disclosure and selected for excellence in disclosure to individual investors October At the Kinki Local Commendation for Inventions, received the Encouragement Prize of the Commissioner of Japan Patent Oﬃce for one invention and the Encouragement Prize for Invention for three inventions October i-Square received the Landscape Community Planning Award in the Design Division from the city of Kakogawa October Ranked 24th of 454 Companies in the overall Nikkei ranking of Companies that Motivate People August Sysmex Annual Report 2014 won the Gold Award in the healthcare (instruments) category of the 2014 Vision Awards in the United States July Selected for HR Asia Best Companies to Work for in Asia 2015 (Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc) June Received Fiscal 2015 Hyogo Prefecture Invention Awards for “Hemostasis Analyzer” and “Working Procedure Display Method and Working Procedure Display System” May Received the ACE-Award, sponsored by Conﬁrmit (Sysmex America) April Named a Great Place to Work Brazil (Sysmex Brazil) March Received the Award for Excellence at the 18th Environmental Communication Awards for the Sysmex Sustainability Report 2014 March Ranked ﬁrst in the Toyo Keizai ranking of the top 300 Excellent Companies for New Employees March Selected for the Companies That Care Honor Roll 2015 (Sysmex America) 142 Fiscal 2017 Performance Data Social Data Customers Related Category Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Articles Inquiries received by the Sysmex 95,929 88,909 89,583 Details Customer Support Center Customer satisfaction rating in the United States* 9.1 9.2 9.3 Details (out of 10 possible points) * Research by Sysmex America Customer satisfaction rating in the United States* 9.09 9.32 9.4 Details (out of 10 possible points) * Research by IMV ServiceTrak Employees (All ﬁgures are results for Sysmex Corporation) Related Category Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Articles Total 59 68 64 Of which, men 40 38 32 New-graduate recruits Of which, women 19 30 32 Details Of which, non12 15 5 Japanese Total 70 73 30 Of which, men 50 56 23 Mid-career recruits Of which, women 20 17 7 Details Of which, non1 4 2 Japanese Turnover* Turnover (people) 40 74 101 ­ * Regular employees only, excluding people who have Turnover (%) 1.97 3.22 4.34 reached the mandatory retirement age 143 Sysmex Corporation 51 Employment of people Number of people 50 54 Group with disabilities* companies in * Due to the establishment of Japan Sysmex Harmony, ﬁgures 69 indicated from ﬁscal 2017 Details onward are the employment Sysmex rate not for Sysmex on a Corporation non-consolidated basis but including aﬃliated companies 1.84 in Japan Percentage 1.82 1.94 Group companies in Japan 2.04 Applicants 25 22 38 Reemployment of People reemployed 25 22 38 workers after the Details mandatory retirement Percentage 100 100 100 reemployment New registrants 6 5 3 Reemployment of personnel leaving for People reemployed 1 0 0 Details reasons of childcare or Percentage nursing care 17 0 0 reemployment Contract employees 17 7 16 Promotion to regular Temporary employees 2 4 10 Details employees Total 19 11 26 Work-related deaths 0 0 0 Work-related injuries 7 3 2 Frequency of work1.27 0.53 0.35 related injuries Industrial accidents Severity of workDetails 0.07 0.09 0.05 related injuries Total work days lost 386 494 308 Total actual number 5,499,593.25 5,641,249.00 5,635,447.00 of working hours Days granted 49,534 51,667 49,177 Details Days taken 27,605.50 31,305.00 32,063.00 Paid leave Percentage of days 55.7 60.6 65.2 taken People taking pre-and post-maternity leave 39 48 39 144 People taking childcare Women 32 56 32 leave Men 2 3 1 People taking shorter Women 50 47 58 work hours for childcare Men 0 0 1 People taking nursing Women 1 2 5 care leave Men 1 0 0 Percentage of people Women (%) 100 98 97 returning after childcare leave Men (%) 100 100 100 People taking accumulated paid leave 77 78 104 People on ﬂex-time arrangement 1,742 1,949 2,086 Children in in-house Total during year 33 32 34 daycare center At ﬁscal year-end 28 26 30 Training expenditure 179,000 108,000 103,000 per employee (yen) * Training results * Excludes temporary Training time per 22.6 19.4 15.4 Details employees, part-time employee (hours) employees and executives Number of training 23 23 14 programs Total 157 135 128 Number of interns Of which, nonDetails accepted 5 1 9 Japanese Note: Some ﬁgures have been revised from ones disclosed before, owing to changes in deﬁnition. Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 (1) Employees (people)1 2,031（484） 2,083（497） 2,046（504） (2) Average age (years old) 40.5 40.5 40.7 (3) Average years of 11.5 11.6 12.0 employment (years) (4) Average annual salary 7,843 7,853 7,826 (thousands of yen)2 1 The number of employees excludes workers dispatched from Sysmex Corporation but includes workers dispatched to Sysmex Corporation. For the number of temporary employees, the average for the year is indicated in parentheses. 2 The average annual salary amount includes wages outside basic wages, as well as bonuses. 145 Employees (All ﬁgures are results for Sysmex) Related Category Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Articles Sysmex Female managers (%) 8.3 8.8 8.6 Corporation (%) (Director level or Details above) Overall Group 14.3 16.2 15.2 (%) Category Fiscal 2017 Regular employees, employees on Men (%) 59.1 loan, and contract employees (except Japan executives and temporary Women (%) 40.9 employees） Men (%) 63.7 Americas Percentage of Women (%) 36.3 men and Men (%) 55.7 women in the EMEA* Group Women (%) 44.3 Regular employees, employees on loan, contract employees and Men (%) 65.7 executives China Women (%) 34.3 Men (%) 61.4 Asia Paciﬁc Women (%) 38.6 Category Fiscal 2017 Regular employees, employees on Men 2,077 loan, and contract employees (except Japan executives and temporary Women 1,440 employees） Men 740 Americas Women 422 Number of the Group Men 1,318 employees EMEA* Women 1,049 Regular employees, employees on loan, contract employees and Men 412 executives China Women 215 Men 474 Asia Paciﬁc Women 298 Total 8,445 * Europe, the Middle East and Africa 146 Corporate Citizenship Activities Category Fiscal 2017 Expenditures for corporate citizenship About 510,000,000 activities (Sysmex Corporation, yen) 147 Fiscal 2017 Performance Data Environmental Data Material Balance Please click here for detailed performance data. INPUT Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Electricity use 37,476 37,403 40,169 (thousands kwh) City gas (thousands 1,544 1,474 734 m³) LPG (t) 19.4 21.1 20.9 LNG (m³) 0 0 799 Heavy oil (kL) 0 0 35 Kerosene (kL) 35 31 314 Diesel oil (kL) 19 21 317 Gasoline for domestic 750 734 689 ﬂeet (kL) Diesel for domestic 23.5 25.1 23.2 ﬂeet (kL) Water use (thousands 391 406 395 m³) Oﬃce paper (t) 44 42 45 PRTR（t） 0.13 0.06 0.08 148 OUTPUT Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Greenhouse gas emissions from 24,035 22,760 24,983 business oﬃces (tCO2) CO2 emissions from domestic company 1,802 1,768 1,661 cars (t-CO2) Total waste emissions 1,701 2,106 1,778 (t) Recycling rate (%) 91.9 91.1 92.2 Wastewater volume 192 189 221 (thousands m³) PRTR (t) 0 0.02 0 Main business oﬃces in Japan, Instrument factories in Japan, Reagent factories in Japan, Sales oﬃces in Japan, Other oﬃces in Japan, Main overseas locations, Overseas reagent factories [Main business oﬃces in Japan] Sysmex Corporation (head oﬃce, Technopark, Solution Center) [Instrument factories in Japan] Sysmex Corporation (Kakogawa Factory, i-Square), Sysmex Medica, Sysmex RA [Reagent factories in Japan] Sysmex International Reagents (Ono Factory, Seishin Factory) [Sales oﬃces in Japan] Sysmex Corporation 1 oﬃce (Tokyo), 6 branches (Sendai, Kita Kanto, Nagoya, Osaka, Hiroshima, Fukuoka), 13 sales oﬃces (Sapporo, Morioka, Nagano, Niigata, Chiba, Yokohama (included in scope from ﬁscal 2015), Shizuoka, Kanazawa, Kyoto, Kobe, Takamatsu, Okayama, Kagoshima), 1 service center (Metropolitan Area Service Center), Sysmex CNA [Other oﬃces in Japan] Sysmex Corporation (R&D Center, Protein Development Center, BMA Laboratory, Global Communication Center (included in scope from ﬁscal 2015), Soushin dormitory (included in scope from ﬁscal 2015), Skyfront Research Campus (included in scope from ﬁscal 2017)) [Main overseas locations] Sysmex Europe, Sysmex Deutschland, Sysmex America, Sysmex Shanghai, Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc [Overseas reagent factories] Sysmex Europe(Reagent factory in Germany), Sysmex Brazil, Sysmex Reagents America, Sysmex India, Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc, Jinan Sysmex, Sysmex Wuxi Main business oﬃces in Japan, Instrument factories in Japan, Reagent factories in Japan, Other oﬃces in Japan, Overseas reagent factories (Refer to 1) Main business oﬃces in Japan (excluding head oﬃce), Instrument factories in Japan, Reagent factories in Japan, Other oﬃces in Japan, Overseas reagent factories (Refer to 1) Main business oﬃces in Japan, Instrument factories in Japan, Reagent factories in Japan, Sales oﬃces in Japan, Other oﬃces in Japan (Refer to 1) 149 Main business oﬃces in Japan, Instrument factories in Japan, Reagent factories in Japan (Refer to 1) Main business oﬃces in Japan, Instrument factories in Japan, Reagent factories in Japan, Sales oﬃces in Japan, Other oﬃces in Japan, Overseas reagent factories (Refer to 1) Results for the Sysmex Group Environmental Action Plan (Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020) (Related articles indicate the scope of calculation.) Related Category Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Articles CO2 emissions from logistics per unit of 3.794 4.937 4.924 Details non-consolidated sales(t-CO2/¥100 million) Greenhouse gas emissions at business oﬃces per unit of consolidated sales (t7.26 7.36 7.16 Details CO2/¥100 million) Business oﬃce recycling rate (%) 89.0 91.8 91.3 Details Water use at reagent factories per unit of amount of production (m³/ thousand 25.9 25.4 23.2 Details boxes) 150 Main Indicators and Results Related to Environmental Impact Data Related to the Sysmex Group Environmental Action Plan, Eco-Vision 2020 Base Year Aspect Content Unit Scope 2 Fiscal Year Data Product logistics within Japan CO emissions from logistics t-CO Environment consciousness Greenhouse gas Product logistics to emissions overseas locations Sysmex Corporation in product life 1 cycle process Product logistics within t-CO / Unit CO emissions in Japan and to overseas logistics locations million Sysmex Corporation, Unit denominator non-consolidated net sales million Main business offices, instrument factories and reagent factories in Japan City gas, LPG, LNG, Total emissions heavy oil, kerosene, t-CO diesel oil and electricity Greenhouse gas emissions 1 Main overseas locations and reagent factories Environment City gas, LPG, LNG, t-CO / Main business offices, instrument consciousness factories and reagent factories in Total unit emissions heavy oil, kerosene, Japan, as well as main overseas at business diesel oil and electricity million locations and reagent factories offices Unit denominator Consolidated net sales ‐ million Total emissions Main business offices, t instrument factories Waste recycling (including energy recovery) and reagent factories Waste emissions in Japan, as well as overseas reagent Recycling rate for waste factories % (including energy recovery) Reagent factories in Japan – Groundwater Overseas reagent factories – thousands – m Reagent factories in Japan Municipal supply water Overseas reagent factories – Water use Total water usage m /thousand Reagent factories in Total amount used per unit boxes Japan and overseas thousand Unit denominator Boxes manufactured boxes 151 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Population of Coverage Calculation Method GRI Standard Coverage Indicater No. Data Data Data Data Data Ratio 3 Ratio 4 CO emissions from logistics from factories to warehouses in Japan and from warehouses to customers in Japan (including branches and sales offices). Calculated as ton-kilometers traveled (amount 1,237.00 1,112.00 1,213.00 1,181.51 1,234.61 − − transported times distance traveled) times CO conversion factor. Conversion factor (source): In accordance with “Common Guidelines for the Method of Calculating CO Emissions in the Logistics Field” CO emissions from logistics (including to overseas customers) from warehouses to ports (airports) in Japan and CO emissions from logistics from Japanese ports (airports) to ports (airports) in overseas 305-03 4,251.00 3,971.00 4,222.00 5,682.54 5,850.44 − − regions. Calculated as ton-kilometers traveled (amount transported 305-04 times distance traveled) times CO conversion factor. Conversion factor (source): In accordance with “Common Guidelines 305-05 for the Method of Calculating CO Emissions in the Logistics Field” 5.348 4.170 3.794 4.937 4.924 − − 1,026.17 1,218.94 1,432.43 1,390.40 1,438.80 − − The amount of each type of energy is multiplied by the emission factor and the sum of the amounts is calculated. Conversion factors (sources): (Fossil fuels) CO emission factors for 7,532.00 8,138.00 8,240.00 7,669.30 7,774.30 33.18% 8,872 provided by Osaka Gas. (The same factor is used for overseas business offices.) (Electricity) CO for credits) are based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures, using information announced by the power companies that supply individual factories and business offices. 305-01 The amount of each type of energy is multiplied by the emission 305-02 factor and the sum of the amounts is calculated. 305-04 Conversion factors (sources): (Fossil fuels) CO emission factors for 305-05 7,199.00 7,980.00 10,130.00 10,719.50 12,410.79 24.83% 8,872 gas provided by Osaka Gas. (The same factor is used for overseas business offices.) GHG Protocol (WBCSD/WRI). 7.98 7.28 7.26 7.36 7.16 58.01% 8,872 1,845.38 2,213.76 2,531.57 2,498.99 2,819.35 − − 1,056.90 1,341.20 1,502.80 1,347.08 1,385.51 941.60 1,212.60 1,338.00 1,237.12 1,265.35 Of waste, the amount reused or used for material recycling or heat 43.80% 8,872 recovery (thermal recycling). 306-02 Recycling rate (%) = (amount of waste reused + amount of valuable 89.1 90.4 89.0 91.8 91.3 substances sold) ÷ (industrial waste + general waste + amount of 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 24.09% 1,241 The amount of groundwater used. 8.46 9.25 9.70 12.70 12.42 75.90% 1,241 66.72 66.00 63.00 66.11 68.74 24.09% 1,241 303-01 The amount of clean water and industrial water used. 174.02 188.56 216.90 223.41 215.54 75.90% 1,241 249.20 263.81 289.60 302.23 296.70 100% 1,241 22.04 21.40 25.91 25.39 23.17 11,305.00 12,327.00 11,177.00 11,905.80 12,804.77 − − Boxes of the Company’s reagents manufactured per year at reagent factories. 152 Data Related to Environmental Performance Aspect Content Unit Scope 2 thousands Electricity (non-renewable) kwh City gas thousands m LPG t Consumption of non-renewable energy LNG t Heavy oil kL Kerosene kL Main business offices, instrument factories, reagent factories, sales offices and other offices Diesel oil kL in Japan, as well as main overseas locations and reagent factories Consumption of thousands renewable energy Electricity (renewable) kwh Total consumption GJ Gasoline (Company cars) Main business offices, instrument factories, Energy consumption Consumption of other kL reagent factories, sales offices and other non-renewable energy offices in Japan Diesel oil (Company cars) Electricity (non-renewable) thousands kwh/ thousands m / City gas LPG Unit consumption of non-renewable energy LNG Heavy oil Main business offices, instrument factories, reagent factories, sales offices and other Kerosene offices in Japan, as well as major overseas INPUT locations and reagent factories Diesel oil Unit consumption of thousands kwh/ renewable energy Electricity (renewable) Total unit consumption Unit denominator Consolidated net sales ‐ Non-renewable energy City gas, LPG, LNG, consumption 1 heavy oil, kerosene, diesel oil and electricity Renewable energy GJ consumption Electricity Main business offices, instrument factories, Reduction in energy reagent factories, sales offices and other consumption offices in Japan, as well as major overseas locations and reagent factories Total consumption Unit consumption of City gas, LPG, LNG, non-renewable energy heavy oil, kerosene, diesel oil and electricity Unit consumption of Electricity million renewable energy Total unit consumption 153 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Population of Coverage Calculation Method GRI Standard Coverage Indicater No. Data Data Data Data Data Ratio 3 Ratio4 31,525.65 35,779.00 37,233.00 37,193.25 38,868.50 1,185.34 851.98 1,543.97 1,473.61 734.00 12.38 15.11 19.39 21.09 20.88 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 799.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 35.00 302-01 67.60 70.17 35.02 30.65 314.17 67.40% 8,872 302-03 18.72 18.91 18.84 21.17 317.25 100.46 209.42 243.00 210.01 1,301.84 The amount of each type of energy is multiplied by the emission factor and the sum of the amounts is calculated. Conversion factor (source): According to the Calculation and Reporting 368,227.36 395,042.86 439,653.70 440,124.47 490,098.77 Manual for Greenhouse Gas Emissions (using the most recent factors for each fiscal year, Ministry of the Environment, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) 794.69 777.51 749.86 733.66 689.39 Gasoline consumed by Company cars in Japan. 42.57% 8,872 11.72 19.68 23.53 25.10 23.27 Diesel oil consumed by Company cars in Japan. 17.084 16.162 14.707 14.883 13.786 0.642 0.385 0.610 0.590 0.260 0.007 0.007 0.008 0.008 0.007 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.283 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.012 67.40% 8,872 0.037 0.032 0.014 0.012 0.111 0.010 0.009 0.007 0.008 0.113 0.054 0.095 0.096 0.084 0.462 199.540 178.449 173.668 176.121 173.834 1,845.38 2,213.76 2,531.57 2,498.99 2,819.35 − − (Energy consumed in the current fiscal year) – (energy consumed in the previous fiscal year) ▲ indicates an increase from the previous fiscal year. Conversion factor (source): According to the Calculation and Reporting ▲ 45,821.51 ▲ 26,815.11 ▲ 44,610.71 ▲ 470.89 ▲ 49,970.37 Manual for Greenhouse Gas Emissions (using the most recent factors for each fiscal year, Ministry of the Environment, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) (Energy consumed in the current fiscal year) – (energy consumed in the previous fiscal year) ▲ indicates an increase from the previous fiscal year. 302-03 ▲ 0.07 ▲ 0.39 ▲ 0.12 0.12 ▲ 3.93 67.40% 8,872 Conversion factor (source): According to the Calculation and Reporting 302-04 Manual for Greenhouse Gas Emissions (using the most recent factors for each fiscal year, Ministry of the Environment, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) (Energy consumed in the current fiscal year) – (energy consumed in the previous fiscal year) ▲ indicates an increase from the previous fiscal year. ▲ 45,821.58 ▲ 26,815.50 ▲ 44,610.84 ▲ 470.77 ▲ 49,974.30 Conversion factor (source): According to the Calculation and Reporting Manual for Greenhouse Gas Emissions (using the most recent factors for each fiscal year, Ministry of the Environment, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) ▲ indicates an increase from the previous fiscal year. 21.927 21.091 4.780 ▲ 2.453 2.288 67.40% 8,872 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 ▲ 0.001 ▲ indicates an increase from the previous fiscal year. 21.927 21.091 4.780 ▲ 2.453 2.287 ▲ indicates an increase from the previous fiscal year. 154 Aspect Content Unit Scope2 Groundwater Main business offices in Japan (excluding head Municipal supply water thousands m office) and instrument factories, reagent Total amount used factories and other offices in Japan, as well as Water use overseas reagent factories Total amount used per unit m INPUT Unit denominator Consolidated net sales ‐ OA paper use Main business offices, instrument factories and t reagent factories in Japan Main business offices, instrument factories, PRTR input Handling volume t reagent factories, sales offices and other offices in Japan Main business offices, instrument factories, Japan reagent factories, sales offices and other offices in Japan City gas, LPG, LNG, t-CO Greenhouse gas heavy oil, kerosene, emissions Overseas diesel oil Main overseas locations and reagent factories 1 Total emissions Main business offices, instrument factories, reagent factories, sales offices and other offices in Japan, as well as major overseas Total unit emissions t-CO locations and reagent factories Unit denominator Consolidated net sales ‐ Main business offices, instrument factories, Japan reagent factories, sales offices and other offices in Japan t-CO Greenhouse gas Electricity emissions 1 Overseas Main overseas locations and reagent factories OUTPUT Total emissions Main business offices, instrument factories, reagent factories, sales offices and other offices in Japan, as well as major overseas Total unit emissions t-CO locations and reagent factories Unit denominator Consolidated net sales ‐ Product logistics within t-CO Japan CO emissions from logistics Greenhouse gas emissions Product logistics to t-CO Sysmex Corporation 1 overseas locations Unit CO emissions Product logistics within Japan and to overseas t-CO / from logistics locations Sysmex Corporation, Unit denominator non-consolidated net sales 155 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Population of Coverage Calculation Method GRI Standard Coverage Indicater No. Data Data Data Data Data Ratio 3 Ratio4 44.47 51.24 50.29 58.30 53.13 The amount of groundwater used. 299.94 316.97 340.80 347.79 342.28 The amount of clean water and industrial water used. 303-01 41.72% 8,872 344.40 368.21 391.09 406.09 395.41 186.630 166.329 154.486 162.502 140.248 1,845.38 2,213.76 2,531.57 2,498.99 2,819.35 − − 50.46 48.79 44.48 41.69 45.25 33.18% 8,872 PRTR handling volume at business offices in Japan that handle chemical 7.88 0.15 0.13 0.06 0.08 42.57% 8,872 substances. The amount of each type of energy is multiplied by the emission factor and the sum of the amounts is calculated. Conversion factor (source): According to the Calculation and Reporting 1,096.70 806.50 865.00 501.00 493.36 42.57% 8,872 Manual for Greenhouse Gas Emissions (using the most recent factors for each fiscal year, Ministry of the Environment, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) The amount of each type of energy is multiplied by the emission factor 305-01 and the sum of the amounts is calculated. 305-04 2,147.70 1,430.20 2,892.10 3,057.60 4,541.90 24.83% 8,872 Conversion factor (source): According to the Calculation and Reporting 305-05 Manual for Greenhouse Gas Emissions (using the most recent factors for each fiscal year, Ministry of the Environment, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) 3,244.40 2,236.70 3,757.10 3,558.60 5,035.26 67.40% 8,872 1.758 1.010 1.484 1.424 1.786 1,845.38 2,213.76 2,531.57 2,498.99 2,819.35 − − The amount of each business office electricity is multiplied by the emission factor and the sum of the amounts is calculated. Conversion factor (source): According to the Calculation and Reporting 11,869.90 12,635.30 13,040.60 11,915.90 12,079.36 42.57% 8,872 Manual for Greenhouse Gas Emissions (using the most recent factors for each fiscal year, Ministry of the Environment, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) 305-02 305-04 The amount of each business office electricity is multiplied by the emission factor and the sum of the amounts is calculated. 305-05 5,099.30 6,559.20 7,237.50 7,285.40 7,868.88 24.83% 8,872 are listed in the GHG Protocol (WBCSD/WRI). 16,969.20 19,194.50 20,278.10 19,201.30 19,948.25 67.40% 8,872 9.196 8.671 8.010 7.684 7.075 1,845.38 2,213.76 2,531.57 2,498.99 2,819.35 − − CO emissions from logistics from factories to warehouses in Japan and from warehouses to customers in Japan (including branches and sales offices). Calculated as ton-kilometers traveled (amount transported 1,237.00 1,112.00 1,213.00 1,181.51 1,234.61 − − times distance traveled) times CO conversion factor. Conversion factor (source): In accordance with “Common Guidelines for the Method of Calculating CO Emissions in the Logistics Field” CO emissions from logistics (including to overseas customers) from warehouses to ports (airports) in Japan and CO emissions from 305-03 logistics from Japanese ports (airports) to ports (airports) in overseas 305-04 4,251.00 3,971.00 4,222.00 5,682.54 5,850.44 − − regions. Calculated as ton-kilometers traveled (amount transported 305-05 times distance traveled) times CO conversion factor. Conversion factor (source): In accordance with “Common Guidelines for the Method of Calculating CO Emissions in the Logistics Field” 5.348 4.170 3.794 4.937 4.924 − − 1,026.17 1,218.94 1,432.43 1,390.40 1,438.80 − − 156 Aspect Content Unit Scope 2 Total CO emissions from Company cars t-CO Main business offices, instrument factories, Greenhouse gas reagent factories, sales offices and other offices emissions in Japan 1 t-CO / Total unit CO emissions from Company cars Sysmex Corporation, Unit denominator non-consolidated Sysmex Corporation net sales Main business offices, instrument factories, Total emissions t reagent factories, sales offices and other offices in Japan, as well as overseas reagent factories OUTPUT Total emissions (excluding sales offices in Japan) Waste emissions Material recycling waste t Main business offices, instrument factories, reagent factories and other offices in Japan, Recycling waste (including energy recovery) as well as overseas reagent factories Material recycling rate % Recycling rate (including energy recovery) Main business offices in Japan (except head office) and instrument factories, reagent Wastewater volume Total emissions thousands m factories and other offices in Japan, as well as overseas reagent factories Emissions Main business offices, instrument factories, PRTR Output t reagent factories, sales offices and other offices Travel in Japan Violations of Total amount of large fines environmental regulations Number of sanctions other than fines cases Main business offices, instrument factories, Compliance reagent factories, sales offices and other offices Significant spills and Total number of cases cases in Japan, as well as major overseas locations losses of chemical and reagent factories substances Total leakage volume t : Standard for calculating and reporting GHGs emitted directly by Company facilities and factories. (Excluding from use of Company cars.) ion to products and services. (Including from use of Company cars.) 157 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Population of Coverage Calculation Method GRI Standard Coverage Indicater No. Data Data Data Data Data Ratio 3 Ratio4 The amount of gasoline and diesel oil for each Company car is multiplied by the emission factor and the sum of the amounts is calculated. Conversion factor (source): According to the Calculation and Reporting 1,830.26 1,856.25 1,802.01 1,768.43 1,660.93 Manual for Greenhouse Gas Emissions (using the most recent factors for 42.57% 8,872 each fiscal year, Ministry of the Environment, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) 1.784 1.523 1.258 1.272 1.154 1,026.17 1,218.94 1,432.43 1,390.40 1,438.80 − − 1,274.16 1,556.76 1,701.35 2,105.50 1,778.26 53.19% 8,872 1,109.82 1,419.19 1,534.63 1,436.45 1,404.64 Of waste, the amount of valuable substances resulting from third-party 600.51 788.13 986.44 814.25 1,169.09 306-02 processing. Includes substances converted to fuel (such as RPF). 44.43% 8,872 Of waste, the amount reused or used for material recycling or heat 988.45 1,282.60 1,410.97 1,308.91 1,294.89 recovery (thermal recycling). 54.11 55.53 64.28 56.68 83.23 89.06 90.38 91.94 91.12 92.19 144.36 163.83 191.66 188.75 221.00 41.72% 8,872 PRTR emissions for business offices in Japan that handle chemical 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.00 substances. 42.57% 8,872 4.84 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 PRTR travel at business offices in Japan that handle chemical substances. 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 307-01 0 0 0 0 0 67.40% 8,872 1 0 0 0 0 306-03 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Main business offices in Japan: Sysmex Corporation (head office, Technopark, Solution Center) Instrument factories in Japan: Sysmex Corporation (Kakogawa Factory, i-Square), Sysmex Medica, Sysmex RA Reagent factories in Japan: Sysmex International Reagents (Ono Factory, Seishin Factory) Sales offices in Japan: Sysmex Corporation (1 office (Tokyo), 6 branches (Sendai, Kita Kanto, Nagoya, Osaka, Hiroshima, Fukuoka), 13 sales offices (Sapporo, Morioka, Nagano, Niigata, Chiba r (Metropolitan Area Service Center)), Sysmex CNA Other offices in Japan: Sysmex Corporation (R&D Center, Protein Development Center, BMA Laboratory, Global Communication Center (included in scope from fiscal 2015), Soushin dormitory , Skyfront Research Campus (included in scope from fiscal 2017) Main overseas locations: Sysmex Europe, Sysmex Deutschland, Sysmex America, Sysmex Shanghai, Sysmex Asia Pacific Overseas reagent factories: Sysmex Europe (Reagent factory in Germany), Sysmex Brazil, Sysmex Reagents America, Sysmex India, Sysmex Asia Pacific, Jinan Sysmex, Sysmex Wuxi The coverage ratio calculation is based on the number of employees. usage, the population is the number of employees at Group reagent factories. 158 Fiscal 2017 Performance Data Governance Data Information on Funding Provided to Medical Institutions* Japan 2016 Category Details (Amount: 1,000JPY) Expenses for trials, reports, and surveillance studies conducted under public Research regulations (clinical trials for new devices, post-marketing clinical studies, and 132,346 nonconformity and infection case reports, post-marketing surveillance studies, development etc.) in addition to those for independent investigations. Academic Expenses for scholarships, general and academic conference donations, as research 1,950,673 well as academic conference co-sponsoring expenses support Manuscript Expenses for lectures, manuscript writing, and the consignment of services, writing fees, including consulting, to provide information regarding the appropriate use of 39,246 etc. medical devices and clinical reagents. Expenses Expenses for lectures, workshops, and seminars to provide healthcare related to professionals with relevant information regarding appropriate and safe use of 157,657 information medical devices and clinical reagents. provision Other Expenses for receptions and social courtesy 21,373 expense Total amount 2,301,298 US Category 2015 2016 2017 Number 443 242 477 Relevant payments or transfer of value Amount US $190,638 US $137,658 US $99,210 Number 7 21 26 Research Amount US $76,061 US $209,370 US $342,614 159 France Category 2015 2016 2017 Number 228 226 344 Relevant payments or transfer of value Amount € 21,899 € 29,509 € 23,763 Number 1 1 8 Remuneration Amount € 4,000 € 4,000 € 51,276 Contracts Number 4 12 14 Belgium Category 2015 2016 2017 Number 6 Relevant payments or transfer of value Amount € 11,563 * This information might be modiﬁed after our disclosure according to review by government authorities or medical institutions. Target of Disclosure US Payments or transfers of value to, or research agreements with, the following recipients: Registered US physicians Teaching hospitals in the US France Payments, remuneration, or transfer of value to, or contracts with, the following recipients: Physicians, medical professionals and medical students in France Health institutions (educational institutions or medical companies) in France Contract amounts are not required under the French Sunshine Act. Belgium Relevant payments or transfers of value to the following recipients: Healthcare professionals registered in Belgium Healthcare organizations in Belgium Patient associations in Belgium Click here for information on corporate governance. 160 Corporate Information Corporate Overview (As of March 31, 2018) Company name Sysmex Corporation Head Oﬃce 1-5-1, Wakinohama-Kaigandori, Chuo-ku, Kobe 651-0073, Japan Established February 20, 1968 Line of business Development, manufacture, sales, and export/import of laboratory testing Paid-in capital ¥12,276 million instruments, reagents, and related software Representative Hisashi Ietsugu, Number of employees Consolidated: 8,445 (Including contract workers Chairman and CEO and part-time employees) Disclosure System Non-Financial Information Financial Information Sustainability http://www.sysmex.co.jp/en/csr/ IR Information Sysmex Sustainability Search http://www.sysmex.co.jp/en/ir/ Sysmex Investor Relations Search This site discloses details of financial, stocks and shareholder information. ■Financial Statements etc. This site discloses details of sustainability initiatives Integrated Report Sysmex Report ■Sustainability Report (Annual report) Sysmex Sustainability This report summarizes financial and Report non-financial information to PDF help stakeholders understand Sysmex’s mediumto long-term value creation. Corporate Governance Report Editorial Policy Sysmex publishes the annual “Sysmex Sustainability Report” to communicate to stakeholders our approaches and activities concerning corporate social responsibility (CSR), and to enhance understanding of and trust in us. Guidelines referenced Date of publication The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)’s Sustainability Reporting Standards August 2018 The Japanese Ministry of the Environment's Environmental Reporting Previous version: August 2017 Guidelines (2012 ed.) Inquiries about this report CSR Promotion Department, Sysmex Corporation 1-5-1, Wakinohama-Kaigandori, Chuo-ku, Kobe, Hyogo, 651-0073, Japan Organizations covered Tel +81-78-265-0500, Fax +81-78-265-0524 Sysmex Group (Sysmex Corporation and its subsidiaries both in Japan and abroad). In this report, “Sysmex” refers to the Sysmex Group as a whole. Cautionary Statements “Sysmex Corporation” refers to the Company on a stand-alone basis This report contains both forward-looking statements, plans and facts regarding the past about the Sysmex Group. These forward-looking Period covered statements and plans are based on the current judgments and assumptions of Primarily fiscal 2017 (from April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018). Some activities the Sysmex Group in light of the information currently available to it. conducted outside this period are also included. The most recent information Uncertainties inherent in such judgments and assumptions, the future course is provided on our CSR news on the CSR site. of our business operations, and future events may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements either expressed or implied within such forward-looking statements. 161 1-5-1, Wakinohama-Kaigandori, Chuo-ku, Kobe 651-0073, Japan Tel +81-78-265-0500 Fax +81-78-265-0524 www.sysmex.co.jp
