Bank of America Corporation 2017 Annual Report OUR PURPOSE: TO HELP MAKE FINANCIAL LIVES BETTER, THROUGH THE POWER OF EVERY CONNECTION CONTENTS A letter from Chairman and CEO Brian Moynihan 2–9 A message from Lead Independent Director Jack Bovender 8 Living our purpose 10–11 High-touch, high-tech 12–13 Delivering the bank in Dallas 14–19 A conversation with Vice Chairman Anne Finucane 20–21 Impact investing 22–23 Global strength for global good 24–25 Helping communities thrive 26–27 Our employees 28–29 ESG highlights 30–31 Financial highlights 32 BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 2017 ANNUAL REPORT | 1 2 | THE POWER OF EVERY CONNECTION A LETTER FROM RESPONSIBLE GROWTH: HOW WE RUN OUR COMPANY CHAIRMAN AND CEO Put simply, not every dollar is a good BRIAN MOYNIHAN dollar, unless it comes from activities that satisfy a customer need and fit our risk parameters, and that has to be sustainable over time. We are here to live our purpose: To help make financial lives better through the power of every connection. Responsible Growth has four tenets: Grow and win in the market, no excuses Grow with our customer-focused strategy Grow within our risk framework Grow in a sustainable manner: • Be a great place to work for Dear shareholders, our teammates • Shared success (all of our We have committed to you that Bank of America will stay true to our ESG commitments) course of responsible growth, and our 2017 financial results reflect that • Operational excellence in every dimension. We grew revenue by 4 percent to $87 billion, and we increased earnings per share (EPS) by 5 percent to $1.56. Adjusting for the one-time charge from the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”), Look for a more detailed discussion of revenue was up 5 percent to $88 billion, EPS increased 23 percent to $1.83. these tenets throughout this report. I will discuss in further detail below the overall impact of the Tax Act and how we view the anticipated long-term benefits. Responsible growth also delivered for you, our shareholders. In 2017, we returned $15.9 billion in capital through common dividends and net share gains. And we continued to invest in our teammates, repurchases — ​nearly 90 percent of net income — ​up from $6.6 billion in our communities, and improving our company 2016. Total shareholder return was 35.7 percent for 2017 and, as you can through operational excellence, so our growth would see in the chart on page 32, we outperformed major benchmarks. Our be sustainable. market valuation continues to grow, increasing by $82 billion in 2017 and standing near $330 billion as I write this. Our financial metrics also improved. Adjusted for the impact of the tax WE REMAIN COMMITTED TO RETURNING CAPITAL legislation mentioned earlier, return on tangible common equity grew Before I highlight the results from our customer 150 basis points to 11 percent, well above our estimated cost of capital of and client businesses, I want to touch on a point 9 percent, and our return on assets rose 12 basis points to 0.93 percent. I discussed in some detail in last year’s letter. As I Our efficiency ratio further improved to 63 percent. Tangible book value outlined last year, the number of shares outstandper share, which measures the value we are creating for you, hit $16.96 ing, on a fully diluted basis, peaked at 11.6 billion, at the end of 2017. In 2018, we expect continued improvement on all of driven by the more than 7 billion common shares these metrics. we issued for acquisitions and shares we issued to I am proud of the countless ways our 209,000 teammates delivered in stabilize the company during the Great Recession. 2017, but what I want to emphasize for you is that we grew the right We will continue to bring the share count down way — ​we drove responsible growth. We stuck with our approach and as we focus on returning excess capital to you. didn’t reach beyond our customer and risk frameworks for short-term At the end of 2017, we reduced our fully diluted BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 2017 ANNUAL REPORT | 3 shares to 10.5 billion shares — ​a decline DRIVING ECONOMIC GROWTH BY SERVING CUSTOMERS AND CLIENTS of more than 1 billion shares from the Now, I’d like to highlight how we delivered for our three groups of customers: people, peak. Continuing on that path is a priority companies, and institutional investors. for us, and we plan to proceed with share buybacks and dividend increases based In 2017, our Consumer Banking business, which serves one in two U.S. households and on our continued progress as measured millions of small business clients, earned $8.2 billion in after-tax net income on revenue of through the annual Federal Reserve $35 billion, up 14 percent and 9 percent, respectively, from the prior year. Our growth was Comprehensive Capital Analysis and broad-based; deposits grew by $54 billion, or 9 percent, to $653 billion, and we grew loans Review (CCAR) process. by $20 billion, or 8 percent, to $266 billion. And, even though rising interest rates tempered demand for mortgage refinancing, we originated $68 billion in mortgages in 2017. Returning capital to shareholders does not prevent us from making loans as some After years of investment, Bank of America is the digital banking leader, with 35 million suggest. We simply have more capital than digital customers, including 25 million active mobile banking users. In 2017, our mobile we need to meet today’s requirements, banking app became the first to be certified by J.D. Power. Importantly, these customers and we can grow without using more for logged in to our mobile app more than 1.3 billion times in 2017. the foreseeable future. We have plenty We process millions of transactions daily for our customers and clients. One area of of capital to serve our customers and significant growth is person-to-person (P2P) payments. We are a leader in payments via clients’ needs. Zelle. While some 60 financial institutions are in the Zelle network, a third of all transactions in 2017 were conducted by Bank of America customers. Our P2P transactions more than doubled in 2017. The Zelle capability is integrated into Bank of America’s mobile app and allows our customers to make payments easily and securely, and even split payments to different recipients. The rapid adoption of Zelle enhances the customer experience and also helps us reduce the costs and risks associated with paper 2017 RETURN ON AVERAGE TANGIBLE COMMON EQUITY checks and cash transactions. Let me take a moment to explain why digital technology is so important to our future. For years, we have focused on redefining retail banking and improving the customer experience, both in our financial centers and through our digital platforms. We call this Return on common approach “high-touch, high-tech,” because it describes how we are following customer equity 6.7% behavior to combine improvements in our 4,500 financial centers and new digital capabilities to enhance the overall customer experience however customers choose to Reported ROTCE 9.4%1 engage with us. In addition to advances in our digital and mobile capabilities, which have resulted in digital sales comprising 30 percent of total sales, we are investing to refresh Adj. ROTCE 11.0%1,2 those centers and ATMs, and we are opening new financial centers in areas where we are serving customers and clients but have no retail presence, or too few centers. In the map on page 5, you can see the markets where we have begun adding financial centers, and where we will be doing so in the near future. Last year, we also added more than 800 small business bankers, mortgage specialists, financial advisors, and 2017 RETURN ON other experts in our financial centers. Even with these investments, and with customer AVERAGE ASSETS satisfaction levels at or near all-time highs, the efficiency ratio in our Consumer business — ​which measures what it costs to generate a dollar in revenue — ​improved by more than 4 percentage points in 2017 to 52 percent. Turning to our Global Wealth and Investment Management business, we serve affluent and wealthy investor clients through the two leading brands in wealth management: Reported ROA Merrill Lynch and U.S. Trust. This business delivered $3 billion in after-tax net income 0.80% on $19 billion in revenue in 2017, generating a 27 percent pretax margin. These results reflect years of investment and attention to serving the needs of our clients. Adj. ROA In 2017, we saw assets under management (AUM) flows of nearly $100 billion as clients 0.93% 2 continued to trust us to manage their investments. It’s also worth noting that, in the fourth quarter of 2017, loans to clients in this business grew by $11 billion, or 7 percent, over the fourth quarter of 2016, marking the 31st consecutive quarter of loan growth. The value of the integrated capabilities we offer our clients continues to deliver returns for our shareholders. By enhancing the client experience, and bringing to bear all that 1 Represents a non-GAAP financial measure our enterprise has to offer to help clients achieve their goals, we’re deepening relation2 Adjusted to exclude the initial impacts of the Tax Act ships and gaining new ones. 4 | THE POWER OF EVERY CONNECTION Coastal North Carolina Columbia Dallas Daytona/Cocoa Beach Delaware Denver Detroit El Paso Fresno/Visalia Ft. Lauderdale Ft. Myers/Naples Ft. Wo Grand Rapids Greater Boston Greater Maryland Greater Sacramento Greater Washington D.C. Hampton Roads Hartford Houston Indianapolis Inland Em owa Jacksonville Kansas City Knoxville Las Vegas Little Rock Long Island Los Angeles Maine Memphis Miami Minneapolis/St. Paul Monterey Bay My Beach Napa, Marin & Sonoma Nashville New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York City Fayetteville Ohio Oklahoma City Orange County Orla Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland/Vancouver Reno Rhode Island Richmond Rochester San Antonio San Diego San Francisco/East Bay San Luis Obi Sarasota/Manatee Savannah Seattle Silicon Valley Southern Connecticut Spokane/Boise St. Louis Syracuse/Utica Tallahassee Tampa Bay Treasure Co Greensboro/High Point/Winston-Salem Raleigh/Durham/Chapel Hill Tucson Tulsa Upstate South Carolina Ventura/Santa Barbara West Palm Beach Wichita Worce Albany/Hudson Valley Amarillo Asheville Atlanta Augusta Austin Bakersfield Buffalo Charleston/Hilton Head Charlotte Charlottesville Chicago Clevel Coastal North Carolina Columbia Dallas Daytona/Cocoa Beach Delaware Denver Detroit El Paso Fresno/Visalia Ft. Lauderdale Ft. Myers/Naples Ft. Wo Grand Rapids Greater Boston Greater Maryland Greater Sacramento Greater Washington DC Hampton Roads Hartford Houston Indianapolis Inland Empire I acksonville Kansas City Knoxville Las Vegas Little Rock Long Island Los Angeles Maine Memphis Miami Minneapolis/St. Paul Monterey Bay My Beach Napa, Marin & Sonoma Nashville New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York City Fayetteville Ohio Oklahoma City Orange County Orla Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland/Vancouver Reno Rhode Island Richmond Rochester San Antonio San Diego San Francisco/East Bay San Luis Obi Sarasota/Manatee Savannah Seattle Silicon Valley Southern Connecticut Spokane/Boise St. Louis Syracuse/Utica Tallahassee Tampa Bay Treasure Co Greensboro/High Point/Winston-Salem Raleigh/Durham/Chapel Hill Tucson Tulsa Upstate South Carolina Ventura/Santa Barbara West Palm Beach Wichita Worce Albany/Hudson Valley Amarillo Asheville Atlanta Augusta Austin Bakersfield Buffalo Charleston/Hilton Head Charlotte Charlottesville Chicago Clevel Coastal North Carolina Columbia Dallas Daytona/Cocoa Beach Delaware Denver Detroit El Paso Fresno/Visalia Ft. Lauderdale Ft. Myers/Naples Ft. Wo Grand Rapids Greater Boston Greater Maryland Greater Sacramento Greater Washington DC Hampton Roads Hartford Houston Indianapolis Inland Empire I acksonville Kansas City Knoxville Las Vegas Little Rock Long Island Los Angeles Maine Memphis Miami Minneapolis/St. Paul Monterey Bay Myrtle Be Napa, Marin & Sonoma Nashville New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York City Fayetteville Ohio Oklahoma City Orange County Orlando Philadel Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland/Vancouver Reno Rhode Island Richmond Rochester San Antonio San Diego San Francisco/East Bay San Luis Obispo Saras Manatee Savannah Seattle Silicon Valley Southern Connecticut Spokane/Boise St. Louis Syracuse/Utica Tallahassee Tampa Bay Treasure Coast Greensb High Point/Winston-Salem Raleigh/Durham/Chapel Hill Tucson Tulsa Upstate South Carolina Ventura/Santa Barbara West Palm Beach Wichita Worce Albany/Hudson Valley Amarillo Asheville Atlanta Augusta Austin Bakersfield Buffalo Charleston/Hilton Head Charlotte Charlottesville Chicago Clevel Coastal North Carolina Columbia Dallas Daytona/Cocoa Beach Delaware Denver Detroit El Paso Fresno/Visalia Ft. Lauderdale Ft. Myers/Naples Ft. Wo Grand Rapids Greater Boston Greater Maryland Greater Sacramento Greater Washington D.C. Hampton Roads Hartford Houston Indianapolis Inland Em owa Jacksonville Kansas City Knoxville Las Vegas Little Rock Long Island Los Angeles Maine Memphis Miami Minneapolis/St. Paul Monterey Bay My Beach Napa, Marin & Sonoma Nashville New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York City Fayetteville Ohio Oklahoma City Orange County Orla Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland/Vancouver Reno Rhode Island Richmond Rochester NEW FINANCIAL San Antonio San Diego San Francisco/East Bay San Luis Obi Sarasota/Manatee Savannah Seattle Silicon Valley Southern Connecticut Spokane/Boise CENTER St. Louis MARKETS Syracuse/Utica Tallahassee Tampa Bay Treasure Co Greensboro/High Point/Winston-Salem Raleigh/Durham/Chapel Hill Tucson Tulsa Upstate South Carolina Ventura/Santa Barbara West Palm Beach Wichita Worce Cincinnati, Ohio Albany/Hudson Valley Amarillo Asheville Atlanta Augusta Austin Bakersfield Buffalo Charleston/Hilton Head Charlotte Charlottesville Chicago Clevel Coastal North Carolina Columbia Dallas Daytona/Cocoa Beach Delaware Denver Detroit El Paso Fresno/Visalia Cleveland, Ohio Ft. Lauderdale Ft. Myers/Naples Ft. Wo Grand Rapids Greater Boston Greater Maryland Greater Sacramento Greater Washington D.C. Hampton Roads Hartford Houston Indianapolis Inland Em owa Jacksonville Kansas City Knoxville Las Vegas Little Rock Long Island Los Angeles Maine Columbus, Memphis Ohio Miami Minneapolis/St. Paul Monterey Bay My Beach Napa, Marin & Sonoma Nashville New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York City Fayetteville Ohio Oklahoma City Orange County Orla Denver, Colorado Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland/Vancouver Reno Rhode Island Richmond Rochester San Antonio San Diego San Francisco/East Bay San Luis Obi Sarasota/Manatee Savannah Seattle Silicon Valley Southern Connecticut Spokane/Boise Indianapolis, St. Louis Indiana Tallahassee Syracuse/Utica Tampa Bay Treasure Co Greensboro/High Point/Winston-Salem Raleigh/Durham/Chapel Hill Tucson Tulsa Upstate South Carolina Ventura/Santa Barbara West Palm Beach Wichita Worce Lexington, Kentucky Albany/Hudson Valley Amarillo Asheville Atlanta Augusta Austin Bakersfield Buffalo Charleston/Hilton Head Charlotte Charlottesville Chicago Clevel Coastal North Carolina Columbia Dallas Daytona/Cocoa Beach Delaware Denver Detroit El Paso Fresno/Visalia Minneapolis, Ft. Lauderdale Minnesota Ft. Myers/Naples Ft. Wo Grand Rapids Bank Greaterof America Boston Greaterhas over Greater Sacramento Greater Washington D.C. Hampton Roads Hartford Houston Indianapolis Inland Em Maryland owa 4,500 Jacksonville financial Kansas centersLas Vegas Little Rock Long Island Los Angeles Maine Pittsburgh, City Knoxville Memphis Pennsylvania Miami Minneapolis/St. Paul Monterey Bay My Beach & Sonoma the throughout Napa, Marin UnitedNew Nashville States. Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York City Fayetteville Ohio Oklahoma City Orange County Orla Salt Lake City, Utah Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland/Vancouver Reno Rhode Island Richmond Rochester San Antonio San Diego San Francisco/East Bay San Luis Obi Sarasota/Manatee Savannah Seattle Silicon Valley Southern Connecticut Spokane/Boise St. Louis Syracuse/Utica Tallahassee Tampa Bay Treasure Co Greensboro/High Point/Winston-Salem Raleigh/Durham/Chapel Hill Tucson Tulsa Upstate South Carolina Ventura/Santa Barbara West Palm Beach Wichita Worce Albany/Hudson Valley Amarillo Asheville Atlanta Augusta Austin Bakersfield Buffalo Charleston/Hilton Head Charlotte Charlottesville Chicago Clevel BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 2017 ANNUAL REPORT | 5 Our Global Banking business serves clients from medium-sized businesses to the RESPONSIBLE GROWTH THAT largest companies in the world. Global Banking set several records in 2017, including IS SUSTAINABLE revenue of $20 billion and after-tax net income of $7 billion. Full-year earnings were up Looking at our 2017 business results, 21 percent on strong operating leverage, as revenue rose 8 percent, while expenses you can see that we remained true rose only 1 percent. That is the kind of operating leverage our operational excellence to our responsible growth strategy: can deliver. We grew by focusing on serving our We are investing in this business as well, including technology to improve the client customers and clients and managing experience and hiring additional bankers. Over the past few years, we have added more risk well. than 400 bankers to our Global Banking team in markets across the United States as We also are focused on achieving we continued to deepen local relationships with our commercial clients. This investment growth that is sustainable. paid off for us in many ways in 2017. For example, overall investment banking fees rose Sustainability has three key compo15 percent in 2017 to $6 billion. We were gratified to see a 30 percent growth in fees nents: Being the best place to work from middle-market investment banking. for our team, sharing our success, Global Markets serves our corporate clients and the largest institutional investors in and operational excellence. To share the world. We saw solid, stable performance despite a challenging low volatility trading success, we focus on our environenvironment. This business generated $16 billion in revenue and $3.3 billion in after-tax mental, social, and governance (ESG) net income. activities; responsible corporate governance practices; our $125 billion Let me share a few observations about how we operate this business. We serve clients environmental initiative; our philanaround the world who want to raise capital and hedge risks. When markets are volatile thropy; and many other activities. and clients are trying to manage their business, they turn to us for help. When markets are stable and there is less client activity or volatility, our revenues may be lower, as we Our ESG work includes the many saw in 2017. ways we share our success by driving growth in the communities we serve. We have positioned this business to deliver steady and sustainable returns in either sceIn 2017, we provided $4.5 billion in nario, while taking less risk. Over the years, our performance bears that out. In 2017, total loans, tax credit equity investments sales and trading revenue, excluding debit valuation adjustments, was $13.2 billion, down and other real estate development 3 percent from the prior year. However, across the past five years and with all of the volsolutions through Community atility in markets and trading activities during that period, Global Markets has delivered Development Banking. We financed sales and trading revenue within a range of $12.9 billion and $13.6 billion. This relative staaffordable housing, charter schools, bility reflects our leadership positions across multiple products and our ability to maintain health care and economic develthe appropriate business mix during market shifts. Reflecting that stability and solid risk opment across the United States, management, Global Markets made money every single trading day in 2017. Over the last including 12,000 affordable housing five years, we made money in Global Markets on 98 percent of trading days. units, nearly 5,000 of which went 6 | THE POWER OF EVERY CONNECTION to seniors, military veterans and the Tax Act in the United States. We will continue to review and adjust our startformerly homeless. We deployed capital ing wage as part of our commitment to fair and equitable compensation for in many other ways to strengthen our all of our teammates. communities, including $200 million in Please look for additional discussion in this report from Sheri Bronstein, philanthropic giving. Also, our teammates Global Human Resources executive, about our compensation and benefits, spent 2 million hours supporting and including career development and learning, and other initiatives to help volunteering with local organizations our teammates see Bank of America as a great place to work. Sheri’s note and chapters. It gives me great pride to also describes our industry-leading work on health care and wellness for see what the teams are doing in all our our team. markets. You can read more about how we are supporting communities throughout this SHARING THE BENEFITS OF U.S. TAX REFORM report, including the four-page feature, Earlier, I mentioned that there was a one-time charge to our 2017 earnings beginning on page 16. from the Tax Act. However, there are many benefits from tax reform that I Sustainability has an element of operawant to discuss. These benefits impact how we will invest in the future and tional excellence, continuing to improve deliver returns to you. our company and reinvesting those savings The backdrop for this discussion is the solid economic growth our experts into future capabilities. Through prior expect in 2018. As I write this letter, our economists expect about initiatives, including our “New BAC” work 2.7 percent growth in the U.S. economy, with the unemployment rate in 2011 and our ongoing Simplify and hovering at 4 percent or perhaps even lower. The driver continues to be the Improve (SIM) program, we have simplified consumer, and so far in 2018, we see healthy consumer activity, with Bank our company and made it easier for our of America credit and debit card spending up strongly so far this year. Our teammates to serve customers and clients. business clients are showing confidence in a more stable and predictable We have unlocked savings that we have regulatory environment than in recent years. invested back into the company to innovate When I think about the impact of the Tax Act, it starts with the broader and improve our capabilities; an example benefits to the U.S. economy. By lowering the corporate rate to 21 percent of this is the addition of specialists in from 35 percent, and by creating a territorial tax system where corporate our financial centers, and more commercial earnings are taxed at the rate of the jurisdiction in which they are earned, and corporate bankers to serve local the Tax Act allows companies to make business decisions less dependent markets, which I discussed earlier. on the tax considerations necessitated by the prior imbalance in rates As we have continued to invest in operbetween the United States and the rest of the world. This levels the playing ational excellence, we have reduced the field for U.S. companies and impacts their decisions. amount we spend each year by $26 billion In discussions with clients who are CEOs of companies headquartered since 2011. In 2016, we set a target of abroad, I’ve been struck by a common theme. The United States is an approximately $53 billion in annualized attractive market for them, with solid consumer demand, highly skilled expenses for 2018, which we have reached. workers, stable rule of law, plentiful and predictable energy availability, At the same time, our customer satisfacand other factors. Even so, prior to the Tax Act reforms, these clients tion scores are at pre-crisis levels, and had no choice but to base investment decisions on the tax effects of improving. different rates around the world. With the U.S. corporate rate better aligned with that of other countries, these CEOs now are considering how INVESTING IN OUR TEAM TO BE A GREAT to invest in manufacturing and production in the U.S., where the final PLACE TO WORK demand for their products remains so strong because the U.S. consumer economy is so healthy. Another component of being sustainable is our commitment to be a great place We’re seeing other economic benefits from tax reform as well. Hundreds to work. In 2017, we demonstrated that of U.S. companies have provided bonuses, wage increases, and increased commitment in several ways. matches to retirement savings plans to millions of American workers. At Bank of America, more than 90 percent of employees have received a oneAt the beginning of 2017, we reached time payment as a direct result of U.S. tax reform, impacting about 180,000 the $15 per hour starting compensation teammates in the U.S. and overseas. In addition, we will continue to invest level after years of regular increases for in our company in a balanced way that focuses on improving our connection U.S. teammates. I’m pleased to see that with customers, while increasing our competitiveness and sustainability. other companies have followed suit more We are expanding our financial center presence, as I discussed earlier. We recently, influenced by the passage of the are investing in new technology and innovation across all our businesses. BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 2017 ANNUAL REPORT | 7 All these investments create jobs, too. We will look to these and other areas as we continue A MESSAGE to grow and the benefits of tax reform play FROM LEAD out. As these benefits are realized, it is also important that we retain our long-term focus INDEPENDENT on addressing the federal debt and ensuring the U.S. remains a fiscally strong, competitive DIRECTOR global leader. JACK BOVENDER COMMITTED TO STRONG CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Let me conclude by discussing how the management team and the Board of Directors Dear shareholders, work together to advance your investment in Bank of America. Effective corporate govThank you for your investment in Bank of America. Our CEO, the ernance is a tenet for sustaining responsible management team, and I, on behalf of the independent directors growth. You are represented by a strong of your company, are pleased to report that our approach to independent Board. Our Lead Independent responsible growth produced solid returns for investors in 2017. Director, Jack Bovender, and the other Bank of America earned $18 billion, and given our solid capital directors meet regularly with management, position, we were able to return almost all of those profits regulators, and shareholders to review how to you through common stock dividends and share repurchases. we are implemen­ting responsible growth We thank you for the faith and confidence you have entrusted and executing our strategy of serving three in us. The Board of Directors remains focused on enhancing the groups of clients with our integrated financial company’s position to deliver long-term value to our shareholders. services capabilities. To do this, the independent directors engage regularly with Brian Throughout the year, the Board meets with and the company’s management team, business leaders and management to oversee risk management and functional support executives (risk, human resources, audit and governance, and carry out other important finance) about the issues the company faces and the environment duties directly and through Board commitin which we operate. These discussions assist our ability to assess tees that have strong, experienced chairs and the company’s performance and to highlight areas of focus as members. In addition, the management team part of our Board meetings and annual strategic planning process. and the Board meet to review in detail ongoing Each fall, the Board and the senior management team meet results and issues needing deeper discussion. for an intensive planning session to review progress, discuss our The Board and committees also give regular business opportunities and challenges, and approve the long-term input to us about topics of interest which strategic plan. The directors also meet regularly throughout the require additional conversation. In late fall, we year with shareholders to solicit their views and input on a variety hold an extended session over several days to of topics, including the company’s financial performance; corporate review the three-year strategic plan and make governance and Board practices; environmental, social and goveradjustments based on the operating environnance (ESG) priorities; executive compensation; and other areas ment, markets, and other opportunities. See of investor focus. In the past year, we engaged with shareholders Jack’s note for his discussion about the Board’s representing more than 30 percent of our outstanding shares, role in strategic planning. which gave us a broad understanding of shareholder priorities and concerns. I look forward to continuing these discussions in 2018. We are proud of the work our directors have On behalf of the Board and the management team, I thank you for done to increase diversity on our Board; we are choosing to invest in Bank of America. one of only five companies in the S&P 100 to have five or more female board members. Our director recruiting process focuses on diversity Sincerely, of talent and perspective to ensure invigorating discourse among Board members and management. In 2017, we were pleased that Dr. Maria Zuber, the vice president for research Jack Bovender at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, joined our Board. Dr. Zuber brings diverse 8 | THE POWER OF EVERY CONNECTION REVENUE ($B) “In 2017, we saw responsible $88 growth at work $87.5 $87.4 for shareholders, $86 $85.9 customers and clients, the $84 $83.7 communities we $82 $83.0 serve, and our teammates.” $80 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 perspectives in several areas, including technology and risk management. In the short time she has been with us, we have already benefited from her NET INCOME ($B) unique talents and experience. I encourage you to read more about our corporate governance activities in our 2018 Proxy Statement. $20 $18.2 $17.8 LIVING OUR PURPOSE In 2017, we saw responsible growth at work for $15 $15.9 shareholders, customers and clients, the communities we serve, and our teammates. We discuss this in greater detail in the following pages, where $10 $10.5 you’ll see many examples of how we are living our purpose: to help make financial lives better through the power of every connection. $5 $5.5 Thank you for your support and your investment in Bank of America. I look forward to another strong year for our company. $0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Brian Moynihan March 12, 2018 BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 2017 ANNUAL REPORT | 9 SIMPLY SOUTHERN: INVESTING IN A DREAM AND HELPING OTHERS DREAM, TOO When Ginger Aydogdu decided to pursue her lifelong dream of selling specialty clothing, she was excited — ​ and a little anxious. “My first production facility was very, “We came into Ginger’s life at a time very small,” Ginger said. “We had when her company was experiencing one manual machine. I didn’t have tremendous growth,” said Katherine enough employees. It was very scary, Lockhart, Bank of America Merrill and I wasn’t sure we would survive.” Lynch Business Banking executive. Like many small businesses, Simply “We discussed how we could help her Southern started slowly. Ginger made with her payables and receivables, $30 on the first day and $40 the next financing buildings, and expanding into day. At that rate, there was no way new markets. The company was doing she was going to make enough to pay very well and needed additional the rent. But she stuck with it, and capabilities, not just for Ginger’s busisoon, she was fielding dozens of calls ness needs but also for the personal a day from retailers interested in side.” “Ginger is a very philanthropic selling her Southern-styled shirts person,” said James Walsh, private and apparel. “It was a lot of hard client advisor at U.S. Trust, Private work and determination, and all of a Wealth Management. “With many busisudden, it finally paid off,” she said. ness owners, so much of their “Retailers started to say, ‘oh yeah, this concentration is in one area — their is a product we can sell and we can business. We’re able to come in and sell a lot of it.’” And so, a relationship provide a strategy to diversify their that started with a small business loan holdings and establish a legacy to help from Bank of America turned into not only this generation, but successive a multimillion dollar enterprise. A generations as well.” James sat down fledgling business in Greensboro, with Ginger and mapped out a stratNorth Carolina, selling vibrant-colored egy to manage her personal investing T-shirts at trade shows became a goals and ensure that she could fulfill global enterprise selling an array of another lifelong dream: working with products through 4,000 stores around children. Today, with Bank of America’s the world. Before long, Simply Southern help, Ginger can focus on her business, had outgrown its small business her employees, and giving back to roots and turned to Bank of America the community. And Simply Southern’s Merrill Lynch for help. future is simply amazing. 10 | BUSINESS BANKING / WEALTH MANAGEMENT / COMMERCIAL BANKING TRADEPOINT ATLANTIC The world’s largest steel mill once operated on a 3,000-plus acre riverside point in southeast Baltimore, north of the United States Naval Academy and Chesapeake Bay. At its peak, the Bethlehem Steel mill employed tens of thousands of workers to meet global demand and serve an evolving American landscape. Its products can be found within the Golden Gate Bridge’s girders, the George Washington Bridge’s cabling, and armaments for U.S. forces from both world wars. The rise of imported steel and increased use of alternative materials led the mill to be shuttered in 2012. But today a partnership entitled Tradepoint Atlantic is redeveloping the project into the country’s largest multichanneled transportation and logistics hub, where brands such as FedEx, Under Armour, and Amazon will ship products by port, rail, and highway. Bank of America provided financing for the site. Independent analysis forecasts the creation of 17,000 jobs and a $3 billion economic impact for Baltimore and the state of Maryland. “We have been partners with Bank of America Merrill Lynch since the inception of our company,” said Kerry Doyle, Tradepoint Atlantic’s chief commercial officer. “They provided us construction financing for our two marquee buildings and have been integral in establishing the legitimacy of the project. Our relationship with Bank of America not only helped us reach the point where we proved the concept and developed more than 2 million square feet, it has us poised to continue that process, secure new business, and achieve the site’s potential.” “We believe in Tradepoint Atlantic’s vision,” said Bank of America’s Paul Deschamps, senior relationship manager in the Global Banking and Markets real estate division. “From their innovative business plan to their commitments to the community and environmental sustainability, we are fully aligned with their interests and look forward to continued collaboration.” For three decades, a star of Bethlehem, hand-crafted by steelworkers and affixed to the mill’s blast furnace, was lit during the holidays. Today, the star is purposely reflected in the intersecting lines of Tradepoint Atlantic’s corporate logo, and the actual reclaimed star has assumed a place of prominence within the development. “The Bethlehem Steel mill impacted this entire region,” said Bank of America Greater Maryland Market President Sabina Kelly, a Baltimore native. “Now, Tradepoint Atlantic is creating the next chapter, and we are proud to assist them as they do so.” BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 2017 ANNUAL REPORT | 11 INNOVATIONS MEET EDITH CUNNINGHAM, FREQUENT ATM USER SHAPE THE AT 101 FUTURE OF BANKING Edith Cunningham became a customer of Bank of America when she worked on a military base in San Francisco during World War II. Fast forward to today, and a lot has changed. Customers can access their cash 24 hours a A conversation with day through the ATM and even Michelle Moore pay bills on their smart phones. Edith is learning about the new Q: Digital banking used to be about convenience, now it’s about technology available and is a mobility. How did we get here? frequent ATM customer. The one thing that hasn’t changed is her A: Our clients and their actions brought us to this inflection point. There are more financial philosophy, never spend customers who bank with us through mobile only than through desktop, and they more than you make! are logging in at a rate of over 100 million sign-ins per week. Q: Are clients able to do everything on a smartphone that they can do in a financial center? A: With the exception of dealing with cash, clients can do everything including make payments, deposit checks, and open accounts right from their mobile phone. In addition, there are many value-added features available to clients in mobile, including the ability to check FICO scores, lock and unlock debit cards, and set up an appointment to meet with one of our specialists, to name a few. Q: Where is Mobile Banking headed? A: We are living in a world dominated by voice interactions and the need for a paperless, cashless environment. Zelle® is a great example of helping our customers move to a cashless society; it’s a new person-to-person (P2P) payment service in our Mobile Banking app that we introduced in mid-2017. Zelle makes it easy, safe and fast for clients to send, receive and request money from almost anyone, with a bank account in the U.S. We saw total Zelle transactions hit nearly 68 million, and in the fourth quarter alone we processed more than 23 million transactions, totaling nearly $7 billion. We currently have 3 million active monthly users of Zelle, and we continue to add thousands of new users every day. Q: Who is Erica? A: Erica is our virtual financial assistant, leveraging artificial intelligence and data to better help clients live their best financial lives. Clients can interact with Erica through voice and text, and she will help with their banking needs, like transferring money, finding key account information such as routing numbers, and locking and unlocking debit cards. More importantly, Erica will provide proactive insights to clients about trends in balances and notifications of upcoming bills. She has the ability to track transaction information such as how much customers spent on groceries last month, a subscription monitor to help them stay ahead of recurring subscriptions, card controls to proactively let them know where their card is being used for payments, and valuable insights on how to meet savings goals. 12 | RETAIL AND PREFERRED BANKING MINNESOTA — HIGH-TOUCH, HIGH-TECH IS THE FOUNDATION FOR GROWTH IN THE NORTH It’s all about relationships here in the Twin Cities. Business can still get done on a handshake, and people like to work with people they know. That’s why our high-touch, high-tech approach works so well here — ​no matter how clients choose to bank, we’re delivering great client care through every channel and in person, in a way that builds trust. And our high-tech platforms are just for them. Clients can get advice from simply best-in-class — ​whether through our an expert on all aspects of their financial mobile access, ATM and Advanced Centers, life: homebuying, their small business, or online, our clients are able to get their or investments to fund a robust retirebusiness done quickly, securely, and easily. ment or plan for college for their kids. When they need more than transac­tions, High-touch, high-tech is how we provide though, like a question answered, a personalized and sustainable coverage problem solved, a new idea on how to for our local community. It means that optimize their assets — ​that’s where my our clients can trust that we are here team and I come in for the high-touch for them for the long term, that we care experience. Our new financial center feels about the individual relationship we have more like a living room than a typical bank with them, and that they can always branch. It’s a comfortable and inviting reach someone they know to get the place where we bring our clients together financial advice that they need. with the people who have the right experCatherine Simpson tise, and offer products and services that Bank of America Market President can be combined into a unique solution Minneapolis/St. Paul PARTNERING TO MAKE “I had saved enough for the down payment, but I wasn’t sure it would be enough to keep my mortgage payments the same as HOMEOWNERSHIP my monthly rent,” Santos said. “Plus, I wasn’t very familiar with A REALITY the whole process of buying a home.” Through an innovative partnership between Bank of America and the Neighborhood Assistance Corporation of America (NACA), Santos was able to buy a home in Charlotte and keep his payments affordable. Santos Vanegas Villatoro, a single Bank of America’s Consumer Lending team is proud to help father of three, had always dreamed clients like Santos realize their dream of owning a home. It’s part of owning his own home, but he of how we are investing in our communities and helping families wasn’t sure he could afford it. and neighborhoods create prosperity. BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 2017 ANNUAL REPORT | 13 14 15 LEGACY WEST: BRINGING THE NEW MARK HOGAN: SUPPORT SERVICES URBANISM TO NORTH TEXAS TEAMMATE AND D&I AWARD WINNER In 1978, Fehmi Karahan arrived in New York City from Mark Hogan is a Support Services employee based in Dallas, Texas who Istanbul, Turkey as a graduate student with less than embraces our culture of giving back to his community. Our Support Services $100 in his pocket. After moving to Texas and completing team is an in-house marketing and fulfillment operation comprising 300 his MBA, he joined a small commercial real estate develemployees with intellectual disabilities who support every major line of opment company. Today, Fehmi is president and CEO of business. For over 25 years, this department has given individuals facing The Karahan Companies, an integrated real estate develbarriers to employment the opportunity to achieve financial stability opment, property management and investment group. and become successful members of their communities. In 2017, Mark “Growing up in Istanbul, a city that is some 3,000 years old, was named a Diversity & Inclusion Award winner for his commitment to and being able to travel around Europe and see pedestrian-​ community service. He led his department to donate 104 boxes of food friendly streets, outdoor cafes, and gathering places gave to the North Texas Food Bank, filled 131 backpacks with school supplies me the insight into how these communities work and what for local children, raised more than $2,100 to support the American Heart people like,” Fehmi says. As 2017 came to a close, Fehmi Association’s Heart Walk, and generously donated his time to the “Night had just completed one of the largest, most successful to Shine Prom,” which hosts an unforgettable prom experience for people commercial developments in Texas: Legacy West, a 16 years and older with special needs. 240-acre mixed-use project, in the Dallas suburb of Plano. The $3 billion project, which became home to several Fortune 100 companies, features retail, restaurants, apartments, and corporate office space. Fehmi widely credits his team, including Bank of America, for his success. “When Fehmi approached us, it was an opportunity to deepen our relationship further and provide financing for yet another unique project,” said Yelda Tuz, Bank of America Senior Credit Products manager with Global Banking and Markets. “Fehmi is a visionary who has an extraordinary gift for developing landmark projects like Legacy West, which has turned into one of the most successful projects in the state.” DALLAS THE STAR: DALLAS COWBOYS NEW HEADQUARTERS 360° VIEW OF HOW BANK Earlier in 2017, more than 200 employees from Merrill Lynch, U.S. Trust and Bank of America moved into new office space at The Star, a 91-acre campus in Frisco, Texas which is also the OF AMERICA SUPPORTS LOCAL ECONOMIES Dallas Cowboys world headquarters. Bank of America not only relocated to the headquarters, but also served as a finance partner in the overall project. The Bank of America team and its local customers are now benefiting from having three separate locations consolidated into one destination. 16 | WELCOME TO DALLAS / FORT WORTH PEOPLEFUND: SUPPORTING THE GATEHOUSE: DALLAS LOCAL SMALL BUSINESSES NEIGHBORHOOD BUILDER PeopleFund, one of over 260 community The Gatehouse is a supportive living community where develop­ment financial institutions (CDFIs) that women and children in crisis receive a hand-up to end Bank of America supports, is a community cycles of abuse and poverty, and build new lives. Through lender in Texas. PeopleFund lends to small Neighborhood Builders®, Bank of America equips nonbusinesses, including women entrepreneurs, profits and their leaders with the funds and training to through the Tory Burch Foundation Capital improve their community services and build stronger, Program — funded by Bank of America — ​that more vibrant organizations. “We recognize the critical connects women business owners to affordrole that nonprofit organizations and their leaders play able loans to help grow their businesses. to build pathways to economic progress in the North Andrea Thomas, owner of ScratchMeNot Flip Texas community,” said Mike Pavell, Bank of America Mittens, used her loan to increase manufacturFort Worth market president. “Through this program, we ing, grow her business, and help her product connect outstanding nonprofits, like The Gatehouse, to impact the lives of thousands of children. the resources they need to scale their impact and help our community thrive.” Now in its third year, the 61-acre Gatehouse community has 95 apartments where women and their children work through a program at their own pace to become self-supportive. Families can stay for up to 2½ years while receiving assistance, including food, clothes, transportation, child care, medical/dental care, legal aid, financial literacy training, career development guidance, professional counseling, and higher education. “We believe in giving a hand-up, not a handout, for permanent change,” says Lisa Rose, founder and president of The Gatehouse. “The funding and leadership development training provided by Bank of America gave our volunteers opportunities we couldn’t have otherwise offered.” In the Dallas/Fort Worth market, as in all of our local markets, we are focused on delivering the full breadth of our capabilities to customers and clients, building our reputation as a trusted financial partner, while leading environmental, social and governance efforts, and contributing to the community. Led by seasoned local leadership, Bank of America is recognized as an employer of choice in the Dallas/Fort Worth market. We employ approximately 15,000 people in the community, making it one of the largest local concentrations of Bank of America employees in the world. Throughout their daily interactions with business leaders and community stakeholders, our team is advancing the Bank of America brand values through local projects and initiatives, such as financing Legacy West in Plano and moving teams together in new offices at The Star and in downtown Fort Worth. We are also assisting entrepreneurs in the SONIA MOSS: 50 YEARS WITH U.S. TRUST community through our support of the Gatehouse in North Texas and PeopleFund. And, our employees continue to give back to the community in many ways, as highlighted by the actions In 1965, Sonia Moss started a temporary job at the front desk of a U.S. Trust location in Dallas. of Mark Hogan, above, and Sonia Moss, at right. Our efforts in Dallas/Fort Worth are an She intended to stay six months, and then find something more permanent. More than five outstanding example of how Bank of America is helping make the financial lives of our customers decades later, she’s still here and finds something exciting about her job every day. In the beginbetter every day through the power of every connection. ning, she helped the team by manually using a 10-digit calculator and processing transactions coming off the teller line. Today, she enjoys each day as it comes and has stopped looking for that more permanent position. BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 2017 ANNUAL REPORT | 19 HARNESSING CAPITAL MARKETS TO DO GOOD A conversation with Vice Chairman Anne Finucane Q: How does Bank of America approach ESG? of capitalism and what responsibilities businesses have as corporate citizens. We know that much of a company’s market A: For our company, we see this as good business — ​running value comes from or is affected by factors never reported a company that people feel is a good investment, creating on a balance sheet, including its social and environmental sustainable growth in our business, and finding innovative impact. These nonfinancial factors are equally important, ways we can deploy our capital to address global challenges. and perhaps a better, more telling measure of the degree to Our focus on good environmental, social, and governance which companies approach business in support of returns policies creates jobs, transforms communities, fosters economic that are more reliably sustainable. Yet companies create mobility, and seeks solutions and opportunities to help value across multiple dimensions, and our prosperity is linked families, businesses, and communities prosper and thrive. inextricably to the communities we serve and the challenges Over the last three years, we’ve strengthened our ESG focus they face. The value we create must also be shared to be across the company. We put in place a management-level sustainable longterm. ESG Committee that looks at all of our businesses and our practices and identifies the ESG risks and opportunities. Q: What’s the connection between social and We’ve embedded this approach through all of our eight lines environmental benefit and the bottom line? of business, ensuring we are identifying opportunities that will have positive environmental and social impact, while being A: As seen in two reports released by Bank of America Merrill diligent in managing our risk in these areas. And we hold our Lynch’s Global Research team — ​“ ESG: Good Companies Can teams accountable. Every member of the executive manageMake Good Stocks” in 2016 and “ESG Part II: A Deeper Dive” ment team has ESG metrics on their performance scorecard. in 2017 — ​not only is a company’s ESG performance a reliable indicator of its future stock performance, but progressive Q: What does it mean to be sustainable today? ESG practices make companies less likely to suffer large price declines. They signal significantly better returns on A: “Sustainable” has become such a ubiquitous term, people often equity than their counterparts, and suggest a greater chance make assumptions about what it means. “Sustainability” is of long-term success. often associated narrowly with environmentalism, or the “E” in ESG — ​but today, there is a much broader definition. At the center are fundamental questions about basic principles 20 | THE POWER OF EVERY CONNECTION We have provided over Since 2013, we have delivered nearly $4 BILLION $66 BILLION in loans, tax credit equity towards our 2025 goal of providing investments and other real estate development solutions $125 BILLION to create housing for families, for low-carbon and sustainable business through veterans, seniors, and previously lending, investing, capital raising, advisory homeless individuals across services, and developing financing solutions the United States. for clients around the world. We connected people and local communities to affordable loans by investing more than Q: Where do you see the biggest $1.5 BILLION IN 260+ CDFIs potential impact? to help finance small businesses, affordable housing, A: The biggest impact we make is through and other economic revitalization projects, primarily deploying capital to address major global within lowand moderate-income communities. As an societal issues such as climate change, clean water, affordable housing and others. example, through the Tory Burch Foundation Capital Because increased financing is exactly Program, we have deployed more than $35 million in what is needed to move the needle on affordable loans to more than 1,700 women these major challenges, we are excited that we are exploring innovative ways to entrepreneurs to grow their businesses across the U.S. get the whole financial community — ​ government agencies, nonprofits, private equity and major investors such as pension funds and insurance companies — ​to think ESG RATINGS & INDICES about addressing these issues with capital that has a competitive rate of return. If we can continue to build partnerships that CDP Climate A-List embrace these new financial structures, we can have a meaningful impact on Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for three consecutive years our global challenges while ensuring good value for our clients and shareholders. Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index for five consecutive years Sustainalytics – 81 Percentile U.S. Environmental Protection Agency EPA Green Power Rank – No.5 MSCI – BB BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 2017 ANNUAL REPORT | 21 A TIME TO CARE A conversation with Lorna Sabbia, head of Retirement and Personal Wealth Solutions at Bank of America Merrill Lynch Q: Why is Merrill Lynch interested in the topic of caregiving? A: Caregiving is a life stage that nearly all of our clients and colleagues will experience, as a caregiver, care recipient or both. It has impacted my family, and I’m not alone. Today, 40 million Americans are providing unpaid care to a family member.1 Beyond the emotional and physical demands of caregiving, the financial toll can be significant, as well. Our research found that 92 percent 2 of caregivers are also financial caregivers. They not only provide funds, which can strain families’ finances, but also handle bills, taxes, insurance and more. It can be a daunting responsibility that is often unexpected. Q: What research has Merrill Lynch conducted to understand this issue, and what were the findings? A: Merrill Lynch recently surveyed more than 2,000 nonprofessional caregivers nationwide, conducted numerous focus groups, and interviewed internal and external experts in partnership with Age Wave. The result was a report called “The Journey of Caregiving: Honor, Responsibility and Financial Complexity.” The research found that caregiving is both rewarding and challenging. Nearly three-quarters of caregivers report making sacrifices. On average, a caregiver spends $7,000 annually on a loved one, impacting their own expenses and savings. Additionally, two in five caregivers have made sacrifices at work, including reducing hours and even leaving the workforce. While caregiving responsibility among millennials is more equitable, the bulk of caregiving today still falls to women. Women are twice as likely as men to provide care to a loved one. Given the income and savings inequalities that already exist, the need to address the impacts of caregiving is most acutely felt among women. Q: What is Merrill Lynch doing to address this need among clients? A: The best time to have a conversation about caregiving is before a situation arises. Using the insights from our extensive research and understanding of the issue, Merrill Lynch financial advisors are prepared with tools and resources to guide clients through planning and saving for the eventuality of caregiving. With more than 5 million plan participants in our institutional retirement business, Bank of America Merrill Lynch is also helping employers understand this critical issue and demonstrating its importance through the company’s own industry-leading employee caregiving benefits. 3 1 U.S. Census Bureau, 2016. 2 Merrill Lynch and Age Wave, “The Journey of Caregiving: Honor, Responsibility and Financial Complexity,” 2017. 3 AARP and ReACT, “Supporting Working Caregiving: Case Studies of Promising Practices,” 2017. 22 | MERRILL LYNCH WEALTH MANAGEMENT / US TRUST IMPACT INVESTING When Dr. Ruth Shaber started her career as an obstetrician and gynecologist in San Francisco, impact investing was virtually unknown. Today, it’s hard to imagine an investment conversation that doesn’t begin and end with how to use capital to drive both social and financial returns. For Ruth, the journey toward impact investing began in 2014 when she founded the Tara Health Foundation, which focuses on identifying and supporting solutions that improve the health and well-being of women and girls through an investment model called “integrated capital”. In this model, different forms of financial and nonfinancial resources are coordinated to support enterprises that are working to solve complex social and environmental problems. Ruth explained, “Before we make an investment, we ask: ‘What is the problem we are trying to solve?’ We then deploy the appropriate form of capital to address that problem. We may deploy multiple forms of capital, such as grants and debt refinancing, at various times to any given partner in order to support their diverse needs.” Ruth turned to her Merrill Lynch Wealth Management advisors, Mary Foust and Alena Meeker, for help in designing a diverse investment portfolio that is 100 percent aligned with her values and goals. Included in her impact strategy is a U.S. Trust portfolio called the Women and Girls Equality Strategy (WGES). This portfolio goes beyond a numerical analysis of female executives to examine how companies are taking specific steps to empower women and support gender equality. “U.S. Trust is a pioneer in gender lens investing,” Ruth said. “WGES has developed a comprehensive list of criteria that support a broad set of outcomes for women and girls, spanning wage parity, career advancement, family leave policies, and human rights policies related to global supply chains. In addition to its mission alignment, WGES has outperformed major market indexes.” BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 2017 ANNUAL REPORT | 23 COMMITTED TO ENVIRONMENTAL BUSINESS Since 2013, we have invested $66 billion in clean energy, energy efficiency, water conservation, sustainable transportation, and other environmentally supportive activities. Recognizing the power of our financial capital to make a positive environmental impact, we have committed to deploy $125 billion in financing by 2025 to accelerate the transition to a low-carbon, sustainable economy through lending, investing, raising capital, and developing financing solutions for clients around the world. Since 2013, we have invested $66 billion in clean energy, energy efficiency, water conservation, sustainable transportation, and other environmentally supportive activities. One example of that financing is a $200 million tax-exempt master equipment lease/purchase agreement that Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Leasing Energy Services team provided for the New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) to finance energy conservation measures under guaranteed energy savings performance contracts. NYCHA is the largest public housing authority in North America, and owns and manages approximately 176,636 public housing apartments in 2,417 buildings in 325 developments throughout the five boroughs of New York City. The first two schedules under the master agreement total $103.1 million and fund two Energy Performance Contracting (EPC) projects, providing much-needed energy and water conservation upgrades in 41 housing developments. The first project, Brooklyn-Queens Demand Management (“BQDM EPC”), targets 23 large developments in an electric supply-constrained Con Edison service area in Brooklyn. The second (“Sandy-A EPC”) targets 18 of the 33 NYCHA developments damaged by the 2012 Superstorm Sandy. The primary goal of both projects is to modernize NYCHA’s mid-century heating systems to deliver more consistent and comfortable heat. Projected energy savings for these projects over the term of the financing total $105.8 million for BQDM and $78.7 million for Sandy. 24 | GLOBAL STRENGTH FOR GLOBAL GOOD ATTRACTING MAJOR INVESTORS TO CLEAN ENERGY Financing the world’s movement into cleaner forms of energy is a job too big for one company alone. When Bank of America launched the Catalytic Finance Initiative (CFI) in 2014, a primary goal of the partnership was to increase flows of capital into renewable energy opportunities, such as wind and solar, by using innovative structures that reduce investment risks and attract broader pools of capital from institutional investors. To date, CFI partners have completed more than 20 deals in both developed and emerging markets and have helped to mobilize more than $9 billion in investments. Highlights of Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s CFI activity include structuring a BBB-rated, 18-year, $203 million institutional loan to Vivint Solar Inc., backed by 30,000 residential solar installations in the U.S. In emerging markets, we arranged green project bonds in India and Peru, attracting foreign investment to these rapidly growing markets for clean energy. Our philanthropic dollars are also supporting high-impact technologies like micro-grids in 14 villages in India. TRANSITIONING TO A LOW-CARBON ECONOMY Since 2013, when we co-authored “A Framework for Green Bonds,” the blueprint for the Green Bond Principles, Bank of America has been a thought-leader in shaping this entirely new asset class. Our efforts have helped create a market that had not existed before. Last year, we coordinated the first international issuance of green bonds by a Brazilian development bank, BNDES ($1 billion) and led offerings for clients including the German development bank KfW ($1 billion), the Australian Bank Westpac (€500 million), and the Canadian Province of Ontario (C$800 million). In addition to green bond underwriting, we are driving growth in the renewable energy market by making significant tax equity investments through Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Leasing Renewable Energy Finance team. Last year, the team facilitated the repowering of seven Texas wind farms with a $413.1 million tax equity investment with NextEra Energy Resources, the largest owner and operator of wind farms in the U.S. Repowering consists of replacing the majority of the wind turbine with new components, such as blades, hubs and gearboxes, but primarily leaves the foundation and tower unchanged. Benefits include a more efficient wind farm capable of producing incremental electricity from wind, a renewable, carbon-free source of energy. INVESTING IN CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION To ensure access to safe water and sanitation for all, it is vital to close the gap between the level of finance needed and the amount currently being invested. Water.org is working toward this ambitious goal, and we have been one of its earliest financing partners, with more than $1 million in grants since 2011 from the Bank of America Charitable Foundation to build the base of organizations offering affordable water and sanitation loans for the poor in India. In 2017, Water.org founded WaterEquity, the first impact investment manager dedicated to ending the global water crisis in our lifetime. WaterEquity builds the market between impact investors and water and sanitation businesses reaching underserved communities, unlocking the level of capital needed to match the scale of this crisis. Bank of America has committed to provide WaterEquity’s $50 million fund with a $5 million zero-interest loan. By investing in water and sanitation businesses in India, Indonesia, Cambodia, and the Philippines, this WaterEquity fund targets a 3.5 percent return for investors and aims to reach 4.6 million people with safe water and/or sanitation over a seven-year period. Deploying our capital to help people served by Water.org — this is the essence of partnering for impact. Image provided by Water.org BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 2017 ANNUAL REPORT | 25 HELPING Our efforts in local communities are helping to drive economic development and job creation. In addition to providing capital to help small businesses and COMMUNITIES affordable housing through CDFIs and Community Development Banking, last year, Bank of America delivered nearly $200 million in philanthropic invest­ments, THRIVE and our employees volunteered nearly 2 million hours in their communities. Our support helps nonprofit organizations advance economic mobility for individuals and families, solve tough challenges, and connect more deeply with people in their community. We are supporting women’s economic empowerment through partnerships with Vital Voices in the Global Ambassadors Program, Cherie Blair Foundation, and Kiva to help bring mentoring, training, and funding to women around the world. Our partnerships with these organizations have allowed us to help 7,000 women from 80+ countries grow their businesses in their communities. Through all of these efforts, we’re helping to create more sustainable economies and a better future for us all. ADVANCING ECONOMIC MOBILITY In every community we serve, there are people living on the margins, hoping to find good jobs and affordable housing to create a better life for themselves and their families. That’s why our economic mobility efforts address issues of workforce development and education, basic needs, and community development. We partner with nonprofit organizations that remove barriers to economic success for vulnerable populations, including youth, working families, and the formerly incarcerated. By partnering with nonprofit Year Up® — a national organization focused on providing urban young adults the skills, experience, and support they need to reach their full potential through professional careers and higher education — we have been able to welcome hundreds of Year Up interns to six-month, full-time internships and have hired more than 150 to full-time positions. Through this partnership, we are able to create a pipeline of motivated, hard-working young adults who are able to build their professional and business skills, while also delivering value to their teams and our customers. SUPPORTING COMMUNITIES IMPACTED BY DISASTER We have a long-standing commitment to community aid and response during times of disaster, humanitarian crises, and civil strife. In 2017, our company and employees contributed nearly $5 million in relief funding to support communities impacted by disasters, including Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria; California wildfires; and the earthquakes and Hurricane Katia in Mexico. Additionally, we deployed mobile financial centers and mobile ATMs to the greater Houston area to help our local financial centers impacted by Hurricane Harvey. Our Global Transaction Services team worked with the American Red Cross to offer Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s payments solution, Digital Disbursements, to send emergency funds to people impacted by Hurricane Harvey. We also support resilience planning in communities to lessen the impact of future natural events. Our $1 million grant to The Nature Conservancy (TNC) has supported its work to expand nature-based solutions to protect coastlines from rising sea levels and extreme weather. Additionally, with our support, the GivePower Foundation brought solar power to several Puerto Rico fire stations following Hurricane Maria. 26 | HELPING COMMUNITIES THRIVE EMPOWERING PEOPLE FOR BETTER FINANCIAL OUTCOMES One way we deliver on our commitment to making financial lives better is through our free financial education platform, Better Money Habits.® By simplifying complex personal finance Money Habits users are growing their topics through easy-to-understand inforsavings, growing their checking balances mation, tools and videos, Better Money and reducing debt. This is particularly Habits empowers users to understand important for anyone looking to improve their financial choices and make confident their financial footing, such as young adults decisions about their personal finances. just starting out and those who live in lowIn 2017, we extended the reach of Better and moderate-income (LMI) communities Money Habits by rolling out content in where approximately 30 percent of our Spanish. The site will continue to be fully financial centers are located. That is why translated over the course of 2018. This Better Money Habits is part of our broader complements our online and mobile community-centered approach to provide banking app, which have been available in clients and small businesses financial Spanish since 2015. Better Money Habits is expertise, tools, and products tailored to available for customers and noncustomers help them achieve their specific financial alike. For customers, the platform is goals. We help foster economic mobility embedded in our online and mobile offerin these neighborhoods by bolstering ings, like our Spending and Budgeting tool, partnerships, providing relevant products which puts timely information at clients’ and language resources, creating access fingertips to help them improve their through WiFi in our financial centers and financial outcomes. And we see evidence supporting career paths for our associates. that it is helping. Our engaged Better WITH PERSPECTIVE COMES UNDERSTANDING Through our Courageous Conversations program, we encourage our employees, clients, and community partners to have an open dialogue on important, societal topics as a way to foster deeper learning and understanding. For example, in support of the landmark documentary film, “The Vietnam War,” we brought together diverse perspectives to discuss the Vietnam War era, a divisive time in U.S. history. Additionally, we hosted the National Community Advisory Council (NCAC) Opening Night at the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum, where we facilitated a discussion on the vital role public institutions play in protecting democracy. From Los Angeles to Charlottesville, London to Kansas City, our employees continue to plan and participate in courageous conversations about issues that are important to them. BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 2017 ANNUAL REPORT | 27 A GREAT PLACE TO WORK: TRACY DANIELS Recognized as Bank of America’s 2017 Working Mother of the Year, Tracy Daniels has enjoyed more than 10 years at the company, and knows the value of its benefits. Tracy is a business executive for Global Banking and Markets Operations, and is a passionate leader in our diversity efforts and programs, including our Employee Networks. At home, she is mom-in-chief, with three children. Tracy used the company’s benefits to help grow her family with fertility treatments and extended parental leave with the birth of her daughter, Leah. Born premature and with spina bifida, Leah spent a total of eight weeks in the hospital and had two major surgeries in her first year of life. Tracy leveraged significant medical benefits to work with as many as six specialists per year. Tracy’s ability to balance her personal life and career means she’s able to continue to deliver in her role, which has earned her promotions since she returned from leave, with wider responsibilities and accountability for larger teams. She is also passionately involved in our diversity efforts, serving as co-chair of the Leadership, Education, Advocacy and Development for Women Employee Network, and on the Black Professional Group Executive Leadership Council. “From the benefits that support creating a family, to the policies that help manage a family, all while supporting women as we strive for professional development and personal growth, working at Bank of America is truly extraordinary as a working mom,” said Tracy. LIFE EVENT SERVICES SPOTLIGHT “I’m in a happy place now because Bank of America saved Through it all, the U.S. Life Event Services team was there my life.” For Katia, the past two years brought hardship to support her and her family, connecting her with bank and change. She ended a physically abusive relationship resources to help. For that, she says, “I don’t know where and relocated to a new state, lost power and food during I’d be without this company. It feels like a family in how it Hurricane Irma, and suffered a severe lung condition. cares for its people.” 28 | OUR EMPLOYEES BEING A GREAT PLACE TO WORK: CORE TO RESPONSIBLE GROWTH It is the daily commitment to our purpose by all 209,000 of our teammates that allowed us to deliver our 2017 results. A pillar of responsible growth is that it must be sustainable. One way we achieve responsible growth is by being a great place to work. Our commitment to our employees is as strong as the bond they share with our customers and our communities. We demonstrate that in several ways, starting with fair and equitable compensation. growth to about one-third of the national trend. Our wellness We offer affordable health care and related programs that make it program contributes to our success in slowing health care cost easier for employees to look after themselves and their families. increases. The program includes an annual premium credit to And, we have many programs and opportunities that reinforce our encourage employees to get annual health screenings (about belief in a diverse, inclusive team, and other benefits and services 85 percent of employees respond) and our voluntary “Get Active” that help employees balance their work and personal lives. First, physical fitness campaign, in which nearly 70,000 teammates let me highlight our pay-for-performance culture. Since 2010, the (about 30 percent) participated last year. We want to provide great average annual compensation increases for our U.S. employees health care benefits to teammates. For those who need addihave outpaced the average U.S. wage growth. From the starting tional support, we provide access to the tools and resources they compensation level to our highest earners, whether a teammate need for a healthy lifestyle. Being the best place to work extends joined last year or has been with us since 2010, compensation for beyond compensation and health benefits to include tuition assisall but the highest 10 percent has grown at least twice the rate tance, career development and learning, and childcare programs. of the U.S. national average. We also provide 401(k) contributions We offer up to 16 weeks of paid parental leave — ​maternity, of up to 5 percent of eligible pay, starting after one year of service, paternity, and adoption. Our bereavement policy provides up including an additional 2 to 3 percent automatic annual company to 20 days of paid time away for the loss of a spouse/partner or contribution, and free, personalized retirement and benefits child. Through several man-made and natural disasters in 2017, guidance. Turning to health and wellness benefits; we have kept our Life Events Services team did a great job providing counseling related cost increases for our employees below the national and resources to teammates. The diversity of our employees — ​ average and below other companies’ rates for many years. We in thought, style, sexual orientation, gender identity, race, ethnichave taken a long-term approach to managing health benefits. ity, culture, and experience — ​makes us stronger, and is essential More than 70 percent of employees have seen either no cost to our ability to serve our clients, fulfill our purpose, and drive increase, or an increase that is well below the increase of the responsible growth. We encourage employees to engage in what cost to the company since 2010. The average cost of health care we call “Courageous Conversations” about sensitive topics. More coverage for an employee’s family of four is just over $23,000. than 60,000 teammates have discussed race, gender dynamics, On average, we subsidize 75 percent of the costs across our pop­ social justice, LGBT equality, and the Vietnam War. Taken together, ulation, giving each employee an average benefit value of about our pay-for-performance programs, health and wellness programs, $17,000. While the benefits are the same, regardless of compenand other benefits and support helped contribute to record-low sation level, we take a progressive approach to employee paid employee turnover in 2017. Our shareholders benefit from this premiums. Employees earning less than the median U.S. household due to lower costs to train and find experienced employees. Our pay an average annual premium of about $2,600, meaning we work in these areas also is recognized by others; Bank of America subsidize about 90 percent of their total coverage costs. This was ranked in Fortune magazine among the 100 Best Workplaces gradually decreases as compensation increases, with the highest for Diversity and the 50 Best Workplaces for Parents. We also compensated employees paying more than 60 percent of the were pleased to be ranked by Forbes and JUST Capital as the cost through premiums. Also, in 2011, we reduced annual family best in our industry in the second annual list of America’s Most coverage medical premiums by 50 percent for U.S. employees JUST Companies. below the median household income level — and we have kept those premiums flat for six consecutive years. For employees earning between the median income and $100,000 per year, Sheri Bronstein we reduced premiums by 15 percent, and have limited premium Global Human Resources Executive BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 2017 ANNUAL REPORT | 29 Euromoney magazine’s Based on work conducted WORLD’S BEST BANK by consulting firm EY, we examined the for Corporate Social Responsibility and for Advisory Services ECONOMIC IMPACTS OF A $12.6 BILLION subset of our company’s $125 billion environmental business commitment. Focusing on U.S. projects financed between 2013–2016, this subset: Every year since its inception, included as one of the leading companies in the Bloomberg Supported an annual average of 39,728 jobs GENDER-EQUALITY INDEX Realized a cumulative $29.9 billion in economic output Contributed a cumulative $14.8 billion to GDP Bank of America supports more than Recognized as the 2,000 ART INDUSTRY LEADER ORGANIZATIONS in the “Banks” industry category among WORLDWIDE JUST Capital’s America’s Most JUST Companies Bank of America Art Conservation Project: Provided grants to projects in 30 countries to conserve historically significant works of art Museums on Us®: 2017 marked the 20 th anniversary of providing access to a variety of museums across the U.S. Bank of America Merrill Lynch named Art in Our Communities®: BEST ESG BANK More than 120 exhibitions have been loaned to help generate in Asia by The Asset magazine revenue for art institutions for the second year in a row 30 | ESG HIGHLIGHTS In 2014, Bank of America became the first and remains the only financial services institution to There’s a general correlation gain membership into the Billion Dollar Roundtable, between clients who engaged with a nationally recognized organization that celebrates corporations that spend at least BETTER MONEY $1 BILLION HABITS AND THE directly with minorityand SPENDING AND women-owned businesses BUDGETING TOOL and a variety of improved financial outcomes: About one in four One of the nation’s top small grew savings by 20 percent or more business lenders, with $34 BILLION About one in three grew their checking balance by in small business loan balances 20 percent or more (commercial loans under $1 million), About one in seven reduced according to the FDIC, and approximately their credit balance by 40% of the small businesses we serve at 20 percent or more Bank of America are women-owned About one in five decreased their overdraft fees Delivered nearly $200 MILLION BY THE NUMBERS in philanthropic investments, including $44 million Better Money Habits to connect individuals to jobs and skills was viewed more than that will build long-term financial security 12.3 million times across the website and our Mobile Banking app in 2017 4.5 million people are Connected employees to meaningful volunteer actively using the Spending opportunities through initiatives like our fourth annual and Budgeting tool (as of December 2017) Habitat for Humanity Global Build, which engaged more than 24 million people are using 2,500 EMPLOYEE Bank of America’s Mobile Banking app, including VOLUNTEERS more than 1 million Spanish-language users in 90 communities across six countries to build (as of December 2017) affordable housing and revitalize communities BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 2017 ANNUAL REPORT | 31 Bank of America Corporation — ​Financial Highlights Bank of America Corporation (NYSE: BAC) is headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina. As of December 31, 2017, we operated in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico and more than 35 countries. Through our banking and various nonbank subsidiaries throughout the United States and in international markets, we provide a diversified range of banking and nonbank financial services and products through four business segments: Consumer Banking, Global Wealth and Investment Management, Global Banking, and Global Markets. Financial Highlights (in millions, except per share information) For the year 2017 2016 2015 Revenue, net of interest expense $ 87,352 $ 83,701 $ 82,965 Net income 18,232 17,822 15,910 Earnings per common share 1.63 1.57 1.38 Diluted earnings per common share 1.56 1.49 1.31 Dividends paid per common share $ 0.39 $ 0.25 $ 0.20 Return on average assets 0.80% 0.81% 0.74 % Return on average tangible common shareholders’ equity 1 9.41 9.51 9.16 Efficiency ratio 62.67 65.81 69.45 Average diluted common shares issued and outstanding 10,778 11,047 11,236 At year-end 2017 2016 2015 Total loans and leases $ 936,749 $ 906,683 $ 896,983 Total assets 2,281,234 2,188,067 2,144,606 Total deposits 1,309,545 1,260,934 1,197,259 Total shareholders’ equity 267,146 266,195 255,615 Book value per common share 23.80 23.97 22.48 Tangible book value per common share1 16.96 16.89 15.56 Market price per common share $ 29.52 $ 22.10 $ 16.83 Common shares issued and outstanding 10,287 10,053 10,380 Tangible common equity ratio1 7.9% 8.0% 7.8 %  epresents a non-GAAP financial measure. For more information on these measures and ratios, and a corresponding reconciliation to GAAP financial measures, R 1 see Supplemental Financial Data on page 43 and Non-GAAP Reconciliations on page 104 of the 2017 Financial Review section. Total Cumulative Shareholder Return2 BAC Five-Year Stock Performance $30 $300 B of $25 A $250 $20 S&P $15 $200 KBW $10 $150 $5 $0 $100 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 $50 HIGH $15.88 $18.13 $18.45 $23.16 $29.88 $0 LOW 11.03 14.51 15.15 11.16 22.05 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017  CLOSE 15.57 17.89 16.83 22.10 29.52 December 31 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Bank of America Corporation $100 $135 $156 $148 $198 $268 Book Value Per Share/Tangible Book Value KBW Bank Sector Index 100 138 151 151 195 231 Per Share S&P 500 100 132 150 153 171 208 $23.97 $23.80 $21.32 $22.48 $20.69 $16.89 $16.96 2 T  his graph compares the yearly change in the Corporation’s total cumulative shareholder $14.43 $15.56 $13.77 return on its common stock with (i) the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and (ii) the KBW Bank Index for the years ended December 31, 2012 through 2017. The graph assumes an initial investment of $100 at the end of 2012 and the reinvestment of all dividends during the years indicated. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Book Value Per Share Tangible Book Value Per Share 3 3 Tangible book value per share is a non-GAAP financial measure. 32 | THE POWER OF EVERY CONNECTION Financial Review 2017 Financial Review Table of Contents Page Executive Summary 35 Recent Events 36 Financial Highlights 37 Balance Sheet Overview 39 Supplemental Financial Data 43 Business Segment Operations 46 Consumer Banking 47 Global Wealth & Investment Management 49 Global Banking 51 Global Markets 53 All Other 54 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations 55 Managing Risk 57 Strategic Risk Management 60 Capital Management 61 Liquidity Risk 65 Credit Risk Management 70 Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management 70 Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management 79 Non-U.S. Portfolio 86 Provision for Credit Losses 88 Allowance for Credit Losses 88 Market Risk Management 92 Trading Risk Management 93 Interest Rate Risk Management for the Banking Book 97 Mortgage Banking Risk Management 99 Compliance Risk Management 99 Operational Risk Management 99 Reputational Risk Management 100 Complex Accounting Estimates 100 2016 Compared to 2015 102 Non-GAAP Reconciliations 104 Statistical Tables 106 34 Bank of America 2017 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Bank of America Corporation (the “Corporation”) and its remediate a shortcoming identified by banking regulators in the management may make certain statements that constitute Corporation’s Resolution Plan; the effect of regulations, other “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private guidance or additional information on our estimated impact of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be Tax Act; the impact of implementation and compliance with U.S. and identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or international laws, regulations and regulatory interpretations, current facts. Forward-looking statements often use words such as including, but not limited to, recovery and resolution planning “anticipates,” “targets,” “expects,” “hopes,” “estimates,” “intends,” requirements, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) “plans,” “goals,” “believes,” “continue” and other similar expressions assessments, the Volcker Rule, fiduciary standards and derivatives or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “may,” “might,” “should,” regulations; a failure in or breach of the Corporation’s operational “would” and “could”. Forward-looking statements represent the or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, Corporation’s current expectations, plans or forecasts of its future including as a result of cyber attacks; the impact on the Corporation’s results, revenues, expenses, efficiency ratio, capital measures, business, financial condition and results of operations from the strategy and future business and economic conditions more planned exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union; and generally, and other future matters. These statements are not other similar matters. guarantees of future results or performance and involve certain Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are made, and the Corporation undertakes no obligation to update any difficult to predict and are often beyond the Corporation’s control. forward-looking statement to reflect the impact of circumstances or Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those events that arise after the date the forward-looking statement was expressed in, or implied by, any of these forward-looking statements. made. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements referred to in statement and should consider the following uncertainties and risks, the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition as well as the risks and uncertainties more fully discussed under and Results of Operations (MD&A) are incorporated by reference Item 1A. Risk Factors of our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K: the into the MD&A. Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified Corporation’s potential claims, damages, penalties, fines and to conform to current-year presentation. Throughout the MD&A, reputational damage resulting from pending or future litigation, the Corporation uses certain acronyms and abbreviations which regulatory proceedings and enforcement actions, including inquiries are defined in the Glossary. into our retail sales practices, and the possibility that amounts may be in excess of the Corporation’s recorded liability and estimated Executive Summary range of possible loss for litigation exposures; the possibility that the Corporation could face increased servicing, securities, fraud, Business Overview indemnity, contribution or other claims from one or more The Corporation is a Delaware corporation, a bank holding company counterparties, including trustees, purchasers of loans, (BHC) and a financial holding company. When used in this report, underwriters, issuers, other parties involved in securitizations, “the Corporation” may refer to Bank of America Corporation monolines or private-label and other investors; the possibility that individually, Bank of America Corporation and its subsidiaries, or future representations and warranties losses may occur in excess certain of Bank of America Corporation’s subsidiaries or affiliates. of the Corporation’s recorded liability and estimated range of Our principal executive offices are located in Charlotte, North possible loss for its representations and warranties exposures; the Carolina. Through our banking and various nonbank subsidiaries Corporation’s ability to resolve representations and warranties throughout the U.S. and in international markets, we provide a repurchase and related claims, including claims brought by investors diversified range of banking and nonbank financial services and or trustees seeking to avoid the statute of limitations for repurchase products through four business segments: Consumer Banking, claims; uncertainties about the financial stability and growth rates Global Wealth & Investment Management (GWIM), Global Banking of non-U.S. jurisdictions, the risk that those jurisdictions may face and Global Markets, with the remaining operations recorded in All difficulties servicing their sovereign debt, and related stresses on Other. We operate our banking activities primarily under the Bank financial markets, currencies and trade, and the Corporation’s of America, National Association (Bank of America, N.A. or BANA) exposures to such risks, including direct, indirect and operational; charter. At December 31, 2017, the Corporation had approximately the impact of U.S. and global interest rates, currency exchange rates, $2.3 trillion in assets and a headcount of approximately 209,000 economic conditions, and potential geopolitical instability; the employees. Headcount remained relatively unchanged since impact on the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results December 31, 2016. of operations of a potential higher interest rate environment; the As of December 31, 2017, we operated in all 50 states, the possibility that future credit losses may be higher than currently District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico and more expected due to changes in economic assumptions, customer than 35 countries. Our retail banking footprint covers behavior, adverse developments with respect to U.S. or global approximately 85 percent of the U.S. population, and we serve economic conditions and other uncertainties; the Corporation’s approximately 47 million consumer and small business ability to achieve its expense targets, net interest income relationships with approximately 4,500 retail financial centers, expectations, or other projections; adverse changes to the approximately 16,000 ATMs, and leading digital banking platforms Corporation’s credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies; (www.bankofamerica.com) with approximately 35 million active estimates of the fair value of certain of the Corporation’s assets and users, including approximately 24 million mobile active users. We liabilities; uncertainty regarding the content, timing and impact of offer industry-leading support to approximately three million small regulatory capital and liquidity requirements; the potential impact business owners. Our wealth management businesses, with client of total loss-absorbing capacity requirements; potential adverse balances of nearly $2.8 trillion, provide tailored solutions to meet changes to our global systemically important bank surcharge; the client needs through a full set of investment management, potential impact of Federal Reserve actions on the Corporation’s brokerage, banking, trust and retirement products. We are a global capital plans; the possible impact of the Corporation’s failure to leader in corporate and investment banking and trading across a Bank of America 2017 35 broad range of asset classes serving corporations, governments, In this context, the European Central Bank decided to taper its institutions and individuals around the world. quantitative easing program even if domestic inflationary pressures remained historically weak. The impact of the 2016 U.K. 2017 Economic and Business Environment referendum vote in favor of leaving the European Union (EU) started The U.S. economy gained momentum in 2017, as it grew for the to materialize within the U.K. economy which, despite the robust eighth consecutive year. Following a soft start, partly driven by global momentum, showed its weakest GDP growth in five years. sharp inventory liquidation and adverse weather effects, GDP Supported by a very accommodative monetary policy stance growth accelerated over the remainder of the year. Economic and sustained growth in external demand, the Japanese economy growth was supported by a noticeable pickup in business expanded at the strongest pace since 2010 with headline inflation investment in high-tech equipment, a recovery in oil exploration remaining positive throughout the year. Across emerging nations, and solid consumer demand growth. A revitalization in U.S. export economic activity was supported by China’s continued transition growth, on the back of a weakening dollar and stronger global towards a more consumption-based growth model, as well as by growth, also had beneficial impacts. GDP growth was limited by a the recovery in Brazil and Russia following the 2016 recession. mid-year softening in residential investment and a flat period for government consumption and investment. The housing market Recent Events finished the year strongly. A lean supply of unsold inventory and solid demand was supportive of steady home price appreciation Capital Management through much of the year. During 2017, we repurchased approximately $12.8 billion of The labor market continued to tighten as job creation exceeded common stock pursuant to the Board’s repurchase authorizations the growth in the labor force. The unemployment rate fell to a 17under our 2017 and 2016 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and year low. Wage growth, however, remained relatively muted. Review (CCAR) capital plans, including repurchases to offset Inflation also remained low. The headline rate edged somewhat equity-based compensation awards, and pursuant to an additional higher on recovering energy prices. But core inflation, excluding $5 billion share repurchase authorization approved by the Board volatile food and energy components, slowed unexpectedly over and the Federal Reserve in December 2017. For more information, much of the year, as goods’ prices and health care inflation see Capital Management on page 61. softened, and the acceleration in rents leveled off. Core inflation once again finished the year below the Federal Reserve’s two Change in Tax Law percent target level. On December 22, 2017, the President signed into law the Tax Cuts Equity markets advanced strongly in 2017, with the S&P 500 and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) which made significant changes to increasing by approximately 20 percent. The anticipation of federal income tax law including, among other things, reducing the corporate tax reform and strong global earnings growth appeared statutory corporate income tax rate to 21 percent from 35 percent to fuel the stock market’s strong performance. Following a midand changing the taxation of our non-U.S. business activities. year decline, long-term Treasury yields recovered towards the end Results for 2017 included an estimated reduction in net income of 2017, but finished little changed from the start of the year. With of $2.9 billion due to the Tax Act, driven largely by a lower valuation short-end rates rising over the course of the year, the yield curve of certain U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities. We have flattened considerably. After a brief surge following the 2016 accounted for the effects of the Tax Act using reasonable estimates election, the trade-weighted dollar declined over most of 2017. based on currently available information and our interpretations The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) raised its target thereof. This accounting may change due to, among other things, range for the Federal funds rate three times in 2017, bringing the changes in interpretations we have made and the issuance of new total rise in the funds rate during the current cycle to 125 basis tax or accounting guidance. points (bps). The Federal Reserve also began allowing a small portion of its Treasury and mortgage-backed securities (MBS) to Long-term Debt Exchange roll off as monetary policy normalization continued. Current Federal In December 2017, pursuant to a private offering, we exchanged Reserve baseline forecasts suggest gradual rate increases will $11.0 billion of outstanding long-term debt for new fixed/floatingcontinue into 2018 against a backdrop of solid economic rate senior notes, subject to certain terms and conditions. The expansion and a tightening labor market. impact on our results of operations related to this exchange was The improved economic momentum in 2017 was not confined not significant. For more information on this exchange, see to the U.S. The eurozone posted its strongest GDP growth in 10 Liquidity Risk on page 65. years, despite heightened political uncertainty and fragmentation. 36 Bank of America 2017 Selected Financial Data Table 1 provides selected consolidated financial data for 2017 and 2016. Table 1 Selected Financial Data (Dollars in millions, except per share information) 2017 2016 Income statement Revenue, net of interest expense $ 87,352 $ 83,701 Net income 18,232 17,822 Diluted earnings per common share 1.56 1.49 Dividends paid per common share 0.39 0.25 Performance ratios Return on average assets 0.80% 0.81% Return on average common shareholders’ equity 6.72 6.69 Return on average tangible common shareholders’ equity (1) 9.41 9.51 Efficiency ratio 62.67 65.81 Balance sheet at year end Total loans and leases $ 936,749 $ 906,683 Total assets 2,281,234 2,188,067 Total deposits 1,309,545 1,260,934 Total common shareholders’ equity 244,823 240,975 Total shareholders’ equity 267,146 266,195 (1) Return on average tangible common shareholders’ equity is a non-GAAP financial measure. For more information and a corresponding reconciliation to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) financial measures, see Non-GAAP Reconciliations on page 104. Financial Highlights method resulted in an insignificant pro forma change to our capital Net income was $18.2 billion, or $1.56 per diluted share in 2017 metrics and ratios. For more information, see Note 1 Summary compared to $17.8 billion, or $1.49 per diluted share in 2016. of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial The results for 2017 include an estimated charge of $2.9 billion Statements. related to the Tax Act. The pre-tax results for 2017 compared to 2016 were driven by higher revenue, largely the result of an Table 2 Summary Income Statement increase in net interest income, lower provision for credit losses and a decline in noninterest expense. (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 Effective October 1, 2017, we changed our accounting method Net interest income $ 44,667 $ 41,096 for determining when certain stock-based compensation awards Noninterest income 42,685 42,605 granted to retirement-eligible employees are deemed authorized, Total revenue, net of interest expense 87,352 83,701 changing from the grant date to the beginning of the year preceding Provision for credit losses 3,396 3,597 Noninterest expense 54,743 55,083 the grant date when the incentive award plans are generally Income before income taxes 29,213 25,021 approved. As a result, the estimated value of the awards is now Income tax expense 10,981 7,199 expensed ratably over the year preceding the grant date. All prior Net income 18,232 17,822 periods presented herein have been restated for this change in Preferred stock dividends 1,614 1,682 accounting method. The change affected consolidated financial Net income applicable to common shareholders $ 16,618 $ 16,140 information and All Other; it did not affect the business segments. Under the applicable bank regulatory rules, we are not required to Per common share information and, accordingly, did not restate previously-filed capital metrics Earnings $ 1.63 $ 1.57 and ratios. The cumulative impact of the change in accounting Diluted earnings 1.56 1.49 Bank of America 2017 37 Net Interest Income energy exposures in the commercial portfolio and credit quality Net interest income increased $3.6 billion to $44.7 billion in 2017 improvements in the consumer real estate portfolio. This was compared to 2016. The net interest yield increased 11 bps to partially offset by portfolio seasoning and loan growth in the U.S. 2.32 percent for 2017. These increases were primarily driven by credit card portfolio and a single-name non-U.S. commercial the benefits from higher interest rates and loan and deposit growth, charge-off. For more information on the provision for credit losses, partially offset by the sale of the non-U.S. consumer credit card see Provision for Credit Losses on page 88. business in the second quarter of 2017. For more information regarding interest rate risk management, see Interest Rate Risk Noninterest Expense Management for the Banking Book on page 97. Table 4 Noninterest Expense Noninterest Income (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 Personnel $ 31,642 $ 31,748 Table 3 Noninterest Income Occupancy 4,009 4,038 Equipment 1,692 1,804 (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 Marketing 1,746 1,703 Card income $ 5,902 $ 5,851 Professional fees 1,888 1,971 Service charges 7,818 7,638 Data processing 3,139 3,007 Investment and brokerage services 13,281 12,745 Telecommunications 699 746 Investment banking income 6,011 5,241 Other general operating 9,928 10,066 Trading account profits 7,277 6,902 Total noninterest expense $ 54,743 $ 55,083 Mortgage banking income 224 1,853 Gains on sales of debt securities 255 490 Other income 1,917 1,885 Noninterest expense decreased $340 million to $54.7 billion for Total noninterest income $ 42,685 $ 42,605 2017 compared to 2016. The decrease was primarily due to lower operating costs, a reduction from the sale of the non-U.S. Noninterest income increased $80 million to $42.7 billion for consumer credit card business and lower litigation expense, 2017 compared to 2016. The following highlights the significant partially offset by a $316 million impairment charge related to changes. certain data centers in the process of being sold and $145 million Service charges increased $180 million primarily driven by the for the shared success discretionary year-end bonus awarded to impact of pricing strategies and higher treasury servicescertain employees. related revenue. Investment and brokerage services income increased $536 Income Tax Expense million primarily driven by the impact of assets under management (AUM) flows and higher market valuations, Table 5 Income Tax Expense partially offset by the impact of changing market dynamics on transactional revenue and AUM pricing. (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 Investment banking income increased $770 million primarily Income before income taxes $ 29,213 $ 25,021 due to higher advisory fees and higher debt and equity issuance Income tax expense 10,981 7,199 Effective tax rate 37.6% 28.8% fees. Trading account profits increased $375 million primarily due Tax expense for 2017 included a charge of $1.9 billion reflecting to increased client financing activity in equities, partially offset the impact of the Tax Act discussed below. Included in the tax by weaker performance across most fixed-income products. charge was $2.3 billion related primarily to a lower valuation of Mortgage banking income decreased $1.6 billion primarily certain deferred tax assets and liabilities and a $347 million tax driven by lower net servicing income due to lower net mortgage benefit on the pre-tax loss from the lower valuation of our taxservicing rights (MSR) results, and lower production income advantaged energy investments. Other than the impact of the Tax primarily due to lower volume. Act, the effective tax rate for 2017 was driven by our recurring tax Gains on sales of debt securities decreased $235 million preference benefits as well as an expense recognized in primarily driven by lower activity. connection with the sale of the non-U.S. consumer credit card Other income remained relatively unchanged. Included was a business, largely offset by benefits related to the adoption of the $793 million pre-tax gain recognized in connection with the new accounting standard for the tax impact associated with sharesale of the non-U.S. consumer credit card business and a based compensation and the restructuring of certain subsidiaries. downward valuation adjustment of $946 million on taxThe effective tax rate for 2016 was driven by our recurring tax advantaged energy investments in connection with the Tax Act. preferences and net tax benefits related to various tax audit Provision for Credit Losses matters, partially offset by a charge for the impact of U.K. tax law The provision for credit losses decreased $201 million to $3.4 changes enacted in 2016. billion for 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to reductions in 38 Bank of America 2017 On December 22, 2017, the President signed into law the Tax information and our interpretations thereof. This accounting may Act which made significant changes to federal income tax law change due to, among other things, changes in interpretations we including, among other things, reducing the statutory corporate have made and the issuance of new tax or accounting guidance. income tax rate to 21 percent from 35 percent and changing the We expect the effective tax rate for 2018 to be approximately taxation of our non-U.S. business activities. Results for 2017 20 percent, absent unusual items. included an estimated reduction in net income of $2.9 billion due Our U.K. deferred tax assets, which consist primarily of net to the Tax Act, driven largely by a lower valuation of certain U.S. operating losses, are expected to be realized by certain deferred tax assets and liabilities. Additionally, the change in the subsidiaries over a number of years. Significant changes to corporate income tax rate impacted our tax-advantaged energy management’s earnings forecasts for those subsidiaries, changes investments, resulting in a downward valuation adjustment of in applicable laws, further changes in tax laws or changes in the $946 million recorded in other income that was fully offset by tax ability of our U.K. subsidiaries to conduct business in the EU, could benefits arising from lower deferred tax liabilities on these lead management to reassess our ability to realize the U.K. investments. We have accounted for the effects of the Tax Act deferred tax assets. using reasonable estimates based on currently available Balance Sheet Overview Table 6 Selected Balance Sheet Data December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 % Change Assets Cash and cash equivalents $ 157,434 $ 147,738 7% Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell 212,747 198,224 7 Trading account assets 209,358 180,209 16 Debt securities 440,130 430,731 2 Loans and leases 936,749 906,683 3 Allowance for loan and lease losses (10,393) (11,237) (8) All other assets 335,209 335,719 — Total assets $ 2,281,234 $ 2,188,067 4 Liabilities Deposits $ 1,309,545 $ 1,260,934 4 Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase 176,865 170,291 4 Trading account liabilities 81,187 63,031 29 Short-term borrowings 32,666 23,944 36 Long-term debt 227,402 216,823 5 All other liabilities 186,423 186,849 — Total liabilities 2,014,088 1,921,872 5 Shareholders’ equity 267,146 266,195 — Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $ 2,281,234 $ 2,188,067 4 Assets Trading Account Assets At December 31, 2017, total assets were approximately $2.3 Trading account assets consist primarily of long positions in equity trillion, up $93.2 billion from December 31, 2016. The increase and fixed-income securities including U.S. government and agency in assets was primarily due to higher loans and leases driven by securities, corporate securities and non-U.S. sovereign debt. client demand for commercial loans, higher trading assets and Trading account assets increased $29.1 billion primarily driven by securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell due additional inventory in fixed-income, currencies and commodities to increased customer activity, and higher cash and cash (FICC) to meet expected client demand and increased client equivalents and debt securities driven by the deployment of financing activities in equities within Global Markets. deposit inflows. Debt Securities Cash and Cash Equivalents Debt securities primarily include U.S. Treasury and agency Cash and cash equivalents increased $9.7 billion primarily driven securities, MBS, principally agency MBS, non-U.S. bonds, by deposit growth and net debt issuances, partially offset by loan corporate bonds and municipal debt. We use the debt securities growth and net securities purchases. portfolio primarily to manage interest rate and liquidity risk and to take advantage of market conditions that create economically Federal Funds Sold and Securities Borrowed or Purchased attractive returns on these investments. Debt securities increased Under Agreements to Resell $9.4 billion primarily driven by the deployment of deposit inflows. Federal funds transactions involve lending reserve balances on a For more information on debt securities, see Note 3 – Securities short-term basis. Securities borrowed or purchased under to the Consolidated Financial Statements. agreements to resell are collateralized lending transactions utilized to accommodate customer transactions, earn interest rate Loans and Leases spreads, and obtain securities for settlement and for collateral. Loans and leases increased $30.1 billion compared to December Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under 31, 2016. The increase was primarily due to net loan growth driven agreements to resell increased $14.5 billion due to a higher level by strong client demand for commercial loans and increases in of customer financing activity. Bank of America 2017 39 residential mortgage. For more information on the loan portfolio, government bonds driven by expected client demand within Global see Credit Risk Management on page 70. Markets. Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses Short-term Borrowings The allowance for loan and lease losses decreased $844 million Short-term borrowings provide an additional funding source and primarily due to the impact of improvements in credit quality from primarily consist of Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) short-term a stronger economy. For more information, see Allowance for Credit borrowings, notes payable and various other borrowings that Losses on page 88. generally have maturities of one year or less. Short-term borrowings increased $8.7 billion primarily due to an increase in Liabilities short-term bank notes and short-term FHLB Advances. For more At December 31, 2017, total liabilities were approximately $2.0 information on short-term borrowings, see Note 10 – Federal Funds trillion, up $92.2 billion from December 31, 2016, primarily due Sold or Purchased, Securities Financing Agreements and Short-term to an increase in deposits, higher trading account liabilities due Borrowings to the Consolidated Financial Statements. to an increase in short positions, and higher long-term debt due to net issuances. Long-term Debt Long-term debt increased $10.6 billion primarily driven by Deposits issuances outpacing maturities and redemptions. For more Deposits increased $48.6 billion primarily due to an increase in information on long-term debt, see Note 11 – Long-term Debt to retail deposits. the Consolidated Financial Statements. Federal Funds Purchased and Securities Loaned or Sold Shareholders’ Equity Under Agreements to Repurchase Shareholders’ equity increased $1.0 billion driven by earnings, Federal funds transactions involve borrowing reserve balances on largely offset by returns of capital to shareholders of $18.4 billion a short-term basis. Securities loaned or sold under agreements through common and preferred stock dividends and share to repurchase are collateralized borrowing transactions utilized to repurchases. accommodate customer transactions, earn interest rate spreads and finance assets on the balance sheet. Federal funds purchased Cash Flows Overview and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase The Corporation’s operating assets and liabilities support our increased $6.6 billion primarily due to an increase in repurchase global markets and lending activities. We believe that cash flows agreements. from operations, available cash balances and our ability to generate cash through shortand long-term debt are sufficient to Trading Account Liabilities fund our operating liquidity needs. Our investing activities primarily Trading account liabilities consist primarily of short positions in include the debt securities portfolio and loans and leases. Our equity and fixed-income securities including U.S. Treasury and financing activities reflect cash flows primarily related to customer agency securities, corporate securities and non-U.S. sovereign deposits, securities financing agreements and long-term debt. For debt. Trading account liabilities increased $18.2 billion primarily more information on liquidity, see Liquidity Risk on page 65. due to higher equity short positions and higher levels of short 40 Bank of America 2017 Table 7 Five-year Summary of Selected Financial Data (In millions, except per share information) 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Income statement Net interest income $ 44,667 $ 41,096 $ 38,958 $ 40,779 $ 40,719 Noninterest income 42,685 42,605 44,007 45,115 46,783 Total revenue, net of interest expense 87,352 83,701 82,965 85,894 87,502 Provision for credit losses 3,396 3,597 3,161 2,275 3,556 Noninterest expense 54,743 55,083 57,617 75,656 69,213 Income before income taxes 29,213 25,021 22,187 7,963 14,733 Income tax expense 10,981 7,199 6,277 2,443 4,194 Net income 18,232 17,822 15,910 5,520 10,539 Net income applicable to common shareholders 16,618 16,140 14,427 4,476 9,190 Average common shares issued and outstanding 10,196 10,284 10,462 10,528 10,731 Average diluted common shares issued and outstanding 10,778 11,047 11,236 10,585 11,491 Performance ratios Return on average assets 0.80% 0.81% 0.74% 0.26% 0.49% Return on average common shareholders’ equity 6.72 6.69 6.28 2.01 4.21 Return on average tangible common shareholders’ equity (1) 9.41 9.51 9.16 2.98 6.35 Return on average shareholders’ equity 6.72 6.70 6.33 2.32 4.51 Return on average tangible shareholders’ equity (1) 9.08 9.17 8.88 3.34 6.58 Total ending equity to total ending assets 11.71 12.17 11.92 11.57 11.06 Total average equity to total average assets 11.96 12.14 11.64 11.11 10.81 Dividend payout 24.24 15.94 14.49 28.20 4.66 Per common share data Earnings $ 1.63 $ 1.57 $ 1.38 $ 0.43 $ 0.86 Diluted earnings 1.56 1.49 1.31 0.42 0.83 Dividends paid 0.39 0.25 0.20 0.12 0.04 Book value 23.80 23.97 22.48 21.32 20.69 Tangible book value (1) 16.96 16.89 15.56 14.43 13.77 Market price per share of common stock Closing $ 29.52 $ 22.10 $ 16.83 $ 17.89 $ 15.57 High closing 29.88 23.16 18.45 18.13 15.88 Low closing 22.05 11.16 15.15 14.51 11.03 Market capitalization $ 303,681 $ 222,163 $ 174,700 $ 188,141 $ 164,914 Average balance sheet Total loans and leases $ 918,731 $ 900,433 $ 876,787 $ 898,703 $ 918,641 Total assets 2,268,633 2,190,218 2,160,536 2,145,393 2,163,296 Total deposits 1,269,796 1,222,561 1,155,860 1,124,207 1,089,735 Long-term debt 225,133 228,617 240,059 253,607 263,417 Common shareholders’ equity 247,101 241,187 229,576 222,907 218,340 Total shareholders’ equity 271,289 265,843 251,384 238,317 233,819 Asset quality (2) Allowance for credit losses (3) $ 11,170 $ 11,999 $ 12,880 $ 14,947 $ 17,912 Nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties (4) 6,758 8,084 9,836 12,629 17,772 Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding (4, 5) 1.12% 1.26% 1.37% 1.66% 1.90% Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans and leases (4, 5) 161 149 130 121 102 Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans and leases, excluding the PCI loan portfolio (4, 5) 156 144 122 107 87 Net charge-offs (6, 7) $ 3,979 $ 3,821 $ 4,338 $ 4,383 $ 7,897 Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases outstanding (4, 6) 0.44% 0.43% 0.50% 0.49% 0.87% Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases outstanding, excluding the PCI loan portfolio (4) 0.44 0.44 0.51 0.50 0.90 Capital ratios at year end (8) Common equity tier 1 capital 11.8% 11.0% 10.2% 12.3% n/a Tier 1 common capital n/a n/a n/a n/a 10.9% Tier 1 capital 13.2 12.4 11.3 13.4 12.2 Total capital 15.1 14.3 13.2 16.5 15.1 Tier 1 leverage 8.6 8.9 8.6 8.2 7.7 Tangible equity (1) 8.9 9.2 8.9 8.4 7.8 Tangible common equity (1) 7.9 8.0 7.8 7.5 7.2 (1) Tangible equity ratios and tangible book value per share of common stock are non-GAAP financial measures. For more information on these ratios, see Supplemental Financial Data on page 43, and for corresponding reconciliations to GAAP financial measures, see Non-GAAP Reconciliations on page 104. (2) For more information on the impact of the purchased credit-impaired (PCI) loan portfolio on asset quality, see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management on page 70. (3) Includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments. (4) Balances and ratios do not include loans accounted for under the fair value option. For additional exclusions from nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties, see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Nonperforming Consumer Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity on page 78 and corresponding Table 31, and Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Nonperforming Commercial Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity on page 83 and corresponding Table 38. (5) Asset quality metrics for 2016 include $243 million of non-U.S. credit card allowance for loan and lease losses and $9.2 billion of non-U.S. credit card loans, which were included in assets of business held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2016. In 2017, the Corporation sold its non-U.S. consumer credit card business. (6) Net charge-offs exclude $207 million, $340 million, $808 million, $810 million and $2.3 billion of write-offs in the PCI loan portfolio for 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. For more information on PCI write-offs, see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio on page 76. (7) Includes net charge-offs of $75 million and $175 million on non-U.S. credit card loans in 2017 and 2016, which were included in assets of business held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2016. (8) Risk-based capital ratios are reported under Basel 3 Advanced Transition at December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015. We reported risk-based capital ratios under Basel 3 Standardized Transition at December 31, 2014 and under the general risk-based approach at December 31, 2013. For more information, see Capital Management on page 61. n/a = not applicable Bank of America 2017 41 Table 8 Selected Quarterly Financial Data 2017 Quarters 2016 Quarters (In millions, except per share information) Fourth Third Second First Fourth Third Second First Income statement Net interest income $ 11,462 $ 11,161 $ 10,986 $ 11,058 $ 10,292 $ 10,201 $ 10,118 $ 10,485 Noninterest income (1) 8,974 10,678 11,843 11,190 9,698 11,434 11,168 10,305 Total revenue, net of interest expense 20,436 21,839 22,829 22,248 19,990 21,635 21,286 20,790 Provision for credit losses 1,001 834 726 835 774 850 976 997 Noninterest expense 13,274 13,394 13,982 14,093 13,413 13,734 13,746 14,190 Income before income taxes 6,161 7,611 8,121 7,320 5,803 7,051 6,564 5,603 Income tax expense (1) 3,796 2,187 3,015 1,983 1,268 2,257 1,943 1,731 Net income (1) 2,365 5,424 5,106 5,337 4,535 4,794 4,621 3,872 Net income applicable to common shareholders 2,079 4,959 4,745 4,835 4,174 4,291 4,260 3,415 Average common shares issued and outstanding 10,471 10,198 10,014 10,100 10,170 10,250 10,328 10,370 Average diluted common shares issued and outstanding 10,622 10,747 10,835 10,920 10,992 11,034 11,086 11,108 Performance ratios Return on average assets 0.41% 0.95% 0.90% 0.97% 0.82% 0.87% 0.85% 0.72% Four quarter trailing return on average assets (2) 0.80 0.91 0.89 0.88 0.81 0.76 0.75 0.76 Return on average common shareholders’ equity 3.29 7.89 7.75 8.09 6.79 7.02 7.14 5.80 Return on average tangible common shareholders’ equity (3) 4.56 10.98 10.87 11.44 9.58 9.94 10.17 8.32 Return on average shareholders’ equity 3.43 7.88 7.56 8.09 6.69 7.10 7.01 5.99 Return on average tangible shareholders’ equity (3) 4.62 10.59 10.23 11.01 9.09 9.68 9.61 8.27 Total ending equity to total ending assets 11.71 11.91 12.00 11.92 12.17 12.28 12.21 12.02 Total average equity to total average assets 11.87 12.03 11.94 12.00 12.21 12.26 12.11 11.96 Dividend payout 60.35 25.59 15.78 15.64 18.37 17.97 12.17 15.12 Per common share data Earnings $ 0.20 $ 0.49 $ 0.47 $ 0.48 $ 0.41 $ 0.42 $ 0.41 $ 0.33 Diluted earnings 0.20 0.46 0.44 0.45 0.39 0.40 0.39 0.31 Dividends paid 0.12 0.12 0.075 0.075 0.075 0.075 0.05 0.05 Book value 23.80 23.87 24.85 24.34 23.97 24.14 23.68 23.13 Tangible book value (3) 16.96 17.18 17.75 17.22 16.89 17.09 16.68 16.18 Market price per share of common stock Closing $ 29.52 $ 25.34 $ 24.26 $ 23.59 $ 22.10 $ 15.65 $ 13.27 $ 13.52 High closing 29.88 25.45 24.32 25.50 23.16 16.19 15.11 16.43 Low closing 25.45 22.89 22.23 22.05 15.63 12.74 12.18 11.16 Market capitalization $ 303,681 $ 264,992 $ 239,643 $ 235,291 $ 222,163 $ 158,438 $ 135,577 $ 139,427 Average balance sheet Total loans and leases $ 927,790 $ 918,129 $ 914,717 $ 914,144 $ 908,396 $ 900,594 $ 899,670 $ 892,984 Total assets 2,301,687 2,271,104 2,269,293 2,231,649 2,208,391 2,189,750 2,188,410 2,174,126 Total deposits 1,293,572 1,271,711 1,256,838 1,256,632 1,250,948 1,227,186 1,213,291 1,198,455 Long-term debt 227,644 227,309 224,019 221,468 220,587 227,269 233,061 233,654 Common shareholders’ equity 250,838 249,214 245,756 242,480 244,519 243,220 240,078 236,871 Total shareholders’ equity 273,162 273,238 270,977 267,700 269,739 268,440 265,056 260,065 Asset quality (4) Allowance for credit losses (5) $ 11,170 $ 11,455 $ 11,632 $ 11,869 $ 11,999 $ 12,459 $ 12,587 $ 12,696 Nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties (6) 6,758 6,869 7,127 7,637 8,084 8,737 8,799 9,281 Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding (6, 7) 1.12% 1.16% 1.20% 1.25% 1.26% 1.30% 1.32% 1.35% Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans and leases (6, 7) 161 163 160 156 149 140 142 136 Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans and leases, excluding the PCI loan portfolio (6, 7) 156 158 154 150 144 135 135 129 Net charge-offs (8, 9) $ 1,237 $ 900 $ 908 $ 934 $ 880 $ 888 $ 985 $ 1,068 Annualized net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases outstanding (6, 8) 0.53% 0.39% 0.40% 0.42% 0.39% 0.40% 0.44% 0.48% Annualized net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases outstanding, excluding the PCI loan portfolio (6) 0.54 0.40 0.41 0.42 0.39 0.40 0.45 0.49 Capital ratios at period end (10) Common equity tier 1 capital 11.8% 11.9% 11.6% 11.0% 11.0% 11.0% 10.6% 10.3% Tier 1 capital 13.2 13.3 13.2 12.5 12.4 12.4 12.0 11.5 Total capital 15.1 15.1 15.1 14.4 14.3 14.2 13.9 13.4 Tier 1 leverage 8.6 9.0 8.9 8.8 8.9 9.1 8.9 8.7 Tangible equity (3) 8.9 9.1 9.2 9.0 9.2 9.3 9.2 9.0 Tangible common equity (3) 7.9 8.1 8.0 7.9 8.0 8.1 8.1 7.9 (1) Net income for the fourth quarter of 2017 included an estimated charge of $2.9 billion from enactment of the Tax Act which consisted of $946 million in noninterest income and $1.9 billion in income tax expense. For more information on Tax Act impacts, see Income Tax Expense on page 38. (2) Calculated as total net income for four consecutive quarters divided by annualized average assets for four consecutive quarters. (3) Tangible equity ratios and tangible book value per share of common stock are non-GAAP financial measures. For more information on these ratios, see Supplemental Financial Data on page 43, and for corresponding reconciliations to GAAP financial measures, see Non-GAAP Reconciliations on page 104. (4) For more information on the impact of the PCI loan portfolio on asset quality, see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management on page 70. (5) Includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments. (6) Balances and ratios do not include loans accounted for under the fair value option. For additional exclusions from nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties, see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Nonperforming Consumer Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity on page 78 and corresponding Table 31, and Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Nonperforming Commercial Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity on page 83 and corresponding Table 38. (7) Asset quality metrics for the first quarter of 2017 and the fourth quarter of 2016 include $242 million and $243 million of non-U.S. credit card allowance for loan and lease losses and $9.5 billion and $9.2 billion of non-U.S. credit card loans, which were included in assets of business held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016. In 2017, the Corporation sold its non-U.S. consumer credit card business. (8) Net charge-offs exclude $46 million, $73 million, $55 million and $33 million of write-offs in the PCI loan portfolio in the fourth, third, second and first quarters of 2017, respectively, and $70 million, $83 million, $82 million and $105 million in the fourth, third, second and first quarters of 2016, respectively. For more information on PCI write-offs, see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio on page 76. (9) Includes net charge-offs of $31 million, $44 million and $41 million on non-U.S. credit card loans in the second and first quarters of 2017, and in the fourth quarter of 2016, which were included in assets of business held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016. (10) Risk-based capital ratios are reported under Basel 3 Advanced Transition. For more information, see Capital Management on page 61. 42 Bank BankofofAmerica America20172017 Supplemental Financial Data equity represents an adjusted shareholders’ equity or common In this Form 10-K, we present certain non-GAAP financial shareholders’ equity amount which has been reduced by goodwill measures. Non-GAAP financial measures exclude certain items or and certain acquired intangible assets (excluding MSRs), net of otherwise include components that differ from the most directly related deferred tax liabilities. These measures are used to comparable measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. Nonevaluate our use of equity. In addition, profitability, relationship GAAP financial measures are provided as additional useful and investment models use both return on average tangible information to assess our financial condition, results of operations common shareholders’ equity and return on average tangible (including period-to-period operating performance) or compliance shareholders’ equity as key measures to support our overall growth with prospective regulatory requirements. These non-GAAP goals. These ratios are as follows: financial measures are not intended as a substitute for GAAP Return on average tangible common shareholders’ equity financial measures and may not be defined or calculated the same measures our earnings contribution as a percentage of way as non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. adjusted common shareholders’ equity. The tangible common We view net interest income and related ratios and analyses equity ratio represents adjusted ending common shareholders’ on a fully taxable-equivalent (FTE) basis, which when presented on equity divided by total assets less goodwill and certain acquired a consolidated basis, are non-GAAP financial measures. To derive intangible assets (excluding MSRs), net of related deferred tax the FTE basis, net interest income is adjusted to reflect tax-exempt liabilities. income on an equivalent before-tax basis with a corresponding Return on average tangible shareholders’ equity measures our increase in income tax expense. For purposes of this calculation, earnings contribution as a percentage of adjusted average total we use the federal statutory tax rate of 35 percent and a shareholders’ equity. The tangible equity ratio represents representative state tax rate. In addition, certain performance adjusted ending shareholders’ equity divided by total assets measures including the efficiency ratio and net interest yield utilize less goodwill and certain acquired intangible assets (excluding net interest income (and thus total revenue) on an FTE basis. The MSRs), net of related deferred tax liabilities. efficiency ratio measures the costs expended to generate a dollar Tangible book value per common share represents adjusted of revenue, and net interest yield measures the bps we earn over ending common shareholders’ equity divided by ending the cost of funds. We believe that presentation of these items on common shares outstanding. an FTE basis allows for comparison of amounts from both taxable We believe that the use of ratios that utilize tangible equity and tax-exempt sources and is consistent with industry practices. provides additional useful information because they present We may present certain key performance indicators and ratios measures of those assets that can generate income. Tangible excluding certain items (e.g., debit valuation adjustment (DVA)) book value per share provides additional useful information about which result in non-GAAP financial measures. We believe that the the level of tangible assets in relation to outstanding shares of presentation of measures that exclude these items are useful common stock. because they provide additional information to assess the The aforementioned supplemental data and performance underlying operational performance and trends of our businesses measures are presented in Tables 7 and 8. and to allow better comparison of period-to-period operating For more information on the reconciliation of these non-GAAP performance. financial measures to GAAP financial measures, see Non-GAAP We also evaluate our business based on certain ratios that Reconciliations on page 104. utilize tangible equity, a non-GAAP financial measure. Tangible Bank of America 2017 43 Table 9 Average Balances and Interest Rates FTE Basis Interest Interest Interest Average Income/ Yield/ Average Income/ Yield/ Average Income/ Yield/ Balance Expense Rate Balance Expense Rate Balance Expense Rate (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Earning assets Interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve, non-U.S. central banks and other banks $ 127,431 $ 1,122 0.88% $ 133,374 $ 605 0.45% $ 136,391 $ 369 0.27% Time deposits placed and other short-term investments 12,112 241 1.99 9,026 140 1.55 9,556 146 1.53 Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell 222,818 2,390 1.07 216,161 1,118 0.52 211,471 988 0.47 Trading account assets 129,007 4,618 3.58 129,766 4,563 3.52 137,837 4,547 3.30 Debt securities 435,005 10,626 2.44 418,289 9,263 2.23 390,849 9,233 2.38 Loans and leases (1): Residential mortgage 197,766 6,831 3.45 188,250 6,488 3.45 201,366 6,967 3.46 Home equity 62,260 2,608 4.19 71,760 2,713 3.78 81,070 2,984 3.68 U.S. credit card 91,068 8,791 9.65 87,905 8,170 9.29 88,244 8,085 9.16 Non-U.S. credit card (2) 3,929 358 9.12 9,527 926 9.72 10,104 1,051 10.40 Direct/Indirect consumer (3) 93,374 2,622 2.81 91,853 2,296 2.50 84,585 2,040 2.41 Other consumer (4) 2,628 112 4.23 2,295 75 3.26 1,938 56 2.86 Total consumer 451,025 21,322 4.73 451,590 20,668 4.58 467,307 21,183 4.53 U.S. commercial 292,452 9,765 3.34 276,887 8,101 2.93 248,354 6,883 2.77 Commercial real estate (5) 58,502 2,116 3.62 57,547 1,773 3.08 52,136 1,521 2.92 Commercial lease financing 21,747 706 3.25 21,146 627 2.97 19,802 628 3.17 Non-U.S. commercial 95,005 2,566 2.70 93,263 2,337 2.51 89,188 2,008 2.25 Total commercial 467,706 15,153 3.24 448,843 12,838 2.86 409,480 11,040 2.70 Total loans and leases (2) 918,731 36,475 3.97 900,433 33,506 3.72 876,787 32,223 3.68 Other earning assets 76,957 3,032 3.94 59,775 2,762 4.62 62,040 2,890 4.66 Total earning assets (6) 1,922,061 58,504 3.04 1,866,824 51,957 2.78 1,824,931 50,396 2.76 Cash and due from banks 27,995 27,893 28,921 Other assets, less allowance for loan and lease losses 318,577 295,501 306,684 Total assets $ 2,268,633 $ 2,190,218 $ 2,160,536 Interest-bearing liabilities U.S. interest-bearing deposits: Savings $ 53,783 $ 5 0.01% $ 49,495 $ 5 0.01% $ 46,498 $ 7 0.01% NOW and money market deposit accounts 628,647 873 0.14 589,737 294 0.05 543,133 273 0.05 Consumer CDs and IRAs 44,794 121 0.27 48,594 133 0.27 54,679 162 0.30 Negotiable CDs, public funds and other deposits 36,782 354 0.96 32,889 160 0.49 29,976 95 0.32 Total U.S. interest-bearing deposits 764,006 1,353 0.18 720,715 592 0.08 674,286 537 0.08 Non-U.S. interest-bearing deposits: Banks located in non-U.S. countries 2,442 21 0.85 3,891 32 0.82 4,473 31 0.70 Governments and official institutions 1,006 10 0.95 1,437 9 0.64 1,492 5 0.33 Time, savings and other 62,386 547 0.88 59,183 382 0.65 54,767 288 0.53 Total non-U.S. interest-bearing deposits 65,834 578 0.88 64,511 423 0.66 60,732 324 0.53 Total interest-bearing deposits 829,840 1,931 0.23 785,226 1,015 0.13 735,018 861 0.12 Federal funds purchased, securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, short-term borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities 273,097 3,538 1.30 251,236 2,350 0.94 275,785 2,387 0.87 Trading account liabilities 45,518 1,204 2.64 37,897 1,018 2.69 46,206 1,343 2.91 Long-term debt 225,133 6,239 2.77 228,617 5,578 2.44 240,059 5,958 2.48 Total interest-bearing liabilities (6) 1,373,588 12,912 0.94 1,302,976 9,961 0.76 1,297,068 10,549 0.81 Noninterest-bearing sources: Noninterest-bearing deposits 439,956 437,335 420,842 Other liabilities 183,800 184,064 191,242 Shareholders’ equity 271,289 265,843 251,384 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $ 2,268,633 $ 2,190,218 $ 2,160,536 Net interest spread 2.10% 2.02% 1.95% Impact of noninterest-bearing sources 0.27 0.23 0.24 Net interest income/yield on earning assets $ 45,592 2.37% $ 41,996 2.25% $ 39,847 2.19% (1) Nonperforming loans are included in the respective average loan balances. Income on these nonperforming loans is generally recognized on a cost recovery basis. PCI loans are recorded at fair value upon acquisition and accrete interest income over the estimated life of the loan. (2) Includes assets of the Corporation’s non-U.S. consumer credit card business, which was sold during the second quarter of 2017. (3) Includes non-U.S. consumer loans of $2.9 billion, $3.4 billion and $4.0 billion in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. (4) Includes consumer finance loans of $321 million, $514 million and $619 million; consumer leases of $2.1 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.2 billion, and consumer overdrafts of $179 million, $173 million and $156 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. (5) Includes U.S. commercial real estate loans of $55.0 billion, $54.2 billion and $49.0 billion, and non-U.S. commercial real estate loans of $3.5 billion, $3.4 billion and $3.1 billion in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. (6) Interest income includes the impact of interest rate risk management contracts, which decreased interest income on the underlying assets by $44 million, $176 million and $59 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Interest expense includes the impact of interest rate risk management contracts, which decreased interest expense on the underlying liabilities by $1.4 billion, $2.1 billion and $2.4 billion in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. For more information, see Interest Rate Risk Management for the Banking Book on page 97. 44 Bank of America 2017 Table 10 Analysis of Changes in Net Interest Income FTE Basis Due to Change in (1) Due to Change in (1) Volume Rate Net Change Volume Rate Net Change (Dollars in millions) From 2016 to 2017 From 2015 to 2016 Increase (decrease) in interest income Interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve, non-U.S. central banks and other banks $ (32) $ 549 $ 517 $ (9) $ 245 $ 236 Time deposits placed and other short-term investments 48 53 101 (8) 2 (6) Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell 41 1,231 1,272 28 102 130 Trading account assets (22) 77 55 (265) 281 16 Debt securities 438 925 1,363 722 (692) 30 Loans and leases: Residential mortgage 335 8 343 (454) (25) (479) Home equity (360) 255 (105) (343) 72 (271) U.S. credit card 290 331 621 (33) 118 85 Non-U.S. credit card (544) (24) (568) (60) (65) (125) Direct/Indirect consumer 38 288 326 174 82 256 Other consumer 11 26 37 10 9 19 Total consumer 654 (515) U.S. commercial 468 1,196 1,664 787 431 1,218 Commercial real estate 29 314 343 159 93 252 Commercial lease financing 19 60 79 42 (43) (1) Non-U.S. commercial 48 181 229 90 239 329 Total commercial 2,315 1,798 Total loans and leases 2,969 1,283 Other earning assets 793 (523) 270 (104) (24) (128) Total interest income $ 6,547 $ 1,561 Increase (decrease) in interest expense U.S. interest-bearing deposits: Savings $ — $ — $ — $ (2) $ — $ (2) NOW and money market deposit accounts 20 559 579 22 (1) 21 Consumer CDs and IRAs (12) — (12) (16) (13) (29) Negotiable CDs, public funds and other deposits 20 174 194 10 55 65 Total U.S. interest-bearing deposits 761 55 Non-U.S. interest-bearing deposits: Banks located in non-U.S. countries (12) 1 (11) (4) 5 1 Governments and official institutions (3) 4 1 — 4 4 Time, savings and other 24 141 165 26 68 94 Total non-U.S. interest-bearing deposits 155 99 Total interest-bearing deposits 916 154 Federal funds purchased, securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, short-term borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities 217 971 1,188 (201) 164 (37) Trading account liabilities 206 (20) 186 (240) (85) (325) Long-term debt (85) 746 661 (288) (92) (380) Total interest expense 2,951 (588) Net increase in net interest income $ 3,596 $ 2,149 (1) The changes for each category of interest income and expense are divided between the portion of change attributable to the variance in volume and the portion of change attributable to the variance in rate for that category. The unallocated change in rate or volume variance is allocated between the rate and volume variances. Bank of America 2017 45 Business Segment Operations Segment Description and Basis of Presentation We report our results of operations through the following four business segments: Consumer Banking, GWIM, Global Banking and Global Markets, with the remaining operations recorded in All Other. The primary activities, products and businesses of the business segments and All Other are shown below. Bank of America Corporation Global Wealth & Consumer Global Banking Global Markets All Other Investment Banking Management Deposits • Merrill Lynch Global • Investment • Fixed Income • ALM Activities • Consumer Wealth Banking Markets Management • Non-Core Mortgage Deposits • Global Corporate • Equity Markets Loans • Merrill Edge • U.S. Trust, Bank of Banking America Private • MSR Valuations • Small Business Wealth • Global Commercial • Liquidating Client Management Businesses Management Banking • Business Banking • Equity Investments Consumer Lending • Corporate Activities • Consumer and and Residual Small Business Expense Allocations Credit Card • Accounting • Debit Card Reclassifications • Core Consumer and Eliminations Real Estate Loans • Initial Impact of • Consumer Vehicle Tax Act Lending We periodically review capital allocated to our businesses and is referred to as allocated capital. Allocated equity in the reporting allocate capital annually during the strategic and capital planning units is comprised of allocated capital plus capital for the portion processes. We utilize a methodology that considers the effect of of goodwill and intangibles specifically assigned to the reporting regulatory capital requirements in addition to internal risk-based unit. For more information, see Note 8 – Goodwill and Intangible capital models. Our internal risk-based capital models use a riskAssets to the Consolidated Financial Statements. adjusted methodology incorporating each segment’s credit, For more information on the basis of presentation for business market, interest rate, business and operational risk components. segments and reconciliations to consolidated total revenue, net For more information on the nature of these risks, see Managing income and year-end total assets, see Note 23 – Business Segment Risk on page 57. The capital allocated to the business segments Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 46 Bank of America 2017 Consumer Banking Deposits Consumer Lending Total Consumer Banking (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 % Change Net interest income (FTE basis) $ 13,353 $ 10,701 $ 10,954 $ 10,589 $ 24,307 $ 21,290 14% Noninterest income: Card income 8 9 5,062 4,926 5,070 4,935 3 Service charges 4,265 4,141 1 1 4,266 4,142 3 Mortgage banking income (1) — — 481 960 481 960 (50) All other income 391 403 6 1 397 404 (2) Total noninterest income 4,664 4,553 5,550 5,888 10,214 10,441 (2) Total revenue, net of interest expense (FTE basis) 18,017 15,254 16,504 16,477 34,521 31,731 9 Provision for credit losses 201 174 3,324 2,541 3,525 2,715 30 Noninterest expense 10,380 9,677 7,407 7,977 17,787 17,654 1 Income before income taxes (FTE basis) 7,436 5,403 5,773 5,959 13,209 11,362 16 Income tax expense (FTE basis) 2,816 1,993 2,186 2,197 5,002 4,190 19 Net income $ 4,620 $ 3,410 $ 3,587 $ 3,762 $ 8,207 $ 7,172 14 Net interest yield (FTE basis) 2.05% 1.79% 4.18% 4.37% 3.54% 3.38% Return on average allocated capital 39 28 14 17 22 21 Efficiency ratio (FTE basis) 57.61 63.44 44.88 48.41 51.53 55.64 Balance Sheet Average Total loans and leases $ 5,084 $ 4,809 $ 260,974 $ 240,999 $ 266,058 $ 245,808 8% Total earning assets (2) 651,963 598,043 261,802 242,445 686,612 629,984 9 Total assets (2) 679,306 624,592 273,253 254,287 725,406 668,375 9 Total deposits 646,930 592,417 6,390 7,234 653,320 599,651 9 Allocated capital 12,000 12,000 25,000 22,000 37,000 34,000 9 Year end Total loans and leases $ 5,143 $ 4,938 $ 275,330 $ 254,053 $ 280,473 $ 258,991 8% Total earning assets (2) 675,485 631,172 275,742 255,511 709,832 662,698 7 Total assets (2) 703,330 658,316 287,390 268,002 749,325 702,333 7 Total deposits 670,802 625,727 5,728 7,059 676,530 632,786 7 (1) Total consolidated mortgage banking income of $224 million for 2017 was recorded primarily in Consumer Lending and All Other compared to $1.9 billion for 2016. (2) In segments and businesses where the total of liabilities and equity exceeds assets, we allocate assets from All Other to match the segments’ and businesses’ liabilities and allocated shareholders’ equity. As a result, total earning assets and total assets of the businesses may not equal total Consumer Banking. Consumer Banking, which is comprised of Deposits and Consumer expense, as well as investments in digital capabilities and Lending, offers a diversified range of credit, banking and business growth, including increased primary sales professionals, investment products and services to consumers and small combined with investments in new financial centers and businesses. Our customers and clients have access to a coast to renovations. These increases were partially offset by improved coast network including financial centers in 34 states and the operating efficiencies. District of Columbia. Our network includes approximately 4,500 The return on average allocated capital was 22 percent, up financial centers, 16,000 ATMs, nationwide call centers, and from 21 percent, as higher net income was partially offset by an leading digital banking platforms with approximately 35 million increased capital allocation. For more information on capital active users, including approximately 24 million mobile active allocations, see Business Segment Operations on page 46. users. Deposits Consumer Banking Results Deposits includes the results of consumer deposit activities which Net income for Consumer Banking increased $1.0 billion to $8.2 consist of a comprehensive range of products provided to billion in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily driven by higher net consumers and small businesses. Our deposit products include interest income, partially offset by higher provision for credit losses traditional savings accounts, money market savings accounts, CDs and lower mortgage banking income. Net interest income and IRAs, noninterestand interest-bearing checking accounts, as increased $3.0 billion to $24.3 billion primarily due to the well as investment accounts and products. Net interest income is beneficial impact of an increase in investable assets as a result allocated to the deposit products using our funds transfer pricing of higher deposits, as well as pricing discipline and loan growth. process that matches assets and liabilities with similar interest Noninterest income decreased $227 million to $10.2 billion driven rate sensitivity and maturity characteristics. Deposits generates by lower mortgage banking income, partially offset by higher card fees such as account service fees, non-sufficient funds fees, income and service charges. overdraft charges and ATM fees, as well as investment and The provision for credit losses increased $810 million to $3.5 brokerage fees from Merrill Edge accounts. Merrill Edge is an billion due to portfolio seasoning and loan growth in the U.S. credit integrated investing and banking service targeted at customers card portfolio. Noninterest expense increased $133 million to with less than $250,000 in investable assets. Merrill Edge $17.8 billion driven by higher personnel expense, including the provides investment advice and guidance, client brokerage asset shared success discretionary year-end bonus, and increased FDIC services, a self-directed online investing platform and key banking Bank of America 2017 47 capabilities including access to the Corporation’s network of mortgage banking fee income and other miscellaneous fees. financial centers and ATMs. Consumer Lending products are available to our customers Deposits includes the net impact of migrating customers and through our retail network, direct telephone, and online and mobile their related deposit and brokerage asset balances between channels. Consumer Lending results also include the impact of Deposits and GWIM as well as other client-managed businesses. servicing residential mortgages and home equity loans in the core For more information on the migration of customer balances to or portfolio, including loans held on the balance sheet of Consumer from GWIM, see GWIM – Net Migration Summary on page 51. Lending and loans serviced for others. Net income for Deposits increased $1.2 billion to $4.6 billion We classify consumer real estate loans as core or non-core in 2017 driven by higher revenue, partially offset by higher based on loan and customer characteristics such as origination noninterest expense. Net interest income increased $2.7 billion date, product type, loan-to-value (LTV), Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) to $13.4 billion primarily due to the beneficial impact of an increase score and delinquency status. For more information on the core in investable assets as a result of higher deposits, and pricing and non-core portfolios, see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk discipline. Noninterest income increased $111 million to $4.7 Management on page 70. Total owned loans in the core portfolio billion driven by higher service charges. held in Consumer Lending increased $14.7 billion to $115.9 billion The provision for credit losses increased $27 million to $201 in 2017, primarily driven by higher residential mortgage balances, million in 2017. Noninterest expense increased $703 million to partially offset by a decline in home equity balances. $10.4 billion primarily driven by investments in digital capabilities Consumer Lending includes the net impact of migrating and business growth, including increased primary sales customers and their related loan balances between Consumer professionals, combined with investments in new financial centers Lending and GWIM. For more information on the migration of and renovations, higher personnel expense, including the shared customer balances to or from GWIM, see GWIM – Net Migration success discretionary year-end bonus, and increased FDIC Summary on page 51. expense. Net income for Consumer Lending decreased $175 million to Average deposits increased $54.5 billion to $646.9 billion in $3.6 billion in 2017 driven by higher provision for credit losses 2017 driven by strong organic growth. Growth in checking, money and lower noninterest income, partially offset by lower noninterest market savings and traditional savings of $57.9 billion was expense and higher net interest income. Net interest income partially offset by a decline in time deposits of $3.5 billion. increased $365 million to $11.0 billion primarily driven by the impact of an increase in loan balances. Noninterest income decreased $338 million to $5.6 billion driven by lower mortgage Key Statistics – Deposits banking income, partially offset by higher card income. 2017 2016 The provision for credit losses increased $783 million to $3.3 Total deposit spreads (excludes noninterest costs) (1) 1.84% 1.65% billion in 2017 due to portfolio seasoning and loan growth in the U.S. credit card portfolio. Noninterest expense decreased $570 Year end million to $7.4 billion primarily driven by improved operating Client brokerage assets (in millions) $ 177,045 $144,696 efficiencies. Digital banking active users (units in thousands) (2) 34,855 32,942 Average loans increased $20.0 billion to $261.0 billion in 2017 Mobile banking active users (units in thousands) 24,238 21,648 driven by increases in residential mortgages as well as consumer Financial centers 4,470 4,579 vehicle and U.S credit card loans, partially offset by lower home ATMs 16,039 15,928 equity loan balances. (1) Includes deposits held in Consumer Lending. (2) Digital users represents mobile and/or online users across consumer businesses; historical information has been reclassified primarily due to the sale of the Corporation’s non-U.S. consumer credit card business in 2017. Key Statistics – Consumer Lending Client brokerage assets increased $32.3 billion driven by (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 strong client flows and market performance. Mobile banking active Total U.S. credit card (1) users increased 2.6 million reflecting continuing changes in our Gross interest yield 9.65% 9.29% customers’ banking preferences. The number of financial centers Risk-adjusted margin 8.67 9.04 declined 109 driven by changes in customer preferences to selfNew accounts (in thousands) 4,939 4,979 service options as we continue to optimize our consumer banking Purchase volumes $ 244,753 $226,432 network and improve our cost-to-serve. Debit card purchase volumes $ 298,641 $285,612 (1) In addition to the U.S. credit card portfolio in Consumer Banking, the remaining U.S. credit card portfolio is in GWIM. Consumer Lending Consumer Lending offers products to consumers and small During 2017, the total U.S. credit card risk-adjusted margin businesses across the U.S. The products offered include credit decreased 37 bps compared to 2016, primarily driven by and debit cards, residential mortgages and home equity loans, compressed margins, increased net charge-offs and higher credit and direct and indirect loans such as automotive, recreational card rewards costs. Total U.S. credit card purchase volumes vehicle and consumer personal loans. In addition to earning net increased $18.3 billion to $244.8 billion, and debit card purchase interest spread revenue on its lending activities, Consumer volumes increased $13.0 billion to $298.6 billion, reflecting higher Lending generates interchange revenue from credit and debit card levels of consumer spending. transactions, late fees, cash advance fees, annual credit card fees, 48 Bank of America 2017 Mortgage Banking Income the MSR portfolio, partially offset by the impact of changes in fair Mortgage banking income in Consumer Banking includes value from rising interest rates. For more information on MSRs, production income and net servicing income. Production income see Note 20 – Fair Value Measurements to the Consolidated is comprised primarily of revenue from the fair value gains and Financial Statements. losses recognized on our interest rate lock commitments (IRLCs) and loans held-for-sale (LHFS), the related secondary market Key Statistics Mortgage Banking execution, and costs related to representations and warranties made in the sales transactions along with other obligations (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 incurred in the sales of mortgage loans. Production income Loan production (1): decreased $461 million to $202 million in 2017 due to a decision Total (2): to retain a higher percentage of residential mortgage production First mortgage $ 50,581 $ 64,153 in Consumer Banking, as well as the impact of a higher interest Home equity 16,924 15,214 rate environment driving lower refinances. Consumer Banking: Net servicing income within Consumer Banking includes First mortgage $ 34,065 $ 44,510 income earned in connection with servicing activities and MSR Home equity 15,199 13,675 (1) The loan production amounts represent the unpaid principal balance of loans and in the case valuation adjustments for the core portfolio, net of results from of home equity, the principal amount of the total line of credit. risk management activities used to hedge certain market risks of (2) In addition to loan production in Consumer Banking, there is also first mortgage and home equity loan production in GWIM. the MSRs. Net servicing income decreased $18 million to $279 million in 2017 reflecting the decline in the size of the servicing First mortgage loan originations in Consumer Banking and for portfolio. the total Corporation decreased $10.4 billion and $13.6 billion in 2017, primarily driven by a higher interest rate environment driving Mortgage Servicing Rights lower first-lien mortgage refinances. At December 31, 2017, the core MSR portfolio, held within Home equity production in Consumer Banking and for the total Consumer Lending, was $1.7 billion compared to $2.1 billion at Corporation increased $1.5 billion and $1.7 billion in 2017 due December 31, 2016. The decrease was primarily driven by the to a higher demand based on improving housing trends, and amortization of expected cash flows, which exceeded additions to improved engagement with customers. Global Wealth & Investment Management (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 % Change Net interest income (FTE basis) $ 6,173 $ 5,759 7% Noninterest income: Investment and brokerage services 10,883 10,316 5 All other income 1,534 1,575 (3) Total noninterest income 12,417 11,891 4 Total revenue, net of interest expense (FTE basis) 18,590 17,650 5 Provision for credit losses 56 68 (18) Noninterest expense 13,564 13,175 3 Income before income taxes (FTE basis) 4,970 4,407 13 Income tax expense (FTE basis) 1,882 1,632 15 Net income $ 3,088 $ 2,775 11 Net interest yield (FTE basis) 2.32% 2.09% Return on average allocated capital 22 21 Efficiency ratio (FTE basis) 72.96 74.65 Balance Sheet Average Total loans and leases $ 152,682 $ 142,429 7% Total earning assets 265,670 275,799 (4) Total assets 281,517 291,478 (3) Total deposits 245,559 256,425 (4) Allocated capital 14,000 13,000 8 Year end Total loans and leases $ 159,378 $ 148,179 8% Total earning assets 267,026 283,151 (6) Total assets 284,321 298,931 (5) Total deposits 246,994 262,530 (6) Bank of America 2017 49 GWIM consists of two primary businesses: Merrill Lynch Global Net interest income increased $414 million to $6.2 billion Wealth Management (MLGWM) and U.S. Trust, Bank of America driven by higher short-term interest rates. Noninterest income, Private Wealth Management (U.S. Trust). which primarily includes investment and brokerage services MLGWM’s advisory business provides a high-touch client income, increased $526 million to $12.4 billion. The increase in experience through a network of financial advisors focused on noninterest income was driven by the impact of AUM flows and clients with over $250,000 in total investable assets. MLGWM higher market valuations, partially offset by the impact of changing provides tailored solutions to meet our clients’ needs through a market dynamics on transactional revenue and AUM pricing. full set of investment management, brokerage, banking and Noninterest expense increased $389 million to $13.6 billion retirement products. primarily driven by higher revenue-related incentive costs. U.S. Trust, together with MLGWM’s Private Banking & Return on average allocated capital was 22 percent in 2017, Investments Group, provides comprehensive wealth management up from 21 percent a year ago, as higher net income was partially solutions targeted to high net worth and ultra high net worth clients, offset by an increased capital allocation. as well as customized solutions to meet clients’ wealth structuring, Revenue from MLGWM of $15.3 billion increased six percent investment management, trust and banking needs, including in 2017 compared to 2016 due to higher net interest income and specialty asset management services. asset management fees driven by AUM flows and higher market Net income for GWIM increased $313 million to $3.1 billion in valuations, partially offset by lower transactional revenue and AUM 2017 compared to 2016 due to higher revenue, partially offset by pricing. U.S. Trust revenue of $3.3 billion increased seven percent an increase in noninterest expense. The operating margin was 27 in 2017 compared to 2016 reflecting higher net interest income percent compared to 25 percent a year ago. and asset management fees driven by higher market valuations and AUM flows. Key Indicators and Metrics (Dollars in millions, except as noted) 2017 2016 Revenue by Business Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management $ 15,288 $ 14,486 U.S. Trust 3,295 3,075 Other (1) 7 89 Total revenue, net of interest expense (FTE basis) $ 18,590 $ 17,650 Client Balances by Business, at year end Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management $ 2,305,664 $ 2,102,175 U.S. Trust 446,199 406,392 Total client balances $ 2,751,863 $ 2,508,567 Client Balances by Type, at year end Assets under management $ 1,080,747 $ 886,148 Brokerage assets 1,125,282 1,085,826 Assets in custody 136,708 123,066 Deposits 246,994 262,530 Loans and leases (2) 162,132 150,997 Total client balances $ 2,751,863 $ 2,508,567 Assets Under Management Rollforward Assets under management, beginning of year $ 886,148 $ 900,863 Net client flows (3) 95,707 30,582 Market valuation/other (1) 98,892 (45,297) Total assets under management, end of year $ 1,080,747 $ 886,148 Associates, at year end (4, 5) Number of financial advisors 17,355 16,820 Total wealth advisors, including financial advisors 19,238 18,678 Total primary sales professionals, including financial advisors and wealth advisors 20,341 19,629 Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management Metric (5) Financial advisor productivity (6) (in thousands) $ 1,005 $ 974 U.S. Trust Metric, at year end (5) Primary sales professionals 1,714 1,677 (1) Amounts for 2016 include the results of BofA Global Capital Management, the cash management division of Bank of America, and certain administrative items. Amounts also reflect the sale to a third party of approximately $80 billion of BofA Global Capital Management’s AUM in 2016. (2) Includes margin receivables which are classified in customer and other receivables on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. (3) For 2016, net client flows included $8.0 billion of net outflows related to BofA Global Capital Management’s AUM that were sold in 2016. (4) Includes financial advisors in the Consumer Banking segment of 2,402 and 2,200 at December 31, 2017 and 2016. (5) Associate computation is based on headcount. (6) Financial advisor productivity is defined as MLGWM total revenue, excluding the allocation of certain asset and liability management (ALM) activities, divided by the total average number of financial advisors (excluding financial advisors in the Consumer Banking segment). 50 Bank of America 2017 Client Balances Net Migration Summary Client balances managed under advisory and/or discretion of GWIM results are impacted by the net migration of clients and their GWIM are AUM and are typically held in diversified portfolios. Fees corresponding deposit, loan and brokerage balances primarily from earned on AUM are calculated as a percentage of clients’ AUM Consumer Banking, as presented in the table below. Migrations balances. The asset management fees charged to clients per year result from the movement of clients between business segments depend on various factors, but are commonly driven by the breadth to better align with client needs. of the client’s relationship and generally range from 50 to 150 bps on their total AUM. The net client AUM flows represent the net change in clients’ AUM balances over a specified period of time, Net Migration Summary (1) excluding market appreciation/depreciation and other (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 adjustments. Total deposits, net – from GWIM $ 356 $ 1,319 Client balances increased $243.3 billion, or 10 percent, in Total loans, net – from GWIM 154 7 2017 to nearly $2.8 trillion at December 31, 2017, primarily due Total brokerage, net – from GWIM 266 1,972 to AUM which increased $194.6 billion, or 22 percent, due to (1) Migration occurs primarily between GWIM and Consumer Banking. positive net flows and higher market valuations. Global Banking (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 % Change Net interest income (FTE basis) $ 10,504 $ 9,471 11% Noninterest income: Service charges 3,125 3,094 1 Investment banking fees 3,471 2,884 20 All other income 2,899 2,996 (3) Total noninterest income 9,495 8,974 6 Total revenue, net of interest expense (FTE basis) 19,999 18,445 8 Provision for credit losses 212 883 (76) Noninterest expense 8,596 8,486 1 Income before income taxes (FTE basis) 11,191 9,076 23 Income tax expense (FTE basis) 4,238 3,347 27 Net income $ 6,953 $ 5,729 21 Net interest yield (FTE basis) 2.93% 2.76% Return on average allocated capital 17 15 Efficiency ratio (FTE basis) 42.98 46.01 Balance Sheet Average Total loans and leases $ 346,089 $ 333,820 4% Total earning assets 358,302 342,859 5 Total assets 416,038 396,737 5 Total deposits 312,859 304,741 3 Allocated capital 40,000 37,000 8 Year end Total loans and leases $ 350,668 $ 339,271 3% Total earning assets 365,560 350,110 4 Total assets 424,533 408,330 4 Total deposits 329,273 307,630 7 Global Banking, which includes Global Corporate Banking, Global broker-dealer affiliates, which are our primary dealers in several Commercial Banking, Business Banking and Global Investment countries. Within Global Banking, Global Commercial Banking Banking, provides a wide range of lending-related products and clients generally include middle-market companies, commercial services, integrated working capital management and treasury real estate firms and not-for-profit companies. Global Corporate solutions, and underwriting and advisory services through our Banking clients generally include large global corporations, network of offices and client relationship teams. Our lending financial institutions and leasing clients. Business Banking clients products and services include commercial loans, leases, include mid-sized U.S.-based businesses requiring customized commitment facilities, trade finance, commercial real estate and integrated financial advice and solutions. lending and asset-based lending. Our treasury solutions business Net income for Global Banking increased $1.2 billion to $7.0 includes treasury management, foreign exchange and short-term billion in 2017 compared to 2016 driven by higher revenue and investing options. We also provide investment banking products lower provision for credit losses. to our clients such as debt and equity underwriting and distribution, Revenue increased $1.6 billion to $20.0 billion in 2017 and merger-related and other advisory services. Underwriting debt compared to 2016 driven by higher net interest income and and equity issuances, fixed-income and equity research, and noninterest income. Net interest income increased $1.0 billion to certain market-based activities are executed through our global $10.5 billion due to loan and deposit-related growth, higher shortBank of America 2017 51 term rates on an increased deposit base and the impact of the Global Corporate, Global Commercial and Business allocation of ALM activities, partially offset by credit spread Banking compression. Noninterest income increased $521 million to $9.5 Global Corporate, Global Commercial and Business Banking each billion largely due to higher investment banking fees. include Business Lending and Global Transaction Services The provision for credit losses decreased $671 million to $212 activities. Business Lending includes various lending-related million in 2017 primarily driven by reductions in energy exposures products and services, and related hedging activities, including and continued portfolio improvement, partially offset by Global commercial loans, leases, commitment facilities, trade finance, Banking’s portion of a single-name non-U.S. commercial chargereal estate lending and asset-based lending. Global Transaction off. Noninterest expense increased $110 million to $8.6 billion in Services includes deposits, treasury management, credit card, 2017 primarily driven by higher investments in technology and foreign exchange and short-term investment products. higher deposit insurance, partially offset by lower litigation costs. The table below and following discussion present a summary The return on average allocated capital was 17 percent, up from of the results, which exclude certain investment banking activities 15 percent, as higher net income was partially offset by an in Global Banking. increased capital allocation. For more information on capital allocated to the business segments, see Business Segment Operations on page 46. Global Corporate, Global Commercial and Business Banking Global Corporate Global Commercial Banking Banking Business Banking Total (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Revenue Business Lending $ 4,387 $ 4,285 $ 4,280 $ 4,139 $ 404 $ 376 $ 9,071 $ 8,800 Global Transaction Services 3,322 2,996 3,017 2,718 849 740 7,188 6,454 Total revenue, net of interest expense $ 7,709 $ 7,281 $ 7,297 $ 6,857 $ 1,253 $ 1,116 $ 16,259 $ 15,254 Balance Sheet Average Total loans and leases $ 158,292 $152,944 $ 170,101 $163,309 $ 17,682 $ 17,537 $ 346,075 $333,790 Total deposits 148,704 143,233 127,720 126,253 36,435 35,256 312,859 304,742 Year end Total loans and leases $ 163,184 $152,589 $ 169,997 $168,828 $ 17,500 $ 17,882 $ 350,681 $339,299 Total deposits 155,614 144,016 137,538 128,210 36,120 35,409 329,272 307,635 Business Lending revenue increased $271 million in 2017 presents total Corporation investment banking fees and the compared to 2016 driven by the impact of loan and lease-related portion attributable to Global Banking. growth and the allocation of ALM activities, partially offset by credit spread compression. Global Transaction Services revenue increased $734 million Investment Banking Fees in 2017 compared to 2016 driven by the impact of higher shortGlobal Banking Total Corporation term rates on an increased deposit base, as well as the allocation (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2017 2016 of ALM activities. Products Average loans and leases increased four percent in 2017 Advisory $ 1,557 $ 1,156 $ 1,691 $ 1,269 compared to 2016 driven by growth in the commercial and Debt issuance 1,506 1,407 3,635 3,276 industrial, and leasing portfolios. Average deposits increased Equity issuance 408 321 940 864 three percent due to growth with new and existing clients. Gross investment banking fees 3,471 2,884 6,266 5,409 Global Investment Banking Self-led deals (113) (49) (255) (168) Total investment Client teams and product specialists underwrite and distribute banking fees $ 3,358 $ 2,835 $ 6,011 $ 5,241 debt, equity and loan products, and provide advisory services and tailored risk management solutions. The economics of certain Total Corporation investment banking fees, excluding self-led investment banking and underwriting activities are shared primarily deals, of $6.0 billion, which are primarily included within Global between Global Banking and Global Markets under an internal Banking and Global Markets, increased 15 percent in 2017 revenue-sharing arrangement. To provide a complete discussion compared to 2016 driven by higher advisory fees and higher debt of our consolidated investment banking fees, the following table and equity issuance fees due to an increase in overall client activity and market fee pools. 52 Bank of America 2017 Global Markets (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 % Change Net interest income (FTE basis) $ 3,744 $ 4,558 (18)% Noninterest income: Investment and brokerage services 2,049 2,102 (3) Investment banking fees 2,476 2,296 8 Trading account profits 6,710 6,550 2 All other income 972 584 66 Total noninterest income 12,207 11,532 6 Total revenue, net of interest expense (FTE basis) 15,951 16,090 (1) Provision for credit losses 164 31 n/m Noninterest expense 10,731 10,169 6 Income before income taxes (FTE basis) 5,056 5,890 (14) Income tax expense (FTE basis) 1,763 2,072 (15) Net income $ 3,293 $ 3,818 (14) Return on average allocated capital 9% 10% Efficiency ratio (FTE basis) 67.28 63.21 Balance Sheet Average Trading-related assets: Trading account securities $ 216,996 $ 185,135 17 % Reverse repurchases 101,795 89,715 13 Securities borrowed 82,210 87,286 (6) Derivative assets 40,811 50,769 (20) Total trading-related assets (1) 441,812 412,905 7 Total loans and leases 71,413 69,641 3 Total earning assets (1) 449,441 423,579 6 Total assets 638,674 585,341 9 Total deposits 32,864 34,250 (4) Allocated capital 35,000 37,000 (5) Year end Total trading-related assets (1) $ 419,375 $ 380,562 10 % Total loans and leases 76,778 72,743 6 Total earning assets (1) 449,314 397,022 13 Total assets 629,007 566,060 11 Total deposits 34,029 34,927 (3) (1) Trading-related assets include derivative assets, which are considered non-earning assets. n/m = not meaningful Global Markets offers sales and trading services, including transactions with our corporate and commercial clients that are research, to institutional clients across fixed-income, credit, executed and distributed by Global Markets. For information on currency, commodity and equity businesses. Global Markets investment banking fees on a consolidated basis, see page 52. product coverage includes securities and derivative products in Net income for Global Markets decreased $525 million to $3.3 both the primary and secondary markets. Global Markets provides billion in 2017 compared to 2016. Net DVA losses were $428 market-making, financing, securities clearing, settlement and million compared to losses of $238 million in 2016. Excluding net custody services globally to our institutional investor clients in DVA, net income decreased $408 million to $3.6 billion primarily support of their investing and trading activities. We also work with driven by higher noninterest expense, lower sales and trading our commercial and corporate clients to provide risk management revenue and an increase in the provision for credit losses, partially products using interest rate, equity, credit, currency and commodity offset by higher investment banking fees. derivatives, foreign exchange, fixed-income and mortgage-related Sales and trading revenue, excluding net DVA, decreased $423 products. As a result of our market-making activities in these million primarily due to weaker performance in rates products and products, we may be required to manage risk in a broad range of emerging markets. The provision for credit losses increased $133 financial products including government securities, equity and million to $164 million, reflecting Global Markets’ portion of a equity-linked securities, high-grade and high-yield corporate debt single-name non-U.S. commercial charge-off. Noninterest expense securities, syndicated loans, MBS, commodities and asset-backed increased $562 million to $10.7 billion primarily due to higher securities. The economics of certain investment banking and litigation expense and continued investments in technology. underwriting activities are shared primarily between Global Markets Average trading-related assets increased $28.9 billion to and Global Banking under an internal revenue-sharing $441.8 billion in 2017 primarily driven by targeted growth in client arrangement. Global Banking originates certain deal-related financing activities in the global equities business. Year-end Bank of America 2017 53 trading-related assets increased $38.8 billion to $419.4 billion at December 31, 2017 driven by additional inventory in FICC to meet Sales and Trading Revenue (1, 2) expected client demand as well as targeted growth in client financing activities in the global equities business. (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 The return on average allocated capital decreased to nine Sales and trading revenue percent, reflecting lower net income, partially offset by a decrease Fixed-income, currencies and commodities $ 8,665 $ 9,373 Equities 4,112 4,017 in average allocated capital. Total sales and trading revenue $ 12,777 $ 13,390 Sales and Trading Revenue Sales and trading revenue, excluding net DVA (3) Sales and trading revenue includes unrealized and realized gains Fixed-income, currencies and commodities $ 9,059 $ 9,611 and losses on trading and other assets, net interest income, and Equities 4,146 4,017 fees primarily from commissions on equity securities. Sales and Total sales and trading revenue, excluding net $ 13,205 $ 13,628 trading revenue is segregated into fixed-income (government debt (1) Includes FTE adjustments of $236 million and $186 million for 2017 and 2016. For more information on sales and trading revenue, see Note 2 – Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial obligations, investment and non-investment grade corporate debt Statements. obligations, commercial MBS, residential mortgage-backed (2) Includes Global Banking sales and trading revenue of $236 million and $406 million for 2017 and 2016. securities, collateralized loan obligations, interest rate and credit (3) FICC and Equities sales and trading revenue, excluding net DVA, is a non-GAAP financial measure. derivative contracts), currencies (interest rate and foreign FICC net DVA losses were $394 million and $238 million for 2017 and 2016. Equities net DVA losses were $34 million and $0 for 2017 and 2016. exchange contracts), commodities (primarily futures, forwards, swaps and options) and equities (equity-linked derivatives and The following explanations for year-over-year changes in sales cash equity activity). The following table and related discussion and trading, FICC and Equities revenue, would be the same if net present sales and trading revenue, substantially all of which is in DVA was included. FICC revenue, excluding net DVA, decreased Global Markets, with the remainder in Global Banking. In addition, $552 million from 2016 primarily due to lower revenue in rates the following table and related discussion present sales and products and emerging markets as lower volatility led to reduced trading revenue excluding the impact of net DVA, which is a nonclient flow. The decline in FICC revenue was also impacted by higher GAAP financial measure. We believe the use of this non-GAAP funding costs which were driven by increases in market interest financial measure provides additional useful information to assess rates. Equities revenue, excluding net DVA, increased $129 million the underlying performance of these businesses and to allow from 2016 due to higher revenue from the growth in client financing better comparison of year-over-year operating performance. activities which was partially offset by lower revenue in cash and derivative trading due to lower levels of volatility and client activity. All Other (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 % Change Net interest income (FTE basis) $ 864 $ 918 (6)% Noninterest income: Card income 69 189 (63) Mortgage banking income (loss) (263) 889 (130) Gains on sales of debt securities 255 490 (48) All other loss (1,709) (1,801) (5) Total noninterest income (loss) (1,648) (233) n/m Total revenue, net of interest expense (FTE basis) (784) 685 n/m Provision for credit losses (561) (100) n/m Noninterest expense 4,065 5,599 (27) Loss before income taxes (FTE basis) (4,288) (4,814) (11) Income tax expense (benefit) (FTE basis) (979) (3,142) (69) Net loss $ (3,309) $ (1,672) 98 Balance Sheet (1) Average Total loans and leases $ 82,489 $ 108,735 (24)% Total assets (1) 206,998 248,287 (17) Total deposits 25,194 27,494 (8) Year end Total loans and leases (2) $ 69,452 $ 96,713 (28)% Total assets (1) 194,048 212,413 (9) Total deposits 22,719 23,061 (1) (1) In segments where the total of liabilities and equity exceeds assets, which are generally deposit-taking segments, we allocate assets from All Other to those segments to match liabilities (i.e., deposits) and allocated shareholders’ equity. Allocated assets were $515.6 billion and $500.0 billion for 2017 and 2016, and $520.4 billion and $518.7 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016. (2) Included $9.2 billion of non-U.S. credit card loans at December 31, 2016, which were included in assets of business held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. In 2017, the Corporation sold its non-U.S. consumer credit card business. n/m = not meaningful 54 Bank of America 2017 All Other consists of ALM activities, equity investments, non-core U.S. credit card business and a downward valuation adjustment mortgage All loans and Other consists of servicing activities, ALM activities, theinvestments, net impact ofnon-core equity periodic ofU.S.$946 creditmillion on tax-advantaged card business and a downward energy investments valuation adjustment in revisions to mortgage the and loans valuationactivities, MSRservicing model for the net core both impact andofnon-core periodic connection of $946 million with the on Act. Gains on sales Tax tax-advantaged energy of loans included inin investments MSRs and revisions to thethe valuationeconomic MSRrelated model for both hedge core results and non-core and all other loss,with connection including the Tax Act. Gains onand nonperforming salesother of delinquent loans included loans, in ineffectiveness, MSRs and theliquidating economic and related businesses, hedge residual results expenseand were $134 all other million loss, compared including to gains ofand nonperforming $232 million other in the same delinquent loans, allocations. ALMliquidating ineffectiveness, encompassandcertain activitiesbusinesses, residualresidential expense period were $134in 2016.million compared to gains of $232 million in the same mortgages, debt allocations. ALM securities, activities interest rate and foreign encompass certain currency risk residential The period in 2016.in the provision for credit losses increased $461 benefit management mortgages, securities,the debtactivities, impact interest rate and of foreign certaincurrencyallocation risk million a benefit Thetobenefit in theof $561 million provision primarily for credit driven losses by continued increased $461 methodologies and management accounting activities, the hedge impact ineffectiveness. of certain The results allocation runoff of the non-core million to a benefit of $561 million primarily driven and portfolio, loan sale recoveries the sale by continued of certain ALM activities methodologies and accounting are allocated to our business The hedge ineffectiveness. segments. results of the non-U.S. runoff consumer of the non-core credit loan portfolio, business. cardsale recoveries and the sale of more information Forcertain ALM activities on ourareALM activities, allocated to our seebusiness – Business Note 23 segments. Noninterest of the non-U.S. expense consumerdecreasedcredit card$1.5 billion to $4.1 billion business. Segment Information to the Consolidated For more information on our ALM activities, see Note 23 – BusinessFinancial Statements. driven by lower litigation Noninterest expense decreased $1.5 billion toexpense expense, lower personnel and $4.1 billion Equity investments Segment Informationinclude to the our Consolidated services joint merchant Financial venture Statements. decline adriven non-core byinlower mortgage litigation expense,servicing lowercosts, personnelpartially offsetand expense by as wellinvestments Equity as Global Principal include Investments our merchant which is comprised services joint ventureof a aa$316 decline million impairment in non-core charge mortgage to certain related costs, servicing data offset centers partially by portfolio as well as ofGlobal equity,Principal real estate and other alternative Investments which is comprisedinvestments. of a ina the $316 millionof process being sold.charge related to certain data centers impairment For more of portfolio information equity, realonestate our merchant and other services alternative venture, see jointinvestments. in the income tax Theprocess benefit of being was $1.0 billion in 2017 compared to sold. Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies For more information on our merchant services joint venture, see to the Consolidated a benefit of $3.1 billion The income tax benefit was $1.0 in 2016. decrease The billion in thecompared tax benefit in 2017 to Financial Note 12 –Statements. CommitmentsIncome tax is generally and Contingencies to the recorded Consolidatedin the was drivenofby$3.1 a benefit the impacts billion in of the Tax 2016. TheAct, including decrease an estimated in the tax benefit Financial segments business Statements. at the statutory Income tax is rate; the initial generally impact in recorded of the the income was driven tax byexpense the impacts of $1.9 the Taxrelated of billion primarily Act, including a lower antoestimated Tax Act was recorded in All Other. business segments at the statutory rate; the initial impact of the valuation of certain deferred income tax expense of $1.9 billion related primarily to a Both tax assets and liabilities. lower Tax In Act2017, the Corporation was recorded sold its non-U.S. consumer credit in All Other. periods valuation include incomedeferred of certain tax benefit eliminateBoth assets and toliabilities. tax adjustments the 2017, theFor cardInbusiness. Corporation sold its on more information the sale, non-U.S. see Note consumer 1– credit FTE treatment periods include of income certain tax credits adjustments tax benefit recorded in Global Banking. to eliminate the Summary card of Significant business. For more Accounting information on the to Principles Consolidated the see sale, Note 1 – FTE treatment of certain tax credits recorded in Global Banking. Financial Statements. Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and The Corporation Financial Statements. classifies consumer real estate loans as core Off-Balance Obligations Contractual Sheet Arrangements and or non-core based on The Corporation loan andconsumer classifies customerreal estate loanssuch characteristics as coreas We have contractual obligations to make future payments on debt origination Contractual Obligations or basedproduct non-core date, on loantype, and customer score and delinquency LTV, FICO characteristics such as and We have lease agreements. contractual Additionally, obligations to make the normal infuture payments course on debt of status. For more origination date, information product type, FICO and the core onLTV, scorenon-core portfolios, and delinquency business, and lease we enter into contractual agreements. Additionally, arrangements in the normalwhereby course we of see Consumer status. For morePortfolio information Credit Riskcore on the Management and non-core page 70. on portfolios, commit towefuture business, enter purchases into contractual of products arrangements or services wherebyfrom we Residential mortgage loans that are see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management on page 70. held for ALM purposes, unaffiliated parties.purchasesPurchaseof obligations commit to future products orareservices definedfrom as including Residential interest mortgage rate orloans liquidity thatriskaremanagement, held for ALM are purposes, classified obligations that are legally binding obligations agreements whereby we agree unaffiliated parties. Purchase are defined as as core and including are presented interest on therisk rate or liquidity balance sheet of are management, All Other. classifiedFor to purchasethat products or services with a specific whereby minimumwe quantity obligations are legally binding agreements agree more information on our interest rate as core and are presented on the balance sheet of All Other. For and liquidity risk at purchase a fixed, minimum to products or variable with or services pricea over specific minimumperiod a specified quantity of management more informationactivities, on see ourLiquidity interest on page Riskrate and Interest and65liquidity risk time. Included in purchase obligations are vendor contracts, at a fixed, minimum or variable price over a specified periodthe of Rate Risk Management management activities, see for the Banking Liquidity RiskBook on pageon page65 and During 97.Interest most Included significant of whichobligations include communication services, time. in purchase are vendor contracts, the 2017,Risk Rate residential Management mortgage loans held for the Banking Book for on pageALM 97. activities During processing servicesofand software contracts. Debt, lease and other most significant which include communication services, decreased 2017, residential$6.1 billion to $28.5 mortgage billionheld loans for ALM 31, at December 2017 activities obligations services are moreand fullysoftware discussed in NoteDebt, 11 – lease Long-term Debt processing contracts. and other primarily as a result of payoffs and paydowns decreased $6.1 billion to $28.5 billion at December 31, 2017 outpacing new and Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated obligations are more fully discussed in Note 11 – Long-term Debt originations. primarily as aNon-core result ofresidential payoffs and mortgage paydowns andoutpacing home equity new Financial Statements. and Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated loans, which Non-core originations. are principally run-off mortgage residential portfolios,and home certain including equity Other Statements. long-term liabilities include our contractual funding Financial loans accounted for under the fair loans, which are principally run-off portfolios, including value option MSRs and certain obligations related to liabilities the Qualified Pension Other long-term include ourPlan, Non-U.S. Pension contractual funding pertaining loans to non-core accounted the fair for under serviced for loans others, value option and held are also MSRs in Plans, Nonqualified obligations related toand theOther Pension Qualified PensionPlans, and Plan, Postretirement Non-U.S. Pension All Other. During pertaining to non-core2017, totalserviced non-core loans forloans others, decreased are also held $11.8 in Health Nonqualified and Life Plans Plans, and(collectively, Other Pension the Plans, Plans).and Obligations Postretirementto the billion All to $41.3 Other. Duringbillion 2017,attotal December non-core 31,loans due primarily 2017decreased $11.8to Plans are Health andbased Life Planson the current andthe (collectively, projected obligations to Plans). Obligations the of the payoffstoand billion paydowns, $41.3 billion as well as loan31, at December sales. 2017 due primarily to Plans, are performance of the Plans’ Plans based on the current andassets, projected and any participant obligations of the The net payoffs andloss for All Other paydowns, as well increased $1.6 billion to a net loss as loan sales. contributions, if applicable. Plans, performance of theDuring Plans’2017 and 2016, assets, and any we contributed participant of $3.3 The net lossdriven billion, for Allby Other increasedcharge an estimated of $2.9 $1.6 billion to billion due a net loss $514 million and $256 million to the Plans, contributions, if applicable. During 2017 andand we expect 2016, to make we contributed to $3.3 of enactment billion,ofdriven the Tax by Act. For more information, an estimated charge of $2.9 seebillion Financial due $128 million of contributions during 2018. The Plans are more $514 million and $256 million to the Plans, and we expect to make Highlights to enactment on ofpagethe 37.Tax The Act. pre-tax For more loss for 2017 see information, compared Financial to fully $128discussed in Note 17 –during million of contributions Employee 2018.BenefitThe Plans Plans aretomorethe 2016 decreased Highlights on page $526 37. The million pre-taxreflecting loss for 2017 noninterest lower compared to Consolidated Financial Statements. fully discussed in Note 17 – Employee Benefit Plans to the expense 2016 and a larger decreased $526 benefit in the million provisionlower reflecting for credit losses, noninterest We enter into commitments to extend credit such as loan Consolidated Financial Statements. and aby partially offset expense a decline larger benefit in revenue. in the provision for credit losses, commitments, standby letters of to credit (SBLCs) We enter into commitments extend creditand commercial such as loan Revenue partially offset declined $1.5 billion by a decline primarily due to lower mortgage in revenue. letters of creditstandby to meet letters the financing needs of ourandcustomers. For commitments, of credit (SBLCs) commercial banking income. Mortgage banking Revenue declined $1.5 billion primarily incomedue declined to lower $1.2 billion mortgage a summary of to themeettotalthe unfunded, letters of credit financing or off-balance needs sheet, credit of our customers. For primarilyincome. banking due to less favorable Mortgage valuations banking income MSRs, net on declined of related $1.2 billion extension a of the totalamounts summarycommitment unfunded, by orexpiration off-balance date, see Credit sheet, credit hedges, and primarily due an increase to less in thevaluations favorable provision for representations on MSRs, net of related and Extension Commitments in Note 12 – Commitments and extension commitment amounts by expiration date, see Credit warranties. hedges, andAll another increase noninterest loss decreased in the provision marginally and for representations and to the Consolidated Financial Contingencies Extension Commitments in Note 12 – Statements. Commitments and included a pre-tax warranties. All other gain of $793 million noninterest on the sale loss decreased of the nonmarginally and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements. included a pre-tax gain of $793 million on the sale of the nonBank of America 2017 55 Bank of America 2017 55 Table 11 includes certain contractual obligations at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Table 11 Contractual Obligations December 31 December 31, 2017 2016 Due After Due After One Year Three Years Due in One Through Through Due After (Dollars in millions) Year or Less Three Years Five Years Five Years Total Total Long-term debt $ 42,057 $ 42,145 $ 30,879 $ 112,321 $ 227,402 $ 216,823 Operating lease obligations 2,256 4,072 3,023 5,169 14,520 13,620 Purchase obligations 1,317 1,426 458 1,018 4,219 5,742 Time deposits 61,038 4,990 1,543 273 67,844 74,944 Other long-term liabilities 1,681 1,234 862 1,195 4,972 4,567 Estimated interest expense on long-term debt and time deposits (1) 5,590 8,796 6,909 27,828 49,123 39,447 Total contractual obligations $ 113,939 $ 62,663 $ 43,674 $ 147,804 $ 368,080 $ 355,143 (1) Represents forecasted net interest expense on long-term debt and time deposits based on interest rates at December 31, 2017. Forecasts are based on the contractual maturity dates of each liability, and are net of derivative hedges, where applicable. Representations and Warranties a reasonably possible loss, but does not represent a probable For background information on representations and warranties, loss, and is based on currently available information, significant see Note 7 – Representations and Warranties Obligations and judgment and a number of assumptions that are subject to change. Corporate Guarantees to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Future provisions and/or ranges of possible loss associated Breaches of representations and warranties made in connection with obligations under representations and warranties may be with the sale of mortgage loans have resulted in and may continue significantly impacted if future experiences are different from to result in the requirement to repurchase mortgage loans or to historical experience or our understandings, interpretations or otherwise make whole or provide other remedies to investors, assumptions. Adverse developments with respect to one or more securitization trusts, guarantors, insurers or other parties of the assumptions underlying the reserve for representations and (collectively, repurchases). warranties and the corresponding estimated range of possible At December 31, 2017 and 2016, we had $17.6 billion and loss, such as counterparties successfully challenging or avoiding $18.3 billion of unresolved repurchase claims, predominately the application of the relevant statute of limitations, could result related to subprime and pay option first-lien loans and home equity in significant increases to future provisions and/or the estimated loans originated primarily between 2004 and 2008. range of possible loss. For more information on representations In addition to unresolved repurchase claims, we have received and warranties, see Note 7 – Representations and Warranties notifications indicating that we may have indemnity obligations Obligations and Corporate Guarantees to the Consolidated with respect to specific loans for which we have not received a Financial Statements and, for more information related to the repurchase request. These notifications were received prior to sensitivity of the assumptions used to estimate our liability for 2015, and totaled $1.3 billion at both December 31, 2017 and representations and warranties, see Complex Accounting 2016. During 2017, we reached agreements with certain parties Estimates – Representations and Warranties Liability on page 102. requesting indemnity. One such agreement is subject to acceptance by a securitization trustee. The impact of these Other Mortgage-related Matters agreements is included in the provision and reserve for We continue to be subject to mortgage-related litigation and representations and warranties. disputes, as well as governmental and regulatory scrutiny and The reserve for representations and warranties and corporate investigations, related to our past and current origination, guarantees is included in accrued expenses and other liabilities servicing, transfer of servicing and servicing rights, servicing on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the related provision is compliance obligations, foreclosure activities, indemnification included in mortgage banking income. At December 31, 2017 and obligations, and mortgage insurance and captive reinsurance 2016, the reserve for representations and warranties was $1.9 practices with mortgage insurers. The ongoing environment of billion and $2.3 billion. The representations and warranties regulatory scrutiny, heightened regulatory compliance obligations, provision was $393 million for 2017 compared to $106 million and enhanced regulatory enforcement, combined with ongoing for 2016 with the increase resulting from settlements or advanced uncertainty related to the continuing evolution of the regulatory negotiations with certain counterparties where we believe we will environment, has resulted in increased operational and reach settlements on several outstanding legacy matters. compliance costs and may limit our ability to continue providing In addition, we currently estimate that the range of possible certain products and services. For more information on loss for representations and warranties exposures could be up to management’s estimate of the aggregate range of possible loss $1 billion over existing accruals at December 31, 2017. This for certain litigation matters and on regulatory investigations, see estimate is lower than the estimate at December 31, 2016 due Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated to recent reductions in risk as we reach settlements with Financial Statements. counterparties. The estimated range of possible loss represents 56 Bank of America 2017 Managing Risk Risk Framework sets forth clear roles, responsibilities and accountability for the management of risk and provides a blueprint Overview for how the Board, through delegation of authority to committees Risk is inherent in all our business activities. Sound risk and executive officers, establishes risk appetite and associated management enables us to serve our customers and deliver for limits for our activities. our shareholders. If not managed well, risks can result in financial Executive management assesses, with Board oversight, the loss, regulatory sanctions and penalties, and damage to our risk-adjusted returns of each business. Management reviews and reputation, each of which may adversely impact our ability to approves the strategic and financial operating plans, as well as execute our business strategies. We take a comprehensive the capital plan and Risk Appetite Statement, and recommends approach to risk management with a defined Risk Framework and them annually to the Board for approval. Our strategic plan takes an articulated Risk Appetite Statement which are approved into consideration return objectives and financial resources, which annually by the Enterprise Risk Committee (ERC) and the Board. must align with risk capacity and risk appetite. Management sets The seven key types of risk faced by the Corporation are financial objectives for each business by allocating capital and strategic, credit, market, liquidity, compliance, operational and setting a target for return on capital for each business. Capital reputational risks. allocations and operating limits are regularly evaluated as part of Strategic risk is the risk resulting from incorrect assumptions our overall governance processes as the businesses and the about external or internal factors, inappropriate business economic environment in which we operate continue to evolve. For plans, ineffective business strategy execution, or failure to more information regarding capital allocations, see Business respond in a timely manner to changes in the regulatory, Segment Operations on page 46. macroeconomic or competitive environments in the geographic The Corporation’s risk appetite indicates the amount of capital, locations in which we operate. earnings or liquidity we are willing to put at risk to achieve our Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from the inability or failure strategic objectives and business plans, consistent with applicable of a borrower or counterparty to meet its obligations. regulatory requirements. Our risk appetite provides a common and Market risk is the risk that changes in market conditions may comparable set of measures for senior management and the Board adversely impact the value of assets or liabilities, or otherwise to clearly indicate our aggregate level of risk and to monitor whether negatively impact earnings. the Corporation’s risk profile remains in alignment with our Liquidity risk is the inability to meet expected or unexpected strategic and capital plans. Our risk appetite is formally articulated cash flow and collateral needs while continuing to support our in the Risk Appetite Statement, which includes both qualitative businesses and customers under a range of economic components and quantitative limits. conditions. For a more detailed discussion of our risk management Compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, activities, see the discussion below and pages 60 through 100. material financial loss or damage to the reputation of the Our overall capacity to take risk is limited; therefore, we prioritize Corporation arising from the failure of the Corporation to comply the risks we take in order to maintain a strong and flexible financial with the requirements of applicable laws, rules, regulations and position so we can withstand challenging economic conditions and related self-regulatory organizations’ standards and codes of take advantage of organic growth opportunities. Therefore, we set conduct. objectives and targets for capital and liquidity that are intended Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate to permit us to continue to operate in a safe and sound manner, or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from including during periods of stress. external events. Our lines of business operate with risk limits (which may include Reputational risk is the risk that negative perceptions of the credit, market and/or operational limits, as applicable) that are Corporation’s conduct or business practices may adversely based on the amount of capital, earnings or liquidity we are willing impact its profitability or operations. to put at risk to achieve our strategic objectives and business The following sections address in more detail the specific plans. Executive management is responsible for tracking and procedures, measures and analyses of the major categories of reporting performance measurements as well as any exceptions risk. This discussion of managing risk focuses on the current Risk to guidelines or limits. The Board, and its committees when Framework that, as part of its annual review process, was approved appropriate, oversees financial performance, execution of the by the ERC and the Board. strategic and financial operating plans, adherence to risk appetite As set forth in our Risk Framework, a culture of managing risk limits and the adequacy of internal controls. well is fundamental to our values and operating principles. It requires us to focus on risk in all activities and encourages the Risk Management Governance necessary mindset and behavior to enable effective risk The Risk Framework describes delegations of authority whereby management, and promotes sound risk-taking within our risk the Board and its committees may delegate authority to appetite. Sustaining a culture of managing risk well throughout the management-level committees or executive officers. Such organization is critical to our success and is a clear expectation delegations may authorize certain decision-making and approval of our executive management team and the Board. functions, which may be evidenced in, for example, committee Our Risk Framework serves as the foundation for the consistent charters, job descriptions, meeting minutes and resolutions. and effective management of risks facing the Corporation. The Bank of America 2017 57 The chart below illustrates the inter-relationship among the Board, Board committees and management committees that have the majority of risk oversight responsibilities for the Corporation. Board of Directors (1) Enterprise Corporate Compensation Audit Board Risk Governance and Benefits Committee Committees Committee Committee Committee Management Corporate Management Disclosure Reg O Management Risk Benefits Compensation Committee (2) Committee Committees Committee Committee Committee (1) This presentation does not include committees for other legal entities. (2) Reports to the CEO and CFO with oversight by the Audit Committee. Board of Directors and Board Committees and the Risk Appetite Statement and further recommends these The Board is comprised of 15 directors, all but one of whom are documents to the Board for approval. The ERC oversees senior independent. The Board authorizes management to maintain an management’s responsibilities for the identification, effective Risk Framework, and oversees compliance with safe and measurement, monitoring and control of key risks we face. The sound banking practices. In addition, the Board or its committees ERC may consult with other Board committees on risk-related conduct inquiries of, and receive reports from management on matters. risk-related matters to assess scope or resource limitations that could impede the ability of independent risk management (IRM) Other Board Committees and/or Corporate Audit to execute its responsibilities. The Board Our Corporate Governance Committee oversees our Board’s committees discussed below have the principal responsibility for governance processes, identifies and reviews the qualifications of enterprise-wide oversight of our risk management activities. potential Board members, recommends nominees for election to Through these activities, the Board and applicable committees are our Board, recommends committee appointments for Board provided with information on our risk profile, and oversee executive approval and reviews our Environmental, Social and Government management addressing key risks we face. Other Board (ESG) and stockholder engagement activities. committees as described below provide additional oversight of Our Compensation and Benefits Committee oversees specific risks. establishing, maintaining and administering our compensation Each of the committees shown on the above chart regularly programs and employee benefit plans, including approving and reports to the Board on risk-related matters within the committee’s recommending our Chief Executive Officer’s (CEO) compensation responsibilities, which is intended to collectively provide the Board to our Board for further approval by all independent directors, and with integrated insight about our management of enterprise-wide reviewing and approving all of our executive officers’ risks. compensation, as well as compensation for non-management directors. Audit Committee The Audit Committee oversees the qualifications, performance and Management Committees independence of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Management committees may receive their authority from the Firm, the performance of our corporate audit function, the integrity Board, a Board committee, another management committee or of our consolidated financial statements, our compliance with legal from one or more executive officers. Our primary managementand regulatory requirements, and makes inquiries of management level risk committee is the Management Risk Committee (MRC). or the Corporate General Auditor (CGA) to determine whether there Subject to Board oversight, the MRC is responsible for are scope or resource limitations that impede the ability of management oversight of key risks facing the Corporation. The Corporate Audit to execute its responsibilities. The Audit MRC provides management oversight of our compliance and Committee is also responsible for overseeing compliance risk operational risk programs, balance sheet and capital pursuant to the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. management, funding activities and other liquidity activities, stress testing, trading activities, recovery and resolution planning, model Enterprise Risk Committee risk, subsidiary governance, and activities between member banks The ERC has primary responsibility for oversight of the Risk and their nonbank affiliates pursuant to Federal Reserve rules and Framework and key risks we face. It approves the Risk Framework regulations, among other things. 58 Bank of America 2017 Lines of Defense Corporate Audit We have clear ownership and accountability across three lines of Corporate Audit and the CGA maintain their independence from defense: Front Line Units (FLUs), IRM and Corporate Audit. We the FLUs, IRM and other control functions by reporting directly to also have control functions outside of FLUs and IRM (e.g., Legal the Audit Committee or the Board. The CGA administratively and Global Human Resources). The three lines of defense are reports to the CEO. Corporate Audit provides independent integrated into our management-level governance structure. Each assessment and validation through testing of key processes and of these functional roles is described in more detail below. controls across the Corporation. Corporate Audit includes Credit Review which periodically tests and examines credit portfolios and Executive Officers processes. Executive officers lead various functions representing the functional roles. Authority for functional roles may be delegated Risk Management Processes to executive officers from the Board, Board committees or The Risk Framework requires that strong risk management management-level committees. Executive officers, in turn, may practices are integrated in key strategic, capital and financial further delegate responsibilities, as appropriate, to managementplanning processes and in day-to-day business processes across level committees, management routines or individuals. Executive the Corporation, with a goal of ensuring risks are appropriately officers review our activities for consistency with our Risk considered, evaluated and responded to in a timely manner. Framework, Risk Appetite Statement and applicable strategic, We employ a risk management process, referred to as Identify, capital and financial operating plans, as well as applicable policies, Measure, Monitor and Control, as part of our daily activities. standards, procedures and processes. Executive officers and other employees make decisions individually on a day-to-day basis, Identify – To be effectively managed, risks must be clearly defined consistent with the authority they have been delegated. Executive and proactively identified. Proper risk identification focuses on officers and other employees may also serve on committees and recognizing and understanding key risks inherent in our participate in committee decisions. business activities or key risks that may arise from external factors. Each employee is expected to identify and escalate Front Line Units risks promptly. Risk identification is an ongoing process, FLUs include the lines of business as well as the Global Technology incorporating input from FLUs and control functions, designed and Operations Group, and are responsible for appropriately to be forward looking and capture relevant risk factors across assessing and effectively managing all of the risks associated with all of our lines of business. their activities. Measure – Once a risk is identified, it must be prioritized and Three organizational units that include FLU activities and accurately measured through a systematic risk quantification control function activities, but are not part of IRM are the Chief process including quantitative and qualitative components. Financial Officer (CFO) Group, Global Marketing and Corporate Risk is measured at various levels including, but not limited Affairs (GM&CA) and the Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) Group. to, risk type, FLU, legal entity and on an aggregate basis. This risk quantification process helps to capture changes in our risk Independent Risk Management profile due to changes in strategic direction, concentrations, IRM is part of our control functions and includes Global Risk portfolio quality and the overall economic environment. Senior Management and Global Compliance. We have other control management considers how risk exposures might evolve under functions that are not part of IRM (other control functions may also a variety of stress scenarios. provide oversight to FLU activities), including Legal, Global Human Monitor – We monitor risk levels regularly to track adherence to Resources and certain activities within the CAO Group, CFO Group risk appetite, policies, standards, procedures and processes. and GM&CA. IRM, led by the Chief Risk Officer (CRO), is responsible We also regularly update risk assessments and review risk for independently assessing and overseeing risks within FLUs and exposures. Through our monitoring, we can determine our level other control functions. IRM establishes written enterprise policies of risk relative to limits and can take action in a timely manner. and procedures that include concentration risk limits, where We also can determine when risk limits are breached and have appropriate. Such policies and procedures outline how aggregate processes to appropriately report and escalate exceptions. risks are identified, measured, monitored and controlled. This includes requests for approval to managers and alerts to The CRO has the stature, authority and independence to executive management, management-level committees or the develop and implement a meaningful risk management framework. Board (directly or through an appropriate committee). The CRO has unrestricted access to the Board and reports directly Control – We establish and communicate risk limits and controls to both the ERC and to the CEO. Global Risk Management is through policies, standards, procedures and processes that organized into horizontal risk teams, FLU risk teams and control define the responsibilities and authority for risk-taking. The function risk teams that work collaboratively in executing their limits and controls can be adjusted by the Board or respective duties. management when conditions or risk tolerances warrant. Within IRM, Global Compliance independently assesses These limits may be absolute (e.g., loan amount, trading compliance risk, and evaluates adherence to applicable laws, rules volume) or relative (e.g., percentage of loan book in higher-risk and regulations, including identifying compliance issues and risks, categories). Our lines of business are held accountable to performing monitoring and testing, and reporting on the state of perform within the established limits. compliance activities across the Corporation. Additionally, Global Compliance works with FLUs and control functions so that day-today activities operate in a compliant manner. Bank of America 2017 59 The formal processes used to manage risk represent a part of Strategic Risk Management our overall risk management process. We instill a strong and Strategic risk is embedded in every business and is one of the comprehensive culture of managing risk well through major risk categories along with credit, market, liquidity, communications, training, policies, procedures and organizational compliance, operational and reputational risks. This risk results roles and responsibilities. Establishing a culture reflective of our from incorrect assumptions about external or internal factors, purpose to help make our customers’ financial lives better and inappropriate business plans, ineffective business strategy delivering our responsible growth strategy are also critical to execution, or failure to respond in a timely manner to changes in effective risk management. We understand that improper actions, the regulatory, macroeconomic or competitive environments, in the behaviors or practices that are illegal, unethical or contrary to our geographic locations in which we operate, such as competitor core values could result in harm to the Corporation, our actions, changing customer preferences, product obsolescence shareholders or our customers, damage the integrity of the and technology developments. Our strategic plan is consistent financial markets, or negatively impact our reputation, and have with our risk appetite, capital plan and liquidity requirements, and established protocols and structures so that such conduct risk is specifically addresses strategic risks. governed and reported across the Corporation. Specifically, our On an annual basis, the Board reviews and approves the Code of Conduct provides a framework for all of our employees to strategic plan, capital plan, financial operating plan and Risk conduct themselves with the highest integrity. Additionally, we Appetite Statement. With oversight by the Board, executive continue to strengthen the link between the employee performance management directs the lines of business to execute our strategic management process and individual compensation to encourage plan consistent with our core operating principles and risk appetite. employees to work toward enterprise-wide risk goals. The executive management team monitors business performance throughout the year and provides the Board with regular progress Corporation-wide Stress Testing reports on whether strategic objectives and timelines are being Integral to our Capital Planning, Financial Planning and Strategic met, including reports on strategic risks and if additional or Planning processes, we conduct capital scenario management and alternative actions need to be considered or implemented. The stress forecasting on a periodic basis to better understand balance regular executive reviews focus on assessing forecasted earnings sheet, earnings and capital sensitivities to certain economic and and returns on capital, the current risk profile, current capital and business scenarios, including economic and market conditions liquidity requirements, staffing levels and changes required to that are more severe than anticipated. These stress forecasts support the strategic plan, stress testing results, and other provide an understanding of the potential impacts from our risk qualitative factors such as market growth rates and peer analysis. profile on the balance sheet, earnings and capital, and serve as Significant strategic actions, such as capital actions, material a key component of our capital and risk management practices. acquisitions or divestitures, and resolution plans are reviewed and The intent of stress testing is to develop a comprehensive approved by the Board. At the business level, processes are in understanding of potential impacts of onand off-balance sheet place to discuss the strategic risk implications of new, expanded risks at the Corporation and how they impact financial resiliency, or modified businesses, products or services and other strategic which provides confidence to management, regulators and our initiatives, and to provide formal review and approval where investors. required. With oversight by the Board and the ERC, executive Contingency Planning management performs similar analyses throughout the year, and We have developed and maintain contingency plans that are evaluates changes to the financial forecast or the risk, capital or designed to prepare us in advance to respond in the event of liquidity positions as deemed appropriate to balance and optimize potential adverse economic, financial or market stress. These achieving the targeted risk appetite, shareholder returns and contingency plans include our Capital Contingency Plan, maintaining the targeted financial strength. Proprietary models are Contingency Funding Plan and Recovery Plan, which provide used to measure the capital requirements for credit, country, monitoring, escalation, actions and routines designed to enable market, operational and strategic risks. The allocated capital us to increase capital, access funding sources and reduce risk assigned to each business is based on its unique risk profile. With through consideration of potential options that include asset sales, oversight by the Board, executive management assesses the riskbusiness sales, capital or debt issuances, or other de-risking adjusted returns of each business in approving strategic and strategies. We also maintain a Resolution Plan to limit adverse financial operating plans. The businesses use allocated capital to systemic impacts that could be associated with a potential define business strategies, and price products and transactions. resolution of Bank of America. 60 Bank of America 2017 Capital Management contemplated in our capital plan, subject to the Federal Reserve’s The Corporation manages its capital position so its capital is more non-objection. than adequate to support its business activities and to maintain capital, risk and risk appetite commensurate with one another. Regulatory Capital Additionally, we seek to maintain safety and soundness at all times, As a financial services holding company, we are subject to even under adverse scenarios, take advantage of organic growth regulatory capital rules issued by U.S. banking regulators including opportunities, meet obligations to creditors and counterparties, Basel 3, which includes certain transition provisions through maintain ready access to financial markets, continue to serve as January 1, 2019. The Corporation and its primary affiliated banking a credit intermediary, remain a source of strength for our entity, BANA, are Basel 3 Advanced approaches institutions. subsidiaries, and satisfy current and future regulatory capital Basel 3 Overview requirements. Capital management is integrated into our risk and Basel 3 updated the composition of capital and established a governance processes, as capital is a key consideration in the Common equity tier 1 capital ratio. Common equity tier 1 capital development of our strategic plan, risk appetite and risk limits. primarily includes common stock, retained earnings and We conduct an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI), net of deductions (ICAAP) on a periodic basis. The ICAAP is a forward-looking and adjustments primarily related to goodwill, deferred tax assets, assessment of our projected capital needs and resources, intangibles and defined benefit pension assets. Under the Basel incorporating earnings, balance sheet and risk forecasts under 3 regulatory capital transition provisions, certain deductions and baseline and adverse economic and market conditions. We utilize adjustments to Common equity tier 1 capital were phased in periodic stress tests to assess the potential impacts to our through January 1, 2018. In 2017, under the transition provisions, balance sheet, earnings, regulatory capital and liquidity under a 80 percent of these deductions and adjustments was recognized. variety of stress scenarios. We perform qualitative risk Basel 3 also revised minimum capital ratios and buffer assessments to identify and assess material risks not fully requirements, added a supplementary leverage ratio (SLR), and captured in our forecasts or stress tests. We assess the potential addressed the adequately capitalized minimum requirements capital impacts of proposed changes to regulatory capital under the Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) framework. Finally, Basel requirements. Management assesses ICAAP results and provides 3 established two methods of calculating risk-weighted assets, documented quarterly assessments of the adequacy of our capital the Standardized approach and the Advanced approaches. The guidelines and capital position to the Board or its committees. Standardized approach relies primarily on supervisory risk weights We periodically review capital allocated to our businesses and based on exposure type, and the Advanced approaches determine allocate capital annually during the strategic and capital planning risk weights based on internal models. During the fourth quarter processes. For more information, see Business Segment of 2017, we obtained approval from U.S. banking regulators to Operations on page 46. use our Internal Models Methodology (IMM) to calculate CCAR and Capital Planning counterparty credit risk-weighted assets for derivatives under the The Federal Reserve requires BHCs to submit a capital plan and Advanced approaches. requests for capital actions on an annual basis, consistent with As an Advanced approaches institution, we are required to the rules governing the CCAR capital plan. report regulatory risk-based capital ratios and risk-weighted assets On June 28, 2017, following the Federal Reserve’s nonunder both the Standardized and Advanced approaches. The objection to our 2017 CCAR capital plan, the Board authorized the approach that yields the lower ratio is used to assess capital repurchase of $12.0 billion in common stock from July 1, 2017 adequacy including under the PCA framework. through June 30, 2018, plus repurchases expected to be Minimum Capital Requirements approximately $900 million to offset the effect of equity-based Minimum capital requirements and related buffers are being compensation plans during the same period. On December 5, phased in from January 1, 2014 through January 1, 2019. The 2017, following approval by the Federal Reserve, the Board PCA framework establishes categories of capitalization including authorized the repurchase of an additional $5.0 billion of common “well capitalized,” based on the Basel 3 regulatory ratio stock through June 30, 2018. The common stock repurchase requirements. U.S. banking regulators are required to take certain authorizations include both common stock and warrants. During mandatory actions depending on the category of capitalization, 2017, pursuant to the Board’s authorizations, including those with no mandatory actions required for “well-capitalized” banking related to our 2016 CCAR capital plan that expired June 30, 2017, organizations, which included BANA at December 31, 2017. we repurchased $12.8 billion of common stock, which includes We are subject to a capital conservation buffer, a common stock repurchases to offset equity-based compensation countercyclical capital buffer and a global systemically important awards. At December 31, 2017, our remaining stock repurchase bank (G-SIB) surcharge that are being phased in over a three-year authorization was $10.1 billion. period ending January 1, 2019. Once fully phased in, the The timing and amount of common stock repurchases will be Corporation’s risk-based capital ratio requirements will include a subject to various factors, including the Corporation’s capital capital conservation buffer greater than 2.5 percent, plus any position, liquidity, financial performance and alternative uses of applicable countercyclical capital buffer and a G-SIB surcharge in capital, stock trading price, and general market conditions, and order to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary may be suspended at any time. The common stock repurchases bonus payments. The buffers and surcharge must be comprised may be effected through open market purchases or privately solely of Common equity tier 1 capital. Under the phase-in negotiated transactions, including repurchase plans that satisfy provisions, we were required to maintain a capital conservation the conditions of Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of buffer greater than 1.25 percent plus a G-SIB surcharge of 1.5 1934. As a “well-capitalized” BHC, we may notify the Federal percent in 2017. The countercyclical capital buffer is currently set Reserve of our intention to make additional capital distributions at zero. We estimate that our fully phased-in G-SIB surcharge will not to exceed 0.25 percent of Tier 1 capital, and which were not Bank of America 2017 61 be 2.5 percent. The G-SIB surcharge may differ from this estimate depository institution subsidiaries of BHCs will be required to over time. For more information on the Corporation’s transition maintain a minimum 6.0 percent SLR to be considered “well and fully phased-in capital ratios and regulatory requirements, see capitalized” under the PCA framework. Table 12. Capital Composition and Ratios Supplementary Leverage Ratio Table 12 presents Bank of America Corporation’s transition and Basel 3 requires Advanced approaches institutions to disclose an fully phased-in capital ratios and related information in accordance SLR. The numerator of the SLR is quarter-end Basel 3 Tier 1 capital. with Basel 3 Standardized and Advanced approaches as measured The denominator is total leverage exposure based on the daily at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Fully phased-in estimates are average of the sum of on-balance sheet exposures less permitted non-GAAP financial measures that the Corporation considers to Tier 1 deductions, as well as the simple average of certain offbe useful measures in evaluating compliance with new regulatory balance sheet exposures, as of the end of each month in a quarter. capital requirements that are not yet effective. For reconciliations Effective January 1, 2018, the Corporation will be required to to GAAP financial measures, see Table 15. As of December 31, maintain a minimum SLR of 3.0 percent, plus a leverage buffer of 2017 and 2016, the Corporation met the definition of “well 2.0 percent in order to avoid certain restrictions on capital capitalized” under current regulatory requirements. distributions and discretionary bonus payments. Insured Table 12 Bank of America Corporation Regulatory Capital under Basel 3 (1, 2) Transition Fully Phased-in Standardized Advanced Regulatory Standardized Advanced Regulatory Approach Approaches (3) Minimum (4) Approach Approaches (3) Minimum (5) (Dollars in millions, except as noted) December 31, 2017 Risk-based capital metrics: Common equity tier 1 capital $ 171,063 $ 171,063 $ 168,461 $ 168,461 Tier 1 capital 191,496 191,496 190,189 190,189 Total capital (6) 227,427 218,529 224,209 215,311 Risk-weighted assets (in billions) 1,434 1,449 1,443 1,459 Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 11.9% 11.8% 7.25% 11.7% 11.5% 9.5% Tier 1 capital ratio 13.4 13.2 8.75 13.2 13.0 11.0 Total capital ratio 15.9 15.1 10.75 15.5 14.8 13.0 Leverage-based metrics: Adjusted quarterly average assets (in billions) (7) $ 2,224 $ 2,224 $ 2,223 $ 2,223 Tier 1 leverage ratio 8.6% 8.6% 4.0 8.6% 8.6% 4.0 SLR leverage exposure (in billions) $ 2,756 SLR 6.9% 5.0 December 31, 2016 Risk-based capital metrics: Common equity tier 1 capital $ 168,866 $ 168,866 $ 162,729 $ 162,729 Tier 1 capital 190,315 190,315 187,559 187,559 Total capital (6) 228,187 218,981 223,130 213,924 Risk-weighted assets (in billions) 1,399 1,530 1,417 1,512 Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 12.1% 11.0% 5.875% 11.5% 10.8% 9.5% Tier 1 capital ratio 13.6 12.4 7.375 13.2 12.4 11.0 Total capital ratio 16.3 14.3 9.375 15.8 14.2 13.0 Leverage-based metrics: Adjusted quarterly average assets (in billions) (7) $ 2,131 $ 2,131 $ 2,131 $ 2,131 Tier 1 leverage ratio 8.9% 8.9% 4.0 8.8% 8.8% 4.0 SLR leverage exposure (in billions) $ 2,702 SLR 6.9% 5.0 (1) As an Advanced approaches institution, we are required to report regulatory capital risk-weighted assets and ratios under both the Standardized and Advanced approaches. The approach that yields the lower ratio is to be used to assess capital adequacy and was the Advanced approaches method at December 31, 2017 and 2016. (2) Under the applicable bank regulatory rules, we are not required to and, accordingly, will not restate previously-filed regulatory capital metrics and ratios in connection with the change in accounting method under GAAP for stock-based compensation awards granted to retirement-eligible employees. Therefore, the December 31, 2016 amounts in the table are as originally reported. The cumulative impact of the change in accounting method resulted in an insignificant pro forma change to our capital metrics and ratios. For more information, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (3) During the fourth quarter of 2017, we obtained approval from U.S. banking regulators to use our IMM to calculate counterparty credit risk-weighted assets for derivatives under the Advanced approaches. Fully phased-in estimates for prior periods assumed approval. (4) The December 31, 2017 and 2016 amounts include a transition capital conservation buffer of 1.25 percent and 0.625 percent and a transition G-SIB surcharge of 1.5 percent and 0.75 percent. The countercyclical capital buffer for both periods is zero. (5) Fully phased-in regulatory minimums assume a capital conservation buffer of 2.5 percent and estimated G-SIB surcharge of 2.5 percent. The estimated fully phased-in countercyclical capital buffer is zero. We will be subject to fully phased-in regulatory minimums on January 1, 2019. The fully phased-in SLR minimum assumes a leverage buffer of 2.0 percent and is applicable on January 1, 2018. (6) Total capital under the Advanced approaches differs from the Standardized approach due to differences in the amount permitted in Tier 2 capital related to the qualifying allowance for credit losses. (7) Reflects adjusted average total assets for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. 62 Bank of America 2017 Common equity tier 1 capital under Basel 3 Advanced – capital instruments, in addition to the phase-in of Basel 3 transition Transition was $171.1 billion at December 31, 2017, an increase provisions, partially offset by earnings. of $2.2 billion compared to December 31, 2016 driven by earnings Risk-weighted assets decreased $81 billion during 2017 to and the exercise of warrants associated with the Series T preferred $1,449 billion primarily due to the implementation of Internal stock, partially offset by common stock repurchases, dividends Models Methodology (IMM) for derivatives, improvements in credit and the phase-in under Basel 3 transition provisions of deductions, risk capital models, the sale of the non-U.S. consumer credit card primarily related to deferred tax assets. During 2017, total capital business and continued run-off of non-core assets. decreased $452 million primarily driven by common stock Table 13 shows the capital composition as measured under repurchases, dividends, lower eligible credit reserves and tier 2 Basel 3 – Transition at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Table 13 Capital Composition under Basel 3 – Transition (1, 2) December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 Total common shareholders’ equity $ 244,823 $ 241,620 Goodwill (68,576) (69,191) Deferred tax assets arising from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards (5,244) (4,976) Adjustments for amounts recorded in accumulated OCI attributed to AFS Securities and defined benefit postretirement plans 879 1,899 Adjustments for amounts recorded in accumulated OCI attributed to certain cash flow hedges 831 895 Intangibles, other than mortgage servicing rights and goodwill (1,395) (1,198) Defined benefit pension fund assets (910) (512) DVA related to liabilities and derivatives 957 413 Other (302) (84) Common equity tier 1 capital 171,063 168,866 Qualifying preferred stock, net of issuance cost 22,323 25,220 Deferred tax assets arising from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards (1,311) (3,318) Defined benefit pension fund assets (228) (341) DVA related to liabilities and derivatives under transition 239 276 Other (590) (388) Total Tier 1 capital 191,496 190,315 Long-term debt qualifying as Tier 2 capital 22,938 23,365 Eligible credit reserves included in Tier 2 capital 2,272 3,035 Nonqualifying capital instruments subject to phase out from Tier 2 capital 1,893 2,271 Other (70) (5) Total Basel 3 Capital $ 218,529 $ 218,981 (1) See Table 12, footnotes 1 and 2. (2) Deductions from and adjustments to regulatory capital subject to transition provisions under Basel 3 are generally recognized in 20 percent annual increments, and are fully recognized as of January 1, 2018. Any assets that are a direct deduction from the computation of capital are excluded from risk-weighted assets and adjusted average total assets. Table 14 shows the components of risk-weighted assets as measured under Basel 3 – Transition at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Table 14 Risk-weighted Assets under Basel 3 – Transition Standardized Advanced Standardized Advanced Approach Approaches Approach Approaches December 31 (Dollars in billions) 2017 2016 Credit risk $ 1,375 $ 857 $ 1,334 $ 903 Market risk 59 58 65 63 Operational risk n/a 500 n/a 500 Risks related to CVA n/a 34 n/a 64 Total risk-weighted assets $ 1,434 $ 1,449 $ 1,399 $ 1,530 n/a = not applicable Bank of America 2017 63 Table 15 presents a reconciliation of regulatory capital in accordance with Basel 3 Standardized – Transition to the Basel 3 Standardized approach fully phased-in estimates and Basel 3 Advanced approaches fully phased-in estimates at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Table 15 Regulatory Capital Reconciliations between Basel 3 Transition to Fully Phased-in (1) December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 Common equity tier 1 capital (transition) $ 171,063 $ 168,866 Deferred tax assets arising from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards phased in during transition (1,311) (3,318) Accumulated OCI phased in during transition (879) (1,899) Intangibles phased in during transition (348) (798) Defined benefit pension fund assets phased in during transition (228) (341) DVA related to liabilities and derivatives phased in during transition 239 276 Other adjustments and deductions phased in during transition (75) (57) Common equity tier 1 capital (fully phased-in) 168,461 162,729 Additional Tier 1 capital (transition) 20,433 21,449 Deferred tax assets arising from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards phased out during transition 1,311 3,318 Defined benefit pension fund assets phased out during transition 228 341 DVA related to liabilities and derivatives phased out during transition (239) (276) Other transition adjustments to additional Tier 1 capital (5) (2) Additional Tier 1 capital (fully phased-in) 21,728 24,830 Tier 1 capital (fully phased-in) 190,189 187,559 Tier 2 capital (transition) 27,033 28,666 Nonqualifying capital instruments phased out during transition (1,893) (2,271) Other adjustments to Tier 2 capital 8,880 9,176 Tier 2 capital (fully phased-in) 34,020 35,571 Basel 3 Standardized approach Total capital (fully phased-in) 224,209 223,130 Change in Tier 2 qualifying allowance for credit losses (8,898) (9,206) Basel 3 Advanced approaches Total capital (fully phased-in) $ 215,311 $ 213,924 Risk-weighted assets – As reported to Basel 3 (fully phased-in) Basel 3 Standardized approach risk-weighted assets as reported $ 1,433,517 $ 1,399,477 Changes in risk-weighted assets from reported to fully phased-in 9,204 17,638 Basel 3 Standardized approach risk-weighted assets (fully phased-in) $ 1,442,721 $ 1,417,115 Basel 3 Advanced approaches risk-weighted assets as reported $ 1,449,222 $ 1,529,903 Changes in risk-weighted assets from reported to fully phased-in 9,757 (18,113) Basel 3 Advanced approaches risk-weighted assets (fully phased-in) $ 1,458,979 $ 1,511,790 (1) See Table 12, footnotes 1, 2 and 4. Bank of America, N.A. Regulatory Capital Table 16 presents transition regulatory capital information for BANA in accordance with Basel 3 Standardized and Advanced approaches as measured at December 31, 2017 and 2016. As of December 31, 2017, BANA met the definition of “well capitalized” under the PCA framework. Table 16 Bank of America, N.A. Regulatory Capital under Basel 3 Standardized Approach Advanced Approaches Minimum Minimum Ratio Amount Required (1) Ratio Amount Required (1) (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2017 Common equity tier 1 capital 12.5% $ 150,552 6.5% 14.9% $ 150,552 6.5% Tier 1 capital 12.5 150,552 8.0 14.9 150,552 8.0 Total capital 13.6 163,243 10.0 15.4 154,675 10.0 Tier 1 leverage 9.0 150,552 5.0 9.0 150,552 5.0 December 31, 2016 Common equity tier 1 capital 12.7% $ 149,755 6.5% 14.3% $ 149,755 6.5% Tier 1 capital 12.7 149,755 8.0 14.3 149,755 8.0 Total capital 13.9 163,471 10.0 14.8 154,697 10.0 Tier 1 leverage 9.3 149,755 5.0 9.3 149,755 5.0 (1) Percent required to meet guidelines to be considered “well capitalized” under the PCA framework. 64 Bank of America 2017 Regulatory Developments MLPF&S has elected to compute the minimum capital requirement in accordance with the Alternative Net Capital Minimum Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity Requirement as permitted by SEC Rule 15c3-1. At December 31, The Federal Reserve has established a final rule effective January 2017, MLPF&S’s regulatory net capital as defined by Rule 15c3-1 1, 2019, which includes minimum external total loss-absorbing was $12.4 billion and exceeded the minimum requirement of $1.7 capacity (TLAC) requirements to improve the resolvability and billion by $10.7 billion. MLPCC’s net capital of $3.4 billion resiliency of large, interconnected BHCs. We estimate our exceeded the minimum requirement of $543 million by $2.9 minimum required external TLAC would be the greater of 22.5 billion. percent of risk-weighted assets or 9.5 percent of SLR leverage In accordance with the Alternative Net Capital Requirements, exposure. In addition, U.S. G-SIBs must meet a minimum longMLPF&S is required to maintain tentative net capital in excess of term debt requirement. Our minimum required long-term debt is $1.0 billion, net capital in excess of $500 million and notify the estimated to be the greater of 8.5 percent of risk-weighted assets SEC in the event its tentative net capital is less than $5.0 billion. or 4.5 percent of SLR leverage exposure. As of December 31, At December 31, 2017, MLPF&S had tentative net capital and net 2017, the Corporation’s TLAC and long-term debt exceeded our capital in excess of the minimum and notification requirements. estimated 2019 minimum requirements. Merrill Lynch International (MLI), a U.K. investment firm, is regulated by the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Revisions to Approaches for Measuring Risk-weighted Conduct Authority, and is subject to certain regulatory capital Assets requirements. At December 31, 2017, MLI’s capital resources On December 7, 2017, the Basel Committee on Banking were $35.1 billion which exceeded the minimum Pillar 1 Supervision (Basel Committee) finalized several key requirement of $16.5 billion. methodologies for measuring risk-weighted assets. The revisions include a standardized approach for credit risk, standardized Liquidity Risk approach for operational risk, revisions to the credit valuation adjustment (CVA) risk framework and constraints on the use of Funding and Liquidity Risk Management internal models. The Basel Committee had also previously finalized Our primary liquidity risk management objective is to meet a revised standardized model for counterparty credit risk, revisions expected or unexpected cash flow and collateral needs while to the securitization framework and its fundamental review of the continuing to support our businesses and customers under a range trading book, which updates both modeled and standardized of economic conditions. To achieve that objective, we analyze and approaches for market risk measurement. The revisions also monitor our liquidity risk under expected and stressed conditions, include a capital floor set at 72.5 percent of total risk-weighted maintain liquidity and access to diverse funding sources, including assets based on the revised standardized approaches to limit the our stable deposit base, and seek to align liquidity-related extent to which banks can reduce risk-weighted asset levels incentives and risks. through the use of internal models. U.S. banking regulators may We define liquidity as readily available assets, limited to cash update the U.S. Basel 3 rules to incorporate the Basel Committee and high-quality, liquid, unencumbered securities that we can use revisions. to meet our contractual and contingent financial obligations as those obligations arise. We manage our liquidity position through Revisions to the G-SIB Assessment Framework line of business and ALM activities, as well as through our legal On March 30, 2017, the Basel Committee issued a consultative entity funding strategy, on both a forward and current (including document with proposed revisions to the G-SIB surcharge intraday) basis under both expected and stressed conditions. We assessment framework. The proposed revisions would include believe that a centralized approach to funding and liquidity removing the cap on the substitutability category, expanding the management enhances our ability to monitor liquidity scope of consolidation to include insurance subsidiaries in three requirements, maximizes access to funding sources, minimizes categories (size, interconnectedness and complexity) and borrowing costs and facilitates timely responses to liquidity modifying the substitutability category weights with the events. introduction of a new trading volume indicator. The Basel The Board approves our liquidity policy and the ERC approves Committee has also requested feedback on a new short-term the contingency funding plan, including establishing liquidity risk wholesale funding indicator, which would be included in the tolerance levels. The MRC monitors our liquidity position and interconnectedness category. The U.S. banking regulators may reviews the impact of strategic decisions on our liquidity. The MRC update the U.S. G-SIB surcharge rule to incorporate the Basel is responsible for overseeing liquidity risks and directing Committee revisions. management to maintain exposures within the established tolerance levels. The MRC reviews and monitors our liquidity Broker-dealer Regulatory Capital and Securities position, stress testing scenarios and results, and reviews and Regulation approves certain liquidity risk limits. For more information, see The Corporation’s principal U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are Managing Risk on page 57. Under this governance framework, we Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (MLPF&S) and have developed certain funding and liquidity risk management Merrill Lynch Professional Clearing Corp (MLPCC). MLPCC is a fullypractices which include: maintaining liquidity at the parent guaranteed subsidiary of MLPF&S and provides clearing and company and selected subsidiaries, including our bank settlement services. Both entities are subject to the net capital subsidiaries and other regulated entities; determining what requirements of Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Rule amounts of liquidity are appropriate for these entities based on 15c3-1. Both entities are also registered as futures commission analysis of debt maturities and other potential cash outflows, merchants and are subject to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission Regulation 1.17. Bank of America 2017 65 including those that we may experience during stressed market For the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, conditions; diversifying funding sources, considering our asset our average GLS were $522 billion and $515 billion, as shown in profile and legal entity structure; and performing contingency Table 17. planning. NB Holdings Corporation Table 17 Average Global Liquidity Sources In 2016, we entered into intercompany arrangements with certain Three Months Ended key subsidiaries under which we transferred certain of our parent December 31 company assets, and agreed to transfer certain additional parent (Dollars in billions) 2017 2016 company assets not needed to satisfy anticipated near-term Parent company and NB Holdings $ 79 $ 77 expenditures, to NB Holdings Corporation, a wholly-owned holding Bank subsidiaries 394 389 company subsidiary (NB Holdings). The parent company is Other regulated entities 49 49 expected to continue to have access to the same flow of dividends, Total Average Global Liquidity Sources $ 522 $ 515 interest and other amounts of cash necessary to service its debt, pay dividends and perform other obligations as it would have had Parent company and NB Holdings average liquidity was $79 if it had not entered into these arrangements and transferred any billion and $77 billion for the three months ended December 31, assets. 2017 and 2016. The increase in parent company and NB Holdings In consideration for the transfer of assets, NB Holdings issued average liquidity was primarily due to debt issuances outpacing a subordinated note to the parent company in a principal amount maturities. Typically, parent company and NB Holdings liquidity is equal to the value of the transferred assets. The aggregate in the form of cash deposited with BANA. principal amount of the note will increase by the amount of any Average liquidity held at our bank subsidiaries was $394 billion future asset transfers. NB Holdings also provided the parent and $389 billion for the three months ended December 31, 2017 company with a committed line of credit that allows the parent and 2016. Our bank subsidiaries’ liquidity is primarily driven by company to draw funds necessary to service near-term cash deposit and lending activity, as well as securities valuation and needs. These arrangements support our preferred single point of net debt activity. Liquidity at bank subsidiaries excludes the cash entry resolution strategy, under which only the parent company deposited by the parent company and NB Holdings. Our bank would be resolved under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. These subsidiaries can also generate incremental liquidity by pledging a arrangements include provisions to terminate the line of credit, range of unencumbered loans and securities to certain FHLBs and forgive the subordinated note and require the parent company to the Federal Reserve Discount Window. The cash we could have transfer its remaining financial assets to NB Holdings if our obtained by borrowing against this pool of specifically-identified projected liquidity resources deteriorate so severely that resolution eligible assets was $308 billion and $310 billion at December 31, of the parent company becomes imminent. 2017 and 2016, with the decrease due to FHLB borrowings, which reduced available borrowing capacity, and adjustments to our Global Liquidity Sources and Other Unencumbered Assets valuation model. We have established operational procedures to We maintain liquidity available to the Corporation, including the enable us to borrow against these assets, including regularly parent company and selected subsidiaries, in the form of cash monitoring our total pool of eligible loans and securities collateral. and high-quality, liquid, unencumbered securities. Our liquidity Eligibility is defined in guidelines from the FHLBs and the Federal buffer, referred to as Global Liquidity Sources (GLS), is comprised Reserve and is subject to change at their discretion. Due to of assets that are readily available to the parent company and regulatory restrictions, liquidity generated by the bank subsidiaries selected subsidiaries, including holding company, bank and brokercan generally be used only to fund obligations within the bank dealer subsidiaries, even during stressed market conditions. Our subsidiaries, and transfers to the parent company or nonbank cash is primarily on deposit with the Federal Reserve and, to a subsidiaries may be subject to prior regulatory approval. lesser extent, central banks outside of the U.S. We limit the Average liquidity held at our other regulated entities, comprised composition of high-quality, liquid, unencumbered securities to primarily of broker-dealer subsidiaries, was $49 billion for both the U.S. government securities, U.S. agency securities, U.S. agency three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. Our other MBS and a select group of non-U.S. government securities. We regulated entities also held unencumbered investment-grade can quickly obtain cash for these securities, even in stressed securities and equities that we believe could be used to generate conditions, through repurchase agreements or outright sales. We additional liquidity. Liquidity held in an other regulated entity is hold our GLS in legal entities that allow us to meet the liquidity primarily available to meet the obligations of that entity and requirements of our global businesses, and we consider the impact transfers to the parent company or to any other subsidiary may be of potential regulatory, tax, legal and other restrictions that could subject to prior regulatory approval due to regulatory restrictions limit the transferability of funds among entities. and minimum requirements. 66 Bank of America 2017 Table 18 presents the composition of average GLS for the three We also use the stress modeling results to manage our asset and months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. liability profile and establish limits and guidelines on certain funding sources and businesses. We use a variety of metrics to determine the appropriate Table 18 Average Global Liquidity Sources Composition amounts of liquidity to maintain at the parent company and our Three Months Ended subsidiaries. One metric we use to evaluate the appropriate level December 31 of liquidity at the parent company and NB Holdings is “time-to(Dollars in billions) 2017 2016 required funding” (TTF). This debt coverage measure indicates the Cash on deposit $ 118 $ 118 number of months the parent company can continue to meet its U.S. Treasury securities 62 58 unsecured contractual obligations as they come due using only U.S. agency securities and mortgage-backed the parent company and NB Holdings’ liquidity sources without securities 330 322 issuing any new debt or accessing any additional liquidity sources. Non-U.S. government securities 12 17 We define unsecured contractual obligations for purposes of this Total Average Global Liquidity Sources $ 522 $ 515 metric as maturities of senior or subordinated debt issued or Our GLS are substantially the same in composition to what guaranteed by Bank of America Corporation. These include certain qualifies as High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA) under the final U.S. unsecured debt instruments, primarily structured liabilities, which Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) rules. However, HQLA for purposes we may be required to settle for cash prior to maturity. TTF was of calculating LCR is not reported at market value, but at a lower 49 months at December 31, 2017 compared to 35 months at value that incorporates regulatory deductions and the exclusion December 31, 2016. The increase in TTF was driven by debt of excess liquidity held at certain subsidiaries. The LCR is issuances outpacing maturities. calculated as the amount of a financial institution’s unencumbered Net Stable Funding Ratio HQLA relative to the estimated net cash outflows the institution U.S. banking regulators issued a proposal for a Net Stable Funding could encounter over a 30-day period of significant liquidity stress, Ratio (NSFR) requirement applicable to U.S. financial institutions expressed as a percentage. For the three months ended December following the Basel Committee’s final standard. The proposed U.S. 31, 2017, our average consolidated HQLA, on a net basis, was NSFR would apply to the Corporation on a consolidated basis and $439 billion and the average consolidated LCR was 125 percent. to our insured depository institutions. While the final requirement Our LCR will fluctuate due to normal business flows from customer remains pending and is subject to change, if finalized as proposed, activity. we expect to be in compliance within the regulatory timeline. The Liquidity Stress Analysis and Time-to-required Funding standard is intended to reduce funding risk over a longer time We utilize liquidity stress analysis to assist us in determining the horizon. The NSFR is designed to provide an appropriate amount appropriate amounts of liquidity to maintain at the parent company of stable funding, generally capital and liabilities maturing beyond and our subsidiaries. The liquidity stress testing process is an one year, given the mix of assets and off-balance sheet items. integral part of analyzing our potential contractual and contingent Diversified Funding Sources cash outflows. We evaluate the liquidity requirements under a We fund our assets primarily with a mix of deposits and secured range of scenarios with varying levels of severity and time horizons. and unsecured liabilities through a centralized, globally The scenarios we consider and utilize incorporate market-wide and coordinated funding approach diversified across products, Corporation-specific events, including potential credit rating programs, markets, currencies and investor groups. downgrades for the parent company and our subsidiaries, and The primary benefits of our centralized funding approach more severe events including potential resolution scenarios. The include greater control, reduced funding costs, wider name scenarios are based on our historical experience, experience of recognition by investors and greater flexibility to meet the variable distressed and failed financial institutions, regulatory guidance, funding requirements of subsidiaries. Where regulations, time and both expected and unexpected future events. zone differences or other business considerations make parent The types of potential contractual and contingent cash outflows company funding impractical, certain other subsidiaries may issue we consider in our scenarios may include, but are not limited to, their own debt. upcoming contractual maturities of unsecured debt and reductions We fund a substantial portion of our lending activities through in new debt issuance; diminished access to secured financing our deposits, which were $1.31 trillion and $1.26 trillion at markets; potential deposit withdrawals; increased draws on loan December 31, 2017 and 2016. Deposits are primarily generated commitments, liquidity facilities and letters of credit; additional by our Consumer Banking, GWIM and Global Banking segments. collateral that counterparties could call if our credit ratings were These deposits are diversified by clients, product type and downgraded; collateral and margin requirements arising from geography, and the majority of our U.S. deposits are insured by market value changes; and potential liquidity required to maintain the FDIC. We consider a substantial portion of our deposits to be businesses and finance customer activities. Changes in certain a stable, low-cost and consistent source of funding. We believe market factors, including, but not limited to, credit rating this deposit funding is generally less sensitive to interest rate downgrades, could negatively impact potential contractual and changes, market volatility or changes in our credit ratings than contingent outflows and the related financial instruments, and in wholesale funding sources. Our lending activities may also be some cases these impacts could be material to our financial financed through secured borrowings, including credit card results. securitizations and securitizations with government-sponsored We consider all sources of funds that we could access during enterprises, the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and privateeach stress scenario and focus particularly on matching available label investors, as well as FHLB loans. sources with corresponding liquidity requirements by legal entity. Bank of America 2017 67 Our trading activities in other regulated entities are primarily may make markets in our debt instruments to provide liquidity for funded on a secured basis through securities lending and investors. repurchase agreements and these amounts will vary based on We use derivative transactions to manage the duration, interest customer activity and market conditions. We believe funding these rate and currency risks of our borrowings, considering the activities in the secured financing markets is more cost-efficient characteristics of the assets they are funding. For more information and less sensitive to changes in our credit ratings than unsecured on our ALM activities, see Interest Rate Risk Management for the financing. Repurchase agreements are generally short-term and Banking Book on page 97. often overnight. Disruptions in secured financing markets for We may also issue unsecured debt in the form of structured financial institutions have occurred in prior market cycles which notes for client purposes, certain of which qualify as TLAC eligible resulted in adverse changes in terms or significant reductions in debt. During 2017, we issued $5.4 billion of structured notes, the availability of such financing. We manage the liquidity risks which are debt obligations that pay investors returns linked to other arising from secured funding by sourcing funding globally from a debt or equity securities, indices, currencies or commodities. We diverse group of counterparties, providing a range of securities typically hedge the returns we are obligated to pay on these collateral and pursuing longer durations, when appropriate. For liabilities with derivatives and/or investments in the underlying more information on secured financing agreements, see Note 10 instruments, so that from a funding perspective, the cost is similar – Federal Funds Sold or Purchased, Securities Financing to our other unsecured long-term debt. We could be required to Agreements and Short-term Borrowings to the Consolidated settle certain structured note obligations for cash or other Financial Statements. securities prior to maturity under certain circumstances, which we We issue long-term unsecured debt in a variety of maturities consider for liquidity planning purposes. We believe, however, that and currencies to achieve cost-efficient funding and to maintain a portion of such borrowings will remain outstanding beyond the an appropriate maturity profile. While the cost and availability of earliest put or redemption date. unsecured funding may be negatively impacted by general market Substantially all of our senior and subordinated debt conditions or by matters specific to the financial services industry obligations contain no provisions that could trigger a requirement or the Corporation, we seek to mitigate refinancing risk by actively for an early repayment, require additional collateral support, result managing the amount of our borrowings that we anticipate will in changes to terms, accelerate maturity or create additional mature within any month or quarter. financial obligations upon an adverse change in our credit ratings, During 2017, we issued $53.3 billion of long-term debt financial ratios, earnings, cash flows or stock price. For more consisting of $37.7 billion for Bank of America Corporation, information on long-term debt funding, see Note 11 – Long-term substantially all of which was TLAC compliant, $8.2 billion for Bank Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements. of America, N.A. and $7.4 billion of other debt. In December 2017, pursuant to a private offering, we Contingency Planning exchanged $11.0 billion of outstanding long-term debt for new We maintain contingency funding plans that outline our potential fixed/floating-rate senior notes, subject to certain terms and responses to liquidity stress events at various levels of severity. conditions, to extend maturities and improve the structure of this These policies and plans are based on stress scenarios and debt for TLAC purposes. Based on the attributes of the exchange include potential funding strategies and communication and transactions, the newly issued securities are not considered notification procedures that we would implement in the event we substantially different, for accounting purposes, from the experienced stressed liquidity conditions. We periodically review exchanged securities. Therefore, there was no impact to our results and test the contingency funding plans to validate efficacy and of operations as any amounts paid to debt holders were capitalized, assess readiness. and the premiums or discounts on the outstanding long-term debt Our U.S. bank subsidiaries can access contingency funding were carried over to the new securities and will be amortized over through the Federal Reserve Discount Window. Certain non-U.S. their contractual lives using a revised effective interest rate. subsidiaries have access to central bank facilities in the Table 19 presents our long-term debt by major currency at jurisdictions in which they operate. While we do not rely on these December 31, 2017 and 2016. sources in our liquidity modeling, we maintain the policies, procedures and governance processes that would enable us to access these sources if necessary. Table 19 Long-term Debt by Major Currency Credit Ratings December 31 Our borrowing costs and ability to raise funds are impacted by our (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 credit ratings. In addition, credit ratings may be important to U.S. dollar $ 175,623 $ 172,082 customers or counterparties when we compete in certain markets Euro 35,481 28,236 and when we seek to engage in certain transactions, including British pound 7,016 6,588 over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives. Thus, it is our objective to Australian dollar 3,046 2,900 Japanese yen 2,993 3,919 maintain high-quality credit ratings, and management maintains Canadian dollar 1,966 1,049 an active dialogue with the major rating agencies. Other 1,277 2,049 Credit ratings and outlooks are opinions expressed by rating Total long-term debt $ 227,402 $ 216,823 agencies on our creditworthiness and that of our obligations or securities, including long-term debt, short-term borrowings, Total long-term debt increased $10.6 billion, or five percent, in preferred stock and other securities, including asset 2017, primarily due to issuances outpacing maturities. We may, securitizations. Our credit ratings are subject to ongoing review by from time to time, purchase outstanding debt instruments in the rating agencies, and they consider a number of factors, various transactions, depending on prevailing market conditions, including our own financial strength, performance, prospects and liquidity and other factors. In addition, our other regulated entities operations as well as factors not under our control. The rating agencies could make adjustments to our ratings at any time, and 68 Bank of America 2017 they provide no assurances that they will maintain our ratings at On November 22, 2017, Standard & Poor’s Global Ratings current levels. (S&P) upgraded Bank of America Corporation’s long-term senior Other factors that influence our credit ratings include changes debt rating to Afrom BBB+ following the agency’s periodic review to the rating agencies’ methodologies for our industry or certain of our ratings. S&P cited the improvement in the Corporation’s risk security types; the rating agencies’ assessment of the general profile, while continuing to improve profitability metrics, as the operating environment for financial services companies; our driver for the upgrade, including tightening underwriting standards, relative positions in the markets in which we compete; our various reducing exposure to market risk, growing conservatively, and risk exposures and risk management policies and activities; resolving legacy legal issues. S&P concurrently affirmed the ratings pending litigation and other contingencies or potential tail risks; of the Corporation’s rated core operating subsidiaries, including our reputation; our liquidity position, diversity of funding sources BANA, MLPF&S, MLI and Bank of America Merrill Lynch and funding costs; the current and expected level and volatility of International Limited. Those entities were affirmed rather than our earnings; our capital position and capital management upgraded since their ratings had reached an inflection point under practices; our corporate governance; the sovereign credit ratings S&P’s methodology where the one notch S&P added to its of the U.S. government; current or future regulatory and legislative assessment of our intrinsic creditworthiness (called an initiatives; and the agencies’ views on whether the U.S. Unsupported Group Credit Profile, or UGCP) resulted in the government would provide meaningful support to the Corporation subsidiaries receiving one less notch of support uplift under the or its subsidiaries in a crisis. agency’s Additional Loss Absorbing Capacity framework, thus On December 6, 2017, Moody’s Investors Services, Inc. leaving those entities’ ratings unchanged. S&P retained a stable (Moody’s) upgraded the long-term ratings of Bank of America outlook on the ratings of Bank of America Corporation and its core Corporation and certain subsidiaries, including BANA, by one operating subsidiaries following the upgrade. notch, moving their senior debt ratings to A3 and Aa3, respectively. On September 28, 2017, Fitch Ratings (Fitch) completed its The upgrade was based on the agency’s expectations for continued latest review of 12 large, complex securities trading and universal improvement in the Corporation’s profitability and management’s banks, including Bank of America. The agency affirmed the longcontinued commitment to a conservative risk profile. At the same term and short-term senior debt ratings of Bank of America time, Moody’s affirmed all the short-term ratings for Bank of Corporation and its rated subsidiaries, including BANA, and America Corporation and its rated subsidiaries. Moody’s maintained its stable outlook on those ratings. concurrently moved the outlook on the ratings to stable. This action Table 20 presents the Corporation’s current long-term/shortconcluded the review for upgrade that Moody’s initiated on term senior debt ratings and outlooks expressed by the rating September 12, 2017. agencies. Table 20 Senior Debt Ratings Moody’s Investors Service Standard & Poor’s Global Ratings Fitch Ratings Long-term Short-term Outlook Long-term Short-term Outlook Long-term Short-term Outlook Bank of America Corporation A3 P-2 Stable AA-2 Stable A F1 Stable Bank of America, N.A. Aa3 P-1 Stable A+ A-1 Stable A+ F1 Stable Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated NR NR NR A+ A-1 Stable A+ F1 Stable Merrill Lynch International NR NR NR A+ A-1 Stable A F1 Stable NR = not rated A reduction in certain of our credit ratings or the ratings of depends upon numerous dynamic, complex and inter-related certain asset-backed securitizations may have a material adverse factors and assumptions, including whether any downgrade of a effect on our liquidity, potential loss of access to credit markets, company’s long-term credit ratings precipitates downgrades to its the related cost of funds, our businesses and on certain trading short-term credit ratings, and assumptions about the potential revenues, particularly in those businesses where counterparty behaviors of various customers, investors and counterparties. For creditworthiness is critical. In addition, under the terms of certain more information on potential impacts of credit rating downgrades, OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements, in the see Liquidity Risk – Time-to-required Funding and Liquidity Stress event of downgrades of our or our rated subsidiaries’ credit ratings, Analysis on page 67. the counterparties to those agreements may require us to provide For more information on the additional collateral and additional collateral, or to terminate these contracts or termination payments that could be required in connection with agreements, which could cause us to sustain losses and/or certain OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements as adversely impact our liquidity. If the short-term credit ratings of a result of such a credit rating downgrade, see Note 2 – Derivatives our parent company, bank or broker-dealer subsidiaries were to the Consolidated Financial Statements. downgraded by one or more levels, the potential loss of access to short-term funding sources such as repo financing and the effect Common Stock Dividends on our incremental cost of funds could be material. For a summary of our declared quarterly cash dividends on While certain potential impacts are contractual and common stock during 2017 and through February 22, 2018, see quantifiable, the full scope of the consequences of a credit rating Note 13 – Shareholders’ Equity to the Consolidated Financial downgrade to a financial institution is inherently uncertain, as it Statements. Bank of America 2017 69 Credit Risk Management Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from the inability or failure of Credit risk management for the consumer portfolio begins with a borrower or counterparty to meet its obligations. Credit risk can initial underwriting and continues throughout a borrower’s credit also arise from operational failures that result in an erroneous cycle. Statistical techniques in conjunction with experiential advance, commitment or investment of funds. We define the credit judgment are used in all aspects of portfolio management exposure to a borrower or counterparty as the loss potential arising including underwriting, product pricing, risk appetite, setting credit from all product classifications including loans and leases, deposit limits, and establishing operating processes and metrics to overdrafts, derivatives, assets held-for-sale and unfunded lending quantify and balance risks and returns. Statistical models are built commitments which include loan commitments, letters of credit using detailed behavioral information from external sources such and financial guarantees. Derivative positions are recorded at fair as credit bureaus and/or internal historical experience and are a value and assets held-for-sale are recorded at either fair value or component of our consumer credit risk management process. the lower of cost or fair value. Certain loans and unfunded These models are used in part to assist in making both new and commitments are accounted for under the fair value option. Credit ongoing credit decisions, as well as portfolio management risk for categories of assets carried at fair value is not accounted strategies, including authorizations and line management, for as part of the allowance for credit losses but as part of the fair collection practices and strategies, and determination of the value adjustments recorded in earnings. For derivative positions, allowance for loan and lease losses and allocated capital for credit our credit risk is measured as the net cost in the event the risk. counterparties with contracts in which we are in a gain position fail to perform under the terms of those contracts. We use the Consumer Credit Portfolio current fair value to represent credit exposure without giving Improvement in the U.S. unemployment rate and home prices consideration to future mark-to-market changes. The credit risk continued during 2017 resulting in improved credit quality and amounts take into consideration the effects of legally enforceable lower credit losses in the consumer real estate portfolio, partially master netting agreements and cash collateral. Our consumer and offset by seasoning and loan growth in the U.S. credit card portfolio commercial credit extension and review procedures encompass compared to 2016. funded and unfunded credit exposures. For more information on Improved credit quality, the sale of the non-U.S. consumer credit derivatives and credit extension commitments, see Note 2 – card business in 2017, continued loan balance run-off and sales Derivatives and Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies to the in the consumer real estate portfolio drove a $839 million Consolidated Financial Statements. decrease in the consumer allowance for loan and lease losses in We manage credit risk based on the risk profile of the borrower 2017 to $5.4 billion at December 31, 2017. For more information, or counterparty, repayment sources, the nature of underlying see Allowance for Credit Losses on page 88. collateral, and other support given current events, conditions and For more information on our accounting policies regarding expectations. We classify our portfolios as either consumer or delinquencies, nonperforming status, charge-offs and troubled commercial and monitor credit risk in each as discussed below. debt restructurings (TDRs) for the consumer portfolio, including We refine our underwriting and credit risk management those related to bankruptcy and repossession, see Note 1 – practices as well as credit standards to meet the changing Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated economic environment. To mitigate losses and enhance customer Financial Statements. support in our consumer businesses, we have in place collection Table 21 presents our outstanding consumer loans and leases, programs and loan modification and customer assistance consumer nonperforming loans and accruing consumer loans past infrastructures. We utilize a number of actions to mitigate losses due 90 days or more. Nonperforming loans do not include past in the commercial businesses including increasing the frequency due consumer credit card loans, other unsecured loans and in and intensity of portfolio monitoring, hedging activity and our general, consumer loans not secured by real estate (bankruptcy practice of transferring management of deteriorating commercial loans are included) as these loans are typically charged off no exposures to independent special asset officers as credits enter later than the end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 criticized categories. days past due. Real estate-secured past due consumer loans that For more information on our credit risk management activities, are insured by the FHA or individually insured under long-term see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management below, standby agreements with Fannie Mae (FNMA) and Freddie Mac Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management on page 79, Non(FHLMC) (collectively, the fully-insured loan portfolio) are reported U.S. Portfolio on page 86, Provision for Credit Losses on page 88, as accruing as opposed to nonperforming since the principal Allowance for Credit Losses on page 88, and Note 4 – Outstanding repayment is insured. Fully-insured loans included in accruing past Loans and Leases and Note 5 – Allowance for Credit Losses to the due 90 days or more are primarily from our repurchases of Consolidated Financial Statements. delinquent FHA loans pursuant to our servicing agreements with During the third quarter of 2017, hurricanes impacted the the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA). southern United States and the Caribbean, bringing widespread Additionally, nonperforming loans and accruing balances past due flooding and wind damage to communities across the region. In 90 days or more do not include the PCI loan portfolio or loans the weeks after these storms, we supported our customers and accounted for under the fair value option even though the customer clients in these communities by providing mobile financial centers may be contractually past due. and ATMs. In addition, we provided support for the recovery efforts For more information on PCI loans, see Consumer Portfolio including proactive fee refunds in affected areas, as well as home Credit Risk Management – Purchased Credit-impaired Loan loan and other credit assistance, including payment deferrals, for Portfolio on page 76 and Note 4 – Outstanding Loans and Leases impacted individuals and businesses. We do not believe that these to the Consolidated Financial Statements. storms will have a material financial impact on the Corporation. 70 Bank of America 2017 Table 21 Consumer Credit Quality Accruing Past Due Outstandings Nonperforming 90 Days or More December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Residential mortgage (1) $ 203,811 $ 191,797 $ 2,476 $ 3,056 $ 3,230 $ 4,793 Home equity 57,744 66,443 2,644 2,918 — — U.S. credit card 96,285 92,278 n/a n/a 900 782 Non-U.S. credit card — 9,214 n/a n/a — 66 Direct/Indirect consumer (2) 93,830 94,089 46 28 40 34 Other consumer (3) 2,678 2,499 — 2 — 4 Consumer loans excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option $ 454,348 $ 456,320 $ 5,166 $ 6,004 $ 4,170 $ 5,679 Loans accounted for under the fair value option (4) 928 1,051 Total consumer loans and leases (5) $ 455,276 $ 457,371 Percentage of outstanding consumer loans and leases (6) n/a n/a 1.14% 1.32% 0.92% 1.24% Percentage of outstanding consumer loans and leases, excluding PCI and fully-insured loan portfolios (6) n/a n/a 1.23 1.45 0.22 0.21 (1) Residential mortgage loans accruing past due 90 days or more are fully-insured loans. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, residential mortgage includes $2.2 billion and $3.0 billion of loans on which interest had been curtailed by the FHA, and therefore were no longer accruing interest, although principal was still insured, and $1.0 billion and $1.8 billion of loans on which interest was still accruing. (2) Outstandings include auto and specialty lending loans of $49.9 billion and $48.9 billion, unsecured consumer lending loans of $469 million and $585 million, U.S. securities-based lending loans of $39.8 billion and $40.1 billion, non-U.S. consumer loans of $3.0 billion for both periods, student loans of $0 and $497 million and other consumer loans of $684 million and $1.1 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016. (3) Outstandings include consumer leases of $2.5 billion and $1.9 billion, consumer overdrafts of $163 million and $157 million and consumer finance loans of $0 and $465 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016. (4) Consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option include residential mortgage loans of $567 million and $710 million and home equity loans of $361 million and $341 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016. For more information on the fair value option, see Note 21 – Fair Value Option to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (5) Includes $9.2 billion of non-U.S. credit card loans, which were included in assets of business held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2016. In 2017, the Corporation sold its non-U.S. consumer credit card business. (6) Balances exclude consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, $26 million and $48 million of loans accounted for under the fair value option were past due 90 days or more and not accruing interest. n/a = not applicable Table 22 presents net charge-offs and related ratios for consumer loans and leases. Table 22 Consumer Net Charge-offs and Related Ratios Net Charge-offs (1) Net Charge-off Ratios (1, 2) (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2017 2016 Residential mortgage $ (100) $ 131 (0.05)% 0.07% Home equity 213 405 0.34 0.57 U.S. credit card 2,513 2,269 2.76 2.58 Non-U.S. credit card 75 175 1.91 1.83 Direct/Indirect consumer 211 134 0.23 0.15 Other consumer 166 205 6.35 8.95 Total $ 3,078 $ 3,319 0.68 0.74 (1) Net charge-offs exclude write-offs in the PCI loan portfolio. For more information, see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio on page 76. (2) Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans and leases excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option. Net charge-offs, as shown in Tables 22 and 23, exclude writeestate loans as core and non-core based on loan and customer offs in the PCI loan portfolio of $131 million and $144 million in characteristics such as origination date, product type, LTV, FICO residential mortgage and $76 million and $196 million in home score and delinquency status consistent with our current equity for 2017 and 2016. Net charge-off ratios including the PCI consumer and mortgage servicing strategy. Generally, loans that write-offs were 0.02 percent and 0.15 percent for residential were originated after January 1, 2010, qualified under governmentmortgage and 0.47 percent and 0.84 percent for home equity in sponsored enterprise underwriting guidelines, or otherwise met 2017 and 2016. For more information on PCI write-offs, see our underwriting guidelines in place in 2015 are characterized as Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Purchased Creditcore loans. All other loans are generally characterized as non-core impaired Loan Portfolio on page 76. loans and represent run-off portfolios. Core loans as reported in Table 23 presents outstandings, nonperforming balances, net Table 23 include loans held in the Consumer Banking and GWIM charge-offs, allowance for loan and lease losses and provision for segments, as well as loans held for ALM activities in All Other. For loan and lease losses for the core and non-core portfolios within more information, see Note 4 – Outstanding Loans and Leases to the consumer real estate portfolio. We categorize consumer real the Consolidated Financial Statements. Bank of America 2017 71 As shown in Table 23, outstanding core consumer real estate loans increased $15.0 billion during 2017 driven by an increase of $20.1 billion in residential mortgage, partially offset by a $5.1 billion decrease in home equity. Table 23 Consumer Real Estate Portfolio (1) Outstandings Nonperforming December 31 Net Charge-offs (2) (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Core portfolio Residential mortgage $ 176,618 $ 156,497 $ 1,087 $ 1,274 $ (45) $ (29) Home equity 44,245 49,373 1,079 969 100 113 Total core portfolio 220,863 205,870 2,166 2,243 55 84 Non-core portfolio Residential mortgage 27,193 35,300 1,389 1,782 (55) 160 Home equity 13,499 17,070 1,565 1,949 113 292 Total non-core portfolio 40,692 52,370 2,954 3,731 58 452 Consumer real estate portfolio Residential mortgage 203,811 191,797 2,476 3,056 (100) 131 Home equity 57,744 66,443 2,644 2,918 213 405 Total consumer real estate portfolio $ 261,555 $ 258,240 $ 5,120 $ 5,974 $ 113 $ 536 Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses Provision for Loan December 31 and Lease Losses 2017 2016 2017 2016 Core portfolio Residential mortgage $ 218 $ 252 $ (79) $ (98) Home equity 367 560 (91) 10 Total core portfolio 585 812 (170) (88) Non-core portfolio Residential mortgage 483 760 (201) (86) Home equity 652 1,178 (339) (84) Total non-core portfolio 1,135 1,938 (540) (170) Consumer real estate portfolio Residential mortgage 701 1,012 (280) (184) Home equity 1,019 1,738 (430) (74) Total consumer real estate portfolio $ 1,720 $ 2,750 $ (710) $ (258) (1) Outstandings and nonperforming loans exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option. Consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option included residential mortgage loans of $567 million and $710 million and home equity loans of $361 million and $341 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016. For more information, see Note 21 – Fair Value Option to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (2) Net charge-offs exclude write-offs in the PCI loan portfolio. For more information, see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio on page 76. We believe that the presentation of information adjusted to At December 31, 2017 and 2016, the residential mortgage exclude the impact of the PCI loan portfolio, the fully-insured loan portfolio included $23.7 billion and $28.7 billion of outstanding portfolio and loans accounted for under the fair value option is fully-insured loans. On this portion of the residential mortgage more representative of the ongoing operations and credit quality portfolio, we are protected against principal loss as a result of of the business. As a result, in the following discussions of the either FHA insurance or long-term standby agreements that provide residential mortgage and home equity portfolios, we provide for the transfer of credit risk to FNMA and FHLMC. At December information that excludes the impact of the PCI loan portfolio, the 31, 2017 and 2016, $17.4 billion and $22.3 billion had FHA fully-insured loan portfolio and loans accounted for under the fair insurance with the remainder protected by long-term standby value option in certain credit quality statistics. We separately agreements. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, $5.2 billion and disclose information on the PCI loan portfolio on page 76. $7.4 billion of the FHA-insured loan population were repurchases of delinquent FHA loans pursuant to our servicing agreements with Residential Mortgage GNMA. The residential mortgage portfolio makes up the largest Table 24 presents certain residential mortgage key credit percentage of our consumer loan portfolio at 45 percent of statistics on both a reported basis excluding loans accounted for consumer loans and leases at December 31, 2017. Approximately under the fair value option, and excluding the PCI loan portfolio, 37 percent of the residential mortgage portfolio is in Consumer the fully-insured loan portfolio and loans accounted for under the Banking and approximately 35 percent is in GWIM. The remaining fair value option. Additionally, in the “Reported Basis” columns in portion is in All Other and is comprised of originated loans, the following table, accruing balances past due and nonperforming purchased loans used in our overall ALM activities, delinquent FHA loans do not include the PCI loan portfolio, in accordance with our loans repurchased pursuant to our servicing agreements with accounting policies, even though the customer may be GNMA as well as loans repurchased related to our representations contractually past due. As such, the following discussion presents and warranties. the residential mortgage portfolio excluding the PCI loan portfolio, Outstanding balances in the residential mortgage portfolio, the fully-insured loan portfolio and loans accounted for under the excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option, fair value option. For more information on the PCI loan portfolio, increased $12.0 billion in 2017 as retention of new originations see page 76. was partially offset by loan sales of $3.9 billion, and run-off. 72 Bank of America 2017 Table 24 Residential Mortgage – Key Credit Statistics Excluding Purchased Credit-impaired and Reported Basis (1) Fully-insured Loans December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2017 2016 Outstandings $ 203,811 $ 191,797 $ 172,069 $ 152,941 Accruing past due 30 days or more 5,987 8,232 1,521 1,835 Accruing past due 90 days or more 3,230 4,793 — — Nonperforming loans 2,476 3,056 2,476 3,056 Percent of portfolio Refreshed LTV greater than 90 but less than or equal to 100 3% 5% 2% 3% Refreshed LTV greater than 100 2 4 1 3 Refreshed FICO below 620 6 9 3 4 2006 and 2007 vintages (2) 10 13 8 12 2017 2016 2017 2016 Net charge-off ratio (3) (0.05)% 0.07% (0.06)% 0.09% (1) Outstandings, accruing past due, nonperforming loans and percentages of portfolio exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option. (2) These vintages of loans accounted for $825 million, or 33 percent, and $931 million, or 31 percent, of nonperforming residential mortgage loans at December 31, 2017 and 2016. (3) Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option. Nonperforming residential mortgage loans decreased $580 percent were originated as interest-only loans. The outstanding million in 2017 as outflows, including sales of $460 million and balance of interest-only residential mortgage loans that have net transfers to held-for-sale of $132 million, outpaced new inflows entered the amortization period was $10.4 billion, or 18 percent, which included the addition of $140 million of nonperforming loans at December 31, 2017. Residential mortgage loans that have as a result of clarifying regulatory guidance related to bankruptcy entered the amortization period generally have experienced a loans. Of the nonperforming residential mortgage loans at higher rate of early stage delinquencies and nonperforming status December 31, 2017, $860 million, or 35 percent, were current on compared to the residential mortgage portfolio as a whole. At contractual payments. Loans accruing past due 30 days or more December 31, 2017, $283 million, or three percent of outstanding decreased $314 million due in part to the timing impact of a interest-only residential mortgages that had entered the consumer real estate servicer conversion that occurred during the amortization period were accruing past due 30 days or more fourth quarter of 2016. compared to $1.5 billion, or one percent for the entire residential Net charge-offs decreased $231 million to $100 million of net mortgage portfolio. In addition, at December 31, 2017, $509 recoveries in 2017 compared to $131 million of net charge-offs million, or five percent of outstanding interest-only residential in 2016. This decrease in net charge-offs was primarily driven by mortgage loans that had entered the amortization period were net recoveries of $105 million related to loan sales in 2017, nonperforming, of which $253 million were contractually current, compared to loan sale-related net charge-offs of $26 million in compared to $2.5 billion, or one percent for the entire residential 2016. Additionally, net charge-offs declined due to favorable mortgage portfolio, of which $860 million were contractually portfolio trends and decreased write-downs on loans greater than current. Loans that have yet to enter the amortization period in 180 days past due driven by improvement in home prices and the our interest-only residential mortgage portfolio are primarily wellU.S. economy. collateralized loans to our wealth management clients and have Loans with a refreshed LTV greater than 100 percent an interest-only period of three to ten years. More than 80 percent represented one percent and three percent of the residential of these loans that have yet to enter the amortization period will mortgage loan portfolio at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Of the not be required to make a fully-amortizing payment until 2020 or loans with a refreshed LTV greater than 100 percent, 98 percent later. were performing at both December 31, 2017 and 2016. Loans Table 25 presents outstandings, nonperforming loans and net with a refreshed LTV greater than 100 percent reflect loans where charge-offs by certain state concentrations for the residential the outstanding carrying value of the loan is greater than the most mortgage portfolio. The Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana recent valuation of the property securing the loan. The majority of Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) within California represented these loans have a refreshed LTV greater than 100 percent 16 percent and 15 percent of outstandings at December 31, 2017 primarily due to home price deterioration since 2006, partially and 2016. In the New York area, the New York-Northern New Jerseyoffset by subsequent appreciation. Long Island MSA made up 13 percent and 12 percent of Of the $172.1 billion in total residential mortgage loans outstandings at December 31, 2017 and 2016. outstanding at December 31, 2017, as shown in Table 25, 33 Bank of America 2017 73 Table 25 Residential Mortgage State Concentrations Outstandings (1) Nonperforming (1) December 31 Net Charge-offs (2) (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 California $ 68,455 $ 58,295 $ 433 $ 554 $ (103) $ (70) New York (3) 17,239 14,476 227 290 (2) 18 Florida (3) 10,880 10,213 280 322 (13) 20 Texas 7,237 6,607 126 132 1 9 New Jersey (3) 6,099 5,307 130 174 — 25 Other U.S./Non-U.S. 62,159 58,043 1,280 1,584 17 129 Residential mortgage loans (4) $ 172,069 $ 152,941 $ 2,476 $ 3,056 $ (100) $ 131 Fully-insured loan portfolio 23,741 28,729 Purchased credit-impaired residential mortgage loan portfolio (5) 8,001 10,127 Total residential mortgage loan portfolio $ 203,811 $ 191,797 (1) Outstandings and nonperforming loans exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option. (2) Net charge-offs excluded $131 million and $144 million of write-offs in the residential mortgage PCI loan portfolio in 2017 and 2016. For more information on PCI write-offs, see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio on page 76. (3) In these states, foreclosure requires a court order following a legal proceeding (judicial states). (4) Amounts exclude the PCI residential mortgage and fully-insured loan portfolios. (5) At December 31, 2017 and 2016, 47 percent and 48 percent of PCI residential mortgage loans were in California. There were no other significant single state concentrations. Home Equity originations and draws on existing lines. Of the total home equity At December 31, 2017, the home equity portfolio made up 13 portfolio at December 31, 2017 and 2016, $18.7 billion and $19.6 percent of the consumer portfolio and is comprised of home equity billion, or 32 percent and 29 percent, were in first-lien positions lines of credit (HELOCs), home equity loans and reverse (34 percent and 31 percent excluding the PCI home equity mortgages. portfolio). At December 31, 2017, outstanding balances in the At December 31, 2017, our HELOC portfolio had an outstanding home equity portfolio that were in a second-lien or more junior-lien balance of $51.2 billion, or 89 percent of the total home equity position and where we also held the first-lien loan totaled $9.4 portfolio compared to $58.6 billion, or 88 percent, at December billion, or 17 percent of our total home equity portfolio excluding 31, 2016. HELOCs generally have an initial draw period of 10 years the PCI loan portfolio. and after the initial draw period ends, the loans generally convert Unused HELOCs totaled $44.2 billion and $47.2 billion at to 15-year amortizing loans. December 31, 2017 and 2016. The decrease was primarily due At December 31, 2017, our home equity loan portfolio had an to accounts reaching the end of their draw period, which outstanding balance of $4.4 billion, or seven percent of the total automatically eliminates open line exposure, and customers home equity portfolio compared to $5.9 billion, or nine percent, choosing to close accounts. Both of these more than offset the at December 31, 2016. Home equity loans are almost all fixedimpact of new production. The HELOC utilization rate was 54 rate loans with amortizing payment terms of 10 to 30 years and percent and 55 percent at December 31, 2017 and 2016. of the $4.4 billion at December 31, 2017, 57 percent have 25to Table 26 presents certain home equity portfolio key credit 30-year terms. At December 31, 2017, our reverse mortgage statistics on both a reported basis excluding loans accounted for portfolio had an outstanding balance, excluding loans accounted under the fair value option, and excluding the PCI loan portfolio for under the fair value option, of $2.1 billion, or four percent of and loans accounted for under the fair value option. Additionally, the total home equity portfolio compared to $1.9 billion, or three in the “Reported Basis” columns in the following table, accruing percent, at December 31, 2016. We no longer originate reverse balances past due 30 days or more and nonperforming loans do mortgages. not include the PCI loan portfolio, in accordance with our At December 31, 2017, approximately 69 percent of the home accounting policies, even though the customer may be equity portfolio was in Consumer Banking, 23 percent was in All contractually past due. As such, the following discussion presents Other and the remainder of the portfolio was primarily in GWIM. the home equity portfolio excluding the PCI loan portfolio and loans Outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio, excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option. For more information on accounted for under the fair value option, decreased $8.7 billion the PCI loan portfolio, see page 76. in 2017 primarily due to paydowns and charge-offs outpacing new 74 Bank of America 2017 Table 26 Home Equity – Key Credit Statistics Excluding Purchased Reported Basis (1) Credit-impaired Loans December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2017 2016 Outstandings $ 57,744 $ 66,443 $ 55,028 $ 62,832 Accruing past due 30 days or more (2) 502 566 502 566 Nonperforming loans (2) 2,644 2,918 2,644 2,918 Percent of portfolio Refreshed CLTV greater than 90 but less than or equal to 100 3% 5% 3% 4% Refreshed CLTV greater than 100 5 8 4 7 Refreshed FICO below 620 6 7 6 6 2006 and 2007 vintages (3) 29 37 27 34 2017 2016 2017 2016 Net charge-off ratio (4) 0.34% 0.57% 0.36% 0.60% (1) Outstandings, accruing past due, nonperforming loans and percentages of the portfolio exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option. (2) Accruing past due 30 days or more included $67 million and $81 million and nonperforming loans included $344 million and $340 million of loans where we serviced the underlying first-lien at December 31, 2017 and 2016. (3) These vintages of loans have higher refreshed combined loan-to-value (CLTV) ratios and accounted for 52 percent and 50 percent of nonperforming home equity loans at December 31, 2017 and 2016, and 91 percent and 54 percent of net charge-offs in 2017 and 2016. (4) Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option. Nonperforming outstanding balances in the home equity Net charge-offs decreased $192 million to $213 million in 2017 portfolio decreased $274 million in 2017 as outflows, including compared to $405 million in 2016 driven by favorable portfolio $66 million of net transfers to held-for-sale and $51 million of trends due in part to improvement in home prices and the U.S. sales, outpaced new inflows, which included the addition of $135 economy, partially offset by $32 million of charge-offs as a result million of nonperforming loans as a result of clarifying regulatory of clarifying regulatory guidance related to bankruptcy loans. guidance related to bankruptcy loans. Of the nonperforming home Outstanding balances with a refreshed CLTV greater than 100 equity portfolio at December 31, 2017, $1.4 billion, or 54 percent, percent comprised four percent and seven percent of the home were current on contractual payments. Nonperforming loans that equity portfolio at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Outstanding are contractually current primarily consist of collateral-dependent balances with a refreshed CLTV greater than 100 percent reflect TDRs, including those that have been discharged in Chapter 7 loans where our loan and available line of credit combined with bankruptcy, junior-lien loans where the underlying first-lien is 90 any outstanding senior liens against the property are equal to or days or more past due, as well as loans that have not yet greater than the most recent valuation of the property securing demonstrated a sustained period of payment performance the loan. Depending on the value of the property, there may be following a TDR. In addition, $693 million, or 26 percent, of collateral in excess of the first-lien that is available to reduce the nonperforming home equity loans were 180 days or more past due severity of loss on the second-lien. Of those outstanding balances and had been written down to the estimated fair value of the with a refreshed CLTV greater than 100 percent, 95 percent of the collateral, less costs to sell. Accruing loans that were 30 days or customers were current on their home equity loan and 91 percent more past due decreased $64 million in 2017. of second-lien loans with a refreshed CLTV greater than 100 In some cases, the junior-lien home equity outstanding balance percent were current on both their second-lien and underlying firstthat we hold is performing, but the underlying first-lien is not. For lien loans at December 31, 2017. outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio on which we Of the $55.0 billion in total home equity portfolio outstandings service the first-lien loan, we are able to track whether the firstat December 31, 2017, as shown in Table 27, 30 percent require lien loan is in default. For loans where the first-lien is serviced by interest-only payments. The outstanding balance of HELOCs that a third party, we utilize credit bureau data to estimate the have reached the end of their draw period and have entered the delinquency status of the first-lien. Given that the credit bureau amortization period was $18.4 billion at December 31, 2017. The database we use does not include a property address for the HELOCs that have entered the amortization period have mortgages, we are unable to identify with certainty whether a experienced a higher percentage of early stage delinquencies and reported delinquent first-lien mortgage pertains to the same nonperforming status when compared to the HELOC portfolio as property for which we hold a junior-lien loan. For certain loans, we a whole. At December 31, 2017, $343 million, or two percent, of utilize a third-party vendor to combine credit bureau and public outstanding HELOCs that had entered the amortization period were record data to better link a junior-lien loan with the underlying firstaccruing past due 30 days or more. In addition, at December 31, lien mortgage. At December 31, 2017, we estimate that $814 2017, $2.1 billion, or 11 percent, of outstanding HELOCs that had million of current and $141 million of 30 to 89 days past due entered the amortization period were nonperforming, of which $1.1 junior-lien loans were behind a delinquent first-lien loan. We service billion were contractually current. Loans in our HELOC portfolio the first-lien loans on $184 million of these combined amounts, generally have an initial draw period of 10 years and 10 percent with the remaining $771 million serviced by third parties. Of the of these loans will enter the amortization period during 2018 and $955 million of current to 89 days past due junior-lien loans, based will be required to make fully-amortizing payments. We on available credit bureau data and our own internal servicing data, communicate to contractually current customers more than a year we estimate that approximately $330 million had first-lien loans that were 90 days or more past due. Bank of America 2017 75 prior to the end of their draw period to inform them of the potential Table 27 presents outstandings, nonperforming balances and change to the payment structure before entering the amortization net charge-offs by certain state concentrations for the home equity period, and provide payment options to customers prior to the end portfolio. In the New York area, the New York-Northern New Jerseyof the draw period. Long Island MSA made up 13 percent of the outstanding home Although we do not actively track how many of our home equity equity portfolio at both December 31, 2017 and 2016. Loans customers pay only the minimum amount due on their home equity within this MSA contributed 27 percent and 17 percent of net loans and lines, we can infer some of this information through a charge-offs in 2017 and 2016 within the home equity portfolio. review of our HELOC portfolio that we service and that is still in The Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana MSA within California its revolving period (i.e., customers may draw on and repay their made up 11 percent of the outstanding home equity portfolio at line of credit, but are generally only required to pay interest on a both December 31, 2017 and 2016. Loans within this MSA monthly basis). During 2017, approximately 19 percent of these contributed net recoveries of $20 million and $2 million within the customers with an outstanding balance did not pay any principal home equity portfolio in 2017 and 2016. on their HELOCs. Table 27 Home Equity State Concentrations Outstandings (1) Nonperforming (1) December 31 Net Charge-offs (2) (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 California $ 15,145 $ 17,563 $ 766 $ 829 $ (37) $ 7 Florida (3) 6,308 7,319 411 442 38 76 New Jersey (3) 4,546 5,102 191 201 44 50 New York (3) 4,195 4,720 252 271 35 45 Massachusetts 2,751 3,078 92 100 9 12 Other U.S./Non-U.S. 22,083 25,050 932 1,075 124 215 Home equity loans (4) $ 55,028 $ 62,832 $ 2,644 $ 2,918 $ 213 $ 405 Purchased credit-impaired home equity portfolio (5) 2,716 3,611 Total home equity loan portfolio $ 57,744 $ 66,443 (1) Outstandings and nonperforming loans exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option. (2) Net charge-offs excluded $76 million and $196 million of write-offs in the home equity PCI loan portfolio in 2017 and 2016. For more information on PCI write-offs, see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio. (3) In these states, foreclosure requires a court order following a legal proceeding (judicial states). (4) Amount excludes the PCI home equity portfolio. (5) At December 31, 2017 and 2016, 28 percent and 29 percent of PCI home equity loans were in California. There were no other significant single state concentrations. Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio Principles and Note 4 – Outstanding Loans and Leases to the Loans acquired with evidence of credit quality deterioration since Consolidated Financial Statements. origination and for which it is probable at purchase that we will be Table 28 presents the unpaid principal balance, carrying value, unable to collect all contractually required payments are accounted related valuation allowance and the net carrying value as a for under the accounting standards for PCI loans. For more percentage of the unpaid principal balance for the PCI loan information, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting portfolio. Table 28 Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio Unpaid Related Carrying Value Percent of Principal Gross Carrying Valuation Net of Valuation Unpaid Principal Balance Value Allowance Allowance Balance (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2017 Residential mortgage (1) $ 8,117 $ 8,001 $ 117 $ 7,884 97.13% Home equity 2,787 2,716 172 2,544 91.28 Total purchased credit-impaired loan portfolio $ 10,904 $ 10,717 $ 289 $ 10,428 95.63 December 31, 2016 Residential mortgage (1) $ 10,330 $ 10,127 $ 169 $ 9,958 96.40% Home equity 3,689 3,611 250 3,361 91.11 Total purchased credit-impaired loan portfolio $ 14,019 $ 13,738 $ 419 $ 13,319 95.01 (1) At December 31, 2017 and 2016, pay option loans had an unpaid principal balance of $1.4 billion and $1.9 billion and a carrying value of $1.4 billion and $1.8 billion. This includes $1.2 billion and $1.6 billion of loans that were credit-impaired upon acquisition and $141 million and $226 million of loans that were 90 days or more past due at December 31, 2017 and 2016. The total unpaid principal balance of pay option loans with accumulated negative amortization was $160 million and $303 million, including $9 million and $16 million of negative amortization at December 31, 2017 and 2016. 76 Bank of America 2017 The total PCI unpaid principal balance decreased $3.1 billion, 37 percent based on the unpaid principal balance at December or 22 percent, in 2017 primarily driven by payoffs, paydowns, write31, 2017. offs and PCI loan sales with a carrying value of $803 million compared to $549 million in 2016. U.S. Credit Card Of the unpaid principal balance of $10.9 billion at December At December 31, 2017, 97 percent of the U.S. credit card portfolio 31, 2017, $9.6 billion, or 88 percent, was current based on the was managed in Consumer Banking with the remainder in GWIM. contractual terms, $752 million, or seven percent, was in early Outstandings in the U.S. credit card portfolio increased $4.0 billion stage delinquency, and $364 million was 180 days or more past to $96.3 billion in 2017 as retail volumes outpaced payments. due, including $302 million of first-lien mortgages and $62 million Net charge-offs increased $244 million to $2.5 billion in 2017 due of home equity loans. to portfolio seasoning and loan growth. U.S. credit card loans 30 The PCI residential mortgage loan and home equity portfolios days or more past due and still accruing interest increased $252 represented 75 percent and 25 percent of the total PCI loan million and loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing portfolio at December 31, 2017. Those loans to borrowers with a interest increased $118 million in 2017, driven by portfolio refreshed FICO score below 620 represented 24 percent and 17 seasoning and loan growth. percent of the PCI residential mortgage loan and home equity Unused lines of credit for U.S. credit card totaled $326.3 billion portfolios at December 31, 2017. Residential mortgage and home and $321.6 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016. The increase equity loans with a refreshed LTV or CLTV greater than 90 percent, was driven by account growth and lines of credit increases. after consideration of purchase accounting adjustments and the Table 29 presents certain state concentrations for the U.S. related valuation allowance, represented 14 percent and 34 credit card portfolio. percent of their respective PCI loan portfolios and 16 percent and Table 29 U.S. Credit Card State Concentrations Accruing Past Due Outstandings 90 Days or More December 31 Net Charge-offs (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 California $ 15,254 $ 14,251 $ 136 $ 115 $ 412 $ 360 Florida 8,359 7,864 94 85 259 245 Texas 7,451 7,037 76 65 194 164 New York 5,977 5,683 91 60 218 161 Washington 4,350 4,128 20 18 56 56 Other U.S. 54,894 53,315 483 439 1,374 1,283 Total U.S. credit card portfolio $ 96,285 $ 92,278 $ 900 $ 782 $ 2,513 $ 2,269 Direct/Indirect and Other Consumer Outstandings in the direct/indirect portfolio remained relatively At December 31, 2017, approximately 54 percent of the direct/ unchanged at $93.8 billion at December 31, 2017. Net chargeindirect portfolio was included in Consumer Banking (consumer offs increased $77 million to $211 million in 2017 due largely to auto and specialty lending – automotive, marine, aircraft, portfolio seasoning and clarifying regulatory guidance related to recreational vehicle loans and consumer personal loans) and 46 bankruptcy and repossession. percent was included in GWIM (principally securities-based lending Table 30 presents certain state concentrations for the direct/ loans). At December 31, 2017, approximately 94 percent of the indirect consumer loan portfolio. $2.7 billion other consumer portfolio was consumer auto leases included in Consumer Banking. Table 30 Direct/Indirect State Concentrations Accruing Past Due Outstandings 90 Days or More December 31 Net Charge-offs (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 California $ 11,165 $ 11,300 $ 3 $ 3 $ 21 $ 13 Florida 10,946 9,418 5 3 42 29 Texas 10,623 9,406 5 5 38 21 New York 6,058 5,253 2 1 6 3 Georgia 3,502 3,255 4 4 15 9 Other U.S./Non-U.S. 51,536 55,457 21 18 89 59 Total direct/indirect loan portfolio $ 93,830 $ 94,089 $ 40 $ 34 $ 211 $ 134 Bank of America 2017 77 Nonperforming Consumer Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Foreclosed properties decreased $127 million in 2017 as Properties Activity liquidations outpaced additions. PCI loans are excluded from Table 31 presents nonperforming consumer loans, leases and nonperforming loans as these loans were written down to fair value foreclosed properties activity during 2017 and 2016. For more at the acquisition date; however, once we acquire the underlying information on nonperforming loans, see Note 1 – Summary of real estate upon foreclosure of the delinquent PCI loan, it is Significant Accounting Principles and Note 4 – Outstanding Loans included in foreclosed properties. Not included in foreclosed and Leases to the Consolidated Financial Statements. During properties at December 31, 2017 was $801 million of real estate 2017, nonperforming consumer loans declined $838 million to that was acquired upon foreclosure of certain delinquent $5.2 billion driven in part by loan sales of $511 million and net government-guaranteed loans (principally FHA-insured loans). We transfers of loans to held-for-sale of $198 million. Additionally, exclude these amounts from our nonperforming loans and nonperforming loans declined as outflows outpaced new inflows, foreclosed properties activity as we expect we will be reimbursed which included the addition of $295 million of nonperforming loans once the property is conveyed to the guarantor for principal and, as a result of clarifying regulatory guidance related to bankruptcy up to certain limits, costs incurred during the foreclosure process loans. and interest accrued during the holding period. At December 31, 2017, $1.9 billion, or 34 percent of We classify junior-lien home equity loans as nonperforming nonperforming consumer real estate loans and foreclosed when the first-lien loan becomes 90 days past due even if the properties had been written down to their estimated property value junior-lien loan is performing. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, less costs to sell, including $1.6 billion of nonperforming loans $330 million and $428 million of such junior-lien home equity 180 days or more past due and $236 million of foreclosed loans were included in nonperforming loans and leases. properties. In addition, at December 31, 2017, $2.3 billion, or 45 Nonperforming loans also include certain loans that have been percent of nonperforming consumer loans were modified and are modified in TDRs where economic concessions have been granted now current after successful trial periods, or are current loans to borrowers experiencing financial difficulties. Nonperforming classified as nonperforming loans in accordance with applicable TDRs, excluding those modified loans in the PCI loan portfolio, are policies. included in Table 31. Table 31 Nonperforming Consumer Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity (1) (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 Nonperforming loans and leases, January 1 $ 6,004 $ 8,165 Additions 3,254 3,492 Reductions: Paydowns and payoffs (1,052) (1,044) Sales (511) (1,604) Returns to performing status (2) (1,438) (1,628) Charge-offs (676) (1,028) Transfers to foreclosed properties (217) (294) Transfers to loans held-for-sale (198) (55) Total net reductions to nonperforming loans and leases (838) (2,161) Total nonperforming loans and leases, December 31 (3) 5,166 6,004 Total foreclosed properties, December 31 (4) 236 363 Nonperforming consumer loans, leases and foreclosed properties, December 31 $ 5,402 $ 6,367 Nonperforming consumer loans and leases as a percentage of outstanding consumer loans and leases (5) 1.14% 1.32% Nonperforming consumer loans, leases and foreclosed properties as a percentage of outstanding consumer loans, leases and foreclosed properties (5) 1.19 1.39 (1) Balances do not include nonperforming LHFS of $2 million and $69 million and nonaccruing TDRs removed from the PCI loan portfolio prior to January 1, 2010 of $26 million and $27 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016 as well as loans accruing past due 90 days or more as presented in Table 21 and Note 4 – Outstanding Loans and Leases to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (2) Consumer loans may be returned to performing status when all principal and interest is current and full repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest is expected, or when the loan otherwise becomes well-secured and is in the process of collection. (3) At December 31, 2017, 31 percent of nonperforming loans were 180 days or more past due. (4) Foreclosed property balances do not include properties insured by certain government-guaranteed loans, principally FHA-insured, of $801 million and $1.2 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016. (5) Outstanding consumer loans and leases exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option. 78 Bank of America 2017 Table 32 presents TDRs for the consumer real estate portfolio. Performing TDR balances are excluded from nonperforming loans and leases in Table 31. Table 32 Consumer Real Estate Troubled Debt Restructurings December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 (Dollars in millions) Nonperforming Performing Total Nonperforming Performing Total Residential mortgage (1, 2) $ 1,535 $ 8,163 $ 9,698 $ 1,992 $ 10,639 $ 12,631 Home equity (3) 1,457 1,399 2,856 1,566 1,211 2,777 Total consumer real estate troubled debt restructurings $ 2,992 $ 9,562 $ 12,554 $ 3,558 $ 11,850 $ 15,408 (1) At December 31, 2017 and 2016, residential mortgage TDRs deemed collateral dependent totaled $2.8 billion and $3.5 billion, and included $1.2 billion and $1.6 billion of loans classified as nonperforming and $1.6 billion and $1.9 billion of loans classified as performing. (2) Residential mortgage performing TDRs included $3.7 billion and $5.3 billion of loans that were fully-insured at December 31, 2017 and 2016. (3) Home equity TDRs deemed collateral dependent totaled $1.6 billion for both periods and included $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion of loans classified as nonperforming, and $388 million and $301 million of loans classified as performing at December 31, 2017 and 2016. In addition to modifying consumer real estate loans, we work delinquencies, nonperforming status and net charge-offs for the with customers who are experiencing financial difficulty by commercial portfolio, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant modifying credit card and other consumer loans. Credit card and Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements. other consumer loan modifications generally involve a reduction in the customer’s interest rate on the account and placing the Management of Commercial Credit Risk customer on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 60 months, all Concentrations of which are considered TDRs (the renegotiated TDR portfolio). Commercial credit risk is evaluated and managed with the goal Modifications of credit card and other consumer loans are that concentrations of credit exposure do not result in undesirable made through renegotiation programs utilizing direct customer levels of risk. We review, measure and manage concentrations of contact, but may also utilize external renegotiation programs. The credit exposure by industry, product, geography, customer renegotiated TDR portfolio is excluded in large part from Table 31 relationship and loan size. We also review, measure and manage as substantially all of the loans remain on accrual status until commercial real estate loans by geographic location and property either charged off or paid in full. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, type. In addition, within our non-U.S. portfolio, we evaluate our renegotiated TDR portfolio was $490 million and $610 million, exposures by region and by country. Tables 37, 40, 45 and 46 of which $426 million and $493 million were current or less than summarize our concentrations. We also utilize syndications of 30 days past due under the modified terms. The decline in the exposure to third parties, loan sales, hedging and other risk renegotiated TDR portfolio was primarily driven by paydowns and mitigation techniques to manage the size and risk profile of the charge-offs as well as lower program enrollments. For more commercial credit portfolio. For more information on our industry information on the renegotiated TDR portfolio, see Note 4 – concentrations, including our utilized exposure to the energy sector Outstanding Loans and Leases to the Consolidated Financial which was three percent of total commercial utilized exposure at Statements. both December 31, 2017 and 2016, see Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Industry Concentrations on page 83 Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management and Table 40. Credit risk management for the commercial portfolio begins with We account for certain large corporate loans and loan an assessment of the credit risk profile of the borrower or commitments, including issued but unfunded letters of credit counterparty based on an analysis of its financial position. As part which are considered utilized for credit risk management purposes, of the overall credit risk assessment, our commercial credit that exceed our single-name credit risk concentration guidelines exposures are assigned a risk rating and are subject to approval under the fair value option. Lending commitments, both funded based on defined credit approval standards. Subsequent to loan and unfunded, are actively managed and monitored, and as origination, risk ratings are monitored on an ongoing basis, and if appropriate, credit risk for these lending relationships may be necessary, adjusted to reflect changes in the financial condition, mitigated through the use of credit derivatives, with our credit view cash flow, risk profile or outlook of a borrower or counterparty. In and market perspectives determining the size and timing of the making credit decisions, we consider risk rating, collateral, country, hedging activity. In addition, we purchase credit protection to cover industry and single-name concentration limits while also balancing the funded portion as well as the unfunded portion of certain other these considerations with the total borrower or counterparty credit exposures. To lessen the cost of obtaining our desired credit relationship. We use a variety of tools to continuously monitor the protection levels, credit exposure may be added within an industry, ability of a borrower or counterparty to perform under its borrower or counterparty group by selling protection. These credit obligations. We use risk rating aggregations to measure and derivatives do not meet the requirements for treatment as evaluate concentrations within portfolios. In addition, risk ratings accounting hedges. They are carried at fair value with changes in are a factor in determining the level of allocated capital and the fair value recorded in other income. allowance for credit losses. In addition, we are a member of various securities and As part of our ongoing risk mitigation initiatives, we attempt to derivative exchanges and clearinghouses, both in the U.S. and work with clients experiencing financial difficulty to modify their other countries. As a member, we may be required to pay a proloans to terms that better align with their current ability to pay. In rata share of the losses incurred by some of these organizations situations where an economic concession has been granted to a as a result of another member default and under other loss borrower experiencing financial difficulty, we identify these loans scenarios. For more information, see Note 12 – Commitments and as TDRs. For more information on our accounting policies regarding Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Bank of America 2017 79 Commercial Credit Portfolio commercial letters of credit, in the aggregate, was 59 percent and During 2017, credit quality among large corporate borrowers was 58 percent at December 31, 2017 and 2016. strong, other than in the higher risk energy sub-sectors, where we Table 33 presents commercial credit exposure by type for saw improvement in 2017. Credit quality of commercial real estate utilized, unfunded and total binding committed credit exposure. borrowers continued to be strong with conservative LTV ratios, Commercial utilized credit exposure includes SBLCs and financial stable market rents in most sectors and vacancy rates remaining guarantees and commercial letters of credit that have been issued low. and for which we are legally bound to advance funds under Total commercial utilized credit exposure increased $25.9 prescribed conditions during a specified time period, and excludes billion during 2017 to $600.8 billion at December 31, 2017 exposure related to trading account assets. Although funds have primarily driven by increases in loans and leases. The utilization not yet been advanced, these exposure types are considered rate for loans and leases, SBLCs and financial guarantees, and utilized for credit risk management purposes. Table 33 Commercial Credit Exposure by Type Commercial Utilized (1) Commercial Unfunded (2, 3, 4) Total Commercial Committed December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Loans and leases (5) $ 487,748 $ 464,260 $ 364,743 $ 356,911 $ 852,491 $ 821,171 Derivative assets (6) 37,762 42,512 — — 37,762 42,512 Standby letters of credit and financial guarantees 34,517 33,135 863 660 35,380 33,795 Debt securities and other investments 28,161 26,244 4,864 5,474 33,025 31,718 Loans held-for-sale 10,257 6,510 9,742 13,019 19,999 19,529 Commercial letters of credit 1,467 1,464 155 112 1,622 1,576 Other 888 767 — 13 888 780 Total $ 600,800 $ 574,892 $ 380,367 $ 376,189 $ 981,167 $ 951,081 (1) Commercial utilized exposure includes loans of $4.8 billion and $6.0 billion and issued letters of credit with a notional amount of $232 million and $284 million accounted for under the fair value option at December 31, 2017 and 2016. (2) Commercial unfunded exposure includes commitments accounted for under the fair value option with a notional amount of $4.6 billion and $6.7 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016. (3) Excludes unused business card lines, which are not legally binding. (4) Includes the notional amount of unfunded legally binding lending commitments net of amounts distributed (e.g., syndicated or participated) to other financial institutions. The distributed amounts were $11.0 billion and $12.1 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016. (5) Includes credit risk exposure associated with assets under operating lease arrangements of $6.3 billion and $5.7 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016. (6) Derivative assets are carried at fair value, reflect the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements and have been reduced by cash collateral of $34.6 billion and $43.3 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Not reflected in utilized and committed exposure is additional non-cash derivative collateral held of $26.2 billion and $25.3 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016, which consists primarily of other marketable securities. Outstanding commercial loans and leases increased $22.9 improvements in the energy sector. The allowance for loan and billion during 2017 to $481.5 billion at December 31, 2017 lease losses for the commercial portfolio decreased $248 million primarily due to growth in commercial and industrial loans. During during 2017 to $5.0 billion at December 31, 2017. For more 2017, nonperforming commercial loans and leases decreased information, see Allowance for Credit Losses on page 88. Table $440 million to $1.3 billion and reservable criticized balances 34 presents our commercial loans and leases portfolio and related decreased $2.8 billion to $13.6 billion both driven by credit quality information at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Table 34 Commercial Credit Quality Accruing Past Due Outstandings Nonperforming 90 Days or More December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Commercial and industrial: U.S. commercial $ 284,836 $ 270,372 $ 814 $ 1,256 $ 144 $ 106 Non-U.S. commercial 97,792 89,397 299 279 3 5 Total commercial and industrial 382,628 359,769 1,113 1,535 147 111 Commercial real estate (1) 58,298 57,355 112 72 4 7 Commercial lease financing 22,116 22,375 24 36 19 19 463,042 439,499 1,249 1,643 170 137 U.S. small business commercial (2) 13,649 12,993 55 60 75 71 Commercial loans excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option 476,691 452,492 1,304 1,703 245 208 Loans accounted for under the fair value option (3) 4,782 6,034 43 84 — — Total commercial loans and leases $ 481,473 $ 458,526 $ 1,347 $ 1,787 $ 245 $ 208 (1) Includes U.S. commercial real estate of $54.8 billion and $54.3 billion and non-U.S. commercial real estate of $3.5 billion and $3.1 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016. (2) Includes card-related products. (3) Commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option include U.S. commercial of $2.6 billion and $2.9 billion and non-U.S. commercial of $2.2 billion and $3.1 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016. For more information on the fair value option, see Note 21 – Fair Value Option to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 80 Bank of America 2017 Table 35 presents net charge-offs and related ratios for our commercial loans and leases for 2017 and 2016. The increase in net charge-offs of $399 million for 2017 was primarily driven by a single-name non-U.S. commercial charge-off of $292 million in the fourth quarter of 2017. Table 35 Commercial Net Charge-offs and Related Ratios Net Charge-offs Net Charge-off Ratios (1) (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2017 2016 Commercial and industrial: U.S. commercial $ 232 $ 184 0.08 % 0.07 % Non-U.S. commercial 440 120 0.48 0.13 Total commercial and industrial 672 304 0.18 0.09 Commercial real estate 9 (31) 0.02 (0.05) Commercial lease financing 5 21 0.02 0.10 686 294 0.15 0.07 U.S. small business commercial 215 208 1.60 1.60 Total commercial $ 901 $ 502 0.20 0.11 (1) Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans and leases excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option. Table 36 presents commercial utilized reservable criticized exposure by loan type. Criticized exposure corresponds to the Special Mention, Substandard and Doubtful asset categories as defined by regulatory authorities. Total commercial utilized reservable criticized exposure decreased $2.8 billion, or 17 percent, during 2017 primarily driven by paydowns and upgrades in the energy portfolio. Approximately 84 percent and 76 percent of commercial utilized reservable criticized exposure was secured at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Table 36 Commercial Utilized Reservable Criticized Exposure Amount (1) Percent (2) Amount (1) Percent (2) December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 Commercial and industrial: U.S. commercial $ 9,891 3.15% $ 10,311 3.46% Non-U.S. commercial 1,766 1.70 3,974 4.17 Total commercial and industrial 11,657 2.79 14,285 3.63 Commercial real estate 566 0.95 399 0.68 Commercial lease financing 581 2.63 810 3.62 12,804 2.57 15,494 3.27 U.S. small business commercial 759 5.56 826 6.36 Total commercial utilized reservable criticized exposure $ 13,563 2.65 $ 16,320 3.35 (1) Total commercial utilized reservable criticized exposure includes loans and leases of $12.5 billion and $14.9 billion and commercial letters of credit of $1.1 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016. (2) Percentages are calculated as commercial utilized reservable criticized exposure divided by total commercial utilized reservable exposure for each exposure category. Commercial and Industrial and leases decreased $442 million, or 35 percent, in 2017 driven Commercial and industrial loans include U.S. commercial and nonby improvements in the energy sector. Net charge-offs increased U.S. commercial portfolios. $48 million for 2017 compared to 2016. U.S. Commercial Non-U.S. Commercial At December 31, 2017, 70 percent of the U.S. commercial loan At December 31, 2017, 79 percent of the non-U.S. commercial portfolio, excluding small business, was managed in Global loan portfolio was managed in Global Banking and 21 percent in Banking, 17 percent in Global Markets, 11 percent in GWIM Global Markets. Outstanding loans, excluding loans accounted for (generally business-purpose loans for high net worth clients) and under the fair value option, increased $8.4 billion in 2017. the remainder primarily in Consumer Banking. U.S. commercial Reservable criticized balances decreased $2.2 billion, or 56 loans, excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option, percent, due primarily to paydowns and upgrades in the energy increased $14.5 billion, or five percent, during 2017 to $284.8 portfolio. Net charge-offs increased $320 million in 2017 to $440 billion at December 31, 2017 due to growth across most of the million due to a single-name non-U.S. commercial charge-off of commercial businesses. Reservable criticized balances $292 million in the fourth quarter of 2017. For more information decreased $420 million, or four percent, and nonperforming loans on the non-U.S. commercial portfolio, see Non-U.S. Portfolio on page 86. Bank of America 2017 81 Commercial Real Estate We use a number of proactive risk mitigation initiatives to reduce Commercial real estate primarily includes commercial loans and adversely rated exposure in the commercial real estate portfolio, leases secured by non-owner-occupied real estate and is including transfers of deteriorating exposures to management by dependent on the sale or lease of the real estate as the primary independent special asset officers and the pursuit of loan source of repayment. The portfolio remains diversified across restructurings or asset sales to achieve the best results for our property types and geographic regions. California represented the customers and the Corporation. largest state concentration at 23 percent of the commercial real Nonperforming commercial real estate loans and foreclosed estate loans and leases portfolio at both December 31, 2017 and properties increased $78 million, or 91 percent, during 2017 to 2016. The commercial real estate portfolio is predominantly $164 million at December 31, 2017 and reservable criticized managed in Global Banking and consists of loans made primarily balances increased $167 million, or 42 percent, to $566 million to public and private developers, and commercial real estate firms. primarily due to loan downgrades. Net charge-offs were $9 million Outstanding loans increased $943 million, or two percent, during for 2017 compared to net recoveries of $31 million in 2016. 2017 to $58.3 billion at December 31, 2017 due to new Table 37 presents outstanding commercial real estate loans originations outpacing paydowns. by geographic region, based on the geographic location of the During 2017, we continued to see low default rates and solid collateral, and by property type. credit quality in both the residential and non-residential portfolios. Table 37 Outstanding Commercial Real Estate Loans December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 By Geographic Region California $ 13,607 $ 13,450 Northeast 10,072 10,329 Southwest 6,970 7,567 Southeast 5,487 5,630 Midwest 3,769 4,380 Illinois 3,263 2,408 Florida 3,170 3,213 Midsouth 2,962 2,346 Northwest 2,657 2,430 Non-U.S. 3,538 3,103 Other (1) 2,803 2,499 Total outstanding commercial real estate loans $ 58,298 $ 57,355 By Property Type Non-residential Office $ 16,718 $ 16,643 Shopping centers / Retail 8,825 8,794 Multi-family rental 8,280 8,817 Hotels / Motels 6,344 5,550 Industrial / Warehouse 6,070 5,357 Multi-use 2,771 2,822 Unsecured 2,187 1,730 Land and land development 160 357 Other 5,485 5,595 Total non-residential 56,840 55,665 Residential 1,458 1,690 Total outstanding commercial real estate loans $ 58,298 $ 57,355 (1) Includes unsecured loans to real estate investment trusts and national home builders whose portfolios of properties span multiple geographic regions and properties in the states of Colorado, Utah, Hawaii, Wyoming and Montana. U.S. Small Business Commercial The U.S. small business commercial loan portfolio is comprised of small business card loans and small business loans managed in Consumer Banking. Credit card-related products were 50 percent and 48 percent of the U.S. small business commercial portfolio at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Net charge-offs of $215 million during 2017 were relatively flat compared to $208 million during 2016. Of the U.S. small business commercial net charge-offs, 90 percent and 86 percent were credit card-related products in 2017 and 2016. 82 Bank of America 2017 Nonperforming Commercial Loans, Leases and Foreclosed 77 percent of commercial nonperforming loans, leases and Properties Activity foreclosed properties were secured and approximately 59 percent Table 38 presents the nonperforming commercial loans, leases were contractually current. Commercial nonperforming loans were and foreclosed properties activity during 2017 and 2016. carried at approximately 87 percent of their unpaid principal Nonperforming loans do not include loans accounted for under the balance before consideration of the allowance for loan and lease fair value option. During 2017, nonperforming commercial loans losses as the carrying value of these loans has been reduced to and leases decreased $399 million to $1.3 billion. Approximately the estimated property value less costs to sell. Table 38 Nonperforming Commercial Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity (1, 2) (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 Nonperforming loans and leases, January 1 $ 1,703 $ 1,212 Additions 1,616 2,347 Reductions: Paydowns (930) (824) Sales (136) (318) Returns to performing status (3) (280) (267) Charge-offs (455) (434) Transfers to foreclosed properties (40) (4) Transfers to loans held-for-sale (174) (9) Total net additions/(reductions) to nonperforming loans and leases (399) 491 Total nonperforming loans and leases, December 31 1,304 1,703 Total foreclosed properties, December 31 52 14 Nonperforming commercial loans, leases and foreclosed properties, December 31 $ 1,356 $ 1,717 Nonperforming commercial loans and leases as a percentage of outstanding commercial loans and leases (4) 0.27% 0.38% Nonperforming commercial loans, leases and foreclosed properties as a percentage of outstanding commercial loans, leases and foreclosed properties (4) 0.28 0.38 (1) Balances do not include nonperforming LHFS of $339 million and $195 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016. (2) Includes U.S. small business commercial activity. Small business card loans are excluded as they are not classified as nonperforming. (3) Commercial loans and leases may be returned to performing status when all principal and interest is current and full repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest is expected, or when the loan otherwise becomes well-secured and is in the process of collection. TDRs are generally classified as performing after a sustained period of demonstrated payment performance. (4) Outstanding commercial loans exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option. Table 39 presents our commercial TDRs by product type and performing status. U.S. small business commercial TDRs are comprised of renegotiated small business card loans and small business loans. The renegotiated small business card loans are not classified as nonperforming as they are charged off no later than the end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days past due. For more information on TDRs, see Note 4 – Outstanding Loans and Leases to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Table 39 Commercial Troubled Debt Restructurings December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 (Dollars in millions) Nonperforming Performing Total Nonperforming Performing Total Commercial and industrial: U.S. commercial $ 370 $ 866 $ 1,236 $ 720 $ 1,140 $ 1,860 Non-U.S. commercial 11 219 230 25 283 308 Total commercial and industrial 381 1,085 1,466 745 1,423 2,168 Commercial real estate 38 9 47 45 95 140 Commercial lease financing 5 13 18 2 2 4 424 1,107 1,531 792 1,520 2,312 U.S. small business commercial 4 15 19 2 13 15 Total commercial troubled debt restructurings $ 428 $ 1,122 $ 1,550 $ 794 $ 1,533 $ 2,327 Industry Concentrations Services, Telecommunications Services and the Technology Table 40 presents commercial committed and utilized credit Hardware and Equipment sectors. exposure by industry and the total net credit default protection Industry limits are used internally to manage industry purchased to cover the funded and unfunded portions of certain concentrations and are based on committed exposure that is credit exposures. Our commercial credit exposure is diversified allocated on an industry-by-industry basis. A risk management across a broad range of industries. Total commercial committed framework is in place to set and approve industry limits as well exposure increased $30.1 billion, or three percent, in 2017 to as to provide ongoing monitoring. The MRC oversees industry limit $981.2 billion at December 31, 2017. The increase in commercial governance. committed exposure was concentrated in the Media, Food & Asset Managers and Funds, our largest industry concentration Staples Retailing, Capital Goods, Food, Beverage and Tobacco and with committed exposure of $91.1 billion, increased $5.5 billion, the Asset Managers and Funds sectors. Increases were partially or six percent, in 2017. The increase primarily reflected an increase offset by reduced exposure to the Healthcare Equipment and in exposure to several counterparties. Bank of America 2017 83 Real estate, our second largest industry concentration with occurred primarily as a result of increases in large conglomerates committed exposure of $83.8 billion, increased $115 million, or and machinery manufacturers. less than one percent, in 2017. For more information on the Our energy-related committed exposure decreased $2.5 billion, commercial real estate and related portfolios, see Commercial or six percent, in 2017 to $36.8 billion at December 31, 2017. Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Commercial Real Estate on Energy sector net charge-offs were $156 million in 2017 compared page 82. to $241 million in 2016. Energy sector reservable criticized Capital Goods, our third largest industry concentration with exposure decreased $3.9 billion in 2017 to $1.6 billion at committed exposure of $70.4 billion, increased $6.2 billion, or December 31, 2017, due to paydowns and upgrades in the energy nearly 10 percent, in 2017. The increase in committed exposure portfolio. The energy allowance for credit losses decreased $365 million to $560 million at December 31, 2017. Table 40 Commercial Credit Exposure by Industry (1) Commercial Total Commercial Utilized Committed (2) December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2017 2016 Asset managers and funds $ 59,190 $ 57,659 $ 91,092 $ 85,561 Real estate (3) 61,940 61,203 83,773 83,658 Capital goods 36,705 34,278 70,417 64,202 Government and public education 48,684 45,694 58,067 54,626 Healthcare equipment and services 37,780 37,656 57,256 64,663 Finance companies 34,050 35,452 53,107 52,953 Retailing 26,117 25,577 48,796 49,082 Materials 24,001 22,578 47,386 44,357 Consumer services 27,191 27,413 43,605 42,523 Food, beverage and tobacco 23,252 19,669 42,815 37,145 Energy 16,345 19,686 36,765 39,231 Commercial services and supplies 22,100 21,241 35,496 35,360 Media 19,155 13,419 33,955 27,116 Global commercial banks 29,491 27,267 31,764 30,712 Transportation 21,704 19,805 29,946 27,483 Utilities 11,342 11,349 27,935 27,140 Individuals and trusts 18,549 16,364 25,097 21,764 Technology hardware and equipment 10,728 9,625 22,071 25,318 Vehicle dealers 16,896 16,053 20,361 19,425 Pharmaceuticals and biotechnology 5,653 5,539 18,623 18,910 Software and services 8,562 7,991 18,202 19,790 Consumer durables and apparel 8,859 8,112 17,296 15,794 Food and staples retailing 4,955 4,795 15,589 8,869 Automobiles and components 5,988 5,459 13,318 12,969 Telecommunication services 6,389 6,317 13,108 16,925 Insurance 6,411 7,406 12,990 13,936 Religious and social organizations 4,454 4,423 6,318 6,252 Financial markets infrastructure (clearinghouses) 688 656 2,403 3,107 Other 3,621 2,206 3,616 2,210 Total commercial credit exposure by industry $ 600,800 $ 574,892 $ 981,167 $ 951,081 Net credit default protection purchased on total commitments (4) $ (2,129) $ (3,477) (1) Includes U.S. small business commercial exposure. (2) Includes the notional amount of unfunded legally binding lending commitments net of amounts distributed (e.g., syndicated or participated) to other financial institutions. The distributed amounts were $11.0 billion and $12.1 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016. (3) Industries are viewed from a variety of perspectives to best isolate the perceived risks. For purposes of this table, the real estate industry is defined based on the borrowers’ or counterparties’ primary business activity using operating cash flows and primary source of repayment as key factors. (4) Represents net notional credit protection purchased. For more information, see Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Risk Mitigation. Risk Mitigation value option, as well as certain other credit exposures, was $2.1 We purchase credit protection to cover the funded portion as well billion and $3.5 billion. We recorded net losses of $66 million in as the unfunded portion of certain credit exposures. To lower the 2017 compared to net losses of $438 million in 2016 on these cost of obtaining our desired credit protection levels, we may add positions. The gains and losses on these instruments were offset credit exposure within an industry, borrower or counterparty group by gains and losses on the related exposures. The Value-at-Risk by selling protection. (VaR) results for these exposures are included in the fair value At December 31, 2017 and 2016, net notional credit default option portfolio information in Table 49. For more information, see protection purchased in our credit derivatives portfolio to hedge Trading Risk Management on page 93. our funded and unfunded exposures for which we elected the fair 84 Bank of America 2017 Tables 41 and 42 present the maturity profiles and the credit In addition to our net notional credit default protection exposure debt ratings of the net credit default protection portfolio purchased to cover the funded and unfunded portion of certain at December 31, 2017 and 2016. credit exposures, credit derivatives are used for market-making activities for clients and establishing positions intended to profit from directional or relative value changes. We execute the majority Table 41 Net Credit Default Protection by Maturity of our credit derivative trades in the OTC market with large, December 31 multinational financial institutions, including broker-dealers and, 2017 2016 to a lesser degree, with a variety of other investors. Because these Less than or equal to one year 42% 56% transactions are executed in the OTC market, we are subject to Greater than one year and less than or equal settlement risk. We are also subject to credit risk in the event that to five years 58 41 these counterparties fail to perform under the terms of these Greater than five years — 3 contracts. In most cases, credit derivative transactions are Total net credit default protection 100% 100% executed on a daily margin basis. Therefore, events such as a credit downgrade, depending on the ultimate rating level, or a breach of credit covenants would typically require an increase in Table 42 Net Credit Default Protection by Credit the amount of collateral required by the counterparty, where Exposure Debt Rating applicable, and/or allow us to take additional protective measures such as early termination of all trades. Table 43 presents the total contract/notional amount of credit Net Percent of Net Percent of Notional (1) Total Notional (1) Total derivatives outstanding and includes both purchased and written December 31 credit derivatives. The credit risk amounts are measured as net (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 asset exposure by counterparty, taking into consideration all Ratings (2, 3) contracts with the counterparty. For more information on our written A $ (280) 13.2% $ (135) 3.9% credit derivatives, see Note 2 – Derivatives to the Consolidated BBB (459) 21.6 (1,884) 54.2 Financial Statements. BB (893) 41.9 (871) 25.1 The credit risk amounts discussed above and presented in B (403) 18.9 (477) 13.7 Table 43 take into consideration the effects of legally enforceable CCC and below (84) 3.9 (81) 2.3 master netting agreements while amounts disclosed in Note 2 – NR (4) (10) 0.5 (29) 0.8 Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements are shown Total net credit $ (2,129) 100.0% $ (3,477) 100.0% on a gross basis. Credit risk reflects the potential benefit from default (1) Represents net credit default protection purchased. offsetting exposure to non-credit derivative products with the same (2) Ratings are refreshed on a quarterly basis. counterparties that may be netted upon the occurrence of certain (3) Ratings of BBBor higher are considered to meet the definition of investment grade. (4) NR is comprised of index positions held and any names that have not been rated. events, thereby reducing our overall exposure. Table 43 Credit Derivatives Contract/ Contract/ Notional Credit Risk Notional Credit Risk December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 Purchased credit derivatives: Credit default swaps $ 470,907 $ 2,434 $ 603,979 $ 2,732 Total return swaps/options 54,135 277 21,165 433 Total purchased credit derivatives $ 525,042 $ 2,711 $ 625,144 $ 3,165 Written credit derivatives: Credit default swaps $ 448,201 n/a $ 614,355 n/a Total return swaps/options 55,223 n/a 25,354 n/a Total written credit derivatives $ 503,424 n/a $ 639,709 n/a n/a = not applicable Bank of America 2017 85 Counterparty Credit Risk Valuation Adjustments related to the collateral received on secured financing transactions We record counterparty credit risk valuation adjustments on or related to client clearing activities). These indirect exposures certain derivative assets, including our credit default protection are managed in the normal course of business through credit, purchased, in order to properly reflect the credit risk of the market and operational risk governance, rather than through counterparty, as presented in Table 44. We calculate CVA based country risk governance. on a modeled expected exposure that incorporates current market Table 45 presents our 20 largest non-U.S. country exposures risk factors including changes in market spreads and non-credit as of December 31, 2017. These exposures accounted for 86 related market factors that affect the value of a derivative. The percent and 88 percent of our total non-U.S. exposure at December exposure also takes into consideration credit mitigants such as 31, 2017 and 2016. Net country exposure for these 20 countries legally enforceable master netting agreements and collateral. For decreased $6.3 billion in 2017 primarily driven by reductions in more information, see Note 2 – Derivatives to the Consolidated the U.K., Japan, Switzerland and Brazil, partially offset by increases Financial Statements. in China and Belgium. On a product basis, funded commitments We enter into risk management activities to offset market decreased in the U.K., Japan and Brazil, partially offset by driven exposures. We often hedge the counterparty spread risk in increases in China, Belgium and France. The decrease in the U.K. CVA with credit default swaps (CDS). We hedge other market risks reflects the sale of the non-U.S. consumer credit card business in CVA primarily with currency and interest rate swaps. In certain in 2017. Unfunded commitments increased in the U.K., Germany instances, the net-of-hedge amounts in the following table move and Belgium, which was partly offset by a decrease in Switzerland. in the same direction as the gross amount or may move in the Securities held decreased, driven by reduced holdings in France, opposite direction. This movement is a consequence of the the U.K. and Germany, while counterparty exposure decreased in complex interaction of the risks being hedged, resulting in Japan, Germany and the U.K. limitations in the ability to perfectly hedge all of the market Non-U.S. exposure is presented on an internal risk exposures at all times. management basis and includes sovereign and non-sovereign credit exposure, securities and other investments issued by or domiciled in countries other than the U.S. Table 44 Credit Valuation Gains and Losses Funded loans and loan equivalents include loans, leases, and (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 other extensions of credit and funds, including letters of credit and Gains (Losses) Gross Hedge Net Gross Hedge Net due from placements. Unfunded commitments are the undrawn Credit valuation $ 330 $ (232) $ 98 $ 374 $ (160) $ 214 portion of legally binding commitments related to loans and loan equivalents. Net counterparty exposure includes the fair value of Non-U.S. Portfolio derivatives, including the counterparty risk associated with CDS, Our non-U.S. credit and trading portfolios are subject to country and secured financing transactions. Securities and other risk. We define country risk as the risk of loss from unfavorable investments are carried at fair value and long securities exposures economic and political conditions, currency fluctuations, social are netted against short exposures with the same underlying instability and changes in government policies. A risk management issuer to, but not below, zero. Net country exposure represents framework is in place to measure, monitor and manage non-U.S. country exposure less hedges and credit default protection risk and exposures. In addition to the direct risk of doing business purchased, net of credit default protection sold. in a country, we also are exposed to indirect country risks (e.g., 86 Bank of America 2017 Table 45 Top 20 Non-U.S. Countries Exposure Country Net Country Increase Funded Loans Unfunded Net Securities/ Exposure at Hedges and Exposure at (Decrease) from and Loan Loan Counterparty Other December 31 Credit Default December 31 December 31 (Dollars in millions) Equivalents Commitments Exposure Investments 2017 Protection 2017 2016 United Kingdom $ 20,089 $ 14,906 $ 5,278 $ 1,962 $ 42,235 $ (4,640) $ 37,595 $ (10,138) Germany 12,572 9,856 1,061 1,102 24,591 (3,088) 21,503 (875) Canada 7,037 7,645 2,016 2,579 19,277 (554) 18,723 (51) China 13,634 728 746 1,058 16,166 (241) 15,925 5,040 Brazil 7,688 501 342 2,726 11,257 (541) 10,716 (2,950) Australia 5,596 2,840 575 2,022 11,033 (444) 10,589 1,666 France 4,976 5,591 2,191 2,811 15,569 (5,026) 10,543 (151) India 7,229 316 375 3,328 11,248 (751) 10,497 1,269 Japan 7,399 631 923 1,669 10,622 (1,532) 9,090 (5,921) Hong Kong 6,925 187 585 1,056 8,753 (75) 8,678 1,199 Netherlands 5,357 3,212 650 930 10,149 (1,682) 8,467 1,069 South Korea 4,934 544 635 2,208 8,321 (420) 7,901 1,795 Singapore 3,571 312 504 1,953 6,340 (77) 6,263 845 Switzerland 3,792 2,810 274 184 7,060 (1,263) 5,797 (3,849) Mexico 2,883 2,446 226 385 5,940 (453) 5,487 1,003 Italy 2,791 1,490 512 600 5,393 (1,147) 4,246 159 Belgium 2,440 1,184 82 511 4,217 (252) 3,965 2,039 United Arab Emirates 2,843 351 247 43 3,484 (97) 3,387 644 Spain 2,041 820 260 1,232 4,353 (1,245) 3,108 562 Turkey 2,761 83 66 82 2,992 (3) 2,989 299 Total top 20 non-U.S. countries exposure $ 126,558 $ 56,453 $ 17,548 $ 28,441 $ 229,000 $ (23,531) $ 205,469 $ (6,346) A number of economic conditions and geopolitical events have in multinational corporations and sovereign clients. For more given rise to risk aversion in certain emerging markets. Our two information, see Executive Summary – 2017 Economic and largest emerging market country exposures at December 31, 2017 Business Environment on page 36. were China and Brazil. At December 31, 2017, net exposure to Table 46 presents countries where total cross-border exposure China was $15.9 billion, concentrated in large state-owned exceeded one percent of our total assets. At December 31, 2017, companies, subsidiaries of multinational corporations and the U.K. and France were the only countries where total crosscommercial banks. At December 31, 2017, net exposure to Brazil border exposure exceeded one percent of our total assets. At was $10.7 billion, concentrated in sovereign securities, oil and December 31, 2017, Germany had total cross-border exposure of gas companies and commercial banks. $21.6 billion representing 0.95 percent of our total assets. No The outlook for policy direction and therefore economic other countries had total cross-border exposure that exceeded performance in the EU remains uncertain as a consequence of 0.75 percent of our total assets at December 31, 2017. reduced political cohesion among EU countries. Additionally, we Cross-border exposure includes the components of Country believe that the uncertainty in the U.K.’s ability to negotiate a Risk Exposure as detailed in Table 45 as well as the notional favorable exit from the EU will further weigh on economic amount of cash loaned under secured financing agreements. Local performance. Our largest EU country exposure at December 31, exposure, defined as exposure booked in local offices of a 2017 was the U.K. with net exposure of $37.6 billion, concentrated respective country with clients in the same country, is excluded. Table 46 Total Cross-border Exposure Exceeding One Percent of Total Assets Exposure as a Cross-border Percent of (Dollars in millions) December 31 Public Sector Banks Private Sector Exposure Total Assets United Kingdom 2017 $ 923 $ 2,984 $ 47,205 $ 51,112 2.24% 2016 2,975 4,557 42,105 49,637 2.27 2015 3,264 5,104 38,576 46,944 2.19 France 2017 2,964 1,521 27,903 32,388 1.42 2016 4,956 1,205 23,193 29,354 1.34 2015 3,343 1,766 17,099 22,208 1.04 Bank of America 2017 87 Provision for Credit Losses including, but not limited to, historical loss experience, estimated The provision for credit losses decreased $201 million to $3.4 defaults or foreclosures based on portfolio trends, delinquencies, billion in 2017 compared to 2016. The provision for credit losses economic trends and credit scores. Our consumer real estate loss was $583 million lower than net charge-offs for 2017, resulting in forecast model estimates the portion of loans that will default a reduction in the allowance for credit losses. This compared to based on individual loan attributes, the most significant of which a reduction of $224 million in the allowance in 2016. are refreshed LTV or CLTV, and borrower credit score as well as The provision for credit losses for the consumer portfolio vintage and geography, all of which are further broken down into increased $159 million to $2.7 billion in 2017 compared to 2016. current delinquency status. Additionally, we incorporate the The increase was primarily driven by a provision increase of $672 delinquency status of underlying first-lien loans on our junior-lien million in the U.S. credit card portfolio due to portfolio seasoning home equity portfolio in our allowance process. Incorporating and loan growth, largely offset by the consumer real estate portfolio refreshed LTV and CLTV into our probability of default allows us to due to continued portfolio improvement and increased home factor the impact of changes in home prices into our allowance prices. Included in the provision is an expense of $76 million for loan and lease losses. These loss forecast models are updated related to the PCI loan portfolio for 2017 compared to a benefit on a quarterly basis to incorporate information reflecting the of $45 million in 2016. current economic environment. As of December 31, 2017, the loss The provision for credit losses for the commercial portfolio, forecast process resulted in reductions in the allowance related including unfunded lending commitments, decreased $360 million to the residential mortgage and home equity portfolios compared to $669 million in 2017 compared to 2016 driven by reductions to December 31, 2016. in energy exposures, partially offset by a single-name non-U.S. The allowance for commercial loan and lease losses is commercial charge-off. established by product type after analyzing historical loss experience, internal risk rating, current economic conditions, Allowance for Credit Losses industry performance trends, geographic and obligor concentrations within each portfolio and any other pertinent Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses information. The statistical models for commercial loans are The allowance for loan and lease losses is comprised of two generally updated annually and utilize our historical database of components. The first component covers nonperforming actual defaults and other data, including external default data. The commercial loans and TDRs. The second component covers loans loan risk ratings and composition of the commercial portfolios and leases on which there are incurred losses that are not yet used to calculate the allowance are updated quarterly to individually identifiable, as well as incurred losses that may not incorporate the most recent data reflecting the current economic be represented in the loss forecast models. We evaluate the environment. For risk-rated commercial loans, we estimate the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses based on the probability of default and the loss given default (LGD) based on total of these two components, each of which is described in more our historical experience of defaults and credit losses. Factors detail below. The allowance for loan and lease losses excludes considered when assessing the internal risk rating include the LHFS and loans accounted for under the fair value option as the value of the underlying collateral, if applicable, the industry in which fair value reflects a credit risk component. the obligor operates, the obligor’s liquidity and other financial The first component of the allowance for loan and lease losses indicators, and other quantitative and qualitative factors relevant covers both nonperforming commercial loans and all TDRs within to the obligor’s credit risk. As of December 31, 2017, the allowance the consumer and commercial portfolios. These loans are subject decreased for the U.S. commercial and non-U.S. commercial to impairment measurement based on the present value of portfolios compared to December 31, 2016. projected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s original Also included within the second component of the allowance effective interest rate, or in certain circumstances, impairment for loan and lease losses are reserves to cover losses that are may also be based upon the collateral value or the loan’s incurred but, in our assessment, may not be adequately observable market price if available. Impairment measurement for represented in the historical loss data used in the loss forecast the renegotiated consumer credit card, small business credit card models. For example, factors that we consider include, among and unsecured consumer TDR portfolios is based on the present others, changes in lending policies and procedures, changes in value of projected cash flows discounted using the average economic and business conditions, changes in the nature and size portfolio contractual interest rate, excluding promotionally priced of the portfolio, changes in portfolio concentrations, changes in loans, in effect prior to restructuring. For purposes of computing the volume and severity of past due loans and nonaccrual loans, this specific loss component of the allowance, larger impaired the effect of external factors such as competition, and legal and loans are evaluated individually and smaller impaired loans are regulatory requirements. We also consider factors that are evaluated as a pool using historical experience for the respective applicable to unique portfolio segments. For example, we consider product types and risk ratings of the loans. the risk of uncertainty in our loss forecasting models related to The second component of the allowance for loan and lease junior-lien home equity loans that are current, but have first-lien losses covers the remaining consumer and commercial loans and loans that we do not service that are 30 days or more past due. leases that have incurred losses that are not yet individually In addition, we consider the increased risk of default associated identifiable. The allowance for consumer and certain with our interest-only loans that have yet to enter the amortization homogeneous commercial loan and lease products is based on period. Further, we consider the inherent uncertainty in aggregated portfolio evaluations, generally by product type. Loss mathematical models that are built upon historical data. forecast models are utilized that consider a variety of factors 88 Bank of America 2017 During 2017, the factors that impacted the allowance for loan billion at December 31, 2017 from $1.7 billion (to 0.27 percent and lease losses included improvements in the credit quality of from 0.38 percent of outstanding commercial loans excluding the consumer real estate portfolios driven by continuing loans accounted for under the fair value option) at December 31, improvements in the U.S. economy and labor markets, proactive 2016 with the decrease primarily in the energy and metal and credit risk management initiatives and the impact of high credit mining sectors. See Tables 34, 35 and 36 for more details on key quality originations. Evidencing the improvements in the U.S. commercial credit statistics. economy and labor markets are downward unemployment trends The allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of and increases in home prices. In addition to these improvements, total loans and leases outstanding was 1.12 percent at December in the consumer portfolio, nonperforming consumer loans 31, 2017 compared to 1.26 percent at December 31, 2016. The decreased $838 million in 2017 as returns to performing status, decrease in the ratio was primarily due to improved credit quality charge-offs, paydowns and loan sales continued to outpace new in the consumer real estate portfolio driven by improved economic nonaccrual loans. During 2017, the allowance for loan and lease conditions. The December 31, 2017 and 2016 ratios above losses in the commercial portfolio reflected decreased energy include the PCI loan portfolio. Excluding the PCI loan portfolio, the reserves primarily driven by reductions in energy exposures allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans including utilized reservable criticized exposures. and leases outstanding was 1.10 percent and 1.24 percent at We monitor differences between estimated and actual incurred December 31, 2017 and 2016. loan and lease losses. This monitoring process includes periodic assessments by senior management of loan and lease portfolios Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments and the models used to estimate incurred losses in those In addition to the allowance for loan and lease losses, we also portfolios. estimate probable losses related to unfunded lending The allowance for loan and lease losses for the consumer commitments such as letters of credit, financial guarantees, portfolio, as presented in Table 48, was $5.4 billion at December unfunded bankers’ acceptances and binding loan commitments, 31, 2017, a decrease of $839 million from December 31, 2016. excluding commitments accounted for under the fair value option. The decrease was primarily in the consumer real estate portfolio Unfunded lending commitments are subject to the same and the non-U.S. card portfolio which was sold in 2017, partially assessment as funded loans, including estimates of probability offset by an increase in the U.S. credit card portfolio. The reduction of default and LGD. Due to the nature of unfunded commitments, in the consumer real estate portfolio was due to improved home the estimate of probable losses must also consider utilization. To prices, lower nonperforming loans and a decrease in loan balances estimate the portion of these undrawn commitments that is likely in our non-core portfolio. The increase in the U.S. credit card to be drawn by a borrower at the time of estimated default, analyses portfolio was driven by portfolio seasoning and loan growth. of our historical experience are applied to the unfunded The allowance for loan and lease losses for the commercial commitments to estimate the funded exposure at default (EAD). portfolio, as presented in Table 48, was $5.0 billion at December The expected loss for unfunded lending commitments is the 31, 2017, a decrease of $248 million from December 31, 2016 product of the probability of default, the LGD and the EAD, adjusted driven by decreased energy reserves due to reductions in the for any qualitative factors including economic uncertainty and higher risk energy sub-sectors. Commercial utilized reservable inherent imprecision in models. criticized exposure decreased to $13.6 billion at December 31, The reserve for unfunded lending commitments was $777 2017 from $16.3 billion (to 2.65 percent from 3.35 percent of million at December 31, 2017 compared to $762 million at total commercial utilized reservable exposure) at December 31, December 31, 2016. 2016, largely due to paydowns and net upgrades in the energy portfolio. Nonperforming commercial loans decreased to $1.3 Bank of America 2017 89 Table 47 presents a rollforward of the allowance for credit losses, which includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments, for 2017 and 2016. Table 47 Allowance for Credit Losses (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 Allowance for loan and lease losses, January 1 $ 11,237 $ 12,234 Loans and leases charged off Residential mortgage (188) (403) Home equity (582) (752) U.S. credit card (2,968) (2,691) Non-U.S. credit card (1) (103) (238) Direct/Indirect consumer (487) (392) Other consumer (216) (232) Total consumer charge-offs (4,544) (4,708) U.S. commercial (2) (589) (567) Non-U.S. commercial (446) (133) Commercial real estate (24) (10) Commercial lease financing (16) (30) Total commercial charge-offs (1,075) (740) Total loans and leases charged off (5,619) (5,448) Recoveries of loans and leases previously charged off Residential mortgage 288 272 Home equity 369 347 U.S. credit card 455 422 Non-U.S. credit card (1) 28 63 Direct/Indirect consumer 276 258 Other consumer 50 27 Total consumer recoveries 1,466 1,389 U.S. commercial (3) 142 175 Non-U.S. commercial 6 13 Commercial real estate 15 41 Commercial lease financing 11 9 Total commercial recoveries 174 238 Total recoveries of loans and leases previously charged off 1,640 1,627 Net charge-offs (3,979) (3,821) Write-offs of PCI loans (207) (340) Provision for loan and lease losses 3,381 3,581 Other (4) (39) (174) Total allowance for loan and lease losses, December 31 10,393 11,480 Less: Allowance included in assets of business held for sale (5) — (243) Allowance for loan and lease losses, December 31 10,393 11,237 Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, January 1 762 646 Provision for unfunded lending commitments 15 16 Other (4) — 100 Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, December 31 777 762 Allowance for credit losses, December 31 $ 11,170 $ 11,999 (1) Represents net charge-offs related to the non-U.S. credit card loan portfolio, which was included in assets of business held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2016. In 2017, the Corporation sold its non-U.S. consumer credit card business. (2) Includes U.S. small business commercial charge-offs of $258 million and $253 million in 2017 and 2016. (3) Includes U.S. small business commercial recoveries of $43 million and $45 million in 2017 and 2016. (4) Primarily represents the net impact of portfolio sales, consolidations and deconsolidations, foreign currency translation adjustments, transfers to held-for-sale and certain other reclassifications. (5) Represents allowance related to the non-U.S. credit card loan portfolio, which was sold in 2017. 90 Bank of America 2017 Table 47 Allowance for Credit Losses (continued) (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 Loan and allowance ratios (6): Loans and leases outstanding at December 31 (7) $ 931,039 $ 908,812 Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding at December 31 (7) 1.12% 1.26% Consumer allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total consumer loans and leases outstanding at December 31 (8) 1.18 1.36 Commercial allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total commercial loans and leases outstanding at December 31 (9) 1.05 1.16 Average loans and leases outstanding (7) $ 911,988 $ 892,255 Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases outstanding (7, 10) 0.44% 0.43% Net charge-offs and PCI write-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases outstanding (7) 0.46 0.47 Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans and leases at December 31 (7, 11) 161 149 Ratio of the allowance for loan and lease losses at December 31 to net charge-offs (10) 2.61 3.00 Ratio of the allowance for loan and lease losses at December 31 to net charge-offs and PCI write-offs 2.48 2.76 Amounts included in allowance for loan and lease losses for loans and leases that are excluded from nonperforming loans and leases at December 31 (12) $ 3,971 $ 3,951 Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans and leases, excluding the allowance for loan and lease losses for loans and leases that are excluded from nonperforming loans and leases at December 31 (7, 12) 99% 98% Loan and allowance ratios excluding PCI loans and the related valuation allowance (6, 13): Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding at December 31 (7) 1.10% 1.24% Consumer allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total consumer loans and leases outstanding at December 31 (8) 1.15 1.31 Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases outstanding (7) 0.44 0.44 Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans and leases at December 31 (7, 11) 156 144 Ratio of the allowance for loan and lease losses at December 31 to net charge-offs 2.54 2.89 (6) Loan and allowance ratios for 2016 include $243 million of non-U.S. credit card allowance for loan and lease losses and $9.2 billion of ending non-U.S. credit card loans, which were included in assets of business held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2016. See footnote 1 for more information. (7) Outstanding loan and lease balances and ratios do not include loans accounted for under the fair value option of $5.7 billion and $7.1 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Average loans accounted for under the fair value option were $6.7 billion and $8.2 billion in 2017 and 2016. (8) Excludes consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option of $928 million and $1.1 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016. (9) Excludes commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option of $4.8 billion and $6.0 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016. (10) Net charge-offs exclude $207 million and $340 million of write-offs in the PCI loan portfolio in 2017 and 2016. For more information on PCI write-offs, see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio on page 76. (11) For more information on our definition of nonperforming loans, see page 78 and page 83. (12) Primarily includes amounts allocated to U.S. credit card and unsecured consumer lending portfolios in Consumer Banking, PCI loans and the non-U.S. credit portfolio in All Other. (13) For more information on the PCI loan portfolio and the valuation allowance for PCI loans, see Note 4 – Outstanding Loans and Leases and Note 5 – Allowance for Credit Losses to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Bank of America 2017 91 For reporting purposes, we allocate the allowance for credit losses across products as presented in Table 48. Table 48 Allocation of the Allowance for Credit Losses by Product Type Percent of Percent of Loans and Loans and Percent of Leases Percent of Leases Amount Total Outstanding (1) Amount Total Outstanding (1) (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Allowance for loan and lease losses Residential mortgage $ 701 6.74% 0.34% $ 1,012 8.82% 0.53% Home equity 1,019 9.80 1.76 1,738 15.14 2.62 U.S. credit card 3,368 32.41 3.50 2,934 25.56 3.18 Non-U.S. credit card — — — 243 2.12 2.64 Direct/Indirect consumer 262 2.52 0.28 244 2.13 0.26 Other consumer 33 0.32 1.22 51 0.44 2.01 Total consumer 5,383 51.79 1.18 6,222 54.21 1.36 U.S. commercial (2) 3,113 29.95 1.04 3,326 28.97 1.17 Non-U.S. commercial 803 7.73 0.82 874 7.61 0.98 Commercial real estate 935 9.00 1.60 920 8.01 1.60 Commercial lease financing 159 1.53 0.72 138 1.20 0.62 Total commercial 5,010 48.21 1.05 5,258 45.79 1.16 Total allowance for loan and lease losses (3) 10,393 100.00% 1.12 11,480 100.00% 1.26 Less: Allowance included in assets of business held for sale (4) — (243) Allowance for loan and lease losses 10,393 11,237 Reserve for unfunded lending commitments 777 762 Allowance for credit losses $ 11,170 $ 11,999 (1) Ratios are calculated as allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of loans and leases outstanding excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option. Consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option included residential mortgage loans of $567 million and $710 million and home equity loans of $361 million and $341 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option included U.S. commercial loans of $2.6 billion and $2.9 billion and non-U.S. commercial loans of $2.2 billion and $3.1 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016. (2) Includes allowance for loan and lease losses for U.S. small business commercial loans of $439 million and $416 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016. (3) Includes $289 million and $419 million of valuation allowance presented with the allowance for loan and lease losses related to PCI loans at December 31, 2017 and 2016. (4) Represents allowance for loan and lease losses related to the non-U.S. credit card loan portfolio, which was included in assets of business held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2016. In 2017, the Corporation sold its non-U.S. consumer credit card business. Market Risk Management include ownership of market risk policy, developing and maintaining Market risk is the risk that changes in market conditions may quantitative risk models, calculating aggregated risk measures, adversely impact the value of assets or liabilities, or otherwise establishing and monitoring position limits consistent with risk negatively impact earnings. This risk is inherent in the financial appetite, conducting daily reviews and analysis of trading inventory, instruments associated with our operations, primarily within our approving material risk exposures and fulfilling regulatory Global Markets segment. We are also exposed to these risks in requirements. Market risks that impact businesses outside of other areas of the Corporation (e.g., our ALM activities). In the Global Markets are monitored and governed by their respective event of market stress, these risks could have a material impact governance functions. on our results. For more information, see Interest Rate Risk Quantitative risk models, such as VaR, are an essential Management for the Banking Book on page 97. component in evaluating the market risks within a portfolio. The Our traditional banking loan and deposit products are nonEnterprise Model Risk Committee (EMRC), a subcommittee of the trading positions and are generally reported at amortized cost for MRC, is responsible for providing management oversight and assets or the amount owed for liabilities (historical cost). However, approval of model risk management and governance. The EMRC these positions are still subject to changes in economic value defines model risk standards, consistent with our risk framework based on varying market conditions, with one of the primary risks and risk appetite, prevailing regulatory guidance and industry best being changes in the levels of interest rates. The risk of adverse practice. Models must meet certain validation criteria, including changes in the economic value of our non-trading positions arising effective challenge of the model development process and a from changes in interest rates is managed through our ALM sufficient demonstration of developmental evidence incorporating activities. We have elected to account for certain assets and a comparison of alternative theories and approaches. The EMRC liabilities under the fair value option. oversees that model standards are consistent with model risk Our trading positions are reported at fair value with changes requirements and monitors the effective challenge in the model reflected in income. Trading positions are subject to various validation process across the Corporation. In addition, the relevant changes in market-based risk factors. The majority of this risk is stakeholders must agree on any required actions or restrictions generated by our activities in the interest rate, foreign exchange, to the models and maintain a stringent monitoring process for credit, equity and commodities markets. In addition, the values of continued compliance. assets and liabilities could change due to market liquidity, correlations across markets and expectations of market volatility. Interest Rate Risk Interest rate risk represents exposures to instruments whose We seek to manage these risk exposures by using a variety of values vary with the level or volatility of interest rates. These techniques that encompass a broad range of financial instruments include, but are not limited to, loans, debt securities, instruments. The key risk management techniques are discussed certain trading-related assets and liabilities, deposits, borrowings in more detail in the Trading Risk Management section. and derivatives. Hedging instruments used to mitigate these risks Global Risk Management is responsible for providing senior include derivatives such as options, futures, forwards and swaps. management with a clear and comprehensive understanding of the trading risks to which we are exposed. These responsibilities 92 Bank of America 2017 Foreign Exchange Risk spreads, by credit migration or by defaults. Hedging instruments Foreign exchange risk represents exposures to changes in the used to mitigate this risk include bonds, CDS and other credit values of current holdings and future cash flows denominated in fixed-income instruments. currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The types of instruments exposed to this risk include investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries, Market Liquidity Risk foreign currency-denominated loans and securities, future cash Market liquidity risk represents the risk that the level of expected flows in foreign currencies arising from foreign exchange market activity changes dramatically and, in certain cases, may transactions, foreign currency-denominated debt and various even cease. This exposes us to the risk that we will not be able foreign exchange derivatives whose values fluctuate with changes to transact business and execute trades in an orderly manner in the level or volatility of currency exchange rates or nonwhich may impact our results. This impact could be further U.S. interest rates. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk exacerbated if expected hedging or pricing correlations are include foreign exchange options, currency swaps, futures, compromised by disproportionate demand or lack of demand for forwards, and foreign currency-denominated debt and deposits. certain instruments. We utilize various risk mitigating techniques as discussed in more detail in Trading Risk Management. Mortgage Risk Mortgage risk represents exposures to changes in the values of Trading Risk Management mortgage-related instruments. The values of these instruments To evaluate risk in our trading activities, we focus on the actual are sensitive to prepayment rates, mortgage rates, agency debt and potential volatility of revenues generated by individual ratings, default, market liquidity, government participation and positions as well as portfolios of positions. Various techniques interest rate volatility. Our exposure to these instruments takes and procedures are utilized to enable the most complete several forms. First, we trade and engage in market-making understanding of these risks. Quantitative measures of market activities in a variety of mortgage securities including whole loans, risk are evaluated on a daily basis from a single position to the pass-through certificates, commercial mortgages and portfolio of the Corporation. These measures include sensitivities collateralized mortgage obligations including collateralized debt of positions to various market risk factors, such as the potential obligations using mortgages as underlying collateral. Second, we impact on revenue from a one basis point change in interest rates, originate a variety of MBS which involves the accumulation of and statistical measures utilizing both actual and hypothetical mortgage-related loans in anticipation of eventual securitization. market moves, such as VaR and stress testing. Periods of extreme Third, we may hold positions in mortgage securities and residential market stress influence the reliability of these techniques to mortgage loans as part of the ALM portfolio. Fourth, we create varying degrees. Qualitative evaluations of market risk utilize the MSRs as part of our mortgage origination activities. For more suite of quantitative risk measures while understanding each of information on MSRs, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant their respective limitations. Additionally, risk managers Accounting Principles and Note 20 – Fair Value Measurements to independently evaluate the risk of the portfolios under the current the Consolidated Financial Statements. Hedging instruments used market environment and potential future environments. to mitigate this risk include derivatives such as options, swaps, VaR is a common statistic used to measure market risk as it futures and forwards as well as securities including MBS and U.S. allows the aggregation of market risk factors, including the effects Treasury securities. For more information, see Mortgage Banking of portfolio diversification. A VaR model simulates the value of a Risk Management on page 99. portfolio under a range of scenarios in order to generate a distribution of potential gains and losses. VaR represents the loss Equity Market Risk a portfolio is not expected to exceed more than a certain number Equity market risk represents exposures to securities that of times per period, based on a specified holding period, represent an ownership interest in a corporation in the form of confidence level and window of historical data. We use one VaR domestic and foreign common stock or other equity-linked model consistently across the trading portfolios and it uses a instruments. Instruments that would lead to this exposure include, historical simulation approach based on a three-year window of but are not limited to, the following: common stock, exchangehistorical data. Our primary VaR statistic is equivalent to a 99 traded funds, American Depositary Receipts, convertible bonds, percent confidence level. This means that for a VaR with a onelisted equity options (puts and calls), OTC equity options, equity day holding period, there should not be losses in excess of VaR, total return swaps, equity index futures and other equity derivative on average, 99 out of 100 trading days. products. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include Within any VaR model, there are significant and numerous options, futures, swaps, convertible bonds and cash positions. assumptions that will differ from company to company. The accuracy of a VaR model depends on the availability and quality Commodity Risk of historical data for each of the risk factors in the portfolio. A Commodity risk represents exposures to instruments traded in VaR model may require additional modeling assumptions for new the petroleum, natural gas, power and metals markets. These products that do not have the necessary historical market data instruments consist primarily of futures, forwards, swaps and or for less liquid positions for which accurate daily prices are not options. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include consistently available. For positions with insufficient historical options, futures and swaps in the same or similar commodity data for the VaR calculation, the process for establishing an product, as well as cash positions. appropriate proxy is based on fundamental and statistical analysis of the new product or less liquid position. This analysis identifies Issuer Credit Risk reasonable alternatives that replicate both the expected volatility Issuer credit risk represents exposures to changes in the and correlation to other market risk factors that the missing data creditworthiness of individual issuers or groups of issuers. Our would be expected to experience. portfolio is exposed to issuer credit risk where the value of an asset may be adversely impacted by changes in the levels of credit Bank of America 2017 93 VaR may not be indicative of realized revenue volatility as changes In periods of market stress, Global Markets senior leadership in market VaR may not conditions be indicative or inofthe composition realized of the portfolio revenue volatility as changes can communicates In periods ofdaily market stress, losses, to discuss key risk positions Global Markets and any senior leadership have in marketa material impactoroninthe conditions theresults. of the the In particular, composition historical portfolio can limit excesses.daily communicates As ato result discussof this process, losses, key riskthepositions businesses andmayany data used have a material for the VaR calculation impact on the results. might In indicate particular, higher or lower the historical selectively reduce risk. limit excesses. As a result of this process, the businesses may levels data used of portfolio for thediversification VaR calculation than will be might experienced. indicate higher or In lower order Table 49reduce selectively presents the total market-based trading portfolio VaR risk. for theof levels VaR modeldiversification portfolio to reflect current than market will beconditions, experienced. weIn update order whichTable 49 combination is the presents the of themarket-based total covered positions trading trading portfolio portfolio VaR the for thehistorical VaR model datatounderlying our VaR reflect current marketmodel on a weekly conditions, basis, we update and the which is theimpact from less combination of the liquid coveredtrading exposures. positions Covered trading portfolio or more the frequently historical data during underlyingperiods our ofVaR modelstress, market and regularly on a weekly basis, positions and the impact are defined frombyless regulatory standards liquid trading assets as tradingCovered exposures. review or morethe assumptions frequently periods ofthe duringunderlying model. market A minor stress, andportion regularly of and liabilities, positions both on-by are defined and off-balance regulatory sheet, that standards as meet tradinga defined assets risks related review to our trading the assumptions positionsthe underlying is not included model. in VaR. A minor These portion of set of and specifications. liabilities, both on-These specifications and off-balance sheet,identify the most that meet liquid a defined are reviewed risks related to our trading of our ICAAP as partpositions is not. included For morein information VaR. These trading set positions which of specifications. These intended to beidentify are specifications held for thea most short-term liquid regarding risks are reviewed ICAAP, see asCapital part ofManagement our ICAAP. For more61. on page information horizon trading and wherewhich positions we areare able to hedgetothe intended bematerial held forrisk elements a short-term Global ICAAP Risk Management continually reviews, evaluates and in a two-way horizon and wheremarket. we are able to in Positions hedgelesstheliquid markets, material or where risk elements regarding , see Capital Management on page 61. enhances our VaR model so that it reflects the material risks in there are restrictions in a two-way market. on the ability Positions in to trade less the markets, liquid positions,ortypically where Global Risk Management continually reviews, evaluates and our tradingour portfolio. Changes to the VaR model do there notarequalify as covered restrictions positions. on the ability to tradeForeign exchange the positions, and typically enhances VaR model so that it reflects the are reviewed material risks andin approved commodity do not qualify positions are always as covered considered positions. Foreign covered positions, exchange and our tradingprior to implementation portfolio. Changes to the and VaRany material model changes and are reviewed are reported to management through and appropriate the any except for structural positionsforeign commodity currency are always positionscovered considered excluded that arepositions, approved prior to implementation materialmanagement changes are committees. with prior except forregulatory structural approval. In addition, foreign currency Tablethat positions 49 presents are excluded our reported to management through the appropriate management Trading limits on quantitative risk measures, including VaR, are withvalue fair prior option regulatory portfolio, approval.which addition, substantially In includes Table 49 presents all of the our committees. independently funded fair value and unfunded option portfolio, which for exposures which substantially we elect the fair includes value all of the Trading limitsset by Global Markets on quantitative risk measures, including VaR,and Risk Management are reviewed on a regular option, and funded and unfunded their corresponding exposures for hedges. which we fair the Theelect value fairoption value independently set bybasis Global so that MarketstradingRisk limits remain relevant Management and and withinonour overall risk appetite portfolio option, and combined with the total hedges. their corresponding market-based The fair valueportfolio trading option reviewed a regular basis so thatfor market trading risks. limits Trading remain limits relevant are reviewed in the risk context of market liquidity, VaR represents portfolio combined our total with market-based portfolio VaR. the total market-based tradingAdditionally, portfolio and within our overall appetite for market risks. volatility Trading limits and strategic business priorities. Trading limits are set at both a market VaR risk VaRour represents trading fortotal activities as market-based presented portfolio in Table 49 VaR. Additionally, are reviewed in the context of market liquidity, volatility and granular level to allow for extensive coverage of risks differs from market risk VaRVaR forused for regulatory trading activitiescapital calculations as presented due49 in Table to strategic business priorities. Trading limits are set as bothas at well a at aggregated portfolios the holding differs from period VaR used being forused. The holding regulatory capital period for VaRdue calculations usedto granular level to for correlations account coverage allow fortoextensive as wellrisk of risksamong as factors. at aggregatedAll trading limits are portfolios approvedfor to account at least annually. correlations Approved among risk theregulatory for holding period capital calculations being used. The is 10 while for days,period holding forthe VaRmarket used trading All limits stored are limits riskregulatory VaR presented for capitalbelow it is oneisday. calculations 10 Both days,measures while for theutilize marketthe factors. trading areand tracked approved in a annually. at least centralized limits Approved management same risk VaRprocess presented and methodology. below it is one day. Both measures utilize the trading limits system. are stored Tradingandlimit excesses tracked in a are communicated centralized limits to management for review. sameTheprocess total market-based and methodology.portfolio VaR results in Table 49 include management system. Trading Certain quantitative limit excesses market risk are communicated measures and corresponding market risk to The total which we areportfolio market-based exposedVaR fromresults in Table segments, all business 49 include to management for review. limitsCertain been identified havequantitative as critical market risk in the Corporation’s Risk Appetite Statement. These risk appetite excluding market risk CVA and DVA. to which we are majority from Theexposed of this businessissegments, allportfolio within the measures and corresponding limits have been identified as critical limits are reported Risk on aAppetite daily basis and areThese approved at least Global Markets segment. excluding CVA and DVA. The majority of this portfolio is within the in the Corporation’s Statement. risk appetite annually Table 49 presentssegment.year-end, average, high and low daily trading limits arebyreported the ERC on anda thedailyBoard. basis and are approved at least Global Markets VaRTable for 2017 and 2016 49 presents using average, year-end, a 99 percent high andconfidence low dailylevel. trading annually by the ERC and the Board. VaR for 2017 and 2016 using a 99 percent confidence level. Table 49 Market Risk VaR for Trading Activities Table 49 Market Risk VaR for Trading Activities 2017 2016 (Dollars in millions) Year End Average2017 High (1) Low (1) Year End Average2016 High (1) Low (1) (Dollars inexchange Foreign millions) $Year End7 $Average 11 $ High (1)25 $ Low (1) 3 $Year End8 $Average9 $ High (1)16 $ Low (1) 5 Interest rate Foreign exchange $ 227 $ 21 11 $ 41 25 $ 113 $ 118 $ 199 $ 30 16 $ 105 Credit Interest rate 29 22 26 21 33 41 21 11 25 11 30 19 37 30 25 10 Equity Credit 19 29 18 26 33 33 12 21 19 25 18 30 30 37 11 25 Commodity Equity 195 5 18 339 123 194 186 12 30 113 Portfolio Commodity diversification (49) 5 (47) 5 —9 —3 (39) 4 (46) 6 — 12 —3 Total covered Portfolio positions trading portfolio diversification 33 (49) 34 (47) 53 — 23 — 28 (39) 36 (46) 50 — 24 — Impact from less Total covered liquid exposures positions trading portfolio 335 6 34 — 53 — 23 286 365 — 50 — 24 Total market-based Impact from less liquid trading portfolio exposures 385 40 6 63 — 26 — 346 415 58 — 28 — Fair value Total option loanstrading portfolio market-based 389 10 40 14 63 267 14 34 23 41 40 58 12 28 Fair value Fair option hedges value option loans 7 9 7 10 11 14 4 7 146 11 23 22 40 125 Fair Fair value hedges diversification option portfolio value option (7) 7 (8) 7 — 11 —4 (10) 6 (21) 11 — 22 —5 Total Fair fairoption value option portfolio value portfolio diversification 9 (7) 9 (8) 11 — —6 10 (10) 13 (21) 20 — —8 Portfolio Total fair diversification value option portfolio (4) 9 (4) 9 — 11 —6 (4) 10 (6) 13 — 20 —8 Total diversification Portfolio market-based portfolio $ (4) $ 43 45 (4) 69 — 29 — $ (4) $ 40 48 (6) 70 — 32 — (1) The high and low for each portfolio may have occurred on different trading days than the high and low for the components. Therefore the impact from less liquid exposures and the amount of Total market-based portfolio $ 43 $ 45 69 29 $ portfolio diversification, which is the difference between the total portfolio and the sum of the individual components, is not relevant. 40 $ 48 70 32 (1) The high and low for each portfolio may have occurred on different trading days than the high and low for the components. Therefore the impact from less liquid exposures and the amount of portfolio diversification, which is the difference between the total portfolio and the sum of the individual components, is not relevant. 94 Bank of America 2017 94 Bank of America 2017 The graph below presents the daily total market-based trading portfolio VaR for 2017, corresponding to the data in Table 49. The graph below presents the daily total market-based trading portfolio VaR for 2017, corresponding to the data in Table 49. Daily Total Market-Based Trading Portfolio VaR History 80 Daily Total Market-Based Trading Portfolio VaR History 80 70 70 60 60 Dollars Dollars in Millions in Millions 50 50 40 VaR 40 30 VaR 30 20 20 10 10 0 12/31/2016 3/31/2017 6/30/2017 9/30/2017 12/31/2017 0 12/31/2016 3/31/2017 6/30/2017 9/30/2017 12/31/2017 Additional VaR statistics produced within our single VaR model are provided in Table 50 at the same level of detail as in Table 49. Evaluating VaRVaR Additional with additional statistics statistics produced allows within our for the risks are provided inofTable VaR modelunderstanding an increased single thesame 50 atinthe portfolio levelas the historical of detail market as in Table 49. data used in Evaluating VaRthewith calculation VaRadditional does not statistics necessarily allows follow a predefined for an increased understanding risks in theTable of thedistribution. statistical 50 presents portfolio trading average market as the historical VaR data statistics used in the VaRpercent at 99 and 95 calculation doespercent not necessarily levelsa for confidencefollow 2017 and predefined 2016. distribution. Table 50 presents average trading statistical VaR statistics at 99 percent and 95 percent confidence levels for 2017 and 2016. Table 50 Average Market Risk VaR for Trading Activities – 99 percent and 95 percent VaR Statistics Table 50 Average Market Risk VaR for Trading Activities – 99 percent and 95 percent VaR Statistics 2017 2016 (Dollars in millions) 99 percent 2017 95 percent 99 percent 2016 95 percent Foreigninexchange (Dollars millions) $ 99 percent11 $ 95 percent 6 $ 99 percent 9 $ 95 percent 5 Interest rate Foreign exchange $ 21 $ 11 146 $ 199 $ 125 Credit Interest rate 26 21 15 14 30 19 18 12 Equity Credit 18 26 10 15 18 30 11 18 Commodity Equity 5 18 103 186 113 Portfolio Commodity diversification (47) 5 (30) 3 (46) 6 (30) 3 Total covered Portfolio positions trading portfolio diversification 34 (47) 18 (30) 36 (46) 19 (30) Impact from less Total covered liquid exposures positions trading portfolio 6 34 182 365 193 Total market-based Impact from less liquid trading portfolio exposures 40 6 202 415 223 Fair value option loans Total market-based trading portfolio 10 40 206 23 41 13 22 Fair Fair value value option option hedges loans 7 10 5 6 11 23 138 Fair Fair value option portfolio value option hedges diversification (8) 7 (6) 5 (21) 11 (13) 8 Total Fair fairoption value option portfolio value portfolio diversification 9 (8) 5 (6) 13 (21) 8 (13) Portfolio diversification Total fair value option portfolio (4) 9 (3) 5 (6) 13 (4) 8 Total diversification Portfolio market-based portfolio $ (4) $ 45 (3) $ 22 (6) $ 48 26 (4) Total market-based portfolio $ 45 $ 22 $ 48 $ 26 Backtesting The trading revenue used for backtesting is defined by The accuracy of the VaR methodology is evaluated by backtesting, regulatory The tradingagencies in order revenue usedto most closely aligniswith for backtesting the VaR defined by Backtesting which compares daily theVaR VaR results,isutilizing a one-day holding component of the regulatory capital calculation. regulatory agencies in order to most closely align with the VaR This revenue The accuracy of the methodology evaluated by backtesting, period, against thea comparable of trading subsetutilizing revenue. A differs component the trading-related fromoftotal regulatory capital revenue calculation. it excludes in thatThis revenue which compares daily VaR results, a one-day holding backtesting excess occurs when a trading loss exceeds the VaR revenue from trading differs from activities that either total trading-related revenuedo not generate in that market it excludes period, against a comparable subset of trading revenue. A for the corresponding These day.when excesses risk or the market risk cannot be included in VaR. Some examples backtesting excess occurs a trading lossare evaluated exceeds the VaR to revenue from trading activities that either do not generate market understand the positions for the corresponding and day. market These moves that excesses are produced evaluatedthe to riskthe of types or the marketof risk revenue cannot excluded for inbacktesting be included are fees, VaR. Some examples trading losstheand to assess whethermoves the VaR methodology commissions, of the types reserves, of revenue interest income netexcluded and intraday for backtesting aretrading fees, understand positions and market that produced the accurately represents revenues. trading loss and to thoseassess losses. whetherWe expect the VaR frequency of the methodology commissions, reserves, net interest income and intraday trading trading losses in excess of VaR to be in line with the confidence We conduct daily backtesting on our portfolios, ranging from revenues. accurately represents those losses. We expect the frequency of level the VaR of losses theWe total market-based portfolioontoourindividual trading rangingareas. trading in statistic excess ofbeing VaR to tested. For example, be in line with a 99 with the confidence conduct daily backtesting portfolios, from Additionally, we conduct daily backtesting on the VaR resultsareas. used level of confidence percent level, we the VaR statistic expect being one trading tested. excess loss in with For example, a 99of the total market-based portfolio to individual trading VaR every 100 dayslevel,or between two totrading three trading losses of in for regulatorywecapital Additionally, conduct calculations as wellon daily backtesting asthe theVaR VaR results results for used percent confidence we expect one loss in excess excess of VaR key legal entities, regions and risk factors. These results are VaR every 100over daystheorcourse between of a year. two to number Thethree of backtesting trading losses in for regulatory capital calculations as well as the VaR results for excesses excess of VaR over thecan observed course of afrom year. the differ statistically The number expected of backtesting reported senior market key legaltoentities, regionsrisk management. and Thesemanagement risk factors.Senior results are number regularly seniorand reviews evaluates the results of thesemanagement tests. excessesof observed excesses can if thediffer fromlevel current the of market volatility statistically expected is reported to market risk management. Senior Duringreviews 2017, andthere were no thedays in of which thesethere tests.was a number ofdifferent materially excesses than the level if the current market that level ofvolatility of market existed volatility is regularly evaluates results during three years thedifferent historical of level used in datavolatility backtesting excess for were our total in which portfolio market-based VaR, materially than the of market thatthe VaR existed During 2017, there no days there was a calculation. utilizing a one-day holding period. backtesting excess for our total market-based portfolio VaR, during the three years of historical data used in the VaR calculation. utilizing a one-day holding period. Bank of America 2017 95 Bank of America 2017 95 Total Trading-related Revenue ever-changing market environment. Significant daily revenue by Totaltrading-related Total revenue, Trading-related excluding brokerage fees, and CVA, Revenue business is monitored ever-changing and the primary market environment. drivers Significant daily these are of revenue by Totaland DVA funding valuation trading-related revenue, excludinggains adjustment (losses), brokerage represents fees, and CVA, reviewed. business is monitored and the primary drivers of these are DVAtotal the and amount earned from funding valuation trading positions, adjustment including gains (losses), marketrepresents The following histogram is a graphic depiction of trading reviewed. based net interest income, which are taken in a diverse the total amount earned from trading positions, including marketrange of volatility and illustrates The following the daily is alevel histogram of trading-related graphic depiction of revenue trading financial based netinstruments which areTrading and markets. interest income, taken inaccount assets a diverse rangeand of for volatility and 2016. 2017 and During illustrates the2017, positive daily level of trading-related revenue trading-related revenue liabilities are reportedand financial instruments at fair value. For markets. moreaccount information Trading assetson and fair was recorded for 2017 for 100 and 2016. percent During 2017, the trading ofpositive days, of which trading-related 77 revenue value, seeare liabilities Note 20 – FairatValue reported fair value. For moreto Measurements the Consolidated information on fair percent was recorded for trading were daily gains of ofover 100 percent the $25 million. trading This days, of compares which 77 value, seeStatements. Financial Note 20 – Fair Trading-related revenueto Value Measurements can thebe volatile and Consolidated to 2016were percent wheredaily tradingtrading-related positive revenue gains of over $25 was million. recorded This comparesfor is driven by general largelyStatements. Financial market revenue conditions Trading-related can and customer be volatile and 992016 to percent of the where trading positive days, of which trading-related 84 percent revenue were daily was recorded for demand. largelyAlso, is trading-related driven dependentand market isconditions by general revenue on the volume customer trading 99 percent over gainsofofthe $25 million days, ofand trading the 84 which largest percent was daily $24 losswere and demand. of transactions, type Also, trading-related the level of revenue risk assumed, is dependent on theand the volume million. trading gains of over $25 million and the largest loss was $24 volatility of price and rate movements at any given and type of transactions, the level of risk assumed, and the time within the million. volatility of price and rate movements at any given time within the Histogram of Daily Trading-related Revenue 160 Histogram of Daily Trading-related Revenue 160 140 140 120 120 100 Number Number of Days of Days 100 80 80 60 60 40 40 20 20 0 greater than -100 -100 to -75 -75 to -50 -50 to -25 -25 to 0 0 to 25 25 to 50 50 to 75 75 to 100 greater than 100 0 greater than -100 -100 to -75 -75 to -50 -50 to -25 Revenue -25(dollars to 0 in millions) 0 to 25 25 to 50 50 to 75 75 to 100 greater than 100 Year Ended December 31, 2016 Revenue (dollars in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2017 Year Ended December 31, 2016 Year Ended December 31, 2017 Trading Portfolio Stress Testing future market stress events. Scenarios are reviewed and updated in response markettostress changing positions and new economic or updated political Because Trading the very nature Portfolio of aTesting Stress VaR model suggests results can future events. Scenarios are reviewed and exceed information. In changing new or adand addition, positions hocnewscenarios developed are or Becauseour theestimates very nature andofit is dependent a VaR model on a limited suggests historical results can in response to economic political window,our we also stressand testitour portfolio using to new or admarket addition,potential address Inspecific events are particular or developed exceed estimates is dependent on ascenario analysis. limited historical information. hoc scenarios This analysis estimates theourchange in the value of ouranalysis. trading vulnerabilities to address specific eventsareorreviewed stress tests potentialThemarket in the portfolio. on particular window, we also stress test portfolio using scenario portfolio that may result from abnormal market movements. a regular basis vulnerabilities and in the the results portfolio. are tests The stress presented to senior are reviewed on This analysis estimates the change in the value of our trading A setthatof may scenarios, categorized management. portfolio result from abnormal as either market historical or movements. a regular basis and the results are presented to senior hypothetical, are computed daily for the overall trading portfolio Stress testing for the trading portfolio is integrated with management. A set of scenarios, categorized as either historical or and individualare businesses. Theseforscenarios include enterprise-wide stress testing incorporated and portfolio into the limits hypothetical, computed daily the overall tradingshocks to portfolio Stress testing for the trading is integrated with underlying market that may risk factorsThese be well beyond macroeconomic framework. The stress scenarios for enterpriseused into and individual businesses. scenarios include the shocks shocks to enterprise-wide testing and incorporated the limits found in the historical usedmay data that calculate to be VaR.theHistorical wide stressThe framework. testing purposes differ macroeconomic from used scenarios the typical trading for enterpriseunderlying market risk factors well beyond shocks scenarios simulate the impact of thetomarket moves thatHistorical occurred portfolio scenarios in that they have a longer time horizon wide stress testing purposes differ from the typical trading and the found in the historical data used calculate VaR. during a period of extended historical market stress. Generally, a results are forecasted portfolio scenarios overhave in that they a longerperiods multiple for and time horizon use the in scenarios simulate the impact of the market moves that occurred multi-week period representing the most severe point during aa consolidated capital and liquidity planning. For more results are forecasted over multiple periods for use in information, during a period of extended historical market stress. Generally, crisis is selected for each historical Risk on see Managingcapital page 57. planning. For more information, multi-week period representing the mostscenario. severe pointHypothetical during a consolidated and liquidity scenarios provide estimated crisis is selected portfolio impacts for each historical scenario.from potential Hypothetical see Managing Risk on page 57. scenarios provide estimated portfolio impacts from potential 96 Bank of America 2017 96 Bank of America 2017 Interest Rate Risk Management for the Banking Book Table 52 Estimated Banking Book Net Interest Income Sensitivity The following discussion presents net interest income for banking book activities. (Dollars in millions) Short Long December 31 Interest rate risk represents the most significant market risk Curve Change Rate (bps) Rate (bps) 2017 2016 exposure to our banking book balance sheet. Interest rate risk is Parallel Shifts measured as the potential change in net interest income caused +100 bps instantaneous shift +100 +100 $ 3,317 $ 3,370 by movements in market interest rates. Client-facing activities, -50 bps primarily lending and deposit-taking, create interest rate sensitive instantaneous shift -50 -50 (2,273) (2,900) positions on our balance sheet. Flatteners We prepare forward-looking forecasts of net interest income. Short-end The baseline forecast takes into consideration expected future instantaneous change +100 — 2,182 2,473 business growth, ALM positioning and the direction of interest rate Long-end instantaneous change — -50 (1,246) (961) movements as implied by the market-based forward curve. We Steepeners then measure and evaluate the impact that alternative interest Short-end rate scenarios have on the baseline forecast in order to assess instantaneous change -50 — (1,021) (1,918) interest rate sensitivity under varied conditions. The net interest Long-end income forecast is frequently updated for changing assumptions instantaneous change — +100 1,135 928 and differing outlooks based on economic trends, market conditions and business strategies. Thus, we continually monitor The sensitivity analysis in Table 52 assumes that we take no our balance sheet position in order to maintain an acceptable level action in response to these rate shocks and does not assume any of exposure to interest rate changes. change in other macroeconomic variables normally correlated with The interest rate scenarios that we analyze incorporate balance changes in interest rates. As part of our ALM activities, we use sheet assumptions such as loan and deposit growth and pricing, securities, certain residential mortgages, and interest rate and changes in funding mix, product repricing, maturity characteristics foreign exchange derivatives in managing interest rate sensitivity. and investment securities premium amortization. Our overall goal The behavior of our deposit portfolio in the baseline forecast is to manage interest rate risk so that movements in interest rates and in alternate interest rate scenarios is a key assumption in our do not significantly adversely affect earnings and capital. projected estimates of net interest income. The sensitivity analysis Table 51 presents the spot and 12-month forward rates used in Table 52 assumes no change in deposit portfolio size or mix in our baseline forecasts at December 31, 2017 and 2016. from the baseline forecast in alternate rate environments. In higher rate scenarios, any customer activity resulting in the replacement of low-cost or noninterest-bearing deposits with higher-yielding Table 51 Forward Rates deposits or market-based funding would reduce our benefit in those scenarios. December 31, 2017 Federal Three-month 10-Year Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Derivative Funds LIBOR Swap Spot rates 1.50% 1.69% 2.40% Contracts 12-month forward rates 2.00 2.14 2.48 Interest rate and foreign exchange derivative contracts are utilized in our ALM activities and serve as an efficient tool to manage our December 31, 2016 interest rate and foreign exchange risk. We use derivatives to Spot rates 0.75% 1.00% 2.34% hedge the variability in cash flows or changes in fair value on our 12-month forward rates 1.25 1.51 2.49 balance sheet due to interest rate and foreign exchange components. For more information on our hedging activities, see Table 52 shows the pre-tax dollar impact to forecasted net Note 2 – Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements. interest income over the next 12 months from December 31, 2017 Our interest rate contracts are generally non-leveraged generic and 2016, resulting from instantaneous parallel and non-parallel interest rate and foreign exchange basis swaps, options, futures shocks to the market-based forward curve. Periodically we evaluate and forwards. In addition, we use foreign exchange contracts, the scenarios presented so that they are meaningful in the context including cross-currency interest rate swaps, foreign currency of the current rate environment. futures contracts, foreign currency forward contracts and options During 2017, the asset sensitivity of our balance sheet to rising to mitigate the foreign exchange risk associated with foreign rates was largely unchanged. We continue to be asset sensitive currency-denominated assets and liabilities. to a parallel move in interest rates with the majority of that benefit Changes to the composition of our derivatives portfolio during coming from the short end of the yield curve. Additionally, higher 2017 reflect actions taken for interest rate and foreign exchange interest rates impact the fair value of debt securities and, rate risk management. The decisions to reposition our derivatives accordingly, for debt securities classified as available for sale portfolio are based on the current assessment of economic and (AFS), may adversely affect accumulated OCI and thus capital financial conditions including the interest rate and foreign currency levels under the Basel 3 capital rules. Under instantaneous upward environments, balance sheet composition and trends, and the parallel shifts, the near-term adverse impact to Basel 3 capital is relative mix of our cash and derivative positions. reduced over time by offsetting positive impacts to net interest income. For more information on Basel 3, see Capital Management – Regulatory Capital on page 61. Bank of America 2017 97 Table 53 presents derivatives utilized in our ALM activities including those designated as accounting and economic hedging instruments and shows the notional amount, fair value, weighted-average receive-fixed and pay-fixed rates, expected maturity and average estimated durations of our open ALM derivatives at December 31, 2017 and 2016. These amounts do not include derivative hedges on our MSRs. Table 53 Asset and Liability Management Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Contracts December 31, 2017 Expected Maturity Average (Dollars in millions, average estimated duration in Fair Estimated years) Value Total 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Thereafter Duration Receive-fixed interest rate swaps (1) $ 2,330 5.38 Notional amount $ 176,390 $ 21,850 $ 27,176 $ 16,347 $ 6,498 $ 19,120 $ 85,399 Weighted-average fixed-rate 2.42% 3.20% 1.87% 1.88% 2.99% 2.10% 2.52% Pay-fixed interest rate swaps (1) (37) 5.63 Notional amount $ 45,873 $ 11,555 $ 1,210 $ 4,344 $ 1,616 $ — $ 27,148 Weighted-average fixed-rate 2.15% 1.73% 2.07% 2.16% 2.22% —% 2.32% Same-currency basis swaps (2) (17) Notional amount $ 38,622 $ 11,028 $ 6,789 $ 1,180 $ 2,807 $ 955 $ 15,863 Foreign exchange basis swaps (1, 3, 4) (1,616) Notional amount 107,263 24,886 11,922 13,367 9,301 6,860 40,927 Option products (5) 13 Notional amount (6) 1,218 1,201 — — — — 17 Foreign exchange contracts (1, 4, 7) 1,424 Notional amount (6) (11,783) (28,689) 2,231 (24) 2,471 2,919 9,309 Net ALM contracts $ 2,097 December 31, 2016 Expected Maturity Average (Dollars in millions, average estimated duration in Fair Estimated years) Value Total 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Thereafter Duration Receive-fixed interest rate swaps (1) $ 4,055 4.81 Notional amount $ 118,603 $ 21,453 $ 25,788 $ 10,283 $ 7,515 $ 5,307 $ 48,257 Weighted-average fixed-rate 2.83% 3.64% 2.81% 2.31% 2.07% 3.18% 2.67% Pay-fixed interest rate swaps (1) 159 2.77 Notional amount $ 22,400 $ 1,527 $ 9,168 $ 2,072 $ 7,975 $ 213 $ 1,445 Weighted-average fixed-rate 1.37% 1.84% 1.47% 0.97% 1.08% 1.00% 2.45% Same-currency basis swaps (2) (26) Notional amount $ 59,274 $ 20,775 $ 11,027 $ 6,784 $ 1,180 $ 2,799 $ 16,709 Foreign exchange basis swaps (1, 3, 4) (4,233) Notional amount 125,522 26,509 22,724 12,178 12,150 8,365 43,596 Option products (5) 5 Notional amount (6) 1,687 1,673 — — — — 14 Foreign exchange contracts (1, 4, 7) 3,180 Notional amount (6) (20,285) (30,199) 197 1,961 (8) 881 6,883 Futures and forward rate contracts 19 Notional amount (6) 37,896 37,896 — — — — — Net ALM contracts $ 3,159 (1) Does not include basis adjustments on either fixed-rate debt issued by the Corporation or AFS debt securities, which are hedged using derivatives designated as fair value hedging instruments, that substantially offset the fair values of these derivatives. (2) At December 31, 2017 and 2016, the notional amount of same-currency basis swaps included $38.6 billion and $59.3 billion in both foreign currency and U.S. dollar-denominated basis swaps in which both sides of the swap are in the same currency. (3) Foreign exchange basis swaps consisted of cross-currency variable interest rate swaps used separately or in conjunction with receive-fixed interest rate swaps. (4) Does not include foreign currency translation adjustments on certain non-U.S. debt issued by the Corporation that substantially offset the fair values of these derivatives. (5) The notional amount of option products of $1.2 billion and $1.7 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016 was substantially all in foreign exchange options. (6) Reflects the net of long and short positions. Amounts shown as negative reflect a net short position. (7) The notional amount of foreign exchange contracts of $(11.8) billion at December 31, 2017 was comprised of $29.1 billion in foreign currency-denominated and cross-currency receive-fixed swaps, $(35.6) billion in net foreign currency forward rate contracts, $(6.2) billion in foreign currency-denominated pay-fixed swaps and $940 million in net foreign currency futures contracts. Foreign exchange contracts of $(20.3) billion at December 31, 2016 were comprised of $21.5 billion in foreign currency-denominated and cross-currency receive-fixed swaps, $(38.5) billion in net foreign currency forward rate contracts, $(4.6) billion in foreign currency-denominated pay-fixed swaps and $1.3 billion in foreign currency futures contracts. 98 Bank of America 2017 We use interest rate derivative instruments to hedge the laws, rules and regulations, including identifying compliance variability in the cash flows of our assets and liabilities and other issues and risks, performing monitoring and developing tests to forecasted transactions (collectively referred to as cash flow be conducted by the Enterprise Independent Testing unit, and hedges). The net losses on both open and terminated cash flow reporting on the state of compliance activities across the hedge derivative instruments recorded in accumulated OCI were Corporation. Enterprise Independent Testing, an independent $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion, on a pre-tax basis, at December 31, testing function within IRM, works with Global Compliance, the 2017 and 2016. These net losses are expected to be reclassified FLUs and control functions in the identification of testing needs into earnings in the same period as the hedged cash flows affect and test design, and is accountable for test execution, reporting earnings and will decrease income or increase expense on the and analysis of results. Additionally, Global Compliance works with respective hedged cash flows. Assuming no change in open cash FLUs and control functions so that day-to-day activities operate in flow derivative hedge positions and no changes in prices or interest a compliant manner. rates beyond what is implied in forward yield curves at December The Corporation’s approach to the management of compliance 31, 2017, the pre-tax net losses are expected to be reclassified risk is described in the Global Compliance Enterprise Policy, which into earnings as follows: $208 million, or 16 percent, within the outlines the requirements of the Corporation’s global compliance next year, 56 percent in years two through five, and 18 percent in program, and defines roles and responsibilities of FLUs, IRM and years six through 10, with the remaining 10 percent thereafter. For Corporate Audit, the three lines of defense in managing compliance more information on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, risk. The requirements work together to drive a comprehensive see Note 2 – Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements. risk-based approach for the proactive identification, management We hedge our net investment in non-U.S. operations determined and escalation of compliance risks throughout the Corporation. to have functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar using For more information on FLUs and control functions, see Managing forward foreign exchange contracts that typically settle in less than Risk on page 57. 180 days, cross-currency basis swaps and foreign exchange The Global Compliance Enterprise Policy also sets the options. We recorded net after-tax losses on derivatives in requirements for reporting compliance risk information to accumulated OCI associated with net investment hedges which executive management as well as the Board or appropriate Boardwere offset by gains on our net investments in consolidated nonlevel committees in support of Global Compliance’s responsibility U.S. entities at December 31, 2017. for conducting independent oversight of the Corporation’s compliance risk management activities. The Board provides Mortgage Banking Risk Management oversight of compliance risk through its Audit Committee and the We originate, fund and service mortgage loans, which subject us ERC. to credit, liquidity and interest rate risks, among others. We determine whether loans will be held for investment or held for Operational Risk Management sale at the time of commitment and manage credit and liquidity Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or risks by selling or securitizing a portion of the loans we originate. failed internal processes, people and systems or from external Interest rate risk and market risk can be substantial in the events. Operational risk may occur anywhere in the Corporation, mortgage business. Changes in interest rates and other market including third-party business processes, and is not limited to factors impact the volume of mortgage originations. Changes in operations functions. Effects may extend beyond financial losses interest rates also impact the value of IRLCs and the related and may result in reputational risk impacts. Operational risk residential first mortgage LHFS between the date of the IRLC and includes legal risk. Additionally, operational risk is a component the date the loans are sold to the secondary market. An increase in the calculation of total risk-weighted assets used in the Basel in mortgage interest rates typically leads to a decrease in the value 3 capital calculation. For more information on Basel 3 calculations, of these instruments. Conversely, the value of the MSRs will see Capital Management on page 61. increase driven by lower prepayment expectations when there is The Corporation’s approach to Operational Risk Management an increase in interest rates. Because the interest rate risks of is outlined in the Operational Risk Enterprise Policy, and these two hedged items offset, we combine them into one overall supporting standards which establish the requirements and hedged item with one combined economic hedge portfolio accountabilities for managing operational risk through a consisting of derivative contracts and securities. comprehensive set of integrated practices implemented by the During 2017 and 2016, we recorded gains in mortgage banking Corporation so that our business processes are designed and income of $118 million and $366 million related to the change in executed effectively. The Operational Risk Enterprise Policy is the fair value of the MSRs, IRLCs and LHFS, net of gains and losses basis for the operational risk management program. on the hedge portfolio. For more information on MSRs, see Note The operational risk management program describes the 20 – Fair Value Measurements to the Consolidated Financial processes for identifying, measuring, monitoring, controlling and Statements and for more information on mortgage banking reporting operational risk information to executive management, income, see Consumer Banking on page 47. as well as the Board or Appropriate Board-Level committees. Under the operational risk management program, FLUs and control Compliance Risk Management functions are responsible for identifying, escalating and debating Compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material risk associated with their business activities. The operational risk financial loss or damage to the reputation of the Corporation management teams independently monitor and assess processes arising from the failure of the Corporation to comply with the and controls, and develop tests to be conducted by the Enterprise requirements of applicable laws, rules, regulations and related Independent Testing unit to validate that processes are operating self-regulatory organizations’ standards and codes of conduct as intended. The requirements work together to drive a (collectively, applicable laws, rules and regulations). Global comprehensive risk-based approach for the proactive Compliance independently assesses compliance risk, and identification, management and escalation of operational risks evaluates FLUs and control functions for adherence to applicable throughout the Corporation. Bank of America 2017 99 The The MRC oversees the MRC oversees Corporation’s policies the Corporation’s policies and and processes processes These fluctuations These fluctuations would would not not be be indicative indicative of of deficiencies deficiencies in in our our for operational for operational risk management and risk management and serves serves as as an an escalation escalation point point models or models or inputs. inputs. for critical for critical operational operational risk matters with risk matters with thethe Corporation. Corporation. The The MRCMRC reports operational risk reports operational activities to risk activities to the the ERC ERC of of the the Board. Board. Allowance Allowance for Credit Losses for Credit Losses The allowance The allowance for for credit losses, which credit losses, which includes includes the the allowance allowance for for Reputational Risk Management loan and loan lease losses and lease losses and and the the reserve reserve for unfunded lending for unfunded lending Reputational risk Reputational risk is the risk is the risk that perceptions of negative perceptions that negative the of the commitments, represents commitments, management’s estimate represents management’s estimate of of probable probable Corporation’s conduct Corporation’s conduct or practices may business practices or business may adversely adversely impact impact losses inherent in the Corporation’s loan portfolio excluding those in inherent losses loan Corporation’s the portfolio excluding those its profitability profitability or its Reputational risk operations. Reputational or operations. risk may result from may result from loans accounted for loans accounted under the for under the fair value option. option. Our fair value Our process process for for many of many the Corporation’s of the including those activities, including Corporation’s activities, related to those related to the the determining determining the allowance for the allowance for credit credit losses losses is is discussed discussed in in Note Note management of management compliance and operational, compliance strategic, operational, our strategic, of our and credit credit 1 1 – Summary of – Summary Significant Accounting of Significant Accounting Principles Principles to to thethe risks. risks. Consolidated Financial Consolidated Financial Statements. Statements. The Corporation The Corporation manages manages reputational reputational risk risk through through Our Our estimate estimate for for the allowance for the allowance for loan loan and lease losses and lease losses is is established established policiespolicies and controls in and controls in its businesses and its businesses and riskrisk sensitive sensitive to the loss to the loss rates rates and and expected expected cash cash flows flows from from our our management processes management processes to reputational risks mitigate reputational to mitigate risks in in aa timely timely Consumer Real Consumer Estate and Real Estate and Credit Credit Card Card and Other Consumer and Other Consumer manner and manner monitoring and proactive monitoring through proactive and through and identification identification of of portfolio segments, as well portfolio segments, as well as our U.S. small business commercial as our U.S. small business commercial potential reputational risk events. potential reputational risk events. The Corporation has The Corporation has processes processes card portfolio card within the portfolio within the Commercial Commercial portfolio segment. For portfolio segment. For each each and procedures and procedures in in place place to respond to to respond events that to events that give rise to give rise to one-percent one-percent increaseincrease in in the the loss loss rates rates on loans collectively on loans collectively reputational risk, reputational risk, including educating individuals individuals and including educating and organizations organizations evaluated evaluated for impairment in for impairment in our Consumer Real our Consumer Estate portfolio Real Estate portfolio that influence that influence public public opinion, implementing external opinion, implementing external segment, excluding PCI segment, excluding PCI loans, loans, coupled coupled with with a a one-percent one-percent communication communication strategies strategies to mitigate the to mitigate and informing risk, and the risk, informing key key decrease decrease in in the discounted cash the discounted cash flows flows on loans individually those loans on those individually stakeholders stakeholders of reputational risks. potential reputational of potential risks. evaluated for evaluated impairment within for impairment within this this portfolio segment, the portfolio segment, the The organization and Corporation’s organization The Corporation’s governance structure and governance structure allowance allowance for loan and for loan lease losses losses at and lease December 31, at December 31, 2017 2017 would would oversight of provides oversight provides of reputational reputational risks, risks, and and reputational reputational risk risk have increased have increased $36 million. We $36 million. subject our We subject portfolio to PCI portfolio our PCI to stress stress reporting is reporting provided regularly is provided regularly and directly to and directly management and to management and thethe scenarios scenarios to evaluate the to evaluate the potential potential impact impact given certain events. given certain events. ERC, which which provides ERC, provides primary oversight of primary oversight of reputational reputational risk. risk. In In A one-percent A one-percent decreasedecrease in in the the expected expected cash cash flows could result flows could result addition, addition, each each FLU FLU has has a committee, which a committee, which includesincludes in in a a $99 $99 million impairment of million impairment of the the portfolio. portfolio. Within Within our Credit Card our Credit Card representatives from representatives Compliance, Legal from Compliance, Legal and and Risk,Risk, that that is is and Other and Consumer portfolio Other Consumer portfolio segmentsegment and small business U.S. small and U.S. business responsible for responsible for the oversight of the oversight reputational risk. of reputational risk. Such Such commercial commercial card portfolio, for card portfolio, for each one-percent increase each one-percent increase in in the the committees’ oversight committees’ oversight includes providing approval approval for includes providing for business business loss rates on loss rates on loans loans collectively collectively evaluated evaluated for impairment coupled for impairment coupled activities activities that that present present elevated elevated levelslevels of of reputational reputational risks. risks. with a with a one-percent one-percent decrease decrease in in the the expected expected cash cash flows flows on on those those loans individually evaluated for impairment, loans individually evaluated for impairment, the allowance for the allowance for loan loan Complex Accounting Estimates and lease and lease losses losses at December 31, at December 31, 20172017 would would havehave increased increased Our Our significant significant accounting principles, as accounting principles, as described described in in Note Note 1 1– – $41 million. $41 million. Summary of Significant Accounting Principles Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated to the Consolidated Our Our allowance allowance for loan and for loan lease losses and lease losses is is sensitive sensitive to the risk to the risk Financial Financial Statements, Statements, are essential in are essential understanding the in understanding the MD&A. MD&A. assigned to ratings assigned ratings to loans loans and and leasesleases within within the the Commercial Commercial Many of Many of our principles require accounting principles significant accounting our significant require complex complex portfolio portfolio segment (excluding the segment (excluding U.S. small the U.S. business commercial small business commercial judgments judgments to to estimate estimate the values of the values assets and of assets liabilities. We and liabilities. We card card portfolio). Assuming a portfolio). Assuming a downgrade downgrade of of one one level level in the internal in the internal have procedures procedures and have processes in and processes in place place to to facilitate facilitate making making these these ratings for risk ratings risk commercial loans for commercial loans and and leases, except loans leases, except loans and and judgments. judgments. already risk-rated leases already leases Doubtful as risk-rated Doubtful as defined defined by by regulatory regulatory The The more judgmental estimates more judgmental estimates are summarized in are summarized in the the authorities, authorities, the allowance for the allowance for loan loan and and lease lease losses would have losses would have following following discussion. discussion. We We have identified and have identified and described described the the increased $2.6 increased $2.6 billion billion atat December December 31, 31, 2017. 2017. development of development of the variables most the variables important in most important in the the estimation estimation allowance for The allowance The loan and for loan and lease lease losseslosses as as a a percentage percentage of of processes processes that that involve involve mathematical mathematical models models to to derive derive the the total loans total loans and leases at and leases December 31, at December 2017 was 31, 2017 1.12 percent was 1.12 percent estimates. In estimates. many cases, In many cases, there there are are numerous numerous alternative alternative and and these hypothetical increases these hypothetical increases in in the the allowance allowance would would raiseraise thethe judgments judgments that that could could be used in be used in the the process process of of determining determining the the ratio 1.41 percent. to 1.41 ratio to percent. inputs inputs toto the models. Where the models. alternatives exist, Where alternatives we have exist, we have used used thethe These sensitivity sensitivity analyses These analyses do do not represent management’s not represent management’s factors that that we factors believe represent represent the we believe most reasonable the most reasonable value value in in expectations of expectations of the deterioration in the deterioration risk ratings in risk ratings or the increases or the increases developing the developing the inputs. performance that Actual performance inputs. Actual that differs differs from from ourour in loss in rates but loss rates but are provided as are provided as hypothetical hypothetical scenariosscenarios to to assess assess estimates of estimates of thethe key variables could key variables could impactimpact our results of our results of the sensitivity of the the sensitivity of the allowance for loan and lease losses to allowance for loan and lease losses to operations. Separate from the possible operations. Separate from the possible future impact to future impact to our our changes in changes in key inputs. We key inputs. We believe believe the the risk risk ratings ratings and and lossloss results results of operations from of operations input and from input and model variables, the model variables, the value value currently in severities currently severities use are in use appropriate and are appropriate the probability that the and that probability of our our lending of portfolio and lending portfolio market-sensitive assets and market-sensitive assets and and liabilities liabilities of the alternative scenarios of the alternative scenarios outlined above occurring within outlined above occurring within a a short short may change subsequent may change subsequent to the balance balance sheet to the sheet date, date, oftenoften period period of time is of time is remote. remote. significantly, due significantly, due to nature and the nature to the and magnitude magnitude of of future credit and future credit and The process of The process determining the of determining the level level of of the the allowance allowance for for credit credit market market conditions. conditions. Such and market credit and Such credit market conditions conditions may may change change losses requires a losses requires high degree degree of a high judgment. It of judgment. possible that is possible It is that quickly quickly andand in unforeseen ways in unforeseen ways and and thethe resulting volatility could resulting volatility could others, others, given given thethe same information, may same information, may at at any any point point inin time time reach reach have a have a significant, negative effect significant, negative effect on future operating on future operating results.results. different reasonable conclusions. different reasonable conclusions. 100 100 Bank of Bank of America America 2017 2017 Fair Value of Financial Instruments measuring the measuring the fair fair values values of of the the assets assets and and liabilities liabilities became became We We are, accounting standards, applicable accounting under applicable are, under standards, required required to to unobservable unobservable or or observable, observable, respectively,respectively, in in the the current current maximize the maximize the useuse of of observable observable inputs inputs and minimize the and minimize the use use of of marketplace. These marketplace. transfers are These transfers are considered considered to to be effective as be effective as unobservable unobservable inputs inputs in in measuring measuring fair value. We fair value. classify fair We classify fair value value of of the beginning of the beginning the quarter quarter in of the in which which they occur. For they occur. For more more measurements of measurements of financial instruments and financial instruments MSRs based and MSRs based on on thethe information on information on the transfers into significant transfers the significant and out into and out ofof Level Level 3 3 three-level three-level fairfair value value hierarchy hierarchy in the accounting in the accounting standards. standards. during during 20172017 and 2016, see and 2016, see Note Note 20 20 – – Fair Value Measurements Fair Value Measurements The The fair values of fair values assets and of assets and liabilities liabilities may may include include Consolidated Financial the Consolidated to the to Financial Statements. Statements. adjustments, such adjustments, such as as market liquidity and market liquidity and credit credit quality, quality, where where appropriate. Valuations appropriate. Valuations of products using of products models or using models or other other Accrued Income Taxes and Deferred Tax Assets techniques are techniques are sensitive sensitive to assumptions used to assumptions used for for the the significant significant Accrued income Accrued income taxes, reported as taxes, reported as a a component component of of either either other other inputs. assets or accrued expenses and other liabilities on assets or accrued expenses and other liabilities on the the Where market inputs. Where market data data is available, the is available, the inputs inputs used used for for valuation reflect reflect that valuation information as that information as of our valuation of our valuation date. date. Inputs Inputs Consolidated Balance Consolidated Balance Sheet, represent the Sheet, represent the netnet amount amount of of current current to to valuation valuation modelsmodels are unobservable if considered unobservable are considered if they they are are income taxes income taxes we we expect expect to pay to to pay to oror receive receive from from various various taxing taxing jurisdictions attributable jurisdictions attributable to to our operations to our operations to date. date. We We currently currently supported supported by by little little oror no market activity. no market activity. In In periods periods of of extreme extreme file income file income tax tax returns returns in more than in more than 100100 federal, federal, state state and and nonnonvolatility, volatility, lessened lessened liquidity liquidity or in illiquid or in illiquid markets, markets, there there may may be be more U.S. jurisdictions and consider many factors, U.S. jurisdictions and consider many factors, including statutory, including statutory, more variability variability in in market market pricing pricing or or a a lack lack of of market market data data to to use use judicial and judicial and regulatory guidance, in regulatory guidance, in estimating estimating the the appropriate appropriate in the in the valuation valuation process. process. In In keeping keeping with with thethe prudent prudent application application of accrued income accrued income taxes taxes for for each each jurisdiction. jurisdiction. of estimates estimates and and management management judgment judgment in in determining determining the the fair fair value of value assets and of assets liabilities, we and liabilities, we have have in in place various processes place various processes Net deferred Net deferred tax tax assets, reported as assets, reported as a a component component of of other other and controls controls that and include: a that include: a model validation policy model validation policy that that requires requires assets on assets on the Consolidated Balance the Consolidated Balance Sheet,Sheet, represent represent the the net net review and review and approval approval of quantitative models of quantitative models used used for for deal deal pricing, pricing, decrease in decrease in taxes taxes expected expected to to be paid in be paid in the the future because of future because of statement fair financial statement financial fair value value determination determination and and risk risk net operating net operating loss (NOL) and loss (NOL) tax credit credit carryforwards and tax carryforwards and and because because quantification; quantification; a a trading trading product valuation policy product valuation policy that that requires requires of future of future reversals reversals of temporary differences of temporary differences in in the the bases bases of of assets assets and liabilities as measured by tax and liabilities as measured by tax laws and their bases as reported laws and their bases as reported verification verification of of all all traded product valuations; traded product valuations; and and a a periodic periodic review review and substantiation substantiation of and daily profit of daily and loss profit and reporting for loss reporting for allall traded traded the financial in the in statements. NOL financial statements. NOL and and tax credit carryforwards tax credit carryforwards products. Primarily products. Primarily through controls, we validation controls, through validation utilize both we utilize both result in result in reductions reductions to future tax to future tax liabilities, liabilities, andand many many of of these these broker attributes can attributes expire if can expire not utilized if not utilized within certain periods. within certain periods. We We broker andand pricing pricing service service inputs which can inputs which can and and do do include include both both consider the consider the need need for valuation allowances for valuation allowances to to reduce reduce net net deferred deferred market-observable and market-observable and internally-modeled internally-modeled values values and/or and/or tax assets tax assets to to the amounts that the amounts that we we estimate estimate are are more-likely-thanmore-likely-thanvaluation inputs. valuation inputs. Our Our reliance reliance on on this this information information is is affected affected by by not not toto be be realized. realized. our understanding our understanding of of how how the the broker broker and/orand/or pricingpricing service service develops Consistent with Consistent with the the applicable applicable accounting accounting standards, standards, we we develops its its data data withwith a a higher degree of higher degree of reliance reliance applied applied to to those those that that are more directly are more observable and directly observable and lesser reliance applied lesser reliance applied to to monitor relevant tax authorities and change our estimates authorities tax relevant monitor and change our estimates of of those those developed developed through through their modeling. Similarly, internal modeling. own internal their own Similarly, accrued income accrued income taxes taxes and/orand/or net deferred tax net deferred tax assets assets due due to to changes changes in in income income tax tax laws laws and and their their interpretation interpretation by by the the courts courts broker quotes broker quotes that that are are executable executable are are given given a a higher higher level level of of and and regulatory regulatory authorities. authorities. These These revisions revisions of of our our estimates, estimates, reliance reliance than than indicative indicative broker quotes, which broker quotes, which are are notnot executable. executable. These which also which also may result from may result from our income tax our income planning and tax planning and from from thethe These processes processes and and controls controls are are performed performed independently independently of of resolution of income tax audit matters, resolution of income tax audit matters, may be material to may be material to our our the business. the business. For For more more information, information, see see Note Note 20 20 – – Fair Fair Value Value operating operating results results for for any any given given period. period. Measurements and Measurements Note 21 and Note 21 – Fair Value – Fair Option to Value Option the Consolidated to the Consolidated Financial Financial Statements. Statements. On December On December 22, 2017, the 22, 2017, President signed the President signed into into law the Tax law the Tax Act Act which which made made significant significant changes changes to to federal federal income income tax tax law law Level Level 3 3 Assets Assets and and Liabilities Liabilities including, among including, among other things, reducing other things, reducing the the statutory statutory corporate corporate Financial assets Financial assets and and liabilities, liabilities, and MSRs, where and MSRs, where values values are are based based income tax income tax raterate toto 21 percent from 21 percent from 35 percent and 35 percent changing the and changing the on valuation techniques on valuation techniques that that require require inputs inputs that that are are both both taxation taxation of of our our non-U.S. business activities. non-U.S. business activities. On On that same date, that same date, unobservable unobservable and and are are significant significant to to thethe overall overall fair fair value value the the SEC SEC issued issued Staff Staff Accounting Accounting Bulletin Bulletin No. No. 118, 118, which which specifies, specifies, measurement measurement are are classified classified as as Level Level 3 3 under under the the fair fair value value among among other things, that reasonable estimates of the other things, that reasonable estimates of income tax the income tax hierarchy established established in hierarchy in applicable applicable accounting accounting standards. standards. The The fair fair effects of effects of thethe Tax Tax Act should be Act should used, if be used, determinable. We if determinable. We havehave value of value these Level of these Level 3 3 financial assets and financial assets and liabilities liabilities and and MSRs MSRs accounted accounted for for the effects of the effects of the the Tax Tax Act using reasonable Act using reasonable is determined determined using is using pricing pricing models, models, discounted discounted cash cash flow flow estimates estimates based based on on currently currently available information and available information and our our methodologies or methodologies or similar similar techniques techniques for for which which the the determination determination interpretations thereof. interpretations thereof. This accounting may This accounting may changechange due due to, to, of fair fair value of significant management requires significant value requires management judgment judgment or or among other among other things, changes in things, changes interpretations we in interpretations we have made and have made and estimation. Total estimation. recurring Level Total recurring Level 3 assets were 3 assets were $12.9 $12.9 billion,billion, or or the the issuance issuance of new tax of new tax or or accounting accounting guidance. guidance. 0.57 0.57 percent percent of of total total assets, assets, and and total total recurring recurring LevelLevel 3 3 liabilities liabilities See See NoteNote 19 19 – – Income Income Taxes Taxes to to the the Consolidated Consolidated Financial Financial were $7.7 billion, or 0.38 percent of total liabilities, at December were $7.7 billion, or 0.38 percent of total liabilities, at December Statements for additional information. Statements for additional information. For more For more information, information, see see 31, 2017 2017 compared 31, compared to to $14.5 $14.5 billion billion or or 0.66 0.66 percent percent and and $7.2$7.2 Item 1A. Item 1A. Risk Factors of Risk Factors of our our 2017 2017 AnnualAnnual Report Report on Form 10-K. on Form 10-K. billion billion or or 0.37 percent at 0.37 percent at December December 31, 31, 2016. 2016. Level Level 3 3 financial financial instruments instruments may may be hedged with be hedged with derivatives derivatives Goodwill and Intangible Assets classified classified as Level 1 as Level 1 or or 2; 2; therefore, therefore, gainsgains or losses associated or losses associated nature of The nature The and accounting accounting for of and for goodwill goodwill and and intangible intangible assetsassets with Level with Level 3 3 financial financial instruments instruments may may be offset by be offset by gains gains or or losses losses discussed in are discussed are Note 1 in Note 1 – – Summary Summary of Significant Accounting of Significant Accounting associated with associated with financial classified in instruments classified financial instruments in other levels of other levels of Principles and Principles and NoteNote 8 8 – – Goodwill Goodwill and and Intangible Intangible Assets Assets to to the the the fair the hierarchy. The value hierarchy. fair value Level 3 The Level 3 gains gains and and losses losses recorded recorded in in Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill is reviewed for Statements. Financial Consolidated Goodwill is reviewed for earnings did earnings did notnot have have a significant impact impact on a significant on our liquidity or our liquidity or potential impairment at potential impairment the reporting reporting unit at the level on unit level on an annual basis, an annual basis, capital. capital. We We conduct conduct a review of a review of ourour fairfair value value hierarchy hierarchy which which for for the Corporation is the Corporation as of is as of June June 30,30, andand in in interim interim periods periods classifications on classifications on a a quarterly quarterly basis. Transfers into basis. Transfers into or or out out of of Level Level events or if events if or circumstances circumstances indicate indicate a a potential impairment. A potential impairment. A 3 are made made if 3 are if the significant inputs the significant inputs used used in financial models the financial in the models reporting reporting unit unit is an operating operating segment is an segment or one level or one level below. below. Bank Bank ofof America America 20172017 101 101 We completed our We completed annual goodwill our annual goodwill impairment impairment test test as as ofof 2016 Compared 2016 Compared to to 2015 2015 June June 30,30, 2017 2017 for all of for all of our our reporting reporting units units that that had goodwill. In had goodwill. In The following discussion The following discussion and analysis provide and analysis comparison of provide aa comparison of our our performing that performing that test, test,we we compared compared the the fairfair value value of of each each reporting reporting results results of operations for of operations 2016 and for 2016 2015. This and 2015. discussion should This discussion should unit to unit to its its estimated estimated carrying carrying value value as as measured measured by by allocated allocated be be read read in in conjunction conjunction with with the Consolidated Financial the Consolidated Financial Statements Statements equity, equity,which goodwill. To includes goodwill. which includes To determine determine fair fair value, value,we we utilized utilized and related and related Notes. Notes. combination of aa combination of valuation techniques,consistent valuation techniques, consistent with with thethe market market approach and approach and the income approach, the income approach,and and also utilized independent also utilized independent Overview Overview valuation valuation specialists. specialists. Under the Under the market approach we market approach we estimated estimated the fair value value of the fair of the the Net Income Net Income individual reporting reporting units individual utilizing various units utilizing various market multiples from market multiples from Net Net income income was was $17.8 $17.8 billion, billion, or or $1.49 $1.49 per per diluted share in diluted share in 2016 2016 comparable publicly-traded publicly-traded companies comparable companies in in industries industries similarsimilar to to the the compared compared to to $15.9 $15.9 billion, billion, or or $1.31 $1.31 per per diluted share in diluted share in 2015. 2015. reporting reporting unit,unit, including including the the application application of of aa control control premium premium of of The results for The results 2016 compared for 2016 compared to to 2015 2015 were driven by were driven higher net by higher net 30 30 percent, percent, basedbased upon upon observed comparable premiums observed comparable premiums paid paid forfor interest income interest income and lower noninterest and lower noninterest expense, partially offset expense, partially offset byby change-in-control change-in-control transactions transactions for for financial financial institutions. institutions. aa decline decline in noninterest income in noninterest income and and higher higher provision provision forfor credit credit Under the Under the income income approach,approach, we estimated the we estimated the fair fair value value of of losses. losses. the the individual individual reporting reporting units units basedbased on on thethe net net present present value value of of estimated estimated future future cashcash flows, flows, utilizing utilizing internal forecasts, and internal forecasts, and an an Interest Income Net Interest Net Income appropriate appropriate terminal terminal value. Discount rates value. Discount rates used ranged from used ranged from 8.9 8.9 Net interest income Net interest increased $2.1 income increased $2.1 billion billion toto $41.1 $41.1 billion billion inin 2016 2016 to to 13.3 percent and 13.3 percent and were derived from were derived capital asset from aa capital asset pricingpricing compared to 2015. The compared to 2015. The net interest yield increased seven bps net interest yield increased seven bps to to model model (i.e., (i.e., cost cost of financing) that equity financing) of equity that we believe adequately we believe adequately 2.21 percent for 2.21 percent 2016. These for 2016. increases were These increases driven by primarily driven were primarily by reflects reflects the the riskrisk andand uncertainty uncertainty specifically specifically in in our our internallyinternallygrowth growthin commercialloans, incommercial loans,the theimpact impactof ofhigher short-endinterest highershort-end interest developed forecasts, developed forecasts, the financial markets the financial markets generallygenerally and and rates rates and increased debt and increased securities balances, balances, as debt securities well as as well as aa charge charge industries similar industries similar to to eacheach of of thethe reporting reporting units. units. Cumulative Cumulative of of $612 $612 millionmillion in in 2015 related to 2015 related the redemption to the redemption of certain trust of certain trust average average growth growth rates developed by rates developed management for by management for revenues revenues and and preferred securities, preferred partially offset offset by securities, partially lower loan by lower spreads and loan spreads and expenses expenses in each reporting unit ranged from zero to 5.1 in each reporting unit ranged from zero to 5.1 percent. percent. market-related hedge market-related hedge ineffectiveness. ineffectiveness. AA prolonged prolonged decrease decrease in in aa particular particular assumption assumption could could eventually eventually lead lead to the fair to the fair value value of reporting unit of aa reporting unit being being less less thanthan Noninterest Income Noninterest Income its Noninterestincome Noninterest decreased$1.4 incomedecreased billionto $1.4billion to$42.6 billionin $42.6billion in2016 2016 its carrying carrying value.value. Based compared to compared 2015. The to 2015. The following highlights the following highlights the significant significant Based on on thethe results results of of the test, we the test, we determined determined that that the the fair fair value changes. changes. value exceeded exceeded the the carrying carrying value value for for allall reporting reporting units units thatthat had had goodwill, Service charges Service increased $257 charges increased million primarily $257 million primarily duedue toto higher higher goodwill, indicating indicating there there was was no no impairment. impairment. treasury-related treasury-related revenue. revenue. Representations Representations and Warranties Liability and Warranties Liability Investment Investment and and brokerage brokerage services services incomeincome decreased decreased $592 $592 The methodology methodology used The used to estimate the to estimate the liability liability for for obligations obligations million driven by million driven by lower lower transactional transactional revenue, revenue, and and decreased decreased under under representations representations and warranties related and warranties related to to transfers transfers of of asset management fees asset management fees due due to to lower market valuations, lower market valuations, residential residential mortgage mortgage loans considers, among loans considers, among other other things, things, the the partially offset by partially offset the impact impact of by the of higher long-term AUM higher long-term AUM flows. flows. repurchase repurchase experience experience implied implied in settlements, and prior settlements, in prior and adjusts adjusts Investment Investment banking banking incomeincome decreaseddecreased $331 $331 million driven by million driven by the the experience experience implied implied by those prior by those settlements based prior settlements based on on the the lower lower equity issuance fees equity issuance fees and and advisory advisory feesfees duedue toto aa decline decline characteristics characteristics of those trusts of those trusts where where the Corporation has the Corporation has aa in in market market fee fee pools. pools. continuing possibility possibility of continuing timely claims. claims. The of timely estimate of The estimate of the the liability liability Trading Trading accountaccount profits increased $429 profits increased $429 million million duedue to to aa for for obligations obligations under representations and under representations warranties is and warranties is based based stronger performance across stronger performance across credit credit products products led by mortgages, led by mortgages, upon currently upon currently available judgment, and significant judgment, information, significant available information, and aa and and continued continued strengthstrength in products, partially rates products, in rates offset by partially offset by number numberof includingthose factors,including offactors, thoseset forthabove, setforth above,that thatarearesubject subject reduced client reduced activity in client activity in equities. equities. to Changes to change. Changes to change. to any any oneone of of these these factors factors couldcould significantly significantly Mortgage banking Mortgage banking income income decreased decreased $511 million primarily $511 million primarily impact the estimate of impact the estimate of our liability. our liability. driven driven by by aa decline decline in production income, in production income, higher higher The estimate of The estimate liability for the liability of the for representations representations and and warranties warranties representations and representations and warranties warranties provision provision and lower servicing and lower servicing issensitive sensitiveto is tofuture defaults,loss futuredefaults, severityand lossseverity andthe thenetnetrepurchase repurchase income, income, partially offset by partially offset by more more favorable favorable MSR MSR results, results, net net of of rate. rate. AnAn assumed simultaneous increase assumed simultaneous increase or decrease of or decrease of 1010 related hedge the related the hedge performance. performance. percent in percent in estimated estimated future defaults, loss future defaults, severity and loss severity and the the netnet Gains on Gains sales of on sales of debt decreased $648 securities decreased debt securities $648 million million repurchase repurchaserate wouldresult ratewould resultin inananincrease increaseof ofapproximately approximately$250 $250 primarily driven primarily driven by by lower sales volume. lower sales volume. million million or or decrease decrease of of approximately approximately $200 $200 million million in in the the Other income Other increased $102 income increased $102 million primarily due million primarily due to to lower lower representationsand representations warrantiesliability andwarranties liabilityas asof December31, ofDecember 31,2017.2017. DVA losses on DVA losses on structured structured liabilities, liabilities, improved results from improved results from These These sensitivities sensitivities are hypothetical and are hypothetical and are intended to are intended to provide provide loans loans and and the related hedging hedging activities the related activities in in the value option fair value the fair option an indication of an indication the impact impact of of the significant change of aa significant change in these key in these key portfolio and portfolio and lower lower payment payment protection insurance expense, protection insurance expense, assumptions assumptions on on the representations and the representations warranties liability. and warranties liability. In In partially partially offsetoffset by lower gains by lower gains on on asset sales. DVA asset sales. DVA losses losses reality, changes in reality,changes in one assumption may one assumption result in may result changes in in changes in other other related to related structured liabilities liabilities were to structured were $97 million in $97 million in 2015 2015 assumptions, assumptions, which which may may or may not or may not counteract counteract the the sensitivity. sensitivity. compared compared to to $633 $633 million million in in 2015. 2015. For For more more information information on on representations representations and and warranties warranties exposure exposureand andthe correspondingestimated thecorresponding estimatedrange rangeof ofpossible possibleloss, loss, Provision for Provision Credit Losses for Credit Losses see The provision The provision for credit losses for credit increased $436 losses increased $436 million million to to $3.6 $3.6 Off-Balance Sheet see Off-Balance Arrangements and Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Contractual Obligations Obligations –– Representations billion for billion 2016 compared compared to for 2016 to 2015. 2015. The The provision provision for for credit credit losses losses Representations and and Warranties Warranties on on page page 56, 56, as as well well as as Note Note 77 –– Representations was $224 was million lower lower than $224 million than net net charge-offs charge-offs for 2016, resulting for 2016, resulting in in Representations and and Warranties Warranties ObligationsObligations and and Corporate Corporate aa reduction reduction in in the the allowance allowance for for credit credit losses. losses. This This compared compared to to Guarantees and Guarantees Note 12 and Note 12 –– Commitments Commitments and Contingencies to and Contingencies to the the Consolidated reduction of aa reduction $1.2 billion billion in of $1.2 in thethe allowance allowance for credit losses for credit losses in in Consolidated FinancialFinancial Statements. Statements. 2015. 2015. 102 102 Bank Bank of of America America 2017 2017 The The provision provision for credit losses for credit losses for for thethe consumer consumer portfolio portfolio of growth in of growth loan and in loan deposit balances. and deposit Noninterest income, balances. Noninterest income, which which increased $360 increased million to $360 million $2.6 billion billion in to $2.6 2016 compared in 2016 compared to to 2015 2015 primarily includes investment investment and primarily includes and brokerage brokerage services services income,income, due due to to a a slower slower pace pace of credit quality of credit improvement. Included quality improvement. Included in in decreased decreased $616 million to $616 million to $11.9 $11.9 billion. billion. TheThe decline decline in in noninterest noninterest the provision is the provision is aa benefit benefit of $45 million of $45 related to million related to the the PCI PCI loanloan income was driven income was driven by lower transactional revenue and decreased by lower transactional revenue and decreased portfolio for portfolio 2016 compared compared to for 2016 to aa benefit benefit of of $40 million in $40 million in 2015. 2015. management fees asset management asset fees primarily primarily due due toto lower market valuations lower market valuations The provision provision for The losses for credit losses for credit for the commercial portfolio, the commercial portfolio, 2016, partially in 2016, in offset by partially offset by the impact of the impact of long-term long-term AUM AUM flows. flows. including including unfunded unfunded lending commitments, increased lending commitments, increased $76 $76 million million Noninterest Noninterest expense expense decreased decreased $763 $763 million million to $13.2 billion to $13.2 billion to $1.0 billion billion in to $1.0 2016 compared in 2016 compared to 2015 driven to 2015 driven by by anan increase increase primarily primarily due due to the expiration expiration of to the of advisor retention awards, advisor retention awards, lowerlower in energy in energy sector reserves in sector reserves the first in the first half half of of 2016 2016 for for the the higher higher revenue-related incentives revenue-related incentives and lower operating and lower operating and and support support costs,costs, risk energy energy sub-sectors. risk sub-sectors. While While we we experienced experienced some some deterioration deterioration partially offset partially offset by higher FDIC by higher FDIC expense. expense. in the in the energy energy sector sector in 2016, oil in 2016, oil prices prices stabilized stabilized which which contributed contributed to to a a modest modest improvement improvement in energy-related exposure in energy-related exposure by by year year end.end. Global Banking Net Net income income for for Global Banking increased Global Banking increased $390 $390 millionmillion to to $5.7 $5.7 Noninterest Expense billion in billion in 2016 2016 compared compared to 2015 as to 2015 higher revenue as higher revenue more more than than Noninterest expense Noninterest expense decreased decreased $2.5 $2.5 billion billion to $55.1 billion to $55.1 billion forfor offset offset an an increase increase in the provision in the provision for for credit losses. Revenue credit losses. Revenue 2016 compared 2016 compared to to 2015. Personnel expense 2015. Personnel expense decreased decreased $1.0 $1.0 increased increased $824 $824 millionmillion to to $18.4 $18.4 billionbillion in 2016 compared in 2016 compared to to 2015 2015 billion as billion as we we continued continued to manage headcount to manage headcount and and achieve achieve cost cost driven by driven by higher higher net net interest interest income, income, which which increased increased $227 $227 million million savings. savings. Continued Continued expense expense management,management, as as wellwell as as the the to to $9.5 billion driven $9.5 billion driven by by the impact of the impact of growth growth in in loans loans and and leases leases expiration of expiration of advisor advisor retention retention awards, awards, more more than than offset offset the the and higher and higher deposits. Noninterest income deposits. Noninterest income increased increased $597 $597 million million increases in increases in client-facing client-facing professionals. professionals. Professional Professional fees fees to $9.0 billion to $9.0 primarily due billion primarily due to to thethe impact impact from from loansloans and and the the decreased decreased $293 $293 millionmillion primarily primarily due due to to lower lower legal legal fees. fees. OtherOther related loan related loan hedging activities in hedging activities the fair in the value option fair value option portfolio portfolio and and general operating operating expense general expense decreased decreased $655 $655 million million primarily primarily driven driven higher higher treasury-related treasury-related revenues, revenues, partially partially offset offset by by lower lower by lower lower foreclosed by foreclosed properties properties expense expense and and lower lower brokerage brokerage fees, fees, investment banking investment banking fees. fees. The provision for The provision credit losses for credit losses increased increased partially partially offset offset by by higher higher FDIC FDIC expense. expense. $197 million $197 million to $883 million to $883 million in 2016 driven in 2016 driven by increases in by increases in energyenergyrelated reserves related reserves as as well well as as loan loan growth. growth. Noninterest Noninterest expense expense of of Income Tax Expense $8.5 $8.5 billion billion remained relatively unchanged remained relatively unchanged in in 2016 2016 as as investments investments The income The income tax expense was tax expense was $7.2 $7.2 billion billion on on pretax pretax incomeincome of of in client-facing in professionals in client-facing professionals Commercial and in Commercial and Business Business $25.0 billion billion in $25.0 2016 compared in 2016 compared to to tax expense of tax expense of $6.3 $6.3 billion billion on on Banking, higher Banking, higher severance severance costs costs and and an an increase increase in in FDIC FDIC expense expense pre-tax pre-tax income income of of $22.2 billion in $22.2 billion in 2015. 2015. The The effective effective tax rate for tax rate for were largely were largely offset offset by lower operating by lower operating and support costs. and support costs. 2016 2016 was was 28.8 28.8 percent percent and and was was driven driven by by our our recurring recurring tax tax preferences preferences and and net net tax tax benefits benefits relatedrelated to various tax to various tax audit audit Global Markets matters, partially partially offset matters, offset by by a a $348 million charge $348 million charge for for the the impact impact Net income Net income for Markets increased Global Markets for Global increased $1.4 billion to $1.4 billion $3.8 billion to $3.8 billion of of the the U.K. U.K. tax tax lawlaw changes changes discusseddiscussed below. below. The The effective effective tax tax in in 2016 compared to 2016 compared 2015. Net to 2015. Net DVA losses were DVA losses were $238 $238 million million rate rate forfor 2015 2015 was was 28.3 28.3 percent percent and and was was driven driven by by our our recurring recurring compared compared to losses of to losses $786 million of $786 million in 2015. Excluding in 2015. Excluding net net DVA, DVA, tax preferences tax preferences and and byby taxtax benefits benefits related related to to certain certain non-U.S. non-U.S. net increased $1.1 income increased net income billion to $1.1 billion to $4.0 $4.0 billion billion in 2016 compared in 2016 compared restructurings, partially restructurings, offset by partially offset by a charge for a charge for the impact of the impact of the the to 2015 to primarily driven 2015 primarily driven by higher sales by higher sales andand trading revenue and trading revenue and U.K. U.K. taxtax law change enacted law change enacted in 2015. The in 2015. charge recorded recorded in The charge in both both noninterest expense, lower noninterest lower expense, partially partially offsetoffset by lower investment by lower investment years for years for the reduction in the reduction the U.K. in the corporate income U.K. corporate income tax rate was tax rate was banking banking fees fees and and investment investment and and brokerage brokerage servicesservices revenue.revenue. the result the result of remeasuring our U.K. net deferred tax assets using of remeasuring our U.K. net deferred tax assets using Sales and trading Sales and trading revenue, excluding net DVA, increased revenue, excluding net DVA, increased $638 $638 the the lower lower tax tax rate. rate. million million primarily primarily due due to to a a stronger performance globally stronger performance globally across across credit credit products products led led by mortgages and by mortgages and continued continued strength strength in in rates rates Business Segment Operations products. The products. The increase increase was was partially partially offsetoffset by by challenging challenging credit credit market market conditions conditions in in early early 20162016 as as well well asas reduced reduced client client activity activity Consumer Banking in equities, most notably in Asia, in equities, most notably in Asia, and a less favorable tradingand a less favorable trading Net Net income income for Consumer Banking for Consumer increased $523 Banking increased $523 million million to to $7.2 $7.2 environment for environment equity derivatives. for equity derivatives. Noninterest Noninterest expense expense billion in billion in 2016 2016 compared compared to to 2015 primarily driven 2015 primarily driven by by lower lower decreased $1.2 decreased $1.2 billion billion to to $10.2 $10.2 billion primarily due billion primarily due to to lower lower noninterest expense noninterest expense and higher revenue, and higher revenue, partially partially offset offset by by higher higher litigation expense litigation expense and and lower lower revenue-related revenue-related expenses. expenses. provision for provision for credit credit losses. losses. Net Net interest interest income income increased increased $862 $862 million to million to $21.3 $21.3 billion primarily due billion primarily due to to the the beneficial beneficial impactimpact of of an an All Other increase increase in investable assets in investable assets as as a result of a result of higher higher deposits. deposits. The The netnet loss loss for for All Other increased All Other increased $601 million to $601 million $1.7 billion to $1.7 billion Noninterest Noninterest income income decreased decreased $650 $650 million million to to $10.4 $10.4 billion billion duedue in 2016 primarily in 2016 primarily due to lower gains on the sale of debt securities, due to lower gains on the sale of debt securities, to lower lower mortgage to mortgage banking banking income income and gains in and gains in 2015 2015 on on certain certain lower lower mortgage mortgage banking income, lower banking income, lower gains gains on on sales sales of of consumer consumer divestitures. The divestitures. provision for The provision for credit losses increased credit losses increased $369 $369 million million real estate real estate loans loans and and an increase in an increase noninterest expense, in noninterest expense, partially partially to $2.7 $2.7 billion to billion in in 2016 2016 primarily primarily driven driven by by a a slower slower pace pace of of offset by offset by an an improvement improvement in in the provision for the provision credit losses. for credit losses. improvement in improvement in the the credit credit card card portfolio. portfolio. Noninterest Noninterest expense expense Mortgage Mortgage bankingbanking income income decreased decreased $133 million primarily $133 million primarily due due decreased decreased $1.1 $1.1 billionbillion to to $17.7 billion driven $17.7 billion driven by by improved improved to higher to higher representations representations and and warranties warranties provision, provision, partially partially offset offset operating operating efficiencies efficiencies and and lower lower fraud costs, partially fraud costs, partially offset offset by by by more favorable by more favorable net net MSR results. Gains MSR results. Gains on on thethe sales sales of of loans loans higher higher FDICFDIC expense. expense. were were $232 $232 million million in 2016 compared in 2016 compared to gains of to gains of $1.0 $1.0 billion billion in in 2015. The 2015. The benefit benefit in in the provision for the provision for credit credit losses losses improved improved $79 $79 Global Wealth & Investment Management million to million to a a benefit benefit of $100 million of $100 million in in 2016 2016 primarily primarily drivendriven by by Net Net income income for GWIM increased for GWIM increased $205 $205 million million to to $2.8 $2.8 billion billion in in lower loan lower loan and and lease balances from lease balances from continued continued run-off run-off of of non-core non-core 2016 2016 compared compared to to 2015 2015 driven driven by by aa decrease decrease in in noninterest noninterest consumer consumer real real estate loans. Noninterest estate loans. Noninterest expense expense increased increased $486 $486 expense, partially partially offset expense, offset by by a a decrease decrease in in revenue. revenue. Net Net interest interest million to million to $5.6 billion driven $5.6 billion driven by by litigation litigation expense. expense. income income increased increased $232 $232 million million to $5.8 billion to $5.8 billion driven driven by by the the impact impact Bank of Bank of America America 20172017 103 103 Non-GAAP Reconciliations Tables 54 and 55 provide reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures. Table 54 Five-year Reconciliations to GAAP Financial Measures (1) (Dollars in millions, shares in thousands) 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Reconciliation of net interest income to net interest income on a fully taxable-equivalent basis Net interest income $ 44,667 $ 41,096 $ 38,958 $ 40,779 $ 40,719 Fully taxable-equivalent adjustment 925 900 889 851 859 Net interest income on a fully taxable-equivalent basis $ 45,592 $ 41,996 $ 39,847 $ 41,630 $ 41,578 Reconciliation of total revenue, net of interest expense to total revenue, net of interest expense on a fully taxable-equivalent basis Total revenue, net of interest expense $ 87,352 $ 83,701 $ 82,965 $ 85,894 $ 87,502 Fully taxable-equivalent adjustment 925 900 889 851 859 Total revenue, net of interest expense on a fully taxable-equivalent basis $ 88,277 $ 84,601 $ 83,854 $ 86,745 $ 88,361 Reconciliation of income tax expense to income tax expense on a fully taxable-equivalent basis Income tax expense $ 10,981 $ 7,199 $ 6,277 $ 2,443 $ 4,194 Fully taxable-equivalent adjustment 925 900 889 851 859 Income tax expense on a fully taxable-equivalent basis $ 11,906 $ 8,099 $ 7,166 $ 3,294 $ 5,053 Reconciliation of average common shareholders’ equity to average tangible common shareholders’ equity Common shareholders’ equity $ 247,101 $ 241,187 $ 229,576 $ 222,907 $ 218,340 Goodwill (69,286) (69,750) (69,772) (69,809) (69,910) Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (2,652) (3,382) (4,201) (5,109) (6,132) Related deferred tax liabilities 1,463 1,644 1,852 2,090 2,328 Tangible common shareholders’ equity $ 176,626 $ 169,699 $ 157,455 $ 150,079 $ 144,626 Reconciliation of average shareholders’ equity to average tangible shareholders’ equity Shareholders’ equity $ 271,289 $ 265,843 $ 251,384 $ 238,317 $ 233,819 Goodwill (69,286) (69,750) (69,772) (69,809) (69,910) Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (2,652) (3,382) (4,201) (5,109) (6,132) Related deferred tax liabilities 1,463 1,644 1,852 2,090 2,328 Tangible shareholders’ equity $ 200,814 $ 194,355 $ 179,263 $ 165,489 $ 160,105 Reconciliation of year-end common shareholders’ equity to year-end tangible common shareholders’ equity Common shareholders’ equity $ 244,823 $ 240,975 $ 233,343 $ 224,167 $ 219,124 Goodwill (68,951) (69,744) (69,761) (69,777) (69,844) Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (2,312) (2,989) (3,768) (4,612) (5,574) Related deferred tax liabilities 943 1,545 1,716 1,960 2,166 Tangible common shareholders’ equity $ 174,503 $ 169,787 $ 161,530 $ 151,738 $ 145,872 Reconciliation of year-end shareholders’ equity to year-end tangible shareholders’ equity Shareholders’ equity $ 267,146 $ 266,195 $ 255,615 $ 243,476 $ 232,475 Goodwill (68,951) (69,744) (69,761) (69,777) (69,844) Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (2,312) (2,989) (3,768) (4,612) (5,574) Related deferred tax liabilities 943 1,545 1,716 1,960 2,166 Tangible shareholders’ equity $ 196,826 $ 195,007 $ 183,802 $ 171,047 $ 159,223 Reconciliation of year-end assets to year-end tangible assets Assets $2,281,234 $2,188,067 $2,144,606 $2,104,539 $2,102,064 Goodwill (68,951) (69,744) (69,761) (69,777) (69,844) Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (2,312) (2,989) (3,768) (4,612) (5,574) Related deferred tax liabilities 943 1,545 1,716 1,960 2,166 Tangible assets $2,210,914 $2,116,879 $2,072,793 $2,032,110 $2,028,812 (1) Presents reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures. We believe the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides additional clarity in assessing the results of the Corporation. Other companies may define or calculate these measures differently. For more information on non-GAAP financial measures and ratios we use in assessing the results of the Corporation, see Supplemental Financial Data on page 43. 104 Bank of America 2017 Table 55 Quarterly Reconciliations to GAAP Financial Measures (1) 2017 Quarters 2016 Quarters (Dollars in millions) Fourth Third Second First Fourth Third Second First Reconciliation of net interest income to net interest income on a fully taxable-equivalent basis Net interest income $ 11,462 $ 11,161 $ 10,986 $ 11,058 $ 10,292 $ 10,201 $ 10,118 $ 10,485 Fully taxable-equivalent adjustment 251 240 237 197 234 228 223 215 Net interest income on a fully taxable-equivalent basis $ 11,713 $ 11,401 $ 11,223 $ 11,255 $ 10,526 $ 10,429 $ 10,341 $ 10,700 Reconciliation of total revenue, net of interest expense to total revenue, net of interest expense on a fully taxable-equivalent basis Total revenue, net of interest expense $ 20,436 $ 21,839 $ 22,829 $ 22,248 $ 19,990 $ 21,635 $ 21,286 $ 20,790 Fully taxable-equivalent adjustment 251 240 237 197 234 228 223 215 Total revenue, net of interest expense on a fully taxableequivalent basis $ 20,687 $ 22,079 $ 23,066 $ 22,445 $ 20,224 $ 21,863 $ 21,509 $ 21,005 Reconciliation of income tax expense to income tax expense on a fully taxable-equivalent basis Income tax expense $ 3,796 $ 2,187 $ 3,015 $ 1,983 $ 1,268 $ 2,257 $ 1,943 $ 1,731 Fully taxable-equivalent adjustment 251 240 237 197 234 228 223 215 Income tax expense on a fully taxable-equivalent basis $ 4,047 $ 2,427 $ 3,252 $ 2,180 $ 1,502 $ 2,485 $ 2,166 $ 1,946 Reconciliation of average common shareholders’ equity to average tangible common shareholders’ equity Common shareholders’ equity $ 250,838 $ 249,214 $ 245,756 $ 242,480 $ 244,519 $ 243,220 $ 240,078 $ 236,871 Goodwill (68,954) (68,969) (69,489) (69,744) (69,745) (69,744) (69,751) (69,761) Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (2,399) (2,549) (2,743) (2,923) (3,091) (3,276) (3,480) (3,687) Related deferred tax liabilities 1,344 1,465 1,506 1,539 1,580 1,628 1,662 1,707 Tangible common shareholders’ equity $ 180,829 $ 179,161 $ 175,030 $ 171,352 $ 173,263 $ 171,828 $ 168,509 $ 165,130 Reconciliation of average shareholders’ equity to average tangible shareholders’ equity Shareholders’ equity $ 273,162 $ 273,238 $ 270,977 $ 267,700 $ 269,739 $ 268,440 $ 265,056 $ 260,065 Goodwill (68,954) (68,969) (69,489) (69,744) (69,745) (69,744) (69,751) (69,761) Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (2,399) (2,549) (2,743) (2,923) (3,091) (3,276) (3,480) (3,687) Related deferred tax liabilities 1,344 1,465 1,506 1,539 1,580 1,628 1,662 1,707 Tangible shareholders’ equity $ 203,153 $ 203,185 $ 200,251 $ 196,572 $ 198,483 $ 197,048 $ 193,487 $ 188,324 Reconciliation of period-end common shareholders’ equity to periodend tangible common shareholders’ equity Common shareholders’ equity $ 244,823 $ 249,646 $ 245,440 $ 242,770 $ 240,975 $ 244,379 $ 241,884 $ 238,501 Goodwill (68,951) (68,968) (68,969) (69,744) (69,744) (69,744) (69,744) (69,761) Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (2,312) (2,459) (2,610) (2,827) (2,989) (3,168) (3,352) (3,578) Related deferred tax liabilities 943 1,435 1,471 1,513 1,545 1,588 1,637 1,667 Tangible common shareholders’ equity $ 174,503 $ 179,654 $ 175,332 $ 171,712 $ 169,787 $ 173,055 $ 170,425 $ 166,829 Reconciliation of period-end shareholders’ equity to period-end tangible shareholders’ equity Shareholders’ equity $ 267,146 $ 271,969 $ 270,660 $ 267,990 $ 266,195 $ 269,600 $ 267,104 $ 262,843 Goodwill (68,951) (68,968) (68,969) (69,744) (69,744) (69,744) (69,744) (69,761) Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (2,312) (2,459) (2,610) (2,827) (2,989) (3,168) (3,352) (3,578) Related deferred tax liabilities 943 1,435 1,471 1,513 1,545 1,588 1,637 1,667 Tangible shareholders’ equity $ 196,826 $ 201,977 $ 200,552 $ 196,932 $ 195,007 $ 198,276 $ 195,645 $ 191,171 Reconciliation of period-end assets to period-end tangible assets Assets $ 2,281,234 $ 2,284,174 $ 2,254,714 $ 2,247,794 $ 2,188,067 $ 2,195,588 $ 2,187,149 $ 2,185,818 Goodwill (68,951) (68,968) (68,969) (69,744) (69,744) (69,744) (69,744) (69,761) Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (2,312) (2,459) (2,610) (2,827) (2,989) (3,168) (3,352) (3,578) Related deferred tax liabilities 943 1,435 1,471 1,513 1,545 1,588 1,637 1,667 Tangible assets $ 2,210,914 $ 2,214,182 $ 2,184,606 $ 2,176,736 $ 2,116,879 $ 2,124,264 $ 2,115,690 $ 2,114,146 (1) Presents reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures. We believe the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides additional clarity in assessing the results of the Corporation. Other companies may define or calculate these measures differently. For more information on non-GAAP financial measures and ratios we use in assessing the results of the Corporation, see Supplemental Financial Data on page 43. Bank of America 2017 105 Statistical Tables Table of Contents Page Page Table Table II –– Outstanding Outstanding Loans and Leases Loans and Leases 107 107 Table Table II – II – Nonperforming Loans, Leases Nonperforming Loans, Leases and and Foreclosed Foreclosed Properties Properties 108 108 Table Table III – Accruing Loans and Leases Past III – Accruing Loans and Leases Past Due 90 Due Days or 90 Days or More More 109 109 Table Table IV –– Allowance IV Allowance for Credit Losses for Credit Losses 110 110 Table Table V– V – Allocation Allocation of Allowance for the Allowance of the Credit Losses for Credit Losses by Product Type by Product Type 112 112 Table Table VI – VI – Selected Selected Loan Maturity Data Loan Maturity Data 112 112 106 106 Bank of America Bank of America 2017 2017 Table I Outstanding Loans and Leases December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Consumer Residential mortgage (1) $ 203,811 $ 191,797 $ 187,911 $ 216,197 $ 248,066 Home equity 57,744 66,443 75,948 85,725 93,672 U.S. credit card 96,285 92,278 89,602 91,879 92,338 Non-U.S. credit card — 9,214 9,975 10,465 11,541 Direct/Indirect consumer (2) 93,830 94,089 88,795 80,381 82,192 Other consumer (3) 2,678 2,499 2,067 1,846 1,977 Total consumer loans excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option 454,348 456,320 454,298 486,493 529,786 Consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option (4) 928 1,051 1,871 2,077 2,164 Total consumer 455,276 457,371 456,169 488,570 531,950 Commercial U.S. commercial (5) 298,485 283,365 265,647 233,586 225,851 Non-U.S. commercial 97,792 89,397 91,549 80,083 89,462 Commercial real estate (6) 58,298 57,355 57,199 47,682 47,893 Commercial lease financing 22,116 22,375 21,352 19,579 25,199 Total commercial loans excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option 476,691 452,492 435,747 380,930 388,405 Commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option (4) 4,782 6,034 5,067 6,604 7,878 Total commercial 481,473 458,526 440,814 387,534 396,283 Less: Loans of business held for sale (7) — (9,214) — — — Total loans and leases $ 936,749 $ 906,683 $ 896,983 $ 876,104 $ 928,233 (1) Includes pay option loans of $1.4 billion, $1.8 billion, $2.3 billion, $3.2 billion and $4.4 billion at December 31, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The Corporation no longer originates pay option loans. (2) Includes auto and specialty lending loans of $49.9 billion, $48.9 billion, $42.6 billion, $37.7 billion and $38.5 billion, unsecured consumer lending loans of $469 million, $585 million, $886 million, $1.5 billion and $2.7 billion, U.S. securities-based lending loans of $39.8 billion, $40.1 billion, $39.8 billion, $35.8 billion and $31.2 billion, non-U.S. consumer loans of $3.0 billion, $3.0 billion, $3.9 billion, $4.0 billion and $4.7 billion, student loans of $0, $497 million, $564 million, $632 million and $4.1 billion, and other consumer loans of $684 million, $1.1 billion, $1.0 billion, $761 million and $1.0 billion at December 31, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. (3) Includes consumer finance loans of $0, $465 million, $564 million, $676 million and $1.2 billion, consumer leases of $2.5 billion, $1.9 billion, $1.4 billion, $1.0 billion and $606 million, and consumer overdrafts of $163 million, $157 million, $146 million, $162 million and $176 million at December 31, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. (4) Consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option includes residential mortgage loans of $567 million, $710 million, $1.6 billion, $1.9 billion and $2.0 billion, and home equity loans of $361 million, $341 million, $250 million, $196 million and $147 million at December 31, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option includes U.S. commercial loans of $2.6 billion, $2.9 billion, $2.3 billion, $1.9 billion and $1.5 billion, and non-U.S. commercial loans of $2.2 billion, $3.1 billion, $2.8 billion, $4.7 billion and $6.4 billion at December 31, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. (5) Includes U.S. small business commercial loans, including card-related products, of $13.6 billion, $13.0 billion, $12.9 billion, $13.3 billion and $13.3 billion at December 31, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. (6) Includes U.S. commercial real estate loans of $54.8 billion, $54.3 billion, $53.6 billion, $45.2 billion and $46.3 billion, and non-U.S. commercial real estate loans of $3.5 billion, $3.1 billion, $3.5 billion, $2.5 billion and $1.6 billion at December 31, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. (7) Represents non-U.S. credit card loans, which were included in assets of business held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Bank of America 2017 107 Table II Nonperforming Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties (1) December 31 Table II Nonperforming Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties (1) (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Consumer December 31 Residential (Dollars mortgage in millions) $ 20172,476 $ 2016 3,056 $ 2015 4,803 $ 2014 6,889 $ 11,712 2013 Home equity Consumer 2,644 2,918 3,337 3,901 4,075 Direct/Indirect Residential mortgage consumer $ 46 2,476 $ 28 3,056 $ 24 4,803 $ 28 6,889 $ 11,712 35 Home consumer Other equity 2,644— 2,9182 3,337 1 3,9011 4,07518 Total consumer Direct/Indirect (2) consumer 5,166 46 6,004 28 8,165 24 10,81928 15,840 35 Commercial Other consumer — 2 1 1 18 U.S. commercial Total consumer (2) 814 5,166 1,256 6,004 867 8,165 701 10,819 819 15,840 Non-U.S. commercial Commercial 299 279 158 1 64 Commercial U.S. commercial real estate 112 814 72 1,256 93 867 321 701 322 819 Commercial lease Non-U.S. commercial financing 24 299 36 279 12 158 3 1 16 64 Commercial real estate 1,249 112 1,643 72 1,130 93 1,026 321 1,221 322 U.S. small business Commercial commercial lease financing 55 24 60 36 82 12 87 3 88 16 Total commercial (3) 1,304 1,249 1,703 1,643 1,212 1,130 1,113 1,026 1,309 1,221 Total U.S. nonperforming small loans and leases business commercial 6,470 55 7,707 60 9,377 82 11,93287 17,149 88 Foreclosed properties(3) Total commercial 288 1,304 377 1,703 459 1,212 697 1,113 623 1,309 Total nonperforming Total nonperforming loans loans, andleases and foreclosed properties leases $ 6,758 6,470 $ 8,084 7,707 $ 9,836 9,377 $ 12,629 11,932 $ 17,772 17,149 (1) Balances do not include PCI loans even though the customer may be contractually past due. PCI loans are recorded at fair value upon acquisition and accrete interest income over the remaining life Foreclosed properties 288 377 459 697 623 of the loan. In addition, balances do not include foreclosed properties insured by certain government-guaranteed loans, principally FHA-insured loans, that entered foreclosure of $801 million, $1.2 Total$1.4 billion, nonperforming loans,and billion, $1.1 billion leases and foreclosed $1.4 billion at December properties 6,758 $ 31, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and$2013, respectively. 8,084 $ 9,836 $ 12,629 $ 17,772 (2) (1) In 2017, $867 do notmillion Balances includeinPCI loansincome interest was estimated even though to bemay the customer contractually due onpast $5.2 be contractually billion PCI of due. consumer loans loans and are recorded leases at fair valueclassified as nonperforming upon acquisition and accrete atinterest December 31, 2017, income over the presentedlife asremaining in the table of the above, loan. plus $10.1 In addition, balances doof billion notTDRs classified include as performing foreclosed properties at December insured 31, 2017. by certain Approximately $578 government-guaranteed million loans, of the estimated principally FHA-insured$867 million loans, in contractual that entered interest foreclosure was received of $801 and million, $1.2 included in interest income for 2017. billion, $1.4 billion, $1.1 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. (3) (2) In 2017, $90$867million incomewas interestincome millioninininterest wasestimated estimatedtotobebecontractually dueonon$1.3 contractuallydue billionofofcommercial $5.2billion consumer loans and leases classified as nonperforming at December 31, 2017, as presented in above, plus the table above, plus $1.1 $10.1 billion of of billion TDRs classified TDRs as as classified performing at December performing at December31, 31, 2017. Approximately 2017. $58$578 Approximately of the of estimated millionmillion the estimated $867 inmillion $90 million contractual interest was in contractual received interest and included was received and in interestinincome included interestfor 2017.for 2017. income (3) In 2017, $90 million in interest income was estimated to be contractually due on $1.3 billion of commercial loans and leases classified as nonperforming at December 31, 2017, as presented in the table above, plus $1.1 billion of TDRs classified as performing at December 31, 2017. Approximately $58 million of the estimated $90 million in contractual interest was received and included in interest income for 2017. 108 Bank of America 2017 108 Bank of America 2017 Table III Accruing Loans and Leases Past Due 90 Days or More (1) December 31 Table III Accruing Loans and Leases Past Due 90 Days or More (1) (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Consumer December 31 Residential (Dollars mortgage (2) in millions) $ 20173,230 $ 2016 4,793 $ 2015 7,150 $ 11,407 2014 $ 201316,961 U.S. credit card Consumer 900 782 789 866 1,053 Non-U.S. Residential credit card (2) mortgage $ — 3,230 $ 4,793 66 $ 76 7,150 $ 11,40795 $ 131 16,961 Direct/Indirect U.S. credit cardconsumer 40 900 78234 39 789 64 866 408 1,053 Other Non-U.S.consumer credit card — — 4 66 763 1 95 131 2 Total consumer Direct/Indirect consumer 4,170 40 5,679 34 8,057 39 12,43364 18,555 408 Commercial Other consumer — 4 3 1 2 U.S. commercial Total consumer 144 4,170 106 5,679 113 8,057 110 12,433 47 18,555 Non-U.S. commercial Commercial 3 5 1 — 17 Commercial U.S. commercial real estate 4 144 106 7 113 3 1103 21 47 Commercial lease financing Non-U.S. commercial 19 3 19 5 151 40 — 41 17 Commercial real estate 170 4 137 7 132 3 1533 126 21 U.S. small business Commercial commercial lease financing 75 19 71 19 61 15 67 40 78 41 Total commercial 245 170 208 137 193 132 220 153 204 126 Total U.S. accruing small business and leases past due 90 days or more loanscommercial (3) $ 4,415 75 $ 5,887 71 $ 8,250 61 $ 12,65367 $ 18,759 78 (1) Our policy is to classify consumer real estate-secured loans as nonperforming at 90 days past due, except the PCI loan portfolio, the fully-insured loan portfolio and loans accounted for under the Total commercial 245 208 193 220 204 fair value option as referenced in footnote 3. (2) Total accruing Balances loans and are fully-insured leases past due 90 days or more (3) loans. $ 4,415 $ 5,887 $ 8,250 $ 12,653 $ 18,759 (3) (1) Balances policyexclude Our loans accounted is to classify for under consumer real the fair value estate-secured option. loans At December 31, as nonperforming 2017, at 90 past 2015, days2016, 2014 the due, except andPCI 2013, million, $1 themillion, loan$2portfolio, $1 million, fully-insured loan $5 millionand andloans portfolio $8 million of loans accounted foraccounted under the for under fair value the fairas option value option were referenced past due 3. 90 days or more and still accruing interest. in footnote (2) Balances are fully-insured loans. (3) Balances exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option. At December 31, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013, $2 million, $1 million, $1 million, $5 million and $8 million of loans accounted for under the fair value option were past due 90 days or more and still accruing interest. Bank of America 2017 109 Bank of America 2017 109 Table IV Allowance for Credit Losses (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Allowance for loan and lease losses, January 1 $ 11,237 $ 12,234 $ 14,419 $ 17,428 $ 24,179 Loans and leases charged off Residential mortgage (188) (403) (866) (855) (1,508) Home equity (582) (752) (975) (1,364) (2,258) U.S. credit card (2,968) (2,691) (2,738) (3,068) (4,004) Non-U.S. credit card (1) (103) (238) (275) (357) (508) Direct/Indirect consumer (487) (392) (383) (456) (710) Other consumer (216) (232) (224) (268) (273) Total consumer charge-offs (4,544) (4,708) (5,461) (6,368) (9,261) U.S. commercial (2) (589) (567) (536) (584) (774) Non-U.S. commercial (446) (133) (59) (35) (79) Commercial real estate (24) (10) (30) (29) (251) Commercial lease financing (16) (30) (19) (10) (4) Total commercial charge-offs (1,075) (740) (644) (658) (1,108) Total loans and leases charged off (5,619) (5,448) (6,105) (7,026) (10,369) Recoveries of loans and leases previously charged off Residential mortgage 288 272 393 969 424 Home equity 369 347 339 457 455 U.S. credit card 455 422 424 430 628 Non-U.S. credit card 28 63 87 115 109 Direct/Indirect consumer 276 258 271 287 365 Other consumer 50 27 31 39 39 Total consumer recoveries 1,466 1,389 1,545 2,297 2,020 U.S. commercial (3) 142 175 172 214 287 Non-U.S. commercial 6 13 5 1 34 Commercial real estate 15 41 35 112 102 Commercial lease financing 11 9 10 19 29 Total commercial recoveries 174 238 222 346 452 Total recoveries of loans and leases previously charged off 1,640 1,627 1,767 2,643 2,472 Net charge-offs (3,979) (3,821) (4,338) (4,383) (7,897) Write-offs of PCI loans (207) (340) (808) (810) (2,336) Provision for loan and lease losses 3,381 3,581 3,043 2,231 3,574 Other (4) (39) (174) (82) (47) (92) Total allowance for loan and lease losses, December 31 10,393 11,480 12,234 14,419 17,428 Less: Allowance included in assets of business held for sale (5) — (243) — — — Allowance for loan and lease losses, December 31 10,393 11,237 12,234 14,419 17,428 Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, January 1 762 646 528 484 513 Provision for unfunded lending commitments 15 16 118 44 (18) Other (4) — 100 — — (11) Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, December 31 777 762 646 528 484 Allowance for credit losses, December 31 $ 11,170 $ 11,999 $ 12,880 $ 14,947 $ 17,912 (1) Represents net charge-offs related to the non-U.S. credit card loan portfolio, which was included in assets of business held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2016. In 2017, the Corporation sold its non-U.S. consumer credit card business. (2) Includes U.S. small business commercial charge-offs of $258 million, $253 million, $282 million, $345 million and $457 million in 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. (3) Includes U.S. small business commercial recoveries of $43 million, $45 million, $57 million, $63 million and $98 million in 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. (4) Primarily represents the net impact of portfolio sales, consolidations and deconsolidations, foreign currency translation adjustments, transfers to held-for-sale and certain other reclassifications. (5) Represents allowance related to the non-U.S. credit card loan portfolio, which was sold in 2017. 110 Bank of America 2017 Table IV Allowance for Credit Losses (continued) (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Loan and allowance ratios (6): Loans and leases outstanding at December 31 (7) $ 931,039 $ 908,812 $ 890,045 $ 867,422 $ 918,191 Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding at December 31 (7) 1.12% 1.26% 1.37% 1.66% 1.90% Consumer allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total consumer loans and leases outstanding at December 31 (8) 1.18 1.36 1.63 2.05 2.53 Commercial allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total commercial loans and leases outstanding at December 31 (9) 1.05 1.16 1.11 1.16 1.03 Average loans and leases outstanding (7) $ 911,988 $ 892,255 $ 869,065 $ 888,804 $ 909,127 Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases outstanding (7, 10) 0.44% 0.43% 0.50% 0.49% 0.87% Net charge-offs and PCI write-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases outstanding (7) 0.46 0.47 0.59 0.58 1.13 Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans and leases at December 31 (7, 11) 161 149 130 121 102 Ratio of the allowance for loan and lease losses at December 31 to net charge-offs (10) 2.61 3.00 2.82 3.29 2.21 Ratio of the allowance for loan and lease losses at December 31 to net charge-offs and PCI write-offs 2.48 2.76 2.38 2.78 1.70 Amounts included in allowance for loan and lease losses for loans and leases that are excluded from nonperforming loans and leases at December 31 (12) $ 3,971 $ 3,951 $ 4,518 $ 5,944 $ 7,680 Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans and leases, excluding the allowance for loan and lease losses for loans and leases that are excluded from nonperforming loans and leases at December 31 (7, 12) 99% 98% 82% 71% 57% Loan and allowance ratios excluding PCI loans and the related valuation allowance (6, 13): Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding at December 31 (7) 1.10% 1.24% 1.31% 1.51% 1.67% Consumer allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total consumer loans and leases outstanding at December 31 (8) 1.15 1.31 1.50 1.79 2.17 Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases outstanding (7) 0.44 0.44 0.51 0.50 0.90 Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans and leases at December 31 (7, 11) 156 144 122 107 87 Ratio of the allowance for loan and lease losses at December 31 to net charge-offs 2.54 2.89 2.64 2.91 1.89 (6) Loan and allowance ratios for 2016 include $243 million of non-U.S. credit card allowance for loan and lease losses and $9.2 billion of ending non-U.S. credit card loans, which were included in assets of business held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2016. See footnote 1 for more information. (7) Outstanding loan and lease balances and ratios do not include loans accounted for under the fair value option of $5.7 billion, $7.1 billion, $6.9 billion, $8.7 billion and $10.0 billion at December 31, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Average loans accounted for under the fair value option were $6.7 billion, $8.2 billion, $7.7 billion, $9.9 billion and $9.5 billion in 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. (8) Excludes consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option of $928 million, $1.1 billion, $1.9 billion, $2.1 billion and $2.2 billion at December 31, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. (9) Excludes commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option of $4.8 billion, $6.0 billion, $5.1 billion, $6.6 billion and $7.9 billion at December 31, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. (10) Net charge-offs exclude $207 million, $340 million, $808 million, $810 million and $2.3 billion of write-offs in the PCI loan portfolio in 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013 respectively. For more information on PCI write-offs, see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio on page 76. (11) For more information on our definition of nonperforming loans, see page 78 and page 83. (12) Primarily includes amounts allocated to U.S. credit card and unsecured consumer lending portfolios in Consumer Banking, PCI loans and the non-U.S. credit portfolio in All Other. (13) For more information on the PCI loan portfolio and the valuation allowance for PCI loans, see Note 4 – Outstanding Loans and Leases and Note 5 – Allowance for Credit Losses to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Bank of America 2017 111 Table V Allocation of the Allowance for Credit Losses by Product Type December 31 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Percent Percent Percent Percent Percent (Dollars in millions) Amount of Total Amount of Total Amount of Total Amount of Total Amount of Total Allowance for loan and lease losses Residential mortgage $ 701 6.74% $ 1,012 8.82% $ 1,500 12.26% $ 2,900 20.11% $ 4,084 23.43% Home equity 1,019 9.80 1,738 15.14 2,414 19.73 3,035 21.05 4,434 25.44 U.S. credit card 3,368 32.41 2,934 25.56 2,927 23.93 3,320 23.03 3,930 22.55 Non-U.S. credit card — — 243 2.12 274 2.24 369 2.56 459 2.63 Direct/Indirect consumer 262 2.52 244 2.13 223 1.82 299 2.07 417 2.39 Other consumer 33 0.32 51 0.44 47 0.38 59 0.41 99 0.58 Total consumer 5,383 51.79 6,222 54.21 7,385 60.36 9,982 69.23 13,423 77.02 U.S. commercial (1) 3,113 29.95 3,326 28.97 2,964 24.23 2,619 18.16 2,394 13.74 Non-U.S. commercial 803 7.73 874 7.61 754 6.17 649 4.50 576 3.30 Commercial real estate 935 9.00 920 8.01 967 7.90 1,016 7.05 917 5.26 Commercial lease financing 159 1.53 138 1.20 164 1.34 153 1.06 118 0.68 Total commercial 5,010 48.21 5,258 45.79 4,849 39.64 4,437 30.77 4,005 22.98 Total allowance for loan and lease losses (2) 10,393 100.00% 11,480 100.00% 12,234 100.00% 14,419 100.00% 17,428 100.00% Less: Allowance included in assets of business held for sale (3) — (243) — — — Allowance for loan and lease losses 10,393 11,237 12,234 14,419 17,428 Reserve for unfunded lending commitments 777 762 646 528 484 Allowance for credit losses $ 11,170 $ 11,999 $ 12,880 $ 14,947 $ 17,912 (1) Includes allowance for loan and lease losses for U.S. small business commercial loans of $439 million, $416 million, $507 million, $536 million and $462 million at December 31, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. (2) Includes $289 million, $419 million, $804 million, $1.7 billion and $2.5 billion of valuation allowance presented with the allowance for loan and lease losses related to PCI loans at December 31, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. (3) Represents allowance for loan and lease losses related to the non-U.S. credit card loan portfolio, which was included in assets of business held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2016. In 2017, the Corporation sold its non-U.S. consumer credit card business. Table VI Selected Loan Maturity Data (1, 2) December 31, 2017 Due After One Due in One Year Through Due After (Dollars in millions) Year or Less Five Years Five Years Total U.S. commercial $ 74,563 $ 177,459 $ 49,090 $ 301,112 U.S. commercial real estate 14,015 35,741 5,005 54,761 Non-U.S. and other (3) 42,933 53,094 7,457 103,484 Total selected loans $ 131,511 $ 266,294 $ 61,552 $ 459,357 Percent of total 29% 58% 13% 100% Sensitivity of selected loans to changes in interest rates for loans due after one year: Fixed interest rates $ 17,765 $ 27,992 Floating or adjustable interest rates 248,529 33,560 Total $ 266,294 $ 61,552 (1) Loan maturities are based on the remaining maturities under contractual terms. (2) Includes loans accounted for under the fair value option. (3) Loan maturities include non-U.S. commercial and commercial real estate loans. 112 Bank of America 2017 Financial Statements and Notes Table of Contents Page Consolidated Statement of Income 116 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 117 Consolidated Balance Sheet 118 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity 120 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 121 Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles 122 Note 2 – Derivatives 131 Note 3 – Securities 140 Note 4 – Outstanding Loans and Leases 144 Note 5 – Allowance for Credit Losses 156 Note 6 – Securitizations and Other Variable Interest Entities 158 Note 7 – Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees 162 Note 8 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets 164 Note 9 – Deposits 165 Note 10 – Federal Funds Sold or Purchased, Securities Financing Agreements and Short-term Borrowings 165 Note 11 – Long-term Debt 168 Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies 170 Note 13 – Shareholders’ Equity 176 Note 14 – Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 178 Note 15 – Earnings Per Common Share 179 Note 16 – Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions 179 Note 17 – Employee Benefit Plans 181 Note 18 – Stock-based Compensation Plans 186 Note 19 – Income Taxes 187 Note 20 – Fair Value Measurements 189 Note 21 – Fair Value Option 199 Note 22 – Fair Value of Financial Instruments 202 Note 23 – Business Segment Information 203 Note 24 – Parent Company Information 205 Note 25 – Performance by Geographical Area 206 Glossary 207 Acronyms 208 Bank of Bank America 2017 of America 2017 113 113 Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries The management of Bank of America Corporation is responsible Management assessed the effectiveness of the Corporation’s for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017 financial reporting. based on the framework set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring The Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting is a Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control – process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the Integrated Framework (2013). Based on that assessment, reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial management concluded that, as of December 31, 2017, the statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting is effective. principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The The Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting includes as of December 31, 2017 has been audited by those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP, an independent registered public of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect accounting firm, as stated in their accompanying report which the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Corporation; expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting as of as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in December 31, 2017. accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and that receipts and expenditures of the Corporation are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Corporation; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition Brian T. Moynihan of the Corporation’s assets that could have a material effect on Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Paul M. Donofrio Chief Financial Officer 114 114 Bank of America Bank of America 2017 2017 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Bank internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. of America Corporation: Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether Control over Financial Reporting due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, of Bank of America Corporation and its subsidiaries as of evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, and the related consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, evaluating the accounting principles used and significant changes in shareholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall three years in the period ended December 31, 2017, including the presentation of the consolidated financial statements. Our audit related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an statements”). We also have audited the Corporation’s internal understanding of internal control over financial reporting, control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included the Treadway Commission (COSO). performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial basis for our opinions. position of the Corporation as of December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, and the results of their operations and their Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017 in conformity with accounting principles Financial Reporting A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability opinion, the Corporation maintained, in all material respects, of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements effective internal control over financial reporting as of December for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted 31, 2017, based on criteria established in Internal Control accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain Change In Accounting Principle to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets the Corporation changed the manner in which it accounts for the of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that determination of when certain stock-based compensation awards transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of are considered authorized for purposes of determining their financial statements in accordance with generally accepted service inception date. accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations Basis for Opinions of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide The Corporation’s management is responsible for these reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of assets that could have a material effect on the financial the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, statements. included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, opinions on the Corporation’s consolidated financial statements projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are and on the Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United the policies or procedures may deteriorate. States) (“PCAOB”) and are required to be independent with respect to the Corporation in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of Charlotte, North Carolina the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the February 22, 2018 audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material We have served as the Corporation’s auditor since 1958. misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective Bank of Bank America 2017 of America 2017 115 115 Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Income (Dollars in millions, except per share information) 2017 2016 2015 Interest income Loans and leases $ 36,221 $ 33,228 $ 31,918 Debt securities 10,471 9,167 9,178 Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell 2,390 1,118 988 Trading account assets 4,474 4,423 4,397 Other interest income 4,023 3,121 3,026 Total interest income 57,579 51,057 49,507 Interest expense Deposits 1,931 1,015 861 Short-term borrowings 3,538 2,350 2,387 Trading account liabilities 1,204 1,018 1,343 Long-term debt 6,239 5,578 5,958 Total interest expense 12,912 9,961 10,549 Net interest income 44,667 41,096 38,958 Noninterest income Card income 5,902 5,851 5,959 Service charges 7,818 7,638 7,381 Investment and brokerage services 13,281 12,745 13,337 Investment banking income 6,011 5,241 5,572 Trading account profits 7,277 6,902 6,473 Mortgage banking income 224 1,853 2,364 Gains on sales of debt securities 255 490 1,138 Other income 1,917 1,885 1,783 Total noninterest income 42,685 42,605 44,007 Total revenue, net of interest expense 87,352 83,701 82,965 Provision for credit losses 3,396 3,597 3,161 Noninterest expense Personnel 31,642 31,748 32,751 Occupancy 4,009 4,038 4,093 Equipment 1,692 1,804 2,039 Marketing 1,746 1,703 1,811 Professional fees 1,888 1,971 2,264 Data processing 3,139 3,007 3,115 Telecommunications 699 746 823 Other general operating 9,928 10,066 10,721 Total noninterest expense 54,743 55,083 57,617 Income before income taxes 29,213 25,021 22,187 Income tax expense 10,981 7,199 6,277 Net income $ 18,232 $ 17,822 $ 15,910 Preferred stock dividends 1,614 1,682 1,483 Net income applicable to common shareholders $ 16,618 $ 16,140 $ 14,427 Per common share information Earnings $ 1.63 $ 1.57 $ 1.38 Diluted earnings 1.56 1.49 1.31 Dividends paid 0.39 0.25 0.20 Average common shares issued and outstanding (in thousands) 10,195,646 10,284,147 10,462,282 Average diluted common shares issued and outstanding (in thousands) 10,778,428 11,046,806 11,236,230 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 116 Bank of America 2017 Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Net income $ 18,232 $ 17,822 $ 15,910 (Dollarscomprehensive Other in millions) income (loss), net-of-tax: 2017 2016 2015 Net Net change in debt and marketable equity securities income $ 61 $ 18,232 (1,345) $ 17,822 (1,580) 15,910 Other change in debit income Net comprehensive valuation adjustments (loss), net-of-tax: (293) (156) 615 Net change in debt derivatives and marketable equity securities 64 61 182 (1,345) 584 (1,580) Employee Net changebenefit plan in debit adjustments valuation adjustments 288 (293) (524) (156) 394 615 Net change in foreign currency translation adjustments derivatives 86 64 (87) 182 (123) 584 Other comprehensive Employee income (loss) benefit plan adjustments 206 288 (1,930) (524) (110) 394 Net Comprehensive change in foreign income currency translation adjustments $ 86 $ 18,438 (87) $ 15,892 15,800 (123) Other comprehensive income (loss) 206 (1,930) (110) Comprehensive income $ 18,438 $ 15,892 $ 15,800 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Bank of America 2017 117 Bank of America 2017 117 Bank of America 2017 117 Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated Balance Statement Sheetof Income (Dollars in millions, except per share information) 2017 2016December 312015 Interestinincome (Dollars millions) 2017 2016 Loans and leases Assets $ 36,221 $ 33,228 $ 31,918 Debt Cash securities and due from banks 10,471 $ 9,167 $ 29,480 9,178 30,719 Federal funds deposits Interest-bearing sold and with securities borrowed the Federal non-U.S.under or purchased Reserve, agreements central banks and to resell other banks 2,390 1,118 127,954 988 117,019 Trading Cash and account cashassets equivalents 4,474 4,423 157,434 4,397 147,738 Other Time interest deposits income placed and other short-term investments 4,023 3,121 11,153 3,026 9,861 Federal interest Totalfunds soldincome and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell (includes $52,906 and $49,750 measured 57,579 at 51,057 49,507 fair value) 212,747 198,224 Interestaccount Trading expenseassets (includes $106,274 and $106,057 pledged as collateral) 209,358 180,209 Depositsassets Derivative 1,931 1,015 37,762 861 42,512 Short-term Debt securities: borrowings 3,538 2,350 2,387 Trading at Carried account liabilities fair value (includes $29,830 and $29,804 pledged as collateral) 1,204 1,018 315,117 1,343 313,660 Long-term debt at cost (fair value – $123,299 and $115,285; $6,007 and $8,233 pledged as collateral) Held-to-maturity, 6,239 5,578 125,013 5,958 117,071 Total debt Total interest expense securities 12,912 9,961 440,130 10,549 430,731 Loans Netandinterest leases income (includes $5,710 and $7,085 measured at fair value and $40,051 and $31,805 pledged as collateral) 44,667 41,096 936,749 38,958 906,683 Allowance for loan and lease losses (10,393) (11,237) Noninterest income Loans and leases, net of allowance 926,356 895,446 Card income 5,902 5,851 5,959 Premises and equipment, net 9,247 9,139 Service charges 7,818 7,638 7,381 Mortgage servicing rights 2,302 2,747 Investment and brokerage services 13,281 12,745 13,337 Goodwill 68,951 68,969 Investment banking income 6,011 5,241 5,572 Loans held-for-sale (includes $2,156 and $4,026 measured at fair value) 11,430 9,066 Trading account profits 7,277 6,902 6,473 Customer and other receivables 61,623 58,759 Mortgage banking income 224 1,853 2,364 Assets of business held for sale (includes $619 measured at fair value at December 31, 2016) — 10,670 Gains on sales of debt securities 255 490 1,138 Other assets (includes $20,279 and $13,802 measured at fair value) 132,741 123,996 Other income 1,917 1,885 1,783 Total assets $ 2,281,234 $ 2,188,067 Total noninterest income 42,685 42,605 44,007 Total revenue, net of interest expense 87,352 83,701 82,965 Assets of consolidated variable interest entities included in total assets above (isolated to settle the liabilities of the variable interest entities) Provision for credit losses 3,396 3,597 3,161 Trading account assets $ 6,521 $ 5,773 Loans and leases Noninterest expense 48,929 56,001 Allowance Personnel for loan and lease losses 31,642 (1,016) 31,748 (1,032) 32,751 Loans and leases, net of allowance Occupancy 4,009 47,913 4,038 54,969 4,093 Loans held-for-sale Equipment 1,692 27 1,804 188 2,039 AllMarketing other assets 1,746 1,694 1,703 1,596 1,811 Total assetsfees Professional of consolidated variable interest entities 1,888 $ 56,155 1,971 $ 62,526 2,264 Data processing 3,139 3,007 3,115 Telecommunications 699 746 823 Other general operating 9,928 10,066 10,721 Total noninterest expense 54,743 55,083 57,617 Income before income taxes 29,213 25,021 22,187 Income tax expense 10,981 7,199 6,277 Net income $ 18,232 $ 17,822 $ 15,910 Preferred stock dividends 1,614 1,682 1,483 Net income applicable to common shareholders $ 16,618 $ 16,140 $ 14,427 Per common share information Earnings $ 1.63 $ 1.57 $ 1.38 Diluted earnings 1.56 1.49 1.31 Dividends paid 0.39 0.25 0.20 Average common shares issued and outstanding (in thousands) 10,195,646 10,284,147 10,462,282 Average diluted common shares issued and outstanding (in thousands) 10,778,428 11,046,806 11,236,230 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 118 116 Bank of America 2017 Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Balance Sheet (continued) (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Net income $ 18,232 $ 17,822 $ 15,910 Other comprehensive income (loss), net-of-tax: December 31 Net change (Dollars in debt and marketable equity securities in millions) 61 (1,345) 2017 (1,580) 2016 Net change in debit valuation adjustments Liabilities (293) (156) 615 Net change Deposits in derivatives in U.S. offices: 64 182 584 Employee benefit plan adjustments Noninterest-bearing 288 $ (524) $ 430,650 394 438,125 Net change in foreign Interest-bearing (includes $449translation currency and $731 adjustments measured at fair value) 86 (87) 796,576 (123) 750,891 Deposits comprehensive Other in income (loss) non-U.S. offices: 206 (1,930) (110) Comprehensive income Noninterest-bearing $ 18,438 $ 14,024 $ 15,892 15,800 12,039 Interest-bearing 68,295 59,879 Total deposits 1,309,545 1,260,934 Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase (includes $36,182 and $35,766 measured at fair value) 176,865 170,291 Trading account liabilities 81,187 63,031 Derivative liabilities 34,300 39,480 Short-term borrowings (includes $1,494 and $2,024 measured at fair value) 32,666 23,944 Accrued expenses and other liabilities (includes $22,840 and $14,630 measured at fair value and $777 and $762 of reserve for unfunded lending commitments) 152,123 147,369 Long-term debt (includes $31,786 and $30,037 measured at fair value) 227,402 216,823 Total liabilities 2,014,088 1,921,872 Commitments and contingencies (Note 6 – Securitizations and Other Variable Interest Entities, Note 7 – Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees and Note 10 – Commitments and Contingencies) Shareholders’ equity Preferred stock, $0.01 par value; authorized – 100,000,000 shares; issued and outstanding – 3,837,683 and 3,887,329 shares 22,323 25,220 Common stock and additional paid-in capital, $0.01 par value; authorized – 12,800,000,000 shares; issued and outstanding – 10,287,302,431 and 10,052,625,604 shares 138,089 147,038 Retained earnings 113,816 101,225 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (7,082) (7,288) Total shareholders’ equity 267,146 266,195 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $ 2,281,234 $ 2,188,067 Liabilities of consolidated variable interest entities included in total liabilities above Short-term borrowings $ 312 $ 348 Long-term debt (includes $9,872 and $10,417 of non-recourse debt) 9,873 10,646 All other liabilities (includes $34 and $38 of non-recourse liabilities) 37 41 Total liabilities of consolidated variable interest entities $ 10,222 $ 11,035 See See accompanying accompanying NotesNotes to to Consolidated Consolidated Financial Financial Statements. Statements. Bank of America 2017 117 Bank of America 2017 119 Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Changes Income in Shareholders’ Equity (Dollars in millions, except per share information) 2017 2016 Accumulated 2015 Interest income Common Stock and Other Total Loans and leases Preferred Additional Paid-in Capital 36,221 $Comprehensive $ Retained 33,228 $Shareholders’ 31,918 (Dollars millions, shares in thousands) Debt insecurities Stock Shares Amount Earnings 10,471 Income (Loss) 9,167 Equity9,178 FederalDecember Balance, funds sold31, and securities borrowed or purchased under$agreements 19,309to resell 2014 10,516,542 $ 153,458 $ 2,390 $ 74,731 (4,022) 1,118 $ 243,476 988 Cumulative adjustment Trading account assets for accounting change related to debit 4,474 4,423 4,397 valuation adjustments 1,226 (1,226) — Other interest income 4,023 3,121 3,026 Cumulative adjustment Total interest income for accounting change related to 57,579 51,057 49,507 retirement-eligible stock-based compensation expense (635) (635) Net income Interest expense 15,910 15,910 Net change in debt and marketable equity securities Deposits 1,931 (1,580) 1,015 (1,580) 861 Net change inborrowings Short-term debit valuation adjustments 3,538 615 2,350 615 2,387 Net change Trading in derivatives account liabilities 1,204 584 1,018 584 1,343 Employee Long-term benefit debt plan adjustments 6,239 394 5,578 394 5,958 Net change in foreign Total interest currency translation adjustments expense 12,912 (123) 9,961 (123) 10,549 Dividends declared: Net interest income 44,667 41,096 38,958 Common (2,091) (2,091) Preferredincome Noninterest (1,483) (1,483) Issuance of preferred stock Card income 2,964 5,902 5,851 2,964 5,959 Common Servicestock chargesissued under employee plans, net, and related 7,818 7,638 7,381 tax effects and brokerage services Investment 4,054 (42) 13,281 12,745 (42) 13,337 Common Investmentstockbanking repurchased income (140,331) (2,374) 6,011 5,241 (2,374) 5,572 Balance, TradingDecember 31, 2015 account profits $ 22,273 10,380,265 $ 151,042 $ 87,658 7,277 $ (5,358) 6,902 $ 255,615 6,473 Net income banking income Mortgage 17,822 224 1,853 17,822 2,364 Net change Gains in debtofand on sales securities equity securities debtmarketable 255 (1,345) 490 (1,345) 1,138 Net change Other in debit valuation adjustments income 1,917 (156) 1,885 (156) 1,783 Net change in derivatives Total noninterest income 42,685 182 42,605 182 44,007 Employee benefit plan Total revenue, net ofadjustments interest expense 87,352 (524) 83,701 (524) 82,965 Net change in foreign currency translation adjustments (87) (87) Provision for Dividends credit losses declared: 3,396 3,597 3,161 Common (2,573) (2,573) Noninterest Preferredexpense (1,682) (1,682) Personnel Issuance of preferred stock 2,947 31,642 31,748 32,751 2,947 Occupancy Common stock issued under employee plans, net, and related 4,009 4,038 4,093 Equipment tax effects 5,111 1,108 1,692 1,804 2,039 1,108 Marketing Common stock repurchased (332,750) (5,112) 1,746 1,703 1,811 (5,112) Professional Balance, December fees 31, 2016 $ 25,220 10,052,626 $ 147,038 $ 1,888 $ 101,225 1,971 (7,288) $ 2,264 266,195 NetData processing income 3,139 18,232 3,007 3,115 18,232 NetTelecommunications change in debt and marketable equity securities 699 74661 823 61 NetOther general change operating in debit valuation adjustments 9,928 10,066 (293) 10,721 (293) Total noninterest Net change expense in derivatives 54,743 55,083 64 57,61764 Income Employee beforeplan benefit income taxes adjustments 29,213 25,021 288 22,187 288 Income Net tax expense change in foreign currency translation adjustments 10,981 7,199 86 6,277 86 Net income Dividends declared: $ 18,232 $ 17,822 $ 15,910 Preferred Common stock dividends 1,614 (4,027) 1,682 1,483 (4,027) Net income applicable to common shareholders Preferred $ (1,578) $ 16,618 16,140 $ 14,427 (1,578) Common stock issued in connection with exercise of warrants Per andcommon exchange share information of preferred stock (2,897) 700,000 2,933 (36) — Earnings $ 1.63 $ 1.57 $ 1.38 Common stock issued under employee plans, net and other 43,329 932 932 Diluted earnings 1.56 1.49 1.31 Common stock repurchased (508,653) (12,814) (12,814) Dividends paid 0.39 0.25 0.20 Balance, December 31, 2017 $ 22,323 10,287,302 $ 138,089 $ 113,816 $ (7,082) $ 267,146 Average common shares issued and outstanding (in thousands) 10,195,646 10,284,147 10,462,282 Average diluted common shares issued and outstanding (in thousands) 10,778,428 11,046,806 11,236,230 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 116 120 Bank of America 2017 Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Net income $ 18,232 $ 17,822 $ 15,910 Other comprehensive income (loss), net-of-tax: Net change (Dollars in debt and marketable equity securities in millions) 2017 61 2016 (1,345) 2015 (1,580) Net change Operating in debit valuation adjustments activities (293) (156) 615 Net Netincome change in derivatives $ 18,23264 $ 182 $ 17,822 15,910 584 Adjustments to reconcile Employee benefit net income to net cash provided by operating activities: plan adjustments 288 (524) 394 Provision Net change forincredit losses foreign currency translation adjustments 3,396 86 3,597 (87) 3,161 (123) Otheron Gains sales of debt income comprehensive securities (loss) (255) 206 (490) (1,930) (1,138) (110) Depreciation and premises improvements amortization 1,482 1,511 1,555 Comprehensive income $ 18,438 $ 15,892 $ 15,800 Amortization of intangibles 621 730 834 Net amortization of premium/discount on debt securities 2,251 3,134 2,613 Deferred income taxes 8,175 5,793 2,967 Stock-based compensation 1,649 1,367 (89) Loans held-for-sale: Originations and purchases (43,506) (33,107) (37,933) Proceeds from sales and paydowns of loans originally classified as held-for-sale 40,059 31,376 36,204 Net change in: Trading and derivative instruments (13,939) (866) 2,550 Other assets (19,859) (13,802) 2,645 Accrued expenses and other liabilities 4,673 (35) 730 Other operating activities, net 7,424 1,331 (1,612) Net cash provided by operating activities 10,403 18,361 28,397 Investing activities Net change in: Time deposits placed and other short-term investments (1,292) (2,117) 50 Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell (14,523) (5,742) (659) Debt securities carried at fair value: Proceeds from sales 73,353 71,547 137,569 Proceeds from paydowns and maturities 93,874 108,592 92,498 Purchases (166,975) (189,061) (219,412) Held-to-maturity debt securities: Proceeds from paydowns and maturities 16,653 18,677 12,872 Purchases (25,088) (39,899) (36,575) Loans and leases: Proceeds from sales 11,761 18,230 22,316 Purchases (6,846) (12,283) (12,629) Other changes in loans and leases, net (41,104) (31,194) (51,895) Other investing activities, net 8,180 107 294 Net cash used in investing activities (52,007) (63,143) (55,571) Financing activities Net change in: Deposits 48,611 63,675 78,347 Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase 7,024 (4,000) (26,986) Short-term borrowings 8,538 (4,014) (3,074) Long-term debt: Proceeds from issuance 53,486 35,537 43,670 Retirement of long-term debt (49,553) (51,849) (40,365) Preferred stock: Proceeds from issuance — 2,947 2,964 Common stock repurchased (12,814) (5,112) (2,374) Cash dividends paid (5,700) (4,194) (3,574) Other financing activities, net (397) (63) (73) Net cash provided by financing activities 49,195 32,927 48,535 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 2,105 240 (597) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 9,696 (11,615) 20,764 Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 147,738 159,353 138,589 Cash and cash equivalents at December 31 $ 157,434 $ 147,738 $ 159,353 Supplemental cash flow disclosures Interest paid $ 12,852 $ 10,510 $ 10,623 Income taxes paid 3,297 1,633 2,326 Income taxes refunded (62) (590) (151) See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Bank of America 2017 117 Bank of America 2017 121 Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries specifies, among other things, that reasonable estimates of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements income tax effects of the Tax Act should be used, if determinable. The Corporation has accounted for the effects of the Tax Act using NOTE 1 Summary of Significant Accounting reasonable estimates based on currently available information and its interpretations thereof. This accounting may change due to, Principles among other things, changes in interpretations the Corporation Bank of America Corporation, a bank holding company and a has made and the issuance of new tax or accounting guidance. financial holding company, provides a diverse range of financial GAAP requires that the effects of a change in tax rate from revaluing services and products throughout the U.S. and in certain deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities be recognized upon international markets. The term “the Corporation” as used herein enactment, resulting in $1.9 billion of estimated incremental may refer to Bank of America Corporation, individually, Bank of income tax expense recognized in 2017. The change in tax rate America Corporation and its subsidiaries, or certain of Bank of also resulted in a downward valuation adjustment, primarily related America Corporation’s subsidiaries or affiliates. to tax-advantaged energy investments, of $946 million recorded in other income. Principles of Consolidation and Basis of Presentation The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Change in Accounting Method the Corporation and its majority-owned subsidiaries and those GAAP requires that stock-based compensation awards be variable interest entities (VIEs) where the Corporation is the expensed over the service period (the period they are earned), primary beneficiary. Intercompany accounts and transactions have based on their grant-date fair value. Awards to retirement-eligible been eliminated. Results of operations of acquired companies are employees have no future service requirement, and historically, included from the dates of acquisition and for VIEs, from the dates the Corporation has deemed these awards to be authorized on the that the Corporation became the primary beneficiary. Assets held grant date, resulting in full recognition of the related expense at in an agency or fiduciary capacity are not included in the that time. Effective October 1, 2017, the Corporation changed its Consolidated Financial Statements. The Corporation accounts for accounting method for determining when these awards are investments in companies for which it owns a voting interest and deemed authorized, changing from the grant date to the beginning for which it has the ability to exercise significant influence over of the year preceding the grant date when the incentive award operating and financing decisions using the equity method of plans are generally approved. As a result, the estimated value of accounting. These investments are included in other assets. Equity the awards is now expensed ratably over the year preceding the method investments are subject to impairment testing, and the grant date. The Corporation believes this change is a preferable Corporation’s proportionate share of income or loss is included in method of accounting as it is consistent with the accounting other income. method used by several peer institutions for similar awards and The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in results in an improved pattern of expense recognition. conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the Adoption of this change is voluntary and has been adopted United States of America (GAAP) requires management to make retrospectively with all prior periods presented herein being estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and restated. The change in accounting method resulted in a decrease disclosures. Realized results could materially differ from those in retained earnings of $635 million at January 1, 2015. All other estimates and assumptions. Certain prior-period amounts have effects of the change on the Consolidated Statement of Income been reclassified to conform to current period presentation. and diluted earnings per share were not material for any period On June 1, 2017, the Corporation completed the sale of its presented; additionally, the impact of the change in accounting non-U.S. consumer credit card business to a third party. The method was not material to any interim periods. The change Corporation has indemnified the purchaser for substantially all affected consolidated financial information and All Other; it did not payment protection insurance (PPI) exposure above reserves affect the business segments. assumed by the purchaser. The impact of the sale was an afterThe following Notes have been impacted by the change in tax gain of $103 million, and is presented in the Consolidated accounting method: Note 13 – Shareholders’ Equity, Note 15 – Statement of Income as other income of $793 million and an Earnings Per Common Share, Note 16 – Regulatory Requirements income tax expense of $690 million. The income tax expense was and Restrictions and Note 18 – Stock-based Compensation Plans. related to gains on the derivatives used to hedge the currency risk of the net investment. Total cash proceeds from the sale were New Accounting Pronouncements $10.9 billion. The assets of the business sold primarily included consumer credit card receivables of $9.8 billion and $9.2 billion Accounting for Share-based Compensation at June 1, 2017 and December 31, 2016 and goodwill of $775 Effective January 1, 2017, the Corporation adopted the new million at both of those period ends. This business was included accounting standard that simplifies certain aspects of the in All Other. accounting for share-based payment transactions, including income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity Change in Tax Law or liabilities and classification on the statement of cash flows. On December 22, 2017, the President signed into law the Tax Cuts Under this new accounting standard, all excess tax benefits and and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) which made significant changes to tax deficiencies on the delivery of share-based awards are federal income tax law including, among other things, reducing the recognized as discrete items in income tax expense or benefit in statutory corporate income tax rate to 21 percent from 35 percent the Consolidated Statement of Income. Previously such amounts and changing the taxation of the Corporation’s non-U.S. business were recorded in shareholders’ equity. The adoption of this new activities. On the same date, the Securities and Exchange accounting standard resulted in $236 million of tax benefits upon Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 which the delivery of share-settled awards in 2017. 122 Bank of America 2017 Revenue Recognition Lease Accounting Effective January 1, 2018, the Corporation adopted the new The FASB issued a new accounting standard effective on January accounting standard for recognizing revenue from contracts with 1, 2019 that requires substantially all leases to be recorded as customers. The new standard does not impact the timing or assets and liabilities on the balance sheet. On January 5, 2018, measurement of the Corporation’s revenue recognition as it is the FASB issued an exposure draft proposing an amendment to consistent with the Corporation’s existing accounting for contracts the standard that, if approved, would permit companies the option within the scope of the new standard. However, beginning to apply the provisions of the new lease standard either prospectively in 2018, the Corporation’s presentation of certain prospectively as of the effective date, without adjusting costs, which are primarily related to underwriting activities, will be comparative periods presented, or using a modified retrospective presented as operating expenses under the new standard rather transition applicable to all prior periods presented. The Corporation than presented net in investment banking income, resulting in an is in the process of reviewing its existing lease portfolios, including expected increase to both line items of approximately $200 million certain service contracts for embedded leases, to evaluate the for the year. The new accounting standard does not have a material impact of the standard on the consolidated financial statements, impact on the Corporation’s consolidated financial position or as well as the impact to regulatory capital and risk-weighted results of operations and will not have a material impact on the assets. The effect of the adoption will depend on the lease portfolio disclosures in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. at the time of transition and the transition options ultimately available; however, the Corporation does not expect the new Hedge Accounting accounting standard to have a material impact on its consolidated Effective January 1, 2018, the Corporation early adopted the new financial position, results of operations or disclosures in the Notes standard that simplifies and expands the ability to apply hedge to the Consolidated Financial Statements. accounting to certain risk management activities. The accounting standard does not have a material impact on the Corporation’s Accounting for Financial Instruments -Credit Losses consolidated financial position or results of operations and will The FASB issued a new accounting standard effective on January not have a material impact on the disclosures in the Notes to the 1, 2020, with early adoption permitted on January 1, 2019, that Consolidated Financial Statements. The Corporation recognized will require the earlier recognition of credit losses on loans and an insignificant cumulative-effect adjustment to its January 1, other financial instruments based on an expected loss model, 2018 opening retained earnings to reflect the impact of applying replacing the incurred loss model that is currently in use. The the new standard to certain outstanding hedge strategies, mainly standard also requires expanded credit quality disclosures, related to fair value hedges of fixed-rate debt instruments. including credit quality indicators disaggregated by vintage. The Corporation is in the process of identifying and implementing Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and required changes to loan loss estimation models and processes Financial Liabilities and evaluating the impact of this new accounting standard, which The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued a new at the date of adoption is expected to increase the allowance for accounting standard on recognition and measurement of financial credit losses with a resulting negative adjustment to retained instruments, including certain equity investments and financial earnings. liabilities recorded at fair value under the fair value option. Effective January 1, 2015, the Corporation early adopted the provisions Significant Accounting Principles related to debit valuation adjustments (DVA) on financial liabilities accounted for under the fair value option. The Corporation adopted Cash and Cash Equivalents the remaining provisions on January 1, 2018, which will not have Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, cash items in a material impact on the Corporation’s consolidated financial the process of collection, cash segregated under federal and other position, results of operations or disclosures in the Notes to the brokerage regulations, and amounts due from correspondent Consolidated Financial Statements. banks, the Federal Reserve Bank and certain non-U.S. central banks. Tax Effects in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income The FASB issued a new accounting standard effective on January Securities Financing Agreements 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted, that addresses certain tax Securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell and effects in accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) related securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase to the Tax Act. Under this new accounting standard, those tax (securities financing agreements) are treated as collateralized effects, representing the difference between the newly enacted financing transactions except in instances where the transaction federal tax rate of 21 percent and the historical tax rate, may, at is required to be accounted for as individual sale and purchase the entity’s election, be reclassified from accumulated OCI to transactions. Generally, these agreements are recorded at retained earnings. The new accounting standard can be applied acquisition or sale price plus accrued interest, except for certain retrospectively to each period in which the effects of the change securities financing agreements that the Corporation accounts for in federal tax rate are recognized or applied at the beginning of under the fair value option. Changes in the fair value of securities the period of adoption. The new accounting standard will not have financing agreements that are accounted for under the fair value a material impact on the Corporation’s consolidated financial option are recorded in trading account profits in the Consolidated position, results of operations or disclosures in the Notes to the Statement of Income. Consolidated Financial Statements. Bank of America 2017 123 The Corporation’s policy is to monitor the market value of the (referred to as other risk management activities). The Corporation principal amount loaned under resale agreements and obtain manages interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate collateral from or return collateral pledged to counterparties when sensitivity predominantly through the use of derivatives. appropriate. Securities financing agreements do not create Derivatives utilized by the Corporation include swaps, futures and material credit risk due to these collateral provisions; therefore, forward settlement contracts, and option contracts. an allowance for loan losses is unnecessary. All derivatives are recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet In transactions where the Corporation acts as the lender in a at fair value, taking into consideration the effects of legally securities lending agreement and receives securities that can be enforceable master netting agreements that allow the Corporation pledged or sold as collateral, it recognizes an asset on the to settle positive and negative positions and offset cash collateral Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value, representing the held with the same counterparty on a net basis. For exchangesecurities received, and a liability, representing the obligation to traded contracts, fair value is based on quoted market prices in return those securities. active or inactive markets or is derived from observable marketbased pricing parameters, similar to those applied to over-theCollateral counter (OTC) derivatives. For non-exchange traded contracts, fair The Corporation accepts securities and loans as collateral that it value is based on dealer quotes, pricing models, discounted cash is permitted by contract or practice to sell or repledge. At December flow methodologies or similar techniques for which the 31, 2017 and 2016, the fair value of this collateral was $561.9 determination of fair value may require significant management billion and $452.1 billion, of which $476.1 billion and $372.0 judgment or estimation. billion was sold or repledged. The primary source of this collateral Valuations of derivative assets and liabilities reflect the value is securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell. of the instrument including counterparty credit risk. These values The Corporation also pledges company-owned securities and also take into account the Corporation’s own credit standing. loans as collateral in transactions that include repurchase agreements, securities loaned, public and trust deposits, U.S. Trading Derivatives and Other Risk Management Activities Treasury tax and loan notes, and short-term borrowings. This Derivatives held for trading purposes are included in derivative collateral, which in some cases can be sold or repledged by the assets or derivative liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet counterparties to the transactions, is parenthetically disclosed on with changes in fair value included in trading account profits. the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Derivatives used for other risk management activities are In certain cases, the Corporation has transferred assets to included in derivative assets or derivative liabilities. Derivatives consolidated VIEs where those restricted assets serve as used in other risk management activities have not been designated collateral for the interests issued by the VIEs. These assets are in qualifying accounting hedge relationships because they did not included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in Assets of qualify or the risk that is being mitigated pertains to an item that Consolidated VIEs. is reported at fair value through earnings so that the effect of In addition, the Corporation obtains collateral in connection measuring the derivative instrument and the asset or liability to with its derivative contracts. Required collateral levels vary which the risk exposure pertains will offset in the Consolidated depending on the credit risk rating and the type of counterparty. Statement of Income to the extent effective. The changes in the Generally, the Corporation accepts collateral in the form of cash, fair value of derivatives that serve to mitigate certain risks U.S. Treasury securities and other marketable securities. Based associated with mortgage servicing rights (MSRs), interest rate on provisions contained in master netting agreements, the lock commitments (IRLCs) and first mortgage loans held-for-sale Corporation nets cash collateral received against derivative (LHFS) that are originated by the Corporation are recorded in assets. The Corporation also pledges collateral on its own mortgage banking income. Changes in the fair value of derivatives derivative positions which can be applied against derivative that serve to mitigate interest rate risk and foreign currency risk liabilities. are included in other income. Credit derivatives are also used by the Corporation to mitigate the risk associated with various credit Trading Instruments exposures. The changes in the fair value of these derivatives are Financial instruments utilized in trading activities are carried at included in other income. fair value. Fair value is generally based on quoted market prices or quoted market prices for similar assets and liabilities. If these Derivatives Used For Hedge Accounting Purposes market prices are not available, fair values are estimated based (Accounting Hedges) on dealer quotes, pricing models, discounted cash flow For accounting hedges, the Corporation formally documents at methodologies, or similar techniques where the determination of inception all relationships between hedging instruments and fair value may require significant management judgment or hedged items, as well as the risk management objectives and estimation. Realized gains and losses are recorded on a tradestrategies for undertaking various accounting hedges. Additionally, date basis. Realized and unrealized gains and losses are the Corporation primarily uses regression analysis at the inception recognized in trading account profits. of a hedge and for each reporting period thereafter to assess whether the derivative used in an accounting hedge transaction is Derivatives and Hedging Activities expected to be and has been highly effective in offsetting changes Derivatives are entered into on behalf of customers, for trading or in the fair value or cash flows of a hedged item or forecasted to support risk management activities. Derivatives used in risk transaction. The Corporation discontinues hedge accounting when management activities include derivatives that are both it is determined that a derivative is not expected to be or has designated in qualifying accounting hedge relationships and ceased to be highly effective as a hedge, and then reflects changes derivatives used to hedge market risks in relationships that are in fair value of the derivative in earnings after termination of the not designated in qualifying accounting hedge relationships hedge relationship. 124 Bank of America 2017 Fair value hedges are used to protect against changes in the loss may exceed the total decline in fair value, in which case, the fair value of the Corporation’s assets and liabilities that are difference is due to market factors and is recognized as an attributable to interest rate or foreign exchange volatility. Changes unrealized gain in accumulated OCI. If the Corporation intends to in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges are sell or believes it is more-likely-than-not that it will be required to recorded in earnings, together and in the same income statement sell the debt security, it is written down to fair value as an OTTI line item with changes in the fair value of the related hedged item. loss. If a derivative instrument in a fair value hedge is terminated or the Interest on debt securities, including amortization of premiums hedge designation removed, the previous adjustments to the and accretion of discounts, is included in interest income. carrying value of the hedged asset or liability are subsequently Premiums and discounts are amortized or accreted to interest accounted for in the same manner as other components of the income at a constant effective yield over the contractual lives of carrying value of that asset or liability. For interest-earning assets the securities. Realized gains and losses from the sales of debt and interest-bearing liabilities, such adjustments are amortized to securities are determined using the specific identification method. earnings over the remaining life of the respective asset or liability. Marketable equity securities are classified based on Cash flow hedges are used primarily to minimize the variability management’s intention on the date of purchase and recorded on in cash flows of assets and liabilities, or forecasted transactions the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of the trade date. Marketable caused by interest rate or foreign exchange rate fluctuations. equity securities that are bought and held principally for the Changes in the fair value of derivatives used in cash flow hedges purpose of resale in the near term are classified as trading and are recorded in accumulated OCI and are reclassified into the line are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included item in the income statement in which the hedged item is recorded in trading account profits. Other marketable equity securities are in the same period the hedged item affects earnings. Hedge accounted for as AFS and classified in other assets. All AFS ineffectiveness and gains and losses on the component of a marketable equity securities are carried at fair value with net derivative excluded in assessing hedge effectiveness are recorded unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated OCI, net-ofin the same income statement line item. tax. If there is an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value of Net investment hedges are used to manage the foreign any individual AFS marketable equity security, the cost basis is exchange rate sensitivity arising from a net investment in a foreign reduced and the Corporation reclassifies the associated net operation. Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as unrealized loss out of accumulated OCI with a corresponding net investment hedges of foreign operations, to the extent charge to other income. Dividend income on AFS marketable equity effective, are recorded as a component of accumulated OCI. securities is included in other income. Realized gains and losses on the sale of all AFS marketable equity securities, which are Securities recorded in other income, are determined using the specific Debt securities are reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheet identification method. at their trade date. Their classification is dependent on the purpose for which the assets were acquired. Debt securities purchased for Loans and Leases use in the Corporation’s trading activities are reported in trading Loans, with the exception of loans accounted for under the fair account assets at fair value with unrealized gains and losses value option, are measured at historical cost and reported at their included in trading account profits. Substantially all other debt outstanding principal balances net of any unearned income, securities purchased are used in the Corporation’s asset and charge-offs, unamortized deferred fees and costs on originated liability management (ALM) activities and are reported on the loans, and for purchased loans, net of any unamortized premiums Consolidated Balance Sheet as either debt securities carried at or discounts. Loan origination fees and certain direct origination fair value or as debt securities held-to-maturity (HTM). Debt costs are deferred and recognized as adjustments to interest securities carried at fair value are either available-for-sale (AFS) income over the lives of the related loans. Unearned income, securities with unrealized gains and losses net-of-tax included in discounts and premiums are amortized to interest income using accumulated OCI or carried at fair value with unrealized gains and a level yield methodology. The Corporation elects to account for losses reported in other income. Debt securities HTM, which are certain consumer and commercial loans under the fair value option certain debt securities that management has the intent and ability with changes in fair value reported in other income. to hold to maturity, are reported at amortized cost. Under applicable accounting guidance, for reporting purposes, The Corporation regularly evaluates each AFS and HTM debt the loan and lease portfolio is categorized by portfolio segment security where the value has declined below amortized cost to and, within each portfolio segment, by class of financing assess whether the decline in fair value is other than temporary. receivables. A portfolio segment is defined as the level at which In determining whether an impairment is other than temporary, the an entity develops and documents a systematic methodology to Corporation considers the severity and duration of the decline in determine the allowance for credit losses, and a class of financing fair value, the length of time expected for recovery, the financial receivables is defined as the level of disaggregation of portfolio condition of the issuer, and other qualitative factors, as well as segments based on the initial measurement attribute, risk whether the Corporation either plans to sell the security or it is characteristics and methods for assessing risk. The Corporation’s more-likely-than-not that it will be required to sell the security before three portfolio segments are Consumer Real Estate, Credit Card recovery of the amortized cost. For AFS debt securities the and Other Consumer, and Commercial. The classes within the Corporation intends to hold, an analysis is performed to determine Consumer Real Estate portfolio segment are residential mortgage how much of the decline in fair value is related to the issuer’s and home equity. The classes within the Credit Card and Other credit and how much is related to market factors (e.g., interest Consumer portfolio segment are U.S. credit card, non-U.S. credit rates). If any of the decline in fair value is due to credit, an othercard (sold in 2017), direct/indirect consumer and other consumer. than-temporary impairment (OTTI) loss is recognized in the The classes within the Commercial portfolio segment are U.S. Consolidated Statement of Income for that amount. If any of the commercial, non-U.S. commercial, commercial real estate, decline in fair value is related to market factors, that amount is commercial lease financing and U.S. small business commercial. recognized in accumulated OCI. In certain instances, the credit Bank of America 2017 125 Purchased Credit-impaired Loans (SBLCs) and binding unfunded loan commitments, represents Purchased loans with evidence of credit quality deterioration as estimated probable credit losses on these unfunded credit of the purchase date for which it is probable that the Corporation instruments based on utilization assumptions. Lending-related will not receive all contractually required payments receivable are credit exposures deemed to be uncollectible, excluding loans accounted for as purchased credit-impaired (PCI) loans. Evidence carried at fair value, are charged off against these accounts. Writeof credit quality deterioration since origination may include past offs on PCI loans on which there is a valuation allowance are due status, refreshed credit scores and refreshed loan-to-value recorded against the valuation allowance. For more information, (LTV) ratios. At acquisition, PCI loans are recorded at fair value see Purchased Credit-impaired Loans in this Note. with no allowance for credit losses, and accounted for individually The Corporation performs periodic and systematic detailed or aggregated in pools based on similar risk characteristics such reviews of its lending portfolios to identify credit risks and to as credit risk, collateral type and interest rate risk. The Corporation assess the overall collectability of those portfolios. The allowance estimates the amount and timing of expected cash flows for each on certain homogeneous consumer loan portfolios, which loan or pool of loans. The expected cash flows in excess of the generally consist of consumer real estate loans within the amount paid for the loans is referred to as the accretable yield Consumer Real Estate portfolio segment and credit card loans and is recorded as interest income over the remaining estimated within the Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segment, is life of the loan or pool of loans. The excess of the PCI loans’ based on aggregated portfolio segment evaluations generally by contractual principal and interest over the expected cash flows is product type. Loss forecast models are utilized for these portfolios referred to as the nonaccretable difference. Over the life of the which consider a variety of factors including, but not limited to, PCI loans, the expected cash flows continue to be estimated using historical loss experience, estimated defaults or foreclosures models that incorporate management’s estimate of current based on portfolio trends, delinquencies, bankruptcies, economic assumptions such as default rates, loss severity and prepayment conditions, credit scores and the amount of loss in the event of speeds. If, upon subsequent valuation, the Corporation default. determines it is probable that the present value of the expected For consumer loans secured by residential real estate, using cash flows has decreased, a charge to the provision for credit statistical modeling methodologies, the Corporation estimates the losses is recorded with a corresponding increase in the allowance number of loans that will default based on the individual loan for credit losses. If it is probable that there is a significant increase attributes aggregated into pools of homogeneous loans with in the present value of expected cash flows, the allowance for similar attributes. The attributes that are most significant to the credit losses is reduced or, if there is no remaining allowance for probability of default and are used to estimate defaults include credit losses related to these PCI loans, the accretable yield is refreshed LTV or, in the case of a subordinated lien, refreshed increased through a reclassification from nonaccretable combined LTV (CLTV), borrower credit score, months since difference, resulting in a prospective increase in interest income. origination (referred to as vintage) and geography, all of which are Reclassifications to or from nonaccretable difference can also further broken down by present collection status (whether the loan occur for changes in the PCI loans’ estimated lives. If a loan within is current, delinquent, in default or in bankruptcy). The severity or a PCI pool is sold, foreclosed, forgiven or the expectation of any loss given default is estimated based on the refreshed LTV for first future proceeds is remote, the loan is removed from the pool at mortgages or CLTV for subordinated liens. The estimates are its proportional carrying value. If the loan’s recovery value is less based on the Corporation’s historical experience with the loan than the loan’s carrying value, the difference is first applied against portfolio, adjusted to reflect an assessment of environmental the PCI pool’s nonaccretable difference and then against the factors not yet reflected in the historical data underlying the loss allowance for credit losses. estimates, such as changes in real estate values, local and national economies, underwriting standards and the regulatory Leases environment. The probability of default models also incorporate The Corporation provides equipment financing to its customers recent experience with modification programs including re-defaults through a variety of lease arrangements. Direct financing leases subsequent to modification, a loan’s default history prior to are carried at the aggregate of lease payments receivable plus modification and the change in borrower payments postestimated residual value of the leased property less unearned modification. On home equity loans where the Corporation holds income. Leveraged leases, which are a form of financing leases, only a second-lien position and foreclosure is not the best are reported net of non-recourse debt. Unearned income on alternative, the loss severity is estimated at 100 percent. leveraged and direct financing leases is accreted to interest The allowance on certain commercial loans (except business income over the lease terms using methods that approximate the card and certain small business loans) is calculated using loss interest method. rates delineated by risk rating and product type. Factors considered when assessing loss rates include the value of the underlying Allowance for Credit Losses collateral, if applicable, the industry of the obligor, and the obligor’s The allowance for credit losses, which includes the allowance for liquidity and other financial indicators along with certain qualitative loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending factors. These statistical models are updated regularly for changes commitments, represents management’s estimate of probable in economic and business conditions. Included in the analysis of losses inherent in the Corporation’s lending activities excluding consumer and commercial loan portfolios are reserves which are loans and unfunded lending commitments accounted for under maintained to cover uncertainties that affect the Corporation’s the fair value option. The allowance for loan and lease losses estimate of probable losses including domestic and global represents the estimated probable credit losses on funded economic uncertainty and large single-name defaults. consumer and commercial loans and leases while the reserve for unfunded lending commitments, including standby letters of credit 126 Bank of America 2017 For impaired loans, which include nonperforming commercial portfolio). Residential mortgage loans in the fully-insured portfolio loans as well as consumer and commercial loans and leases are not placed on nonaccrual status and, therefore, are not modified in a troubled debt restructuring (TDR), management reported as nonperforming. Junior-lien home equity loans are measures impairment primarily based on the present value of placed on nonaccrual status and classified as nonperforming when payments expected to be received, discounted at the loans’ the underlying first-lien mortgage loan becomes 90 days past due original effective contractual interest rates. Credit card loans are even if the junior-lien loan is current. The outstanding balance of discounted at the portfolio average contractual annual percentage real estate-secured loans that is in excess of the estimated rate, excluding promotionally priced loans, in effect prior to property value less costs to sell is charged off no later than the restructuring. Impaired loans and TDRs may also be measured end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days past due based on observable market prices, or for loans that are solely unless the loan is fully insured, or for loans in bankruptcy, within dependent on the collateral for repayment, the estimated fair value 60 days of receipt of notification of filing, with the remaining of the collateral less costs to sell. If the recorded investment in balance classified as nonperforming. impaired loans exceeds this amount, a specific allowance is Consumer loans secured by personal property, credit card loans established as a component of the allowance for loan and lease and other unsecured consumer loans are not placed on nonaccrual losses unless these are secured consumer loans that are solely status prior to charge-off and, therefore, are not reported as dependent on the collateral for repayment, in which case the nonperforming loans, except for certain secured consumer loans, amount that exceeds the fair value of the collateral is charged off. including those that have been modified in a TDR. Personal Generally, the Corporation initially estimates the fair value of property-secured loans (including auto loans) are charged off to the collateral securing these consumer real estate-secured loans collateral value no later than the end of the month in which the using an automated valuation model (AVM). An AVM is a tool that account becomes 120 days past due, or upon repossession of an estimates the value of a property by reference to market data auto or, for loans in bankruptcy, within 60 days of receipt of including sales of comparable properties and price trends specific notification of filing. Credit card and other unsecured customer to the Metropolitan Statistical Area in which the property being loans are charged off no later than the end of the month in which valued is located. In the event that an AVM value is not available, the account becomes 180 days past due or within 60 days after the Corporation utilizes publicized indices or if these methods receipt of notification of death, bankruptcy or fraud. provide less reliable valuations, the Corporation uses appraisals Commercial loans and leases, excluding business card loans, or broker price opinions to estimate the fair value of the collateral. that are past due 90 days or more as to principal or interest, or While there is inherent imprecision in these valuations, the where reasonable doubt exists as to timely collection, including Corporation believes that they are representative of the portfolio loans that are individually identified as being impaired, are in the aggregate. generally placed on nonaccrual status and classified as In addition to the allowance for loan and lease losses, the nonperforming unless well-secured and in the process of Corporation also estimates probable losses related to unfunded collection. lending commitments, such as letters of credit, financial Business card loans are charged off no later than the end of guarantees and binding unfunded loan commitments. Unfunded the month in which the account becomes 180 days past due or lending commitments are subject to individual reviews and are 60 days after receipt of notification of death or bankruptcy. These analyzed and segregated by risk according to the Corporation’s loans are not placed on nonaccrual status prior to charge-off and, internal risk rating scale. These risk classifications, in conjunction therefore, are not reported as nonperforming loans. Other with an analysis of historical loss experience, utilization commercial loans and leases are generally charged off when all assumptions, current economic conditions, performance trends or a portion of the principal amount is determined to be within the portfolio and any other pertinent information, result in uncollectible. the estimation of the reserve for unfunded lending commitments. The entire balance of a consumer loan or commercial loan or The allowance for credit losses related to the loan and lease lease is contractually delinquent if the minimum payment is not portfolio is reported separately on the Consolidated Balance Sheet received by the specified due date on the customer’s billing whereas the reserve for unfunded lending commitments is statement. Interest and fees continue to accrue on past due loans reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in accrued expenses and leases until the date the loan is placed on nonaccrual status, and other liabilities. The provision for credit losses related to the if applicable. Accrued interest receivable is reversed when loans loan and lease portfolio and unfunded lending commitments is and leases are placed on nonaccrual status. Interest collections reported in the Consolidated Statement of Income. on nonaccruing loans and leases for which the ultimate collectability of principal is uncertain are applied as principal Nonperforming Loans and Leases, Charge-offs and reductions; otherwise, such collections are credited to income Delinquencies when received. Loans and leases may be restored to accrual status Nonperforming loans and leases generally include loans and when all principal and interest is current and full repayment of the leases that have been placed on nonaccrual status. Loans remaining contractual principal and interest is expected. accounted for under the fair value option, PCI loans and LHFS are PCI loans are recorded at fair value at the acquisition date. not reported as nonperforming. Although the PCI loans may be contractually delinquent, the In accordance with the Corporation’s policies, consumer real Corporation does not classify these loans as nonperforming as estate-secured loans, including residential mortgages and home the loans were written down to fair value at the acquisition date equity loans, are generally placed on nonaccrual status and and the accretable yield is recognized in interest income over the classified as nonperforming at 90 days past due unless repayment remaining life of the loan. In addition, reported net charge-offs of the loan is insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) exclude write-offs on PCI loans as the fair value already considers or through individually insured long-term standby agreements with the estimated credit losses. Fannie Mae (FNMA) or Freddie Mac (FHLMC) (the fully-insured Bank of America 2017 127 Troubled Debt Restructurings shorter of lease term or estimated useful life for leasehold Consumer and commercial loans and leases whose contractual improvements. terms have been restructured in a manner that grants a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties are classified as Goodwill and Intangible Assets TDRs. Concessions could include a reduction in the interest rate Goodwill is the purchase premium after adjusting for the fair value to a rate that is below market on the loan, payment extensions, of net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is reviewed forgiveness of principal, forbearance or other actions designed to for potential impairment on an annual basis, or when events or maximize collections. Loans that are carried at fair value, LHFS circumstances indicate a potential impairment, at the reporting and PCI loans are not classified as TDRs. unit level. A reporting unit is a business segment or one level below Loans and leases whose contractual terms have been modified a business segment. The Corporation compares the fair value of in a TDR and are current at the time of restructuring may remain each reporting unit with its carrying value, including goodwill, as on accrual status if there is demonstrated performance prior to measured by allocated equity. For purposes of goodwill impairment the restructuring and payment in full under the restructured terms testing, the Corporation utilizes allocated equity as a proxy for the is expected. Otherwise, the loans are placed on nonaccrual status carrying value of its reporting units. Allocated equity in the and reported as nonperforming, except for fully-insured consumer reporting units is comprised of allocated capital plus capital for real estate loans, until there is sustained repayment performance the portion of goodwill and intangibles specifically assigned to the for a reasonable period, generally six months. If accruing TDRs reporting unit. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its cease to perform in accordance with their modified contractual carrying value, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not terms, they are placed on nonaccrual status and reported as impaired; however, if the carrying value of the reporting unit nonperforming TDRs. exceeds its fair value, an additional step must be performed to Secured consumer loans that have been discharged in Chapter measure potential impairment. 7 bankruptcy and have not been reaffirmed by the borrower are This step involves calculating an implied fair value of goodwill classified as TDRs at the time of discharge. Such loans are placed which is the excess of the fair value of the reporting unit, as on nonaccrual status and written down to the estimated collateral determined in the first step, over the aggregate fair values of the value less costs to sell no later than at the time of discharge. If assets, liabilities and identifiable intangibles as if the reporting these loans are contractually current, interest collections are unit was being acquired in a business combination. If the implied generally recorded in interest income on a cash basis. Consumer fair value of goodwill exceeds the goodwill assigned to the reporting real estate-secured loans for which a binding offer to restructure unit, there is no impairment. If the goodwill assigned to a reporting has been extended are also classified as TDRs. Credit card and unit exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill, an impairment other unsecured consumer loans that have been renegotiated in charge is recorded for the excess. An impairment loss recognized a TDR generally remain on accrual status until the loan is either cannot exceed the amount of goodwill assigned to a reporting unit. paid in full or charged off, which occurs no later than the end of An impairment loss establishes a new basis in the goodwill and the month in which the loan becomes 180 days past due or, for subsequent reversals of goodwill impairment losses are not loans that have been placed on a fixed payment plan, 120 days permitted under applicable accounting guidance. past due. For intangible assets subject to amortization, an impairment A loan that had previously been modified in a TDR and is loss is recognized if the carrying value of the intangible asset is subsequently refinanced under current underwriting standards at not recoverable and exceeds fair value. The carrying value of the a market rate with no concessionary terms is accounted for as a intangible asset is considered not recoverable if it exceeds the new loan and is no longer reported as a TDR. sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset. Intangible assets deemed to have indefinite Loans Held-for-sale useful lives are not subject to amortization. An impairment loss Loans that are intended to be sold in the foreseeable future, is recognized if the carrying value of the intangible asset with an including residential mortgages, loan syndications, and to a lesser indefinite life exceeds its fair value. degree, commercial real estate, consumer finance and other loans, are reported as LHFS and are carried at the lower of aggregate Variable Interest Entities cost or fair value. The Corporation accounts for certain LHFS, A VIE is an entity that lacks equity investors or whose equity including residential mortgage LHFS, under the fair value option. investors do not have a controlling financial interest in the entity Loan origination costs related to LHFS that the Corporation through their equity investments. The Corporation consolidates a accounts for under the fair value option are recognized in VIE if it has both the power to direct the activities of the VIE that noninterest expense when incurred. Loan origination costs for most significantly impact the VIE’s economic performance and an LHFS carried at the lower of cost or fair value are capitalized as obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that part of the carrying value of the loans and recognized as a reduction could potentially be significant to the VIE. On a quarterly basis, of noninterest income upon the sale of such loans. LHFS that are the Corporation reassesses its involvement with the VIE and on nonaccrual status and are reported as nonperforming, as evaluates the impact of changes in governing documents and its defined in the policy herein, are reported separately from financial interests in the VIE. The consolidation status of the VIEs nonperforming loans and leases. with which the Corporation is involved may change as a result of such reassessments. Premises and Equipment The Corporation primarily uses VIEs for its securitization Premises and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated activities, in which the Corporation transfers whole loans or debt depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are securities into a trust or other vehicle. When the Corporation is recognized using the straight-line method over the estimated the servicer of whole loans held in a securitization trust, including useful lives of the assets. Estimated lives range up to 40 years non-agency residential mortgages, home equity loans, credit cards, for buildings, up to 12 years for furniture and equipment, and the and other loans, the Corporation has the power to direct the most significant activities of the trust. The Corporation generally does 128 Bank of America 2017 not have the power to direct the most significant activities of a the inputs to the valuation technique with the highest priority given residential mortgage agency trust except in certain circumstances to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets and the lowest in which the Corporation holds substantially all of the issued priority given to unobservable inputs. The Corporation categorizes securities and has the unilateral right to liquidate the trust. The its fair value measurements of financial instruments based on this power to direct the most significant activities of a commercial three-level hierarchy. mortgage securitization trust is typically held by the special servicer or by the party holding specific subordinate securities Level 1 Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical which embody certain controlling rights. The Corporation assets or liabilities. Level 1 assets and liabilities include consolidates a whole-loan securitization trust if it has the power debt and equity securities and derivative contracts that to direct the most significant activities and also holds securities are traded in an active exchange market, as well as issued by the trust or has other contractual arrangements, other certain U.S. Treasury securities that are highly liquid and than standard representations and warranties, that could are actively traded in OTC markets. potentially be significant to the trust. Level 2 Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as The Corporation may also transfer trading account securities quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted and AFS securities into municipal bond or resecuritization trusts. prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that The Corporation consolidates a municipal bond or resecuritization are observable or can be corroborated by observable trust if it has control over the ongoing activities of the trust such market data for substantially the full term of the assets as the remarketing of the trust’s liabilities or, if there are no ongoing or liabilities. Level 2 assets and liabilities include debt activities, sole discretion over the design of the trust, including securities with quoted prices that are traded less the identification of securities to be transferred in and the structure frequently than exchange-traded instruments and of securities to be issued, and also retains securities or has derivative contracts where fair value is determined using liquidity or other commitments that could potentially be significant a pricing model with inputs that are observable in the to the trust. The Corporation does not consolidate a municipal market or can be derived principally from or corroborated bond or resecuritization trust if one or a limited number of thirdby observable market data. This category generally party investors share responsibility for the design of the trust or includes U.S. government and agency mortgage-backed have control over the significant activities of the trust through (MBS) and asset-backed securities (ABS), corporate debt liquidation or other substantive rights. securities, derivative contracts, certain loans and LHFS. Other VIEs used by the Corporation include collateralized debt Level 3 Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no obligations (CDOs), investment vehicles created on behalf of market activity and that are significant to the overall fair customers and other investment vehicles. The Corporation does value of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 assets and not routinely serve as collateral manager for CDOs and, therefore, liabilities include financial instruments for which the does not typically have the power to direct the activities that most determination of fair value requires significant significantly impact the economic performance of a CDO. However, management judgment or estimation. The fair value for following an event of default, if the Corporation is a majority holder such assets and liabilities is generally determined using of senior securities issued by a CDO and acquires the power to pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or manage its assets, the Corporation consolidates the CDO. similar techniques that incorporate the assumptions a The Corporation consolidates a customer or other investment market participant would use in pricing the asset or vehicle if it has control over the initial design of the vehicle or liability. This category generally includes retained manages the assets in the vehicle and also absorbs potentially residual interests in securitizations, consumer MSRs, significant gains or losses through an investment in the vehicle, certain ABS, highly structured, complex or long-dated derivative contracts or other arrangements. The Corporation does derivative contracts, certain loans and LHFS, IRLCs and not consolidate an investment vehicle if a single investor controlled certain CDOs where independent pricing information the initial design of the vehicle or manages the assets in the cannot be obtained for a significant portion of the vehicles or if the Corporation does not have a variable interest underlying assets. that could potentially be significant to the vehicle. Income Taxes Retained interests in securitized assets are initially recorded There are two components of income tax expense: current and at fair value. In addition, the Corporation may invest in debt deferred. Current income tax expense reflects taxes to be paid or securities issued by unconsolidated VIEs. Fair values of these debt refunded for the current period. Deferred income tax expense securities, which are classified as trading account assets, debt results from changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities between securities carried at fair value or HTM securities, are based periods. These gross deferred tax assets and liabilities represent primarily on quoted market prices in active or inactive markets. decreases or increases in taxes expected to be paid in the future Generally, quoted market prices for retained residual interests are because of future reversals of temporary differences in the bases not available; therefore, the Corporation estimates fair values of assets and liabilities as measured by tax laws and their bases based on the present value of the associated expected future cash as reported in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets are flows. also recognized for tax attributes such as net operating loss Fair Value carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards. Valuation allowances The Corporation measures the fair values of its assets and are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts liabilities, where applicable, in accordance with accounting management concludes are more-likely-than-not to be realized. guidance that requires an entity to base fair value on exit price. Income tax benefits are recognized and measured based upon Under this guidance, an entity is required to maximize the use of a two-step model: first, a tax position must be more-likely-than-not observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs to be sustained based solely on its technical merits in order to be in measuring fair value. A hierarchy is established which recognized, and second, the benefit is measured as the largest categorizes fair value measurements into three levels based on dollar amount of that position that is more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon settlement. The difference between the benefit Bank of America 2017 129 recognized and the tax benefit claimed on a tax return is referred dilutive convertible preferred stock and preferred stock that can to as an unrecognized tax benefit. The Corporation records income be tendered to exercise warrants, by the weighted-average common tax-related interest and penalties, if applicable, within income tax shares outstanding plus amounts representing the dilutive effect expense. of stock options outstanding, restricted stock, restricted stock units (RSUs), outstanding warrants and the dilution resulting from Revenue Recognition the conversion of convertible preferred stock, if applicable. Revenue is recorded when earned, which is generally over the period services are provided and no contingencies exist. The Foreign Currency Translation following summarizes the Corporation’s revenue recognition Assets, liabilities and operations of foreign branches and policies as they relate to certain noninterest income line items in subsidiaries are recorded based on the functional currency of each the Consolidated Statement of Income. entity. When the functional currency of a foreign operation is the Card income includes fees such as interchange, cash advance, local currency, the assets, liabilities and operations are translated, annual, late, over-limit and other miscellaneous fees. Uncollected for consolidation purposes, from the local currency to the U.S. fees are included in customer card receivables balances with an dollar reporting currency at period-end rates for assets and amount recorded in the allowance for loan and lease losses for liabilities and generally at average rates for results of operations. estimated uncollectible card receivables. Uncollected fees are The resulting unrealized gains and losses are reported as a written off when a card receivable reaches 180 days past due. component of accumulated OCI, net-of-tax. When the foreign Service charges include fees for insufficient funds, overdrafts entity’s functional currency is the U.S. dollar, the resulting and other banking services. Uncollected fees are included in remeasurement gains or losses on foreign currency-denominated outstanding loan balances with an amount recorded for estimated assets or liabilities are included in earnings. uncollectible service fees receivable. Uncollected fees are written off when a fee receivable reaches 60 days past due. Credit Card and Deposit Arrangements Investment and brokerage services revenue consists primarily Endorsing Organization Agreements of asset management fees and brokerage income. Asset The Corporation contracts with other organizations to obtain their management fees consist primarily of fees for investment endorsement of the Corporation’s loan and deposit products. This management and trust services and are generally based on the endorsement may provide to the Corporation exclusive rights to dollar amount of the assets being managed. Brokerage income market to the organization’s members or to customers on behalf generally includes commissions and fees earned on the sale of of the Corporation. These organizations endorse the Corporation’s various financial products. loan and deposit products and provide the Corporation with their Investment banking income consists primarily of advisory and mailing lists and marketing activities. These agreements generally underwriting fees which are generally recognized net of any direct have terms that range five or more years. The Corporation typically expenses. Non-reimbursed expenses are recorded as noninterest pays royalties in exchange for the endorsement. Compensation expense. costs related to the credit card agreements are recorded as contraEarnings Per Common Share revenue in card income. Earnings per common share (EPS) is computed by dividing net Cardholder Reward Agreements income allocated to common shareholders by the weightedThe Corporation offers reward programs that allow its cardholders average common shares outstanding, excluding unvested common to earn points that can be redeemed for a broad range of rewards shares subject to repurchase or cancellation. Net income allocated including cash, travel and gift cards. The Corporation establishes to common shareholders is net income adjusted for preferred a rewards liability based upon the points earned that are expected stock dividends including dividends declared, accretion of to be redeemed and the average cost per point redeemed. The discounts on preferred stock including accelerated accretion when points to be redeemed are estimated based on past redemption preferred stock is repaid early, and cumulative dividends related behavior, card product type, account transaction activity and other to the current dividend period that have not been declared as of historical card performance. The liability is reduced as the points period end, less income allocated to participating securities (see are redeemed. The estimated cost of the rewards programs is below for more information). Diluted EPS is computed by dividing recorded as contra-revenue in card income. income allocated to common shareholders plus dividends on 130 Bank of America 2017 NOTE 2 Derivatives activities, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles. The following tables present derivative instruments Derivative Balances included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in derivative assets Derivatives are entered into on behalf of customers, for trading or and liabilities at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Balances are to support risk management activities. Derivatives used in risk presented on a gross basis, prior to the application of counterparty management activities include derivatives that may or may not be and cash collateral netting. Total derivative assets and liabilities designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships. are adjusted on an aggregate basis to take into consideration the Derivatives that are not designated in qualifying hedge accounting effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements and have relationships are referred to as other risk management derivatives. been reduced by the cash collateral received or paid. For more information on the Corporation’s derivatives and hedging December 31, 2017 Gross Derivative Assets Gross Derivative Liabilities Trading and Trading and Other Risk Qualifying Other Risk Qualifying Contract/ Management Accounting Management Accounting (Dollars in billions) Notional (1) Derivatives Hedges Total Derivatives Hedges Total Interest rate contracts Swaps (2) $ 15,416.4 $ 175.1 $ 2.9 $ 178.0 $ 172.5 $ 1.7 $ 174.2 Futures and forwards (2) 4,332.4 0.5 — 0.5 0.5 — 0.5 Written options 1,170.5 — — — 35.5 — 35.5 Purchased options 1,184.5 37.6 — 37.6 — — — Foreign exchange contracts Swaps 2,011.1 35.6 2.2 37.8 36.1 2.7 38.8 Spot, futures and forwards 3,543.3 39.1 0.7 39.8 39.1 0.8 39.9 Written options 291.8 — — — 5.1 — 5.1 Purchased options 271.9 4.6 — 4.6 — — — Equity contracts Swaps 265.6 4.8 — 4.8 4.4 — 4.4 Futures and forwards 106.9 1.5 — 1.5 0.9 — 0.9 Written options 480.8 — — — 23.9 — 23.9 Purchased options 428.2 24.7 — 24.7 — — — Commodity contracts Swaps 46.1 1.8 — 1.8 4.6 — 4.6 Futures and forwards 47.1 3.5 — 3.5 0.6 — 0.6 Written options 21.7 — — — 1.4 — 1.4 Purchased options 22.9 1.4 — 1.4 — — — Credit derivatives (3) Purchased credit derivatives: Credit default swaps (2) 470.9 4.1 — 4.1 11.1 — 11.1 Total return swaps/options 54.1 0.1 — 0.1 1.3 — 1.3 Written credit derivatives: Credit default swaps (2) 448.2 10.6 — 10.6 3.6 — 3.6 Total return swaps/options 55.2 0.8 — 0.8 0.2 — 0.2 Gross derivative assets/liabilities $ 345.8 $ 5.8 $ 351.6 $ 340.8 $ 5.2 $ 346.0 Less: Legally enforceable master netting agreements (2) (279.2) (279.2) Less: Cash collateral received/paid (2) (34.6) (32.5) Total derivative assets/liabilities $ 37.8 $ 34.3 (1) Represents the total contract/notional amount of derivative assets and liabilities outstanding. (2) Derivative assets and liabilities reflect the effects of contractual amendments by two central clearing counterparties to legally re-characterize daily cash variation margin from collateral, which secures an outstanding exposure, to settlement, which discharges an outstanding exposure. One of these central clearing counterparties amended its governing documents, which became effective in January 2017. In addition, the Corporation elected to transfer its existing positions to the settlement platform for the other central clearing counterparty in September 2017. (3) The net derivative asset and notional amount of written credit derivatives for which the Corporation held purchased credit derivatives with identical underlying referenced names were $6.4 billion and $435.1 billion at December 31, 2017. Bank of America 2017 131 December 31, 2016 Gross Derivative Assets Gross Derivative Liabilities Trading and Trading and Other Risk Qualifying Other Risk Qualifying Contract/ Management Accounting Management Accounting (Dollars in billions) Notional (1) Derivatives Hedges Total Derivatives Hedges Total Interest rate contracts Swaps $ 16,977.7 $ 385.0 $ 5.9 $ 390.9 $ 386.9 $ 2.0 $ 388.9 Futures and forwards 5,609.5 2.2 — 2.2 2.1 — 2.1 Written options 1,146.2 — — — 52.2 — 52.2 Purchased options 1,178.7 53.3 — 53.3 — — — Foreign exchange contracts Swaps 1,828.6 54.6 4.2 58.8 58.8 6.2 65.0 Spot, futures and forwards 3,410.7 58.8 1.7 60.5 56.6 0.8 57.4 Written options 356.6 — — — 9.4 — 9.4 Purchased options 342.4 8.9 — 8.9 — — — Equity contracts Swaps 189.7 3.4 — 3.4 4.0 — 4.0 Futures and forwards 68.7 0.9 — 0.9 0.9 — 0.9 Written options 431.5 — — — 21.4 — 21.4 Purchased options 385.5 23.9 — 23.9 — — — Commodity contracts Swaps 48.2 2.5 — 2.5 5.1 — 5.1 Futures and forwards 49.1 3.6 — 3.6 0.5 — 0.5 Written options 29.3 — — — 1.9 — 1.9 Purchased options 28.9 2.0 — 2.0 — — — Credit derivatives (2) Purchased credit derivatives: Credit default swaps 604.0 8.1 — 8.1 10.3 — 10.3 Total return swaps/options 21.2 0.4 — 0.4 1.5 — 1.5 Written credit derivatives: Credit default swaps 614.4 10.7 — 10.7 7.5 — 7.5 Total return swaps/options 25.4 1.0 — 1.0 0.2 — 0.2 Gross derivative assets/liabilities $ 619.3 $ 11.8 $ 631.1 $ 619.3 $ 9.0 $ 628.3 Less: Legally enforceable master netting agreements (545.3) (545.3) Less: Cash collateral received/paid (43.3) (43.5) Total derivative assets/liabilities $ 42.5 $ 39.5 (1) Represents the total contract/notional amount of derivative assets and liabilities outstanding. (2) The net derivative asset and notional amount of written credit derivatives for which the Corporation held purchased credit derivatives with identical underlying referenced names were $2.2 billion and $548.9 billion at December 31, 2016. Offsetting of Derivatives Sheet at December 31, 2017 and 2016 by primary risk (e.g., The Corporation enters into International Swaps and Derivatives interest rate risk) and the platform, where applicable, on which Association, Inc. (ISDA) master netting agreements or similar these derivatives are transacted. Balances are presented on a agreements with substantially all of the Corporation’s derivative gross basis, prior to the application of counterparty and cash counterparties. Where legally enforceable, these master netting collateral netting. Total gross derivative assets and liabilities are agreements give the Corporation, in the event of default by the adjusted on an aggregate basis to take into consideration the counterparty, the right to liquidate securities held as collateral and effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements which to offset receivables and payables with the same counterparty. includes reducing the balance for counterparty netting and cash For purposes of the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Corporation collateral received or paid. offsets derivative assets and liabilities and cash collateral held For more information on offsetting of securities financing with the same counterparty where it has such a legally enforceable agreements, see Note 10 – Federal Funds Sold or Purchased, master netting agreement. Securities Financing Agreements and Short-term Borrowings. The following table presents derivative instruments included in derivative assets and liabilities on the Consolidated Balance 132 Bank of America 2017 Offsetting of Derivatives (1) Derivative Derivative Derivative Derivative Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities (Dollars in billions) December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Interest rate contracts Over-the-counter $ 211.7 $ 206.0 $ 267.3 $ 258.2 Over-the-counter cleared (2) 1.9 1.8 177.2 182.8 Foreign exchange contracts Over-the-counter 78.7 80.8 124.3 126.7 Over-the-counter cleared 0.9 0.7 0.3 0.3 Equity contracts Over-the-counter 18.3 16.2 15.6 13.7 Exchange-traded 9.1 8.5 11.4 10.8 Commodity contracts Over-the-counter 2.9 4.4 3.7 4.9 Exchange-traded 0.7 0.8 1.1 1.0 Credit derivatives Over-the-counter 9.1 9.6 15.3 14.7 Over-the-counter cleared (2) 6.1 6.0 4.3 4.3 Total gross derivative assets/liabilities, before netting Over-the-counter 320.7 317.0 426.2 418.2 Exchange-traded 9.8 9.3 12.5 11.8 Over-the-counter cleared (2) 8.9 8.5 181.8 187.4 Less: Legally enforceable master netting agreements and cash collateral received/paid Over-the-counter (296.9) (294.6) (398.2) (392.6) Exchange-traded (8.6) (8.6) (8.9) (8.9) Over-the-counter cleared (2) (8.3) (8.5) (181.5) (187.3) Derivative assets/liabilities, after netting 25.6 23.1 31.9 28.6 Other gross derivative assets/liabilities (3) 12.2 11.2 10.6 10.9 Total derivative assets/liabilities 37.8 34.3 42.5 39.5 Less: Financial instruments collateral (4) (11.2) (10.4) (13.5) (10.5) Total net derivative assets/liabilities $ 26.6 $ 23.9 $ 29.0 $ 29.0 (1) OTC derivatives include bilateral transactions between the Corporation and a particular counterparty. OTC-cleared derivatives include bilateral transactions between the Corporation and a counterparty where the transaction is cleared through a clearinghouse, and exchange-traded derivatives include listed options transacted on an exchange. (2) Derivative assets and liabilities reflect the effects of contractual amendments by two central clearing counterparties to legally re-characterize daily cash variation margin from collateral, which secures an outstanding exposure, to settlement, which discharges an outstanding exposure. One of these central clearing counterparties amended its governing documents, which became effective in January 2017. In addition, the Corporation elected to transfer its existing positions to the settlement platform for the other central clearing counterparty in September 2017. (3) Consists of derivatives entered into under master netting agreements where the enforceability of these agreements is uncertain under bankruptcy laws in some countries or industries. (4) Amounts are limited to the derivative asset/liability balance and, accordingly, do not include excess collateral received/pledged. Financial instruments collateral includes securities collateral received or pledged and cash securities held and posted at third-party custodians that are not offset on the Consolidated Balance Sheet but shown as a reduction to derive net derivative assets and liabilities. ALM and Risk Management Derivatives Market risk, including interest rate risk, can be substantial in The Corporation’s ALM and risk management activities include the the mortgage business. Market risk in the mortgage business is use of derivatives to mitigate risk to the Corporation including the risk that values of mortgage assets or revenues will be derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting adversely affected by changes in market conditions such as relationships and derivatives used in other risk management interest rate movements. To mitigate the interest rate risk in activities. Interest rate, foreign exchange, equity, commodity and mortgage banking production income, the Corporation utilizes credit contracts are utilized in the Corporation’s ALM and risk forward loan sale commitments and other derivative instruments, management activities. including purchased options, and certain debt securities. The The Corporation maintains an overall interest rate risk Corporation also utilizes derivatives such as interest rate options, management strategy that incorporates the use of interest rate interest rate swaps, forward settlement contracts and eurodollar contracts, which are generally non-leveraged generic interest rate futures to hedge certain market risks of MSRs. For more and basis swaps, options, futures and forwards, to minimize information on MSRs, see Note 20 – Fair Value Measurements. significant fluctuations in earnings caused by interest rate The Corporation uses foreign exchange contracts to manage volatility. The Corporation’s goal is to manage interest rate the foreign exchange risk associated with certain foreign currencysensitivity and volatility so that movements in interest rates do denominated assets and liabilities, as well as the Corporation’s not significantly adversely affect earnings or capital. As a result investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries. Foreign exchange contracts, of interest rate fluctuations, hedged fixed-rate assets and liabilities which include spot and forward contracts, represent agreements appreciate or depreciate in fair value. Gains or losses on the to exchange the currency of one country for the currency of another derivative instruments that are linked to the hedged fixed-rate country at an agreed-upon price on an agreed-upon settlement assets and liabilities are expected to substantially offset this date. Exposure to loss on these contracts will increase or decrease unrealized appreciation or depreciation. over their respective lives as currency exchange and interest rates fluctuate. Bank of America 2017 133 The Corporation purchases credit derivatives to manage credit risk have functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar using forward related to certain funded and unfunded credit exposures. Credit exchange contracts and cross-currency basis swaps, and by derivatives include credit default swaps (CDS), total return swaps issuing foreign currency-denominated debt (net investment and swaptions. These derivatives are recorded on the hedges). Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in other income. Fair Value Hedges The following table summarizes information related to fair value Derivatives Designated as Accounting Hedges hedges for 2017, 2016 and 2015, including hedges of interest The Corporation uses various types of interest rate, commodity rate risk on long-term debt that were acquired as part of a business and foreign exchange derivative contracts to protect against combination and redesignated at that time. At redesignation, the changes in the fair value of its assets and liabilities due to fair value of the derivatives was positive. As the derivatives mature, fluctuations in interest rates, commodity prices and exchange the fair value will approach zero. As a result, ineffectiveness will rates (fair value hedges). The Corporation also uses these types occur and the fair value changes in the derivatives and the longof contracts and equity derivatives to protect against changes in term debt being hedged may be directionally the same in certain the cash flows of its assets and liabilities, and other forecasted scenarios. Based on a regression analysis, the derivatives transactions (cash flow hedges). The Corporation hedges its net continue to be highly effective at offsetting changes in the fair investment in consolidated non-U.S. operations determined to value of the long-term debt attributable to interest rate risk. Derivatives Designated as Fair Value Hedges Gains (Losses) Derivative Hedged Item Hedge Ineffectiveness (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 Interest rate risk on long-term debt (1) $ (1,537) $ (1,488) $ (718) $ 1,045 $ 646 $ (77) $ (492) $ (842) $ (795) Interest rate and foreign currency risk on long-term debt (1) 1,811 (941) (1,898) (1,767) 944 1,812 44 3 (86) Interest rate risk on available-for-sale securities (2) (67) 227 105 35 (286) (127) (32) (59) (22) Total $ 207 $ (2,202) $ (2,511) $ (687) $ 1,304 $ 1,608 $ (480) $ (898) $ (903) (1) Amounts are recorded in interest expense on long-term debt and in other income. (2) Amounts are recorded in interest income on debt securities. Cash Flow and Net Investment Hedges related to the respective hedged items. Amounts related to price The table below summarizes certain information related to cash risk on restricted stock awards reclassified from accumulated OCI flow hedges and net investment hedges for 2017, 2016, and are recorded in personnel expense. For terminated cash flow 2015. Of the $831 million after-tax net loss ($1.3 billion pre-tax) hedges, the time period over which the majority of the forecasted on derivatives in accumulated OCI at December 31, 2017, $130 transactions are hedged is approximately seven years, with a million after-tax ($208 million pre-tax) is expected to be reclassified maximum length of time for certain forecasted transactions of 19 into earnings in the next 12 months. These net losses reclassified years. into earnings are expected to primarily reduce net interest income Derivatives Designated as Cash Flow and Net Investment Hedges Gains (Losses) Recognized in Gains (Losses) in Income Accumulated OCI on Derivatives Reclassified from Accumulated OCI (Dollars in millions, amounts pre-tax) 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 Cash flow hedges Interest rate risk on variable-rate portfolios $ (109) $ (340) $ 95 $ (327) $ (553) $ (974) Price risk on certain restricted stock awards (1) 59 41 (40) 148 (32) 91 Total (2) $ (50) $ (299) $ 55 $ (179) $ (585) $ (883) Net investment hedges Foreign exchange risk (3) $ (1,588) $ 1,636 $ 3,010 $ 1,782 $ 3 $ 153 (1) Gains (losses) recognized in accumulated OCI are primarily related to the change in the Corporation’s stock price for the period. (2) In 2017, 2016 and 2015, amounts representing hedge ineffectiveness were not significant. (3) In 2017, substantially all of the gains in income reclassified from accumulated OCI were comprised of the gain recognized on derivatives used to hedge the currency risk of the Corporation’s net investment in its non-U.S. consumer credit card business, which was sold in 2017. For more information, see Note 14 – Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss). In 2017, 2016 and 2015, amounts excluded from effectiveness testing in total were $120 million, $325 million and $298 million. 134 Bank of America 2017 Other Risk Management Derivatives Corporation received gross cash proceeds of $6.0 billion and $6.6 Other risk management derivatives are used by the Corporation billion at the transfer dates. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, to reduce certain risk exposures. These derivatives are not the fair value of the transferred securities was $6.1 billion and qualifying accounting hedges because either they did not qualify $6.3 billion. Derivative assets of $46 million and $43 million and for or were not designated as accounting hedges. The table below liabilities of $3 million and $10 million were recorded at December presents gains (losses) on these derivatives for 2017, 2016 and 31, 2017 and 2016, and are included in credit derivatives in the 2015. These gains (losses) are largely offset by the income or derivative instruments table on page 131. expense that is recorded on the hedged item. Sales and Trading Revenue The Corporation enters into trading derivatives to facilitate client Other Risk Management Derivatives transactions and to manage risk exposures arising from trading account assets and liabilities. It is the Corporation’s policy to Gains (Losses) include these derivative instruments in its trading activities which (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 include derivatives and non-derivative cash instruments. The Interest rate risk on mortgage banking income (1) $ 8 $ 461 $ 254 resulting risk from these derivatives is managed on a portfolio Credit risk on loans (2) (6) (107) (22) basis as part of the Corporation’s Global Markets business Interest rate and foreign currency risk on segment. The related sales and trading revenue generated within ALM activities (3) (36) (754) (222) Global Markets is recorded in various income statement line items Price risk on certain restricted stock including trading account profits and net interest income as well awards (4) 301 9 (267) as other revenue categories. (1) Net gains (losses) on these derivatives are recorded in mortgage banking income as they are Sales and trading revenue includes changes in the fair value used to mitigate the interest rate risk related to MSRs, IRLCs and mortgage LHFS, all of which are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in mortgage banking income. and realized gains and losses on the sales of trading and other The fair value of IRLCs is derived from the fair value of related mortgage loans which is based assets, net interest income, and fees primarily from commissions on observable market data and includes the expected net future cash flows related to servicing of the loans. The net gains on IRLCs related to the origination of mortgage loans that are heldon equity securities. Revenue is generated by the difference in the for-sale, which are not included in the table but are considered derivative instruments, were client price for an instrument and the price at which the trading $220 million, $533 million and $714 million for 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. (2) Primarily related to derivatives that are economic hedges of credit risk on loans. Net gains desk can execute the trade in the dealer market. For equity (losses) on these derivatives are recorded in other income. securities, commissions related to purchases and sales are (3) Primarily related to hedges of debt securities carried at fair value and hedges of foreign currencydenominated debt. Gains (losses) on these derivatives and the related hedged items are recorded in the “Other” column in the Sales and Trading Revenue recorded in other income. table. Changes in the fair value of these securities are included (4) Gains (losses) on these derivatives are recorded in personnel expense. in trading account profits. For debt securities, revenue, with the Transfers of Financial Assets with Risk Retained exception of interest associated with the debt securities, is typically included in trading account profits. Unlike commissions through Derivatives for equity securities, the initial revenue related to broker-dealer The Corporation enters into certain transactions involving the services for debt securities is typically included in the pricing of transfer of financial assets that are accounted for as sales where the instrument rather than being charged through separate fee substantially all of the economic exposure to the transferred arrangements. Therefore, this revenue is recorded in trading financial assets is retained through derivatives (e.g., interest rate account profits as part of the initial mark to fair value. For and/or credit), but the Corporation does not retain control over derivatives, the majority of revenue is included in trading account the assets transferred. Through December 31, 2017 and 2016, profits. In transactions where the Corporation acts as agent, which the Corporation transferred $6.0 billion and $6.6 billion of noninclude exchange-traded futures and options, fees are recorded in U.S. government-guaranteed MBS to a third-party trust and other income. retained economic exposure to the transferred assets through derivative contracts. In connection with these transfers, the Bank of America 2017 135 The table below, which includes both derivatives and nontable and in the Consolidated Statement of Income represents derivative cash instruments, identifies the amounts in the trading activities in business segments other than Global Markets. respective income statement line items attributable to the This table includes DVA and funding valuation adjustment (FVA) Corporation’s sales and trading revenue in Global Markets, gains (losses). Global Markets results in Note 23 – Business categorized by primary risk, for 2017, 2016 and 2015. The Segment Information are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent difference between total trading account profits in the following (FTE) basis. The following table is not presented on an FTE basis. Sales and Trading Revenue Trading Net Interest Account Profits Income Other (1) Total (Dollars in millions) 2017 Interest rate risk $ 1,145 $ 980 $ 417 $ 2,542 Foreign exchange risk 1,417 (1) (162) 1,254 Equity risk 2,689 (525) 1,904 4,068 Credit risk 1,251 2,537 577 4,365 Other risk 204 33 75 312 Total sales and trading revenue $ 6,706 $ 3,024 $ 2,811 $ 12,541 2016 Interest rate risk $ 1,613 $ 1,410 $ 304 $ 3,327 Foreign exchange risk 1,360 (10) (154) 1,196 Equity risk 1,917 20 2,074 4,011 Credit risk 1,250 2,569 424 4,243 Other risk 407 (20) 40 427 Total sales and trading revenue $ 6,547 $ 3,969 $ 2,688 $ 13,204 2015 Interest rate risk $ 1,290 $ 1,333 $ (259) $ 2,364 Foreign exchange risk 1,322 (10) (117) 1,195 Equity risk 2,115 56 2,152 4,323 Credit risk 920 2,333 445 3,698 Other risk 459 (81) 62 440 Total sales and trading revenue $ 6,106 $ 3,631 $ 2,283 $ 12,020 (1) Represents amounts in investment and brokerage services and other income that are recorded in Global Markets and included in the definition of sales and trading revenue. Includes investment and brokerage services revenue of $2.0 billion, $2.1 billion, and $2.2 billion for 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. Credit Derivatives as well as acceleration of indebtedness and payment repudiation The Corporation enters into credit derivatives primarily to facilitate or moratorium. For credit derivatives based on a portfolio of client transactions and to manage credit risk exposures. Credit referenced credits or credit indices, the Corporation may not be derivatives derive value based on an underlying third-party required to make payment until a specified amount of loss has referenced obligation or a portfolio of referenced obligations and occurred and/or may only be required to make payment up to a generally require the Corporation, as the seller of credit protection, specified amount. to make payments to a buyer upon the occurrence of a pre-defined Credit derivative instruments where the Corporation is the credit event. Such credit events generally include bankruptcy of seller of credit protection and their expiration at December 31, the referenced credit entity and failure to pay under the obligation, 2017 and 2016 are summarized in the following table. 136 Bank of America 2017 Credit Derivative Instruments Less than One to Three to Over Five One Year Three Years Five Years Years Total December 31, 2017 (Dollars in millions) Carrying Value Credit default swaps: Investment grade $ 4 $ 3 $ 61 $ 245 $ 313 Non-investment grade 203 453 484 2,133 3,273 Total 207 456 545 2,378 3,586 Total return swaps/options: Investment grade 30 — — — 30 Non-investment grade 150 — — 3 153 Total 180 — — 3 183 Total credit derivatives $ 387 $ 456 $ 545 $ 2,381 $ 3,769 Credit-related notes: Investment grade $ — $ — $ 7 $ 689 $ 696 Non-investment grade 12 4 34 1,548 1,598 Total credit-related notes $ 12 $ 4 $ 41 $ 2,237 $ 2,294 Maximum Payout/Notional Credit default swaps: Investment grade $ 61,388 $ 115,480 $ 107,081 $ 21,579 $ 305,528 Non-investment grade 39,312 49,843 39,098 14,420 142,673 Total 100,700 165,323 146,179 35,999 448,201 Total return swaps/options: Investment grade 37,394 2,581 — 143 40,118 Non-investment grade 13,751 514 143 697 15,105 Total 51,145 3,095 143 840 55,223 Total credit derivatives $ 151,845 $ 168,418 $ 146,322 $ 36,839 $ 503,424 December 31, 2016 Carrying Value Credit default swaps: Investment grade $ 10 $ 64 $ 535 $ 783 $ 1,392 Non-investment grade 771 1,053 908 3,339 6,071 Total 781 1,117 1,443 4,122 7,463 Total return swaps/options: Investment grade 16 — — — 16 Non-investment grade 127 10 2 1 140 Total 143 10 2 1 156 Total credit derivatives $ 924 $ 1,127 $ 1,445 $ 4,123 $ 7,619 Credit-related notes: Investment grade $ — $ 12 $ 542 $ 1,423 $ 1,977 Non-investment grade 70 22 60 1,318 1,470 Total credit-related notes $ 70 $ 34 $ 602 $ 2,741 $ 3,447 Maximum Payout/Notional Credit default swaps: Investment grade $ 121,083 $ 143,200 $ 116,540 $ 21,905 $ 402,728 Non-investment grade 84,755 67,160 41,001 18,711 211,627 Total 205,838 210,360 157,541 40,616 614,355 Total return swaps/options: Investment grade 12,792 — — — 12,792 Non-investment grade 6,638 5,127 589 208 12,562 Total 19,430 5,127 589 208 25,354 Total credit derivatives $ 225,268 $ 215,487 $ 158,130 $ 40,824 $ 639,709 Credit derivatives are classified as investment and nonnot take into consideration the probability of occurrence. As such, investment grade based on the credit quality of the underlying the notional amount is not a reliable indicator of the Corporation’s referenced obligation. The Corporation considers ratings of BBBexposure to these contracts. Instead, a risk framework is used to or higher as investment grade. Non-investment grade includes nondefine risk tolerances and establish limits so that certain credit rated credit derivative instruments. The Corporation discloses risk-related losses occur within acceptable, predefined limits. internal categorizations of investment grade and non-investment Credit-related notes in the table above include investments in grade consistent with how risk is managed for these instruments. securities issued by CDO, collateralized loan obligation (CLO) and The notional amount represents the maximum amount payable credit-linked note vehicles. These instruments are primarily by the Corporation for most credit derivatives. However, the classified as trading securities. The carrying value of these Corporation does not monitor its exposure to credit derivatives instruments equals the Corporation’s maximum exposure to loss. based solely on the notional amount because this measure does Bank of America 2017 137 The Corporation is not obligated to make any payments to the certain subsidiaries could be required to post to counterparties entities under the terms of the securities owned. but had not yet posted to counterparties was approximately $3.2 billion, including $2.1 billion for Bank of America, National Credit-related Contingent Features and Collateral Association (Bank of America, N.A. or BANA). The Corporation executes the majority of its derivative contracts Some counterparties are currently able to unilaterally in the OTC market with large, international financial institutions, terminate certain contracts, or the Corporation or certain including broker-dealers and, to a lesser degree, with a variety of subsidiaries may be required to take other action such as find a non-financial companies. A significant majority of the derivative suitable replacement or obtain a guarantee. At December 31, transactions are executed on a daily margin basis. Therefore, 2017 and 2016, the liability recorded for these derivative contracts events such as a credit rating downgrade (depending on the was not significant. ultimate rating level) or a breach of credit covenants would typically The following table presents the amount of additional collateral require an increase in the amount of collateral required of the that would have been contractually required by derivative contracts counterparty, where applicable, and/or allow the Corporation to and other trading agreements at December 31, 2017 if the rating take additional protective measures such as early termination of agencies had downgraded their long-term senior debt ratings for all trades. Further, as previously discussed on page 132, the the Corporation or certain subsidiaries by one incremental notch Corporation enters into legally enforceable master netting and by an additional second incremental notch. agreements which reduce risk by permitting closeout and netting of transactions with the same counterparty upon the occurrence of certain events. Additional Collateral Required to be Posted Upon A majority of the Corporation’s derivative contracts contain Downgrade at December 31, 2017 credit risk-related contingent features, primarily in the form of ISDA One Second master netting agreements and credit support documentation that incremental incremental enhance the creditworthiness of these instruments compared to (Dollars in millions) notch notch other obligations of the respective counterparty with whom the Bank of America Corporation $ 779 $ 487 Corporation has transacted. These contingent features may be for Bank of America, N.A. and subsidiaries (1) 391 230 the benefit of the Corporation as well as its counterparties with (1) Included in Bank of America Corporation collateral requirements in this table. respect to changes in the Corporation’s creditworthiness and the The table below presents the derivative liabilities that would mark-to-market exposure under the derivative transactions. At be subject to unilateral termination by counterparties and the December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Corporation held cash and amounts of collateral that would have been contractually required securities collateral of $77.2 billion and $85.5 billion, and posted at December 31, 2017 if the long-term senior debt ratings for the cash and securities collateral of $59.2 billion and $71.1 billion in Corporation or certain subsidiaries had been lower by one the normal course of business under derivative agreements, incremental notch and by an additional second incremental notch. excluding cross-product margining agreements where clients are permitted to margin on a net basis for both derivative and secured financing arrangements. Derivative Liabilities Subject to Unilateral Termination In connection with certain OTC derivative contracts and other Upon Downgrade at December 31, 2017 trading agreements, the Corporation can be required to provide additional collateral or to terminate transactions with certain One Second incremental incremental counterparties in the event of a downgrade of the senior debt (Dollars in millions) notch notch ratings of the Corporation or certain subsidiaries. The amount of Derivative liabilities $ 428 $ 1,163 additional collateral required depends on the contract and is Collateral posted 339 800 usually a fixed incremental amount and/or the market value of the exposure. At December 31, 2017, the amount of collateral, calculated based on the terms of the contracts, that the Corporation and 138 Bank of America 2017 Valuation Adjustments on Derivatives The Corporation enters into risk management activities to The Corporation records credit risk valuation adjustments on offset market driven exposures. The Corporation often hedges the derivatives in order to properly reflect the credit quality of the counterparty spread risk in CVA with CDS. The Corporation hedges counterparties and its own credit quality. The Corporation other market risks in both CVA and DVA primarily with currency and calculates valuation adjustments on derivatives based on a interest rate swaps. In certain instances, the net-of-hedge amounts modeled expected exposure that incorporates current market risk in the table below move in the same direction as the gross amount factors. The exposure also takes into consideration credit or may move in the opposite direction. This movement is a mitigants such as enforceable master netting agreements and consequence of the complex interaction of the risks being hedged, collateral. CDS spread data is used to estimate the default resulting in limitations in the ability to perfectly hedge all of the probabilities and severities that are applied to the exposures. market exposures at all times. Where no observable credit default data is available for The table below presents CVA, DVA and FVA gains (losses) on counterparties, the Corporation uses proxies and other market derivatives, which are recorded in trading account profits, on a data to estimate default probabilities and severity. gross and net of hedge basis for 2017, 2016 and 2015. CVA gains Valuation adjustments on derivatives are affected by changes reduce the cumulative CVA thereby increasing the derivative assets in market spreads, non-credit related market factors such as balance. DVA gains increase the cumulative DVA thereby interest rate and currency changes that affect the expected decreasing the derivative liabilities balance. CVA and DVA losses exposure, and other factors like changes in collateral have the opposite impact. FVA gains related to derivative assets arrangements and partial payments. Credit spreads and non-credit reduce the cumulative FVA thereby increasing the derivative assets factors can move independently. For example, for an interest rate balance. FVA gains related to derivative liabilities increase the swap, changes in interest rates may increase the expected cumulative FVA thereby decreasing the derivative liabilities exposure, which would increase the counterparty credit valuation balance. FVA losses have the opposite impact. adjustment (CVA). Independently, counterparty credit spreads may tighten, which would result in an offsetting decrease to CVA. Valuation Adjustments on Derivatives (1) Gains (Losses) Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Derivative assets (CVA) $ 330 $ 98 $ 374 $ 214 $ 255 $ 227 Derivative assets/liabilities (FVA) 160 178 186 102 16 16 Derivative liabilities (DVA) (324) (281) 24 (141) (18) (153) (1) At December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, cumulative CVA reduced the derivative assets balance by $677 million, $1.0 billion and $1.4 billion, cumulative FVA reduced the net derivatives balance by $136 million, $296 million and $481 million, and cumulative DVA reduced the derivative liabilities balance by $450 million, $774 million and $750 million, respectively. Bank of America 2017 139 NOTE 3 Securities The table below presents the amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses, and fair value of AFS debt securities, other debt securities carried at fair value, HTM debt securities and AFS marketable equity securities at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Debt Securities and Available-for-Sale Marketable Equity Securities Gross Gross Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Fair Cost Gains Losses Value (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2017 Available-for-sale debt securities Mortgage-backed securities: Agency $ 194,119 $ 506 $ (1,696) $ 192,929 Agency-collateralized mortgage obligations 6,846 39 (81) 6,804 Commercial 13,864 28 (208) 13,684 Non-agency residential (1) 2,410 267 (8) 2,669 Total mortgage-backed securities 217,239 840 (1,993) 216,086 U.S. Treasury and agency securities 54,523 18 (1,018) 53,523 Non-U.S. securities 6,669 9 (1) 6,677 Other taxable securities, substantially all asset-backed securities 5,699 73 (2) 5,770 Total taxable securities 284,130 940 (3,014) 282,056 Tax-exempt securities 20,541 138 (104) 20,575 Total available-for-sale debt securities 304,671 1,078 (3,118) 302,631 Other debt securities carried at fair value 12,273 252 (39) 12,486 Total debt securities carried at fair value 316,944 1,330 (3,157) 315,117 Held-to-maturity debt securities, substantially all U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities 125,013 111 (1,825) 123,299 Total debt securities (2) $ 441,957 $ 1,441 $ (4,982) $ 438,416 Available-for-sale marketable equity securities (3) $ 27 $ — $ (2) $ 25 December 31, 2016 Available-for-sale debt securities Mortgage-backed securities: Agency $ 190,809 $ 640 $ (1,963) $ 189,486 Agency-collateralized mortgage obligations 8,296 85 (51) 8,330 Commercial 12,594 21 (293) 12,322 Non-agency residential (1) 1,863 181 (31) 2,013 Total mortgage-backed securities 213,562 927 (2,338) 212,151 U.S. Treasury and agency securities 48,800 204 (752) 48,252 Non-U.S. securities 6,372 13 (3) 6,382 Other taxable securities, substantially all asset-backed securities 10,573 64 (23) 10,614 Total taxable securities 279,307 1,208 (3,116) 277,399 Tax-exempt securities 17,272 72 (184) 17,160 Total available-for-sale debt securities 296,579 1,280 (3,300) 294,559 Less: Available-for-sale securities of business held for sale (4) (619) — — (619) Other debt securities carried at fair value 19,748 121 (149) 19,720 Total debt securities carried at fair value 315,708 1,401 (3,449) 313,660 Held-to-maturity debt securities, substantially all U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities 117,071 248 (2,034) 115,285 Total debt securities (2) $ 432,779 $ 1,649 $ (5,483) $ 428,945 Available-for-sale marketable equity securities (3) $ 325 $ 51 $ (1) $ 375 (1) At December 31, 2017 and 2016, the underlying collateral type included approximately 62 percent and 60 percent prime, 13 percent and 19 percent Alt-A, and 25 percent and 21 percent subprime. (2) The Corporation had debt securities from FNMA and FHLMC that each exceeded 10 percent of shareholders’ equity, with an amortized cost of $163.6 billion and $50.3 billion, and a fair value of $162.1 billion and $50.0 billion at December 31, 2017, and an amortized cost of $156.4 billion and $48.7 billion, and a fair value of $154.4 billion and $48.3 billion at December 31, 2016. (3) Classified in other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. (4) Represents AFS debt securities of business held for sale. In 2017, the Corporation sold its non-U.S. consumer credit card business. At December 31, 2017, the accumulated net unrealized loss The following table presents the components of other debt on AFS debt securities included in accumulated OCI was $1.2 securities carried at fair value where the changes in fair value are billion, net of the related income tax benefit of $872 million. At reported in other income. In 2017, the Corporation recorded December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Corporation had nonperforming unrealized mark-to-market net gains of $243 million and realized AFS debt securities of $99 million and $121 million. net losses of $49 million compared to unrealized mark-to-market net gains of $51 million and realized net losses of $128 million in 2016. These amounts exclude hedge results. 140 Bank of America 2017 The gross realized gains and losses on sales of AFS debt Other Debt Securities Carried at Fair Value securities for 2017, 2016 and 2015 are presented in the table below. December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 Mortgage-backed securities: Gains and Losses on Sales of AFS Debt Securities Agency-collateralized mortgage obligations $ 5 $ 5 Non-agency residential 2,764 3,139 (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Total mortgage-backed securities 2,769 3,144 Gross gains $ 352 $ 520 $ 1,174 Non-U.S. securities (1) 9,488 16,336 Gross losses (97) (30) (36) Other taxable securities, substantially all Net gains on sales of AFS debt securities $ 255 $ 490 $ 1,138 asset-backed securities 229 240 Income tax expense attributable to realized Total $ 12,486 $ 19,720 net gains on sales of AFS debt securities $ 97 $ 186 $ 432 (1) These securities are primarily used to satisfy certain international regulatory liquidity requirements. The table below presents the fair value and the associated gross unrealized losses on AFS debt securities and whether these securities have had gross unrealized losses for less than 12 months or for 12 months or longer at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Temporarily Impaired and Other-than-temporarily Impaired AFS Debt Securities Less than Twelve Months Twelve Months or Longer Total Gross Gross Gross Fair Unrealized Fair Unrealized Fair Unrealized Value Losses Value Losses Value Losses (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2017 Temporarily impaired AFS debt securities Mortgage-backed securities: Agency $ 73,535 $ (352) $ 72,612 $ (1,344) $ 146,147 $ (1,696) Agency-collateralized mortgage obligations 2,743 (29) 1,684 (52) 4,427 (81) Commercial 5,575 (50) 4,586 (158) 10,161 (208) Non-agency residential 335 (7) — — 335 (7) Total mortgage-backed securities 82,188 (438) 78,882 (1,554) 161,070 (1,992) U.S. Treasury and agency securities 27,537 (251) 24,035 (767) 51,572 (1,018) Non-U.S. securities 772 (1) — — 772 (1) Other taxable securities, substantially all asset-backed securities — — 92 (2) 92 (2) Total taxable securities 110,497 (690) 103,009 (2,323) 213,506 (3,013) Tax-exempt securities 1,090 (2) 7,100 (102) 8,190 (104) Total temporarily impaired AFS debt securities 111,587 (692) 110,109 (2,425) 221,696 (3,117) Other-than-temporarily impaired AFS debt securities (1) Non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities 58 (1) — — 58 (1) Total temporarily impaired and other-than-temporarily impaired AFS debt securities $ 111,645 $ (693) $ 110,109 $ (2,425) $ 221,754 $ (3,118) December 31, 2016 Temporarily impaired AFS debt securities Mortgage-backed securities: Agency $ 135,210 $ (1,846) $ 3,770 $ (117) $ 138,980 $ (1,963) Agency-collateralized mortgage obligations 3,229 (25) 1,028 (26) 4,257 (51) Commercial 9,018 (293) — — 9,018 (293) Non-agency residential 212 (1) 204 (13) 416 (14) Total mortgage-backed securities 147,669 (2,165) 5,002 (156) 152,671 (2,321) U.S. Treasury and agency securities 28,462 (752) — — 28,462 (752) Non-U.S. securities 52 (1) 142 (2) 194 (3) Other taxable securities, substantially all asset-backed securities 762 (5) 1,438 (18) 2,200 (23) Total taxable securities 176,945 (2,923) 6,582 (176) 183,527 (3,099) Tax-exempt securities 4,782 (148) 1,873 (36) 6,655 (184) Total temporarily impaired AFS debt securities 181,727 (3,071) 8,455 (212) 190,182 (3,283) Other-than-temporarily impaired AFS debt securities (1) Non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities 94 (1) 401 (16) 495 (17) Total temporarily impaired and other-than-temporarily impaired AFS debt securities $ 181,821 $ (3,072) $ 8,856 $ (228) $ 190,677 $ (3,300) (1) Includes OTTI AFS debt securities on which an OTTI loss, primarily related to changes in interest rates, remains in accumulated OCI. Bank of America 2017 141 The Corporation had $41 million, $19 million and $81 million Significant assumptions used in estimating the expected cash of credit-related OTTI losses on AFS debt securities that were flows for measuring credit losses on non-agency residential recognized in other income in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectfully. mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) were as follows at December The amount of noncredit-related OTTI losses, which is recognized 31, 2017. in OCI, was insignificant for all periods presented. The cumulative credit loss component of OTTI losses that have been recognized in income related to AFS debt securities that the Significant Assumptions Corporation does not intend to sell was $274 million, $253 million Range (1) and $266 million at December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, Weighted10th 90th respectfully. average Percentile (2) Percentile (2) The Corporation estimates the portion of a loss on a security Prepayment speed 12.4% 3.0% 21.3% that is attributable to credit using a discounted cash flow model Loss severity 20.2 9.1 36.7 and estimates the expected cash flows of the underlying collateral Life default rate 20.9 1.2 76.6 using internal credit, interest rate and prepayment risk models (1) Represents the range of inputs/assumptions based upon the underlying collateral. (2) The value of a variable below which the indicated percentile of observations will fall. that incorporate management’s best estimate of current key assumptions such as default rates, loss severity and prepayment Annual constant prepayment speed and loss severity rates are rates. Assumptions used for the underlying loans that support the projected considering collateral characteristics such as LTV, MBS can vary widely from loan to loan and are influenced by such creditworthiness of borrowers as measured using Fair Isaac factors as loan interest rate, geographic location of the borrower, Corporation (FICO) scores, and geographic concentrations. The borrower characteristics and collateral type. Based on these weighted-average severity by collateral type was 17.5 percent for assumptions, the Corporation then determines how the underlying prime, 18.1 percent for Alt-A and 29.0 percent for subprime at collateral cash flows will be distributed to each MBS issued from December 31, 2017. Default rates are projected by considering the applicable special purpose entity. Expected principal and collateral characteristics including, but not limited to, LTV, FICO interest cash flows on an impaired AFS debt security are and geographic concentration. Weighted-average life default rates discounted using the effective yield of each individual impaired by collateral type were 16.9 percent for prime, 21.4 percent for AFS debt security. Alt-A and 21.6 percent for subprime at December 31, 2017. 142 Bank of America 2017 The remaining contractual maturity distribution and yields of the Corporation’s debt securities carried at fair value and HTM debt securities at December 31, 2017 are summarized in the table below. Actual duration and yields may differ as prepayments on the loans underlying the mortgages or other ABS are passed through to the Corporation. Maturities of Debt Securities Carried at Fair Value and Held-to-maturity Debt Securities Due in One Due after One Year Due after Five Years Due after Year or Less through Five Years through Ten Years Ten Years Total Amount Yield (1) Amount Yield (1) Amount Yield (1) Amount Yield (1) Amount Yield (1) (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2017 Amortized cost of debt securities carried at fair value Mortgage-backed securities: Agency $ 5 4.20% $ 28 3.69% $ 555 2.57% $193,531 3.22% $194,119 3.22% Agency-collateralized mortgage obligations — — — — 33 2.52 6,817 3.18 6,850 3.18 Commercial 54 7.45 974 1.98 11,866 2.43 970 2.78 13,864 2.44 Non-agency residential — — — — 24 0.01 4,955 9.32 4,979 9.28 Total mortgage-backed securities 59 7.18 1,002 2.03 12,478 2.43 206,273 3.36 219,812 3.31 U.S. Treasury and agency securities 490 0.39 23,395 1.42 30,615 2.03 23 2.52 54,523 1.75 Non-U.S. securities 13,832 1.02 2,111 0.97 48 0.72 167 6.60 16,158 1.07 Other taxable securities, substantially all asset-backed securities 1,979 2.53 2,029 3.02 1,151 3.22 751 4.74 5,910 3.11 Total taxable securities 16,360 1.21 28,537 1.52 44,292 2.17 207,214 3.37 296,403 2.89 Tax-exempt securities 1,327 1.81 6,927 1.88 9,132 1.79 3,155 1.84 20,541 1.83 Total amortized cost of debt securities carried at fair value $ 17,687 1.25 $ 35,464 1.59 $ 53,424 2.11 $ 210,369 3.35 $ 316,944 2.82 Amortized cost of HTM debt securities (2) $ 1 5.82 $ 71 3.06 $ 1,144 2.65 $ 123,797 3.03 $ 125,013 3.03 Debt securities carried at fair value Mortgage-backed securities: Agency $ 5 $ 28 $ 555 $192,341 $192,929 Agency-collateralized mortgage obligations — — 32 6,777 6,809 Commercial 54 969 11,703 958 13,684 Non-agency residential — — 33 5,400 5,433 Total mortgage-backed securities 59 997 12,323 205,476 218,855 U.S. Treasury and agency securities 491 22,898 30,111 23 53,523 Non-U.S. securities 13,830 2,115 48 172 16,165 Other taxable securities, substantially all asset-backed securities 1,981 2,006 1,184 828 5,999 Total taxable securities 16,361 28,016 43,666 206,499 294,542 Tax-exempt securities 1,326 6,934 9,162 3,153 20,575 Total debt securities carried at fair value $ 17,687 $ 34,950 $ 52,828 $ 209,652 $ 315,117 Fair value of HTM debt securities (2) $ 1 $ 71 $ 1,117 $ 122,110 $ 123,299 (1) The average yield is computed based on a constant effective interest rate over the contractual life of each security. The average yield considers the contractual coupon and the amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts, excluding the effect of related hedging derivatives. (2) Substantially all U.S. agency MBS. Bank of America 2017 143 NOTE 4 Outstanding Loans and Leases $9.2 billion of non-U.S. credit card loans and the related allowance The following tables present total outstanding loans and leases for loan and lease losses of $243 million, was presented in assets and an aging analysis for the Consumer Real Estate, Credit Card of business held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. In and Other Consumer, and Commercial portfolio segments, by class this Note, all applicable amounts for December 31, 2016 include of financing receivables, at December 31, 2017 and 2016. these balances, unless otherwise noted. For more information, In 2017, the Corporation sold its non-U.S. consumer credit card see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles. business. This business, which at December 31, 2016 included Total Loans Total Past Current or Accounted 90 Days or Due 30 Less Than Purchased for Under 30-59 Days 60-89 Days More Days 30 Days Creditthe Fair Total Past Due (1) Past Due (1) Past Due (2) or More Past Due (3) impaired (4) Value Option Outstandings (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2017 Consumer real estate Core portfolio Residential mortgage $ 1,242 $ 321 $ 1,040 $ 2,603 $ 174,015 $ 176,618 Home equity 215 108 473 796 43,449 44,245 Non-core portfolio Residential mortgage (5) 1,028 468 3,535 5,031 14,161 $ 8,001 27,193 Home equity 224 121 572 917 9,866 2,716 13,499 Credit card and other consumer U.S. credit card 542 405 900 1,847 94,438 96,285 Direct/Indirect consumer (6) 320 102 43 465 93,365 93,830 Other consumer (7) 10 2 1 13 2,665 2,678 Total consumer 3,581 1,527 6,564 11,672 431,959 10,717 454,348 Consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option (8) $ 928 928 Total consumer loans and leases 3,581 1,527 6,564 11,672 431,959 10,717 928 455,276 Commercial U.S. commercial 547 244 425 1,216 283,620 284,836 Non-U.S. commercial 52 1 3 56 97,736 97,792 Commercial real estate (9) 48 10 29 87 58,211 58,298 Commercial lease financing 110 68 26 204 21,912 22,116 U.S. small business commercial 95 45 88 228 13,421 13,649 Total commercial 852 368 571 1,791 474,900 476,691 Commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option (8) 4,782 4,782 Total commercial loans and leases 852 368 571 1,791 474,900 4,782 481,473 Total loans and leases (10) $ 4,433 $ 1,895 $ 7,135 $ 13,463 $ 906,859 $ 10,717 $ 5,710 $ 936,749 Percentage of outstandings 0.48% 0.20% 0.76% 1.44% 96.81% 1.14% 0.61% 100.00% (1) Consumer real estate loans 30-59 days past due includes fully-insured loans of $850 million and nonperforming loans of $253 million. Consumer real estate loans 60-89 days past due includes fully-insured loans of $386 million and nonperforming loans of $195 million. (2) Consumer real estate includes fully-insured loans of $3.2 billion. (3) Consumer real estate includes $2.3 billion and direct/indirect consumer includes $43 million of nonperforming loans. (4) PCI loan amounts are shown gross of the valuation allowance. (5) Total outstandings includes pay option loans of $1.4 billion. The Corporation no longer originates this product. (6) Total outstandings includes auto and specialty lending loans of $49.9 billion, unsecured consumer lending loans of $469 million, U.S. securities-based lending loans of $39.8 billion, non-U.S. consumer loans of $3.0 billion and other consumer loans of $684 million. (7) Total outstandings includes consumer leases of $2.5 billion and consumer overdrafts of $163 million. (8) Consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option includes residential mortgage loans of $567 million and home equity loans of $361 million. Commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option includes U.S. commercial loans of $2.6 billion and non-U.S. commercial loans of $2.2 billion. For more information, see Note 20 – Fair Value Measurements and Note 21 – Fair Value Option. (9) Total outstandings includes U.S. commercial real estate loans of $54.8 billion and non-U.S. commercial real estate loans of $3.5 billion. (10) The Corporation pledged $160.3 billion of loans to secure potential borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve Bank and Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB). This amount is not included in the parenthetical disclosure of loans and leases pledged as collateral on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as there were no related outstanding borrowings. 144 Bank of America 2017 Total Loans Total Past Current or Accounted 90 Days or Due 30 Less Than Purchased for Under 30-59 Days 60-89 Days More Days 30 Days Creditthe Fair Total Past Due (1) Past Due (1) Past Due (2) or More Past Due (3) impaired (4) Value Option Outstandings (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2016 Consumer real estate Core portfolio Residential mortgage $ 1,340 $ 425 $ 1,213 $ 2,978 $ 153,519 $ 156,497 Home equity 239 105 451 795 48,578 49,373 Non-core portfolio Residential mortgage (5) 1,338 674 5,343 7,355 17,818 $ 10,127 35,300 Home equity 260 136 832 1,228 12,231 3,611 17,070 Credit card and other consumer U.S. credit card 472 341 782 1,595 90,683 92,278 Non-U.S. credit card 37 27 66 130 9,084 9,214 Direct/Indirect consumer (6) 272 79 34 385 93,704 94,089 Other consumer (7) 26 8 6 40 2,459 2,499 Total consumer 3,984 1,795 8,727 14,506 428,076 13,738 456,320 Consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option (8) $ 1,051 1,051 Total consumer loans and leases 3,984 1,795 8,727 14,506 428,076 13,738 1,051 457,371 Commercial U.S. commercial 952 263 400 1,615 268,757 270,372 Non-U.S. commercial 348 4 5 357 89,040 89,397 Commercial real estate (9) 20 10 56 86 57,269 57,355 Commercial lease financing 167 21 27 215 22,160 22,375 U.S. small business commercial 96 49 84 229 12,764 12,993 Total commercial 1,583 347 572 2,502 449,990 452,492 Commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option (8) 6,034 6,034 Total commercial loans and leases 1,583 347 572 2,502 449,990 6,034 458,526 Total consumer and commercial loans and leases (10) $ 5,567 $ 2,142 $ 9,299 $ 17,008 $ 878,066 $ 13,738 $ 7,085 $ 915,897 Less: Loans of business held for sale (10) (9,214) Total loans and leases (11) $ 906,683 Percentage of outstandings (10) 0.61% 0.23% 1.02% 1.86% 95.87% 1.50% 0.77% 100.00% (1) Consumer real estate loans 30-59 days past due includes fully-insured loans of $1.1 billion and nonperforming loans of $266 million. Consumer real estate loans 60-89 days past due includes fullyinsured loans of $547 million and nonperforming loans of $216 million. (2) Consumer real estate includes fully-insured loans of $4.8 billion. (3) Consumer real estate includes $2.5 billion and direct/indirect consumer includes $27 million of nonperforming loans. (4) PCI loan amounts are shown gross of the valuation allowance. (5) Total outstandings includes pay option loans of $1.8 billion. The Corporation no longer originates this product. (6) Total outstandings includes auto and specialty lending loans of $48.9 billion, unsecured consumer lending loans of $585 million, U.S. securities-based lending loans of $40.1 billion, non-U.S. consumer loans of $3.0 billion, student loans of $497 million and other consumer loans of $1.1 billion. (7) Total outstandings includes consumer finance loans of $465 million, consumer leases of $1.9 billion and consumer overdrafts of $157 million. (8) Consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option includes residential mortgage loans of $710 million and home equity loans of $341 million. Commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option includes U.S. commercial loans of $2.9 billion and non-U.S. commercial loans of $3.1 billion. For more information, see Note 20 – Fair Value Measurements and Note 21 – Fair Value Option. (9) Total outstandings includes U.S. commercial real estate loans of $54.3 billion and non-U.S. commercial real estate loans of $3.1 billion. (10) Includes non-U.S. credit card loans, which were included in assets of business held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. (11) The Corporation pledged $143.1 billion of loans to secure potential borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve Bank and FHLB. This amount is not included in the parenthetical disclosure of loans and leases pledged as collateral on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as there were no related outstanding borrowings. The Corporation categorizes consumer real estate loans as Nonperforming Loans and Leases core and non-core based on loan and customer characteristics The Corporation classifies junior-lien home equity loans as such as origination date, product type, LTV, FICO score and nonperforming when the first-lien loan becomes 90 days past due delinquency status consistent with its current consumer and even if the junior-lien loan is performing. At December 31, 2017 mortgage servicing strategy. Generally, loans that were originated and 2016, $330 million and $428 million of such junior-lien home after January 1, 2010, qualified under government-sponsored equity loans were included in nonperforming loans. enterprise underwriting guidelines, or otherwise met the The Corporation classifies consumer real estate loans that Corporation’s underwriting guidelines in place in 2015 are have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy and not reaffirmed characterized as core loans. All other loans are generally by the borrower as TDRs, irrespective of payment history or characterized as non-core loans and represent run-off portfolios. delinquency status, even if the repayment terms for the loan have The Corporation has entered into long-term credit protection not been otherwise modified. The Corporation continues to have agreements with FNMA and FHLMC on loans totaling $6.3 billion a lien on the underlying collateral. At December 31, 2017, and $6.4 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016, providing full nonperforming loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy with no credit protection on residential mortgage loans that become change in repayment terms were $358 million of which $209 severely delinquent. All of these loans are individually insured and million were current on their contractual payments, while $124 therefore the Corporation does not record an allowance for credit million were 90 days or more past due. Of the contractually current losses related to these loans. nonperforming loans, 66 percent were discharged in Chapter 7 Bank of America 2017 145 bankruptcy over 12 months ago, and 57 percent were discharged transferred consumer nonperforming loans with a net carrying 24 months or more ago. value of $198 million and $55 million to held-for-sale. During 2017, the Corporation sold nonperforming and other The table below presents the Corporation’s nonperforming delinquent consumer real estate loans with a carrying value of loans and leases including nonperforming TDRs, and loans $1.3 billion, including $803 million of PCI loans, compared to $2.2 accruing past due 90 days or more at December 31, 2017 and billion, including $549 million of PCI loans, in 2016. The 2016. Nonperforming LHFS are excluded from nonperforming Corporation recorded net recoveries of $105 million related to loans and leases as they are recorded at either fair value or the these sales during 2017 and net charge-offs of $30 million during lower of cost or fair value. For more information on the criteria for 2016. Gains related to these sales of $57 million and $75 million classification as nonperforming, see Note 1 – Summary of were recorded in other income in the Consolidated Statement of Significant Accounting Principles. Income during 2017 and 2016. In 2017 and 2016, the Corporation Credit Quality Nonperforming Loans Accruing Past Due and Leases 90 Days or More December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2017 2016 Consumer real estate Core portfolio Residential mortgage (1) $ 1,087 $ 1,274 $ 417 $ 486 Home equity 1,079 969 — — Non-core portfolio Residential mortgage (1) 1,389 1,782 2,813 4,307 Home equity 1,565 1,949 — — Credit card and other consumer U.S. credit card n/a n/a 900 782 Non-U.S. credit card n/a n/a — 66 Direct/Indirect consumer 46 28 40 34 Other consumer — 2 — 4 Total consumer 5,166 6,004 4,170 5,679 Commercial U.S. commercial 814 1,256 144 106 Non-U.S. commercial 299 279 3 5 Commercial real estate 112 72 4 7 Commercial lease financing 24 36 19 19 U.S. small business commercial 55 60 75 71 Total commercial 1,304 1,703 245 208 Total loans and leases $ 6,470 $ 7,707 $ 4,415 $ 5,887 (1) Residential mortgage loans in the core and non-core portfolios accruing past due 90 days or more are fully-insured loans. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, residential mortgage includes $2.2 billion and $3.0 billion of loans on which interest has been curtailed by the FHA, and therefore are no longer accruing interest, although principal is still insured, and $1.0 billion and $1.8 billion of loans on which interest is still accruing. n/a = not applicable Credit Quality Indicators frequently. Certain borrowers (e.g., borrowers that have had debts The Corporation monitors credit quality within its Consumer Real discharged in a bankruptcy proceeding) may not have their FICO Estate, Credit Card and Other Consumer, and Commercial portfolio scores updated. FICO scores are also a primary credit quality segments based on primary credit quality indicators. For more indicator for the Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio information on the portfolio segments, see Note 1 – Summary of segment and the business card portfolio within U.S. small Significant Accounting Principles. Within the Consumer Real Estate business commercial. Within the Commercial portfolio segment, portfolio segment, the primary credit quality indicators are loans are evaluated using the internal classifications of pass rated refreshed LTV and refreshed FICO score. Refreshed LTV measures or reservable criticized as the primary credit quality indicators. the carrying value of the loan as a percentage of the value of the The term reservable criticized refers to those commercial loans property securing the loan, refreshed quarterly. Home equity loans that are internally classified or listed by the Corporation as Special are evaluated using CLTV which measures the carrying value of Mention, Substandard or Doubtful, which are asset quality the Corporation’s loan and available line of credit combined with categories defined by regulatory authorities. These assets have any outstanding senior liens against the property as a percentage an elevated level of risk and may have a high probability of default of the value of the property securing the loan, refreshed quarterly. or total loss. Pass rated refers to all loans not considered FICO score measures the creditworthiness of the borrower based reservable criticized. In addition to these primary credit quality on the financial obligations of the borrower and the borrower’s indicators, the Corporation uses other credit quality indicators for credit history. FICO scores are typically refreshed quarterly or more certain types of loans. 146 Bank of America 2017 The following tables present certain credit quality indicators for the Corporation’s Consumer Real Estate, Credit Card and Other Consumer, and Commercial portfolio segments, by class of financing receivables, at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Consumer Real Estate – Credit Quality Indicators (1) Non-core Core Residential Residential Residential Core Home Non-core Home Home Mortgage (2) Mortgage (2) Mortgage PCI (3) Equity (2) Equity (2) Equity PCI (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2017 Refreshed LTV (4) Less than or equal to 90 percent $ 153,669 $ 12,135 $ 6,872 $ 43,048 $ 7,944 $ 1,781 Greater than 90 percent but less than or equal to 100 percent 3,082 850 559 549 1,053 412 Greater than 100 percent 1,322 1,011 570 648 1,786 523 Fully-insured loans (5) 18,545 5,196 — — — — Total consumer real estate $ 176,618 $ 19,192 $ 8,001 $ 44,245 $ 10,783 $ 2,716 Refreshed FICO score Less than 620 $ 2,234 $ 2,390 $ 1,941 $ 1,169 $ 2,098 $ 452 Greater than or equal to 620 and less than 680 4,531 2,086 1,657 2,371 2,393 466 Greater than or equal to 680 and less than 740 22,934 3,519 2,396 8,115 2,723 786 Greater than or equal to 740 128,374 6,001 2,007 32,590 3,569 1,012 Fully-insured loans (5) 18,545 5,196 — — — — Total consumer real estate $ 176,618 $ 19,192 $ 8,001 $ 44,245 $ 10,783 $ 2,716 (1) Excludes $928 million of loans accounted for under the fair value option. (2) Excludes PCI loans. (3) Includes $1.2 billion of pay option loans. The Corporation no longer originates this product. (4) Refreshed LTV percentages for PCI loans are calculated using the carrying value net of the related valuation allowance. (5) Credit quality indicators are not reported for fully-insured loans as principal repayment is insured. Credit Card and Other Consumer – Credit Quality Indicators U.S. Credit Direct/Indirect Other Card Consumer Consumer (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2017 Refreshed FICO score Less than 620 $ 4,730 $ 1,630 $ 49 Greater than or equal to 620 and less than 680 12,422 2,000 143 Greater than or equal to 680 and less than 740 35,656 11,906 398 Greater than or equal to 740 43,477 34,838 1,921 Other internal credit metrics (1, 2) — 43,456 167 Total credit card and other consumer $ 96,285 $ 93,830 $ 2,678 (1) Other internal credit metrics may include delinquency status, geography or other factors. (2) Direct/indirect consumer includes $42.8 billion of securities-based lending which is overcollateralized and therefore has minimal credit risk. Commercial – Credit Quality Indicators (1) Commercial U.S. Small U.S. Non-U.S. Commercial Lease Business Commercial Commercial Real Estate Financing Commercial (2) (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2017 Risk ratings Pass rated $ 275,904 $ 96,199 $ 57,732 $ 21,535 $ 322 Reservable criticized 8,932 1,593 566 581 50 Refreshed FICO score (3) Less than 620 223 Greater than or equal to 620 and less than 680 625 Greater than or equal to 680 and less than 740 1,875 Greater than or equal to 740 3,713 Other internal credit metrics (3, 4) 6,841 Total commercial $ 284,836 $ 97,792 $ 58,298 $ 22,116 $ 13,649 (1) Excludes $4.8 billion of loans accounted for under the fair value option. (2) U.S. small business commercial includes $709 million of criticized business card and small business loans which are evaluated using refreshed FICO scores or internal credit metrics, including delinquency status, rather than risk ratings. At December 31, 2017, 98 percent of the balances where internal credit metrics are used was current or less than 30 days past due. (3) Refreshed FICO score and other internal credit metrics are applicable only to the U.S. small business commercial portfolio. (4) Other internal credit metrics may include delinquency status, application scores, geography or other factors. Bank of America 2017 147 Bank of America 2017 147 Consumer Real Estate – Credit Quality Indicators (1) Non-core Core Residential Residential Residential Core Home Non-core Home Home Mortgage (2) Mortgage (2) Mortgage PCI (3) Equity (2) Equity (2) Equity PCI (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2016 Refreshed LTV (4) Less than or equal to 90 percent $ 129,737 $ 14,280 $ 7,811 $ 47,171 $ 8,480 $ 1,942 Greater than 90 percent but less than or equal to 100 percent 3,634 1,446 1,021 1,006 1,668 630 Greater than 100 percent 1,872 1,972 1,295 1,196 3,311 1,039 Fully-insured loans (5) 21,254 7,475 — — — — Total consumer real estate $ 156,497 $ 25,173 $ 10,127 $ 49,373 $ 13,459 $ 3,611 Refreshed FICO score Less than 620 $ 2,479 $ 3,198 $ 2,741 $ 1,254 $ 2,692 $ 559 Greater than or equal to 620 and less than 680 5,094 2,807 2,241 2,853 3,094 636 Greater than or equal to 680 and less than 740 22,629 4,512 2,916 10,069 3,176 1,069 Greater than or equal to 740 105,041 7,181 2,229 35,197 4,497 1,347 Fully-insured loans (5) 21,254 7,475 — — — — Total consumer real estate $ 156,497 $ 25,173 $ 10,127 $ 49,373 $ 13,459 $ 3,611 (1) Excludes $1.1 billion of loans accounted for under the fair value option. (2) Excludes PCI loans. (3) Includes $1.6 billion of pay option loans. The Corporation no longer originates this product. (4) Refreshed LTV percentages for PCI loans are calculated using the carrying value net of the related valuation allowance. (5) Credit quality indicators are not reported for fully-insured loans as principal repayment is insured. Credit Card and Other Consumer – Credit Quality Indicators U.S. Credit Non-U.S. Direct/Indirect Other Card Credit Card Consumer Consumer (1) (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2016 Refreshed FICO score Less than 620 $ 4,431 $ — $ 1,478 $ 187 Greater than or equal to 620 and less than 680 12,364 — 2,070 222 Greater than or equal to 680 and less than 740 34,828 — 12,491 404 Greater than or equal to 740 40,655 — 33,420 1,525 Other internal credit metrics (2, 3, 4) — 9,214 44,630 161 Total credit card and other consumer $ 92,278 $ 9,214 $ 94,089 $ 2,499 (1) At December 31, 2016, 19 percent of the other consumer portfolio was associated with portfolios from certain consumer finance businesses that the Corporation previously exited. (2) Other internal credit metrics may include delinquency status, geography or other factors. (3) Direct/indirect consumer includes $43.1 billion of securities-based lending which is overcollateralized and therefore has minimal credit risk and $499 million of loans the Corporation no longer originates, primarily student loans. (4) Non-U.S. credit card represents the U.K. credit card portfolio which was evaluated using internal credit metrics, including delinquency status. At December 31, 2016, 98 percent of this portfolio was current or less than 30 days past due, one percent was 30-89 days past due and one percent was 90 days or more past due. Commercial – Credit Quality Indicators (1) Commercial U.S. Small U.S. Non-U.S. Commercial Lease Business Commercial Commercial Real Estate Financing Commercial (2) (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2016 Risk ratings Pass rated $ 261,214 $ 85,689 $ 56,957 $ 21,565 $ 453 Reservable criticized 9,158 3,708 398 810 71 Refreshed FICO score (3) Less than 620 200 Greater than or equal to 620 and less than 680 591 Greater than or equal to 680 and less than 740 1,741 Greater than or equal to 740 3,264 Other internal credit metrics (3, 4) 6,673 Total commercial $ 270,372 $ 89,397 $ 57,355 $ 22,375 $ 12,993 (1) Excludes $6.0 billion of loans accounted for under the fair value option. (2) U.S. small business commercial includes $755 million of criticized business card and small business loans which are evaluated using refreshed FICO scores or internal credit metrics, including delinquency status, rather than risk ratings. At December 31, 2016, 98 percent of the balances where internal credit metrics are used was current or less than 30 days past due. (3) Refreshed FICO score and other internal credit metrics are applicable only to the U.S. small business commercial portfolio. (4) Other internal credit metrics may include delinquency status, application scores, geography or other factors. 148 Bank of America 2017 148 Bank of America 2017 Impaired Loans and Troubled Debt Restructurings the loan’s original effective interest rate. If the carrying value of a A loan is considered impaired when, based on current information, TDR exceeds this amount, a specific allowance is recorded as a it is probable that the Corporation will be unable to collect all component of the allowance for loan and lease losses. amounts due from the borrower in accordance with the contractual Alternatively, consumer real estate TDRs that are considered to terms of the loan. Impaired loans include nonperforming be dependent solely on the collateral for repayment (e.g., due to commercial loans and all consumer and commercial TDRs. the lack of income verification) are measured based on the Impaired loans exclude nonperforming consumer loans and estimated fair value of the collateral and a charge-off is recorded nonperforming commercial leases unless they are classified as if the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the collateral. TDRs. Loans accounted for under the fair value option are also Consumer real estate loans that reached 180 days past due prior excluded. PCI loans are excluded and reported separately on page to modification had been charged off to their net realizable value, 155. For more information, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant less costs to sell, before they were modified as TDRs in accordance Accounting Principles. with established policy. Therefore, modifications of consumer real estate loans that are 180 or more days past due as TDRs do not Consumer Real Estate have an impact on the allowance for loan and lease losses nor Impaired consumer real estate loans within the Consumer Real are additional charge-offs required at the time of modification. Estate portfolio segment consist entirely of TDRs. Excluding PCI Subsequent declines in the fair value of the collateral after a loan loans, most modifications of consumer real estate loans meet the has reached 180 days past due are recorded as charge-offs. Fullydefinition of TDRs when a binding offer is extended to a borrower. insured loans are protected against principal loss, and therefore, Modifications of consumer real estate loans are done in the Corporation does not record an allowance for loan and lease accordance with government programs or the Corporation’s losses on the outstanding principal balance, even after they have proprietary programs. These modifications are considered to be been modified in a TDR. TDRs if concessions have been granted to borrowers experiencing At December 31, 2017 and 2016, remaining commitments to financial difficulties. Concessions may include reductions in lend additional funds to debtors whose terms have been modified interest rates, capitalization of past due amounts, principal and/ in a consumer real estate TDR were immaterial. Consumer real or interest forbearance, payment extensions, principal and/or estate foreclosed properties totaled $236 million and $363 million interest forgiveness, or combinations thereof. at December 31, 2017 and 2016. The carrying value of consumer Prior to permanently modifying a loan, the Corporation may real estate loans, including fully-insured and PCI loans, for which enter into trial modifications with certain borrowers under both formal foreclosure proceedings were in process at December 31, government and proprietary programs. Trial modifications generally 2017 was $3.6 billion. During 2017 and 2016, the Corporation represent a threeto four-month period during which the borrower reclassified $815 million and $1.4 billion of consumer real estate makes monthly payments under the anticipated modified payment loans to foreclosed properties or, for properties acquired upon terms. Upon successful completion of the trial period, the foreclosure of certain government-guaranteed loans (principally Corporation and the borrower enter into a permanent modification. FHA-insured loans), to other assets. The reclassifications Binding trial modifications are classified as TDRs when the trial represent non-cash investing activities and, accordingly, are not offer is made and continue to be classified as TDRs regardless of reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. whether the borrower enters into a permanent modification. The following table provides the unpaid principal balance, Consumer real estate loans that have been discharged in carrying value and related allowance at December 31, 2017 and Chapter 7 bankruptcy with no change in repayment terms and not 2016, and the average carrying value and interest income reaffirmed by the borrower of $1.2 billion were included in TDRs recognized for 2017, 2016 and 2015 for impaired loans in the at December 31, 2017, of which $358 million were classified as Corporation’s Consumer Real Estate portfolio segment. Certain nonperforming and $419 million were loans fully-insured by the impaired consumer real estate loans do not have a related FHA. For more information on loans discharged in Chapter 7 allowance as the current valuation of these impaired loans bankruptcy, see Nonperforming Loans and Leases in this Note. exceeded the carrying value, which is net of previously recorded Consumer real estate TDRs are measured primarily based on charge-offs. the net present value of the estimated cash flows discounted at Bank of America 2017 149 Impaired Loans – Consumer Real Estate Unpaid Unpaid Principal Carrying Related Principal Carrying Related Balance Value Allowance Balance Value Allowance (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 With no recorded allowance Residential mortgage $ 8,856 $ 6,870 $ — $ 11,151 $ 8,695 $ — Home equity 3,622 1,956 — 3,704 1,953 — With an allowance recorded Residential mortgage $ 2,908 $ 2,828 $ 174 $ 4,041 $ 3,936 $ 219 Home equity 972 900 174 910 824 137 Total Residential mortgage $ 11,764 $ 9,698 $ 174 $ 15,192 $ 12,631 $ 219 Home equity 4,594 2,856 174 4,614 2,777 137 Average Interest Average Interest Average Interest Carrying Income Carrying Income Carrying Income Value Recognized (1) Value Recognized (1) Value Recognized (1) 2017 2016 2015 With no recorded allowance Residential mortgage $ 7,737 $ 311 $ 10,178 $ 360 $ 13,867 $ 403 Home equity 1,997 109 1,906 90 1,777 89 With an allowance recorded Residential mortgage $ 3,414 $ 123 $ 5,067 $ 167 $ 7,290 $ 236 Home equity 858 24 852 24 785 24 Total Residential mortgage $ 11,151 $ 434 $ 15,245 $ 527 $ 21,157 $ 639 Home equity 2,855 133 2,758 114 2,562 113 (1) Interest income recognized includes interest accrued and collected on the outstanding balances of accruing impaired loans as well as interest cash collections on nonaccruing impaired loans for which the principal is considered collectible. The table below presents the December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 unpaid principal balance, carrying value, and average preand post-modification interest rates on consumer real estate loans that were modified in TDRs during 2017, 2016 and 2015, and net charge-offs recorded during the period in which the modification occurred. The following Consumer Real Estate portfolio segment tables include loans that were initially classified as TDRs during the period and also loans that had previously been classified as TDRs and were modified again during the period. Consumer Real Estate – TDRs Entered into During 2017, 2016 and 2015 (1) Unpaid PrePostPrincipal Carrying Modification Modification Net Balance Value Interest Rate Interest Rate (2) Charge-offs (3) (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2017 2017 Residential mortgage $ 824 $ 712 4.43% 4.16% $ 6 Home equity 764 590 4.22 3.49 42 Total $ 1,588 $ 1,302 4.33 3.83 $ 48 December 31, 2016 2016 Residential mortgage $ 1,130 $ 1,017 4.73% 4.16% $ 11 Home equity 849 649 3.95 2.72 61 Total $ 1,979 $ 1,666 4.40 3.54 $ 72 December 31, 2015 2015 Residential mortgage $ 2,986 $ 2,655 4.98% 4.43% $ 97 Home equity 1,019 775 3.54 3.17 84 Total $ 4,005 $ 3,430 4.61 4.11 $ 181 (1) During 2017, there was no forgiveness of principal related to residential mortgage loans in connection with TDRs compared to $13 million and $396 million during 2016 and 2015. (2) The post-modification interest rate reflects the interest rate applicable only to permanently completed modifications, which exclude loans that are in a trial modification period. (3) Net charge-offs include amounts recorded on loans modified during the period that are no longer held by the Corporation at December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 due to sales and other dispositions. 150 Bank of America 2017 The table below presents the December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 carrying value for consumer real estate loans that were modified in a TDR during 2017, 2016 and 2015, by type of modification. Consumer Real Estate – Modification Programs TDRs Entered into During (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Modifications under government programs Contractual interest rate reduction $ 59 $ 151 $ 431 Principal and/or interest forbearance 4 13 11 Other modifications (1) 22 23 46 Total modifications under government programs 85 187 488 Modifications under proprietary programs Contractual interest rate reduction 281 235 219 Capitalization of past due amounts 63 40 79 Principal and/or interest forbearance 38 72 168 Other modifications (1) 55 75 129 Total modifications under proprietary programs 437 422 595 Trial modifications 569 831 1,968 Loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy (2) 211 226 379 Total modifications $ 1,302 $ 1,666 $ 3,430 (1) Includes other modifications such as term or payment extensions and repayment plans. (2) Includes loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy with no change in repayment terms that are classified as TDRs. The table below presents the carrying value of consumer real estate loans that entered into payment default during 2017, 2016 and 2015 that were modified in a TDR during the 12 months preceding payment default. A payment default for consumer real estate TDRs is recognized when a borrower has missed three monthly payments (not necessarily consecutively) since modification. Consumer Real Estate – TDRs Entering Payment Default that were Modified During the Preceding 12 Months (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Modifications under government programs $ 81 $ 262 $ 457 Modifications under proprietary programs 138 196 287 Loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy (1) 116 158 285 Trial modifications (2) 391 824 3,178 Total modifications $ 726 $ 1,440 $ 4,207 (1) Includes loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy with no change in repayment terms that are classified as TDRs. (2) Includes trial modification offers to which the customer did not respond. Credit Card and Other Consumer renegotiation agencies that provide solutions to customers’ entire Impaired loans within the Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio unsecured debt structures (external programs). The Corporation segment consist entirely of loans that have been modified in TDRs. classifies other secured consumer loans that have been The Corporation seeks to assist customers that are experiencing discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy as TDRs which are written financial difficulty by modifying loans while ensuring compliance down to collateral value and placed on nonaccrual status no later with federal, local and international laws and guidelines. Credit than the time of discharge. For more information on the regulatory card and other consumer loan modifications generally involve guidance on loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy, see reducing the interest rate on the account and placing the customer Nonperforming Loans and Leases in this Note. on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 60 months, all of which are The following table provides the unpaid principal balance, considered TDRs. In substantially all cases, the customer’s carrying value and related allowance at December 31, 2017 and available line of credit is canceled. The Corporation makes loan 2016, and the average carrying value and interest income modifications directly with borrowers for debt held only by the recognized for 2017, 2016 and 2015 on TDRs within the Credit Corporation (internal programs). Additionally, the Corporation Card and Other Consumer portfolio segment. makes loan modifications for borrowers working with third-party Bank of America 2017 151 Impaired Loans – Credit Card and Other Consumer Unpaid Unpaid Principal Carrying Related Principal Carrying Related Balance Value (1) Allowance Balance Value (1) Allowance (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 With no recorded allowance Direct/Indirect consumer $ 58 $ 28 $ — $ 49 $ 22 $ — With an allowance recorded U.S. credit card $ 454 $ 461 $ 125 $ 479 $ 485 $ 128 Non-U.S. credit card n/a n/a n/a 88 100 61 Direct/Indirect consumer 1 1 — 3 3 — Total U.S. credit card $ 454 $ 461 $ 125 $ 479 $ 485 $ 128 Non-U.S. credit card n/a n/a n/a 88 100 61 Direct/Indirect consumer 59 29 — 52 25 — Average Interest Average Interest Average Interest Carrying Income Carrying Income Carrying Income Value Recognized (2) Value Recognized (2) Value Recognized (2) 2017 2016 2015 With no recorded allowance Direct/Indirect consumer $ 21 $ 2 $ 20 $ — $ 22 $ — With an allowance recorded U.S. credit card $ 464 $ 25 $ 556 $ 31 $ 749 $ 43 Non-U.S. credit card 47 1 111 3 145 4 Direct/Indirect consumer 2 — 10 1 51 3 Total U.S. credit card $ 464 $ 25 $ 556 $ 31 $ 749 $ 43 Non-U.S. credit card 47 1 111 3 145 4 Direct/Indirect consumer 23 2 30 1 73 3 (1) Includes accrued interest and fees. (2) Interest income recognized includes interest accrued and collected on the outstanding balances of accruing impaired loans as well as interest cash collections on nonaccruing impaired loans for which the principal is considered collectible. n/a = not applicable The table below provides information on the Corporation’s primary modification programs for the Credit Card and Other Consumer TDR portfolio at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Credit Card and Other Consumer – TDRs by Program Type at December 31 Percent of Balances Current or Internal Programs External Programs Other (1) Total Less Than 30 Days Past Due (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 U.S. credit card $ 203 $ 220 $ 257 $ 264 $ 1 $ 1 $ 461 $ 485 86.92% 88.99% Non-U.S. credit card n/a 11 n/a 7 n/a 82 n/a 100 n/a 38.47 Direct/Indirect consumer 1 2 — 1 28 22 29 25 88.16 90.49 Total TDRs by program type $ 204 $ 233 $ 257 $ 272 $ 29 $ 105 $ 490 $ 610 87.00 80.79 (1) Other TDRs for non-U.S. credit card included modifications of accounts that are ineligible for a fixed payment plan. n/a = not applicable 152 Bank of America 2017 The table below provides information on the Corporation’s Credit Card and Other Consumer TDR portfolio including the December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 unpaid principal balance, carrying value, and average preand post-modification interest rates of loans that were modified in TDRs during 2017, 2016 and 2015, and net charge-offs recorded during the period in which the modification occurred. Credit Card and Other Consumer – TDRs Entered into During 2017, 2016 and 2015 Unpaid PrePostPrincipal Carrying Modification Modification Balance Value (1) Interest Rate Interest Rate (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2017 U.S. credit card $ 203 $ 213 18.47% 5.32% Direct/Indirect consumer 37 22 4.81 4.30 Total (2) $ 240 $ 235 17.17 5.22 December 31, 2016 U.S. credit card $ 163 $ 172 17.54% 5.47% Non-U.S. credit card 66 75 23.99 0.52 Direct/Indirect consumer 21 13 3.44 3.29 Total (2) $ 250 $ 260 18.73 3.93 December 31, 2015 U.S. credit card $ 205 $ 218 17.07% 5.08% Non-U.S. credit card 74 86 24.05 0.53 Direct/Indirect consumer 19 12 5.95 5.19 Total (2) $ 298 $ 316 18.58 3.84 (1) Includes accrued interest and fees. (2) Net charge-offs were $52 million, $74 million and $98 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Credit card and other consumer loans are deemed to be in interest, payment forbearances or other actions designed to payment default during the quarter in which a borrower misses the benefit the customer while mitigating the Corporation’s risk second of two consecutive payments. Payment defaults are one exposure. Reductions in interest rates are rare. Instead, the of the factors considered when projecting future cash flows in the interest rates are typically increased, although the increased rate calculation of the allowance for loan and lease losses for impaired may not represent a market rate of interest. Infrequently, credit card and other consumer loans. Based on historical concessions may also include principal forgiveness in connection experience, the Corporation estimates that 13 percent of new U.S. with foreclosure, short sale or other settlement agreements credit card TDRs and 15 percent of new direct/indirect consumer leading to termination or sale of the loan. TDRs may be in payment default within 12 months after At the time of restructuring, the loans are remeasured to reflect modification. Loans that entered into payment default during the impact, if any, on projected cash flows resulting from the 2017, 2016 and 2015 that had been modified in a TDR during modified terms. If there was no forgiveness of principal and the the preceding 12 months were $28 million, $30 million and $43 interest rate was not decreased, the modification may have little million for U.S. credit card, $0, $127 million and $152 million for or no impact on the allowance established for the loan. If a portion non-U.S. credit card, and $4 million, $2 million and $3 million for of the loan is deemed to be uncollectible, a charge-off may be direct/indirect consumer. recorded at the time of restructuring. Alternatively, a charge-off may have already been recorded in a previous period such that no Commercial Loans charge-off is required at the time of modification. For more Impaired commercial loans include nonperforming loans and TDRs information on modifications for the U.S. small business (both performing and nonperforming). Modifications of loans to commercial portfolio, see Credit Card and Other Consumer in this commercial borrowers that are experiencing financial difficulty are Note. designed to reduce the Corporation’s loss exposure while providing At December 31, 2017 and 2016, remaining commitments to the borrower with an opportunity to work through financial lend additional funds to debtors whose terms have been modified difficulties, often to avoid foreclosure or bankruptcy. Each in a commercial loan TDR were $205 million and $461 million. modification is unique and reflects the individual circumstances Commercial foreclosed properties totaled $52 million and $14 of the borrower. Modifications that result in a TDR may include million at December 31, 2017 and 2016. extensions of maturity at a concessionary (below market) rate of Bank of America 2017 153 The table below provides information on impaired loans in the Commercial loan portfolio segment including the unpaid principal balance, carrying value and related allowance at December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the average carrying value and interest income recognized for 2017, 2016 and 2015. Certain impaired commercial loans do not have a related allowance as the valuation of these impaired loans exceeded the carrying value, which is net of previously recorded charge-offs. Impaired Loans – Commercial Unpaid Unpaid Principal Carrying Related Principal Carrying Related Balance Value Allowance Balance Value Allowance (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 With no recorded allowance U.S. commercial $ 576 $ 571 $ — $ 860 $ 827 $ — Non-U.S. commercial 14 11 — 130 130 — Commercial real estate 83 80 — 77 71 — With an allowance recorded U.S. commercial $ 1,393 $ 1,109 $ 98 $ 2,018 $ 1,569 $ 132 Non-U.S. commercial 528 507 58 545 432 104 Commercial real estate 133 41 4 243 96 10 Commercial lease financing 20 18 3 6 4 — U.S. small business commercial (1) 84 70 27 85 73 27 Total U.S. commercial $ 1,969 $ 1,680 $ 98 $ 2,878 $ 2,396 $ 132 Non-U.S. commercial 542 518 58 675 562 104 Commercial real estate 216 121 4 320 167 10 Commercial lease financing 20 18 3 6 4 — U.S. small business commercial (1) 84 70 27 85 73 27 Average Interest Average Interest Average Interest Carrying Income Carrying Income Carrying Income Value Recognized (2) Value Recognized (2) Value Recognized (2) 2017 2016 2015 With no recorded allowance U.S. commercial $ 772 $ 12 $ 787 $ 14 $ 688 $ 14 Non-U.S. commercial 46 — 34 1 29 1 Commercial real estate 69 1 67 — 75 1 With an allowance recorded U.S. commercial $ 1,260 $ 33 $ 1,569 $ 59 $ 953 $ 48 Non-U.S. commercial 463 13 409 14 125 7 Commercial real estate 73 2 92 4 216 7 Commercial lease financing 8 — 2 — — — U.S. small business commercial (1) 73 — 87 1 109 1 Total U.S. commercial $ 2,032 $ 45 $ 2,356 $ 73 $ 1,641 $ 62 Non-U.S. commercial 509 13 443 15 154 8 Commercial real estate 142 3 159 4 291 8 Commercial lease financing 8 — 2 — — — U.S. small business commercial (1) 73 — 87 1 109 1 (1) Includes U.S. small business commercial renegotiated TDR loans and related allowance. (2) Interest income recognized includes interest accrued and collected on the outstanding balances of accruing impaired loans as well as interest cash collections on nonaccruing impaired loans for which the principal is considered collectible. 154 Bank of America 2017 The table below presents the December 31, 2017, 2016 and default had a carrying value of $64 million, $140 million and $105 2015 unpaid principal balance and carrying value of commercial million for U.S. commercial and $19 million, $34 million and $25 loans that were modified as TDRs during 2017, 2016 and 2015, million for commercial real estate at December 31, 2017, 2016 and net charge-offs that were recorded during the period in which and 2015, respectively. the modification occurred. The table below includes loans that were initially classified as TDRs during the period and also loans Purchased Credit-impaired Loans that had previously been classified as TDRs and were modified The table below shows activity for the accretable yield on PCI loans, again during the period. which include the Countrywide Financial Corporation (Countrywide) portfolio and loans repurchased in connection with the 2013 settlement with FNMA. The amount of accretable yield is affected Commercial – TDRs Entered into During 2017, 2016 by changes in credit outlooks, including metrics such as default and 2015 rates and loss severities, prepayment speeds, which can change the amount and period of time over which interest payments are Unpaid expected to be received, and the interest rates on variable rate Principal Carrying Balance Value loans. The reclassifications from nonaccretable difference during (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2017 2017 and 2016 were primarily due to an increase in the expected U.S. commercial $ 1,033 $ 922 principal and interest cash flows due to lower default estimates Non-U.S. commercial 105 105 and rising interest rate environment. Commercial real estate 35 24 Commercial lease financing 20 17 U.S. small business commercial (1) 13 13 Rollforward of Accretable Yield Total (2) $ 1,206 $ 1,081 (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2016 Accretable yield, January 1, 2016 $ 4,569 U.S. commercial $ 1,556 $ 1,482 Accretion (722) Non-U.S. commercial 255 253 Disposals/transfers (486) Commercial real estate 77 77 Reclassifications from nonaccretable difference 444 Commercial lease financing 6 4 Accretable yield, December 31, 2016 3,805 U.S. small business commercial (1) 1 1 Accretion (601) Total (2) $ 1,895 $ 1,817 Disposals/transfers (634) Reclassifications from nonaccretable difference 219 December 31, 2015 Accretable yield, December 31, 2017 $ 2,789 U.S. commercial $ 853 $ 779 Non-U.S. commercial 329 326 During 2017 and 2016, the Corporation sold PCI loans with a Commercial real estate 42 42 carrying value of $803 million and $549 million. For more U.S. small business commercial (1) 14 11 information on PCI loans, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Total (2) $ 1,238 $ 1,158 Accounting Principles and for the carrying value and valuation (1) U.S. small business commercial TDRs are comprised of renegotiated small business card loans. (2) Net charge-offs were $138 million, $137 million and $31 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, allowance for PCI loans, see Note 5 – Allowance for Credit Losses. respectively. Loans Held-for-sale A commercial TDR is generally deemed to be in payment default The Corporation had LHFS of $11.4 billion and $9.1 billion at when the loan is 90 days or more past due, including delinquencies December 31, 2017 and 2016. Cash and non-cash proceeds from that were not resolved as part of the modification. U.S. small sales and paydowns of loans originally classified as LHFS were business commercial TDRs are deemed to be in payment default $41.3 billion, $32.6 billion and $41.2 billion for 2017, 2016 and during the quarter in which a borrower misses the second of two 2015, respectively. Cash used for originations and purchases of consecutive payments. Payment defaults are one of the factors LHFS totaled $43.5 billion, $33.1 billion and $37.9 billion for considered when projecting future cash flows, along with 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. observable market prices or fair value of collateral when measuring the allowance for loan and lease losses. TDRs that were in payment Bank of America 2017 155 NOTE 5 Allowance for Credit Losses The table below summarizes the changes in the allowance for credit losses by portfolio segment for 2017, 2016 and 2015. Consumer Credit Card and Total Real Estate (1) Other Consumer Commercial Allowance (Dollars in millions) 2017 Allowance for loan and lease losses, January 1 $ 2,750 $ 3,229 $ 5,258 $ 11,237 Loans and leases charged off (770) (3,774) (1,075) (5,619) Recoveries of loans and leases previously charged off 657 809 174 1,640 Net charge-offs (2) (113) (2,965) (901) (3,979) Write-offs of PCI loans (3) (207) — — (207) Provision for loan and lease losses (4) (710) 3,437 654 3,381 Other (5) — (38) (1) (39) Allowance for loan and lease losses, December 31 1,720 3,663 5,010 10,393 Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, January 1 — — 762 762 Provision for unfunded lending commitments — — 15 15 Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, December 31 — — 777 777 Allowance for credit losses, December 31 $ 1,720 $ 3,663 $ 5,787 $ 11,170 2016 Allowance for loan and lease losses, January 1 $ 3,914 $ 3,471 $ 4,849 $ 12,234 Loans and leases charged off (1,155) (3,553) (740) (5,448) Recoveries of loans and leases previously charged off 619 770 238 1,627 Net charge-offs (2) (536) (2,783) (502) (3,821) Write-offs of PCI loans (3) (340) — — (340) Provision for loan and lease losses (4) (258) 2,826 1,013 3,581 Other (5) (30) (42) (102) (174) Total allowance for loan and lease losses, December 31 2,750 3,472 5,258 11,480 Less: Allowance included in assets of business held for sale (6) — (243) — (243) Allowance for loan and lease losses, December 31 2,750 3,229 5,258 11,237 Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, January 1 — — 646 646 Provision for unfunded lending commitments — — 16 16 Other (5) — — 100 100 Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, December 31 — — 762 762 Allowance for credit losses, December 31 $ 2,750 $ 3,229 $ 6,020 $ 11,999 2015 Allowance for loan and lease losses, January 1 $ 5,935 $ 4,047 $ 4,437 $ 14,419 Loans and leases charged off (1,841) (3,620) (644) (6,105) Recoveries of loans and leases previously charged off 732 813 222 1,767 Net charge-offs (1,109) (2,807) (422) (4,338) Write-offs of PCI loans (3) (808) — — (808) Provision for loan and lease losses (4) (70) 2,278 835 3,043 Other (5) (34) (47) (1) (82) Allowance for loan and lease losses, December 31 3,914 3,471 4,849 12,234 Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, January 1 — — 528 528 Provision for unfunded lending commitments — — 118 118 Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, December 31 — — 646 646 Allowance for credit losses, December 31 $ 3,914 $ 3,471 $ 5,495 $ 12,880 (1) Includes valuation allowance associated with the PCI loan portfolio. (2) Includes net charge-offs related to the non-U.S. credit card loan portfolio, which was included in assets of business held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2016. In 2017, the Corporation sold its non-U.S. consumer credit card business. (3) Includes write-offs of $87 million, $60 million and $234 million associated with the sale of PCI loans in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. (4) Includes provision expense of $76 million and a benefit of $45 million and $40 million associated with the PCI loan portfolio in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. (5) Primarily represents the net impact of portfolio sales, consolidations and deconsolidations, foreign currency translation adjustments, transfers to held-for-sale and certain other reclassifications. (6) Represents allowance for loan and lease losses related to the non-U.S. credit card loan portfolio, which was sold in 2017. 156 Bank of America 2017 The table below presents the allowance and the carrying value of outstanding loans and leases by portfolio segment at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Allowance and Carrying Value by Portfolio Segment Consumer Credit Card and Real Estate Other Consumer Commercial Total (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2017 Impaired loans and troubled debt restructurings (1) Allowance for loan and lease losses (2) $ 348 $ 125 $ 190 $ 663 Carrying value (3) 12,554 490 2,407 15,451 Allowance as a percentage of carrying value 2.77% 25.51% 7.89% 4.29% Loans collectively evaluated for impairment Allowance for loan and lease losses $ 1,083 $ 3,538 $ 4,820 $ 9,441 Carrying value (3, 4) 238,284 192,303 474,284 904,871 Allowance as a percentage of carrying value (4) 0.45% 1.84% 1.02% 1.04% Purchased credit-impaired loans Valuation allowance $ 289 n/a n/a $ 289 Carrying value gross of valuation allowance 10,717 n/a n/a 10,717 Valuation allowance as a percentage of carrying value 2.70% n/a n/a 2.70% Total Allowance for loan and lease losses $ 1,720 $ 3,663 $ 5,010 $ 10,393 Carrying value (3, 4) 261,555 192,793 476,691 931,039 Allowance as a percentage of carrying value (4) 0.66% 1.90% 1.05% 1.12% December 31, 2016 Impaired loans and troubled debt restructurings (1) Allowance for loan and lease losses (2) $ 356 $ 189 $ 273 $ 818 Carrying value (3) 15,408 610 3,202 19,220 Allowance as a percentage of carrying value 2.31% 30.98% 8.53% 4.26% Loans collectively evaluated for impairment Allowance for loan and lease losses $ 1,975 $ 3,283 $ 4,985 $ 10,243 Carrying value (3, 4) 229,094 197,470 449,290 875,854 Allowance as a percentage of carrying value (4) 0.86% 1.66% 1.11% 1.17% Purchased credit-impaired loans Valuation allowance $ 419 n/a n/a $ 419 Carrying value gross of valuation allowance 13,738 n/a n/a 13,738 Valuation allowance as a percentage of carrying value 3.05% n/a n/a 3.05% Less: Assets of business held for sale (5) Allowance for loan and lease losses (6) n/a $ (243) n/a $ (243) Carrying value (3) n/a (9,214) n/a (9,214) Total Allowance for loan and lease losses $ 2,750 $ 3,229 $ 5,258 $ 11,237 Carrying value (3, 4) 258,240 188,866 452,492 899,598 Allowance as a percentage of carrying value (4) 1.06% 1.71% 1.16% 1.25% (1) Impaired loans include nonperforming commercial loans and all TDRs, including both commercial and consumer TDRs. Impaired loans exclude nonperforming consumer loans unless they are TDRs, and all consumer and commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option. (2) Allowance for loan and lease losses includes $27 million related to impaired U.S. small business commercial at both December 31, 2017 and 2016. (3) Amounts are presented gross of the allowance for loan and lease losses. (4) Outstanding loan and lease balances and ratios do not include loans accounted for under the fair value option of $5.7 billion and $7.1 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016. (5) Represents allowance for loan and lease losses and loans related to the non-U.S. credit card loan portfolio, which was included in assets of business held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2016. In 2017, the Corporation sold its non-U.S. consumer credit card business. (6) Includes $61 million of allowance for loan and lease losses related to impaired loans and TDRs and $182 million related to loans collectively evaluated for impairment at December 31, 2016. n/a = not applicable Bank of America 2017 157 NOTE 66 Securitizations NOTE Securitizations and and Other Other Variable Variable use useof VIEs,for ofVIEs, exampleto forexample tohold collateral.These holdcollateral. Thesesecurities securitiesand and loans loansare areincluded includedininNote Securitiesor Note33––Securities orNote Note44––Outstanding Outstanding Interest Entities Interest Entities Loans Loansand Leases.In andLeases. addition,the Inaddition, Corporationuses theCorporation usesVIEs VIEssuch suchas as The TheCorporation Corporationutilizes utilizesVIEs VIEsininthe theordinary ordinarycourse courseof ofbusiness business trust trust preferred preferred securities securities trusts trusts inin connection connection with with its its funding funding toto support support its its ownown and and its its customers’ customers’ financing financing and and investing investing activities. activities. For For more more information, information,see see Note Note 11 11 –– Long-term Long-term Debt. Debt. needs. needs. The The Corporation Corporation routinely routinely securitizes securitizes loans loans and and debt debt These VIEs, These VIEs, which which are generally not are generally not consolidated consolidated by by the the securitiesusing securities usingVIEs VIEsas sourceof asaasource offunding fundingfor forthetheCorporation Corporation Corporation, Corporation,as asapplicable, applicable,are arenot notincluded includedininthe thetables tablesherein. herein. and andas asaameans meansof oftransferring transferringthe theeconomic economicrisk riskof ofthetheloans loansor or Except Except as as described described below, below, the the Corporation Corporation did did notnot provide provide debtsecurities debt securitiesto tothird parties.The thirdparties. Theassets assetsare aretransferred transferredinto intoaa financial support financial support to consolidated or to consolidated or unconsolidated unconsolidated VIEs VIEs during during trust trustor orother othersecuritization securitizationvehicle vehiclesuch suchthat thatthetheassets assetsare arelegally legally 2017, 2017, 2016 2016 and and 2015 2015 that that itit waswas not not previously previously contractually contractually isolated isolatedfrom fromthe thecreditors creditorsof ofthetheCorporation Corporationand andare arenot notavailable available requiredto required toprovide, provide,nor doesititintend nordoes intendto todo doso.so. totosatisfy satisfyits itsobligations. obligations.These Theseassets assetscan canonly onlybe beusedusedto tosettle settle obligations of obligations of the the trusttrust or or other securitization vehicle. other securitization vehicle. The The First-lien First-lien MortgageMortgage Securitizations Securitizations Corporation Corporationalso alsoadministers, administers,structures structuresor orinvests investsininother otherVIEs VIEs including includingCDOs, CDOs,investment investmentvehicles vehiclesand andotherotherentities. entities.For Formoremore First-lien First-lienMortgages Mortgages information information on on the the Corporation’s Corporation’s use use of of VIEs, VIEs, see see Note Note 11 –– AsAs part part of of itsits mortgage mortgage banking banking activities, activities, the the Corporation Corporation Summaryof Summary ofSignificant SignificantAccounting AccountingPrinciples.Principles. securitizesaaportion securitizes portionof ofthe residentialmortgage first-lienresidential thefirst-lien mortgageloans loansitit The The tables tables inin this this Note Note present present the the assets assets and and liabilities liabilities of of originates originates or orpurchases purchases from fromthird thirdparties, parties,generally generally inin the theformform consolidated consolidatedand andunconsolidated unconsolidatedVIEs VIEsat atDecember December31, 31,2017 2017and and ofofRMBS RMBSguaranteed guaranteedby bygovernment-sponsored government-sponsoredenterprises, enterprises,FNMA FNMA 2016 inin situations 2016 situations where where the the Corporation Corporation has has continuing continuing and FHLMC and FHLMC (collectively (collectively the the GSEs), GSEs),or or the the Government Government National National involvement involvement with with transferred transferred assets assets or or ifif the the Corporation Corporation Mortgage MortgageAssociation Association(GNMA) (GNMA)primarily primarilyininthe thecase caseof ofFHA-insured FHA-insured otherwise otherwise has has aa variablevariable interest interest inin the the VIE.VIE. The The tablestables also also and and U.S. U.S. Department Department of of Veterans Veterans Affairs Affairs (VA)-guaranteed (VA)-guaranteed present presentthe Corporation’smaximum theCorporation’s maximumloss lossexposure exposureat December atDecember mortgage mortgageloans. loans.Securitization Securitizationusually usuallyoccursoccursininconjunction conjunctionwith with 31, 31, 2017 2017 and and 2016 2016 resulting resulting from from its its involvement involvement with with ororshortly shortlyafter afterorigination originationor orpurchase, purchase,and andthe theCorporation Corporationmay may consolidated consolidated VIEs VIEs and unconsolidated VIEs and unconsolidated VIEs inin which which the the alsosecuritize also securitizeloans loansheld heldininits residentialmortgage itsresidential mortgageportfolio. portfolio.In In Corporation Corporationholds holdsaavariable interest.The variableinterest. TheCorporation’s Corporation’smaximum maximum addition, the addition, the Corporation Corporation may, may, from from time time to to time, time, securitize securitize loss lossexposure exposureisisbased basedon onthetheunlikely unlikelyevent eventthat thatall allofofthetheassets assets commercial commercial mortgages mortgages itit originates originates or or purchases purchases from from otherother ininthetheVIEs VIEsbecomebecomeworthless worthlessand andincorporates incorporatesnot notonly potential onlypotential entities. entities.The TheCorporation Corporationtypically typicallyservices servicesthe theloans loansititsecuritizes. securitizes. losses associated losses associated with assets recorded with assets recorded on on the the Consolidated Consolidated Further, Further, the the Corporation Corporation may beneficial interests retain beneficial may retain interests inin the the Balance Balance Sheet Sheet but but alsoalso potential potential losses losses associated associated with with off-offsecuritization securitization trusts trusts including including seniorsenior and and subordinate subordinate securities securities balance sheet balance sheet commitments, commitments, such such as as unfunded unfunded liquidity liquidity and equity and equity tranches tranches issued issued by by the trusts. Except the trusts. Except as as described described commitments commitments and and other other contractual contractual arrangements. arrangements. The The below belowand andininNote Note77––Representations Representationsand andWarranties WarrantiesObligations Obligations Corporation’s maximum Corporation’s maximum loss exposure does loss exposure does not not include include losses losses and Corporate and Guarantees, the Corporate Guarantees, Corporation does the Corporation does not not provide provide previouslyrecognized previously recognizedthrough throughwrite-downs write-downsof ofassets. assets. guarantees or guarantees recourse to or recourse to the securitization trusts the securitization trusts other other than than TheCorporation The Corporationinvests investsininABS ABSissued issuedby third-partyVIEs bythird-party VIEswith with representationsand standardrepresentations standard andwarranties. warranties. whichitithas which hasno noother otherform formof ofinvolvement involvementand andenters entersinto certain intocertain The Thetable tablebelow belowsummarizes summarizesselect selectinformation informationrelated relatedto tofirstfirstcommercial commerciallending lendingarrangements arrangementsthat thatmay mayalso alsoincorporate incorporatethe the lien lienmortgage securitizationsfor mortgagesecuritizations 2017,2016 for2017, 2016and and2015. 2015. First-lien First-lienMortgageMortgageSecuritizations Securitizations ResidentialMortgage Residential Agency Mortgage-Agency Commercial CommercialMortgage Mortgage millions) (Dollarsininmillions) (Dollars 2017 2017 2016 2016 2015 2015 2017 2017 2016 2016 2015 2015 Cash proceedsfrom Cashproceeds fromnew newsecuritizations securitizations(1)(1) $$ 14,467 $$ 14,467 24,201 $$ 24,201 27,164 $$ 27,164 5,641 $$ 5,641 3,887 $$ 3,887 7,945 7,945 Gains Gainson onsecuritizations securitizations(2)(2) 158 158 370 370 894 894 91 91 38 38 4949 Repurchases Repurchasesfrom securitizationtrusts fromsecuritization trusts(3)(3) 2,713 2,713 3,611 3,611 3,716 3,716 —— —— —— (1) (1) The TheCorporation Corporationtransfers mortgageloans residentialmortgage transfersresidential loanstotosecuritizations sponsoredbybythe securitizationssponsored theGSEs thenormal GNMAininthe GSEsororGNMA normalcourse andreceives businessand courseofofbusiness receivesRMBS whichmay exchangewhich RMBSininexchange maythen thenbebesold sold intothe into themarket third-partyinvestors markettotothird-party investorsforforcash cashproceeds. proceeds. (2) AAmajority (2) thefirst-lien first-lienresidential majorityofofthe mortgageloans residentialmortgage securitizedare loanssecuritized initiallyclassified classifiedas areinitially LHFSand andaccounted asLHFS accountedfor underthe forunder fairvalue valueoption. thefair option.Gains Gainsrecognized recognizedon onthese LHFSprior theseLHFS securitization, priortotosecuritization, which whichtotaled totaled$243 $243million, $487million million,$487 millionand and$750 $750million millionnet netofofhedges, during2017, hedges,during 2017,2016 and2015, 2016and 2015,respectively, respectively,are notincluded arenot includedininthe thetable tableabove. above. (3) The (3) Corporationmay TheCorporation havethe mayhave optiontotorepurchase repurchasedelinquent theoption loansout delinquentloans securitizationtrusts, trusts,which outofofsecuritization reducesthe whichreduces amountofofservicing servicingadvances theamount advancesititisisrequired requiredtotomake. TheCorporation make.The Corporationmay also mayalso repurchaseloans repurchase securitizationtrusts fromsecuritization loansfrom truststotoperform performmodifications. Repurchasedloans modifications.Repurchased loansinclude includeFHA-insured collateralizingGNMA mortgagescollateralizing FHA-insuredmortgages GNMAsecurities. securities. Inaddition In additionto tocash proceedsas cashproceeds asreported reportedininthe thetabletableabove, above,the theCorporation Corporationreceived securitieswith receivedsecurities withan initialfair aninitial fairvalue valueof of$1.9 $1.9 billion,$4.2 billion, $4.2 billion billion and and $22.3 $22.3 billionbillion inin connection connection with first-lien mortgage with first-lien mortgage securitizations securitizations inin 2017, 2017,2016 2016 and 2015. The and 2015. The receipt receipt of of thesesecurities these securitiesrepresentsrepresentsnon-cash non-cashoperatingoperatingand andinvesting activitiesand, investingactivities accordingly,isisnot and,accordingly, reflectedininthe notreflected theConsolidated ConsolidatedStatement Statement ofof Cash Cash Flows. Substantially all Flows. Substantially all of of these these securities securities were initially classified were initially classified as as Level Level 22 assets assets within within the the fair fair value value hierarchy. hierarchy. During During 2017, 2017,2016 2016and and2015, 2015,there therewere wereno nochanges changesto tothetheinitial initialclassification. classification. 158 158 158 Bank Bankof Bank ofofAmerica America2017 America 2017 2017 The The Corporation Corporation recognizes recognizes consumer consumer MSRs MSRs from from the the sale sale or or million million and and $0 following the $0 following sale of the sale retained interests of retained interests to to third third securitization securitizationof ofconsumer consumerreal realestate estateloans. loans.The Theunpaid unpaidprincipal principal parties, after parties, which the after which Corporation no the Corporation longer had no longer had the the unilateral unilateral balance balance of of loans loans serviced serviced for for investors, investors, includingincluding residential residential ability to ability liquidate the to liquidate vehicles. Of the vehicles. the balances Of the balances deconsolidated deconsolidated mortgage mortgage and home equity loans, totaled $277.6 and home equity loans, totaled $277.6 billion billion and and in 2016, in 2016, $706 million of assets and $628 million $706 million of assets and $628 million of of liabilities liabilities $326.2 $326.2 billion billion at December 31, at December 31, 2017 2017 and and 2016. Servicing fee 2016. Servicing fee represent non-cash represent non-cash investing investing and and financing financing activities activities and, and, andancillary ancillaryfee and feeincome incomeon onserviced servicedloans loanswas was$893$893million, million,$1.2 $1.2 accordingly, accordingly, are are not not reflected reflected on on the Consolidated Statement the Consolidated Statement of of billion billion and and $1.4 $1.4 billion billion in in 2017, 2017, 2016 2016 and and 2015. 2015. Servicing Servicing Cash Flows. Gains Cash Flows. Gains on sale of on sale of $125 $125 millionmillion and and $287 million in $287 million in advances advances on on serviced serviced loans, loans, including including loans loans serviced serviced for for others others 2016and 2016 and20152015relatedrelatedto tothese deconsolidationswere thesedeconsolidations wererecorded recorded and loans and loans held held for for investment, investment,were were $4.5 $4.5 billion billion and and $6.2 $6.2 billion billion in in other other income income in in the the Consolidated Consolidated Statement Statement of Income. There of Income. There at atDecember December31, 31,2017 2017and and2016. 2016.For Formore moreinformation informationon onMSRs, MSRs, were were no deconsolidations of no deconsolidations of agency agency residential residential mortgage mortgage see see Note Note 20 20 –– Fair FairValueValue Measurements. Measurements. securitizations securitizations in in 2017. 2017. During 2016 During 2016 and and 2015, 2015, the the Corporation Corporation deconsolidated deconsolidated The tablebelow Thetable belowsummarizes summarizesselect selectinformation informationrelated relatedto tofirstfirstagency agency residentialresidential mortgage securitization vehicles mortgage securitization vehicles with with total total lien mortgage lien securitization trusts mortgage securitization trusts in which the in which Corporation held the Corporation held assets assetsof of$3.8$3.8billionbillionand and$4.5 $4.5billion, billion,and andtotaltotalliabilities liabilitiesof of$628 $628 aa variable variable interest interest at December 31, at December 31,2017 2017 and and 2016. 2016. First-lien First-lien Mortgage Mortgage VIEs VIEs Residential ResidentialMortgage Mortgage Non-agency Non-agency Agency Agency Prime Prime Subprime Subprime Alt-A Alt-A CommercialMortgage Commercial Mortgage December December31 31 (Dollars (Dollarsininmillions) millions) 2017 2017 2016 2016 2017 2017 2016 2016 2017 2017 2016 2016 2017 2017 2016 2016 2017 2017 2016 2016 Unconsolidated UnconsolidatedVIEs VIEs Maximum Maximumloss lossexposure exposure (1) (1) $$ 19,110 $$ 19,110 22,661 22,661 $$ 689 $$ 689 757 757 $$ 2,643 $$ 2,643 2,750 2,750 $$ 403 $$ 403 560 560 $$ 585 $$ 585 344 344 On-balance On-balancesheet sheetassets assets Senior Seniorsecurities: securities: Trading accountassets Tradingaccount assets $$ 716 $$ 716 1,399 1,399 $$ 66 $$ 2020 $$ 1010 $$ 112 112 $$ 50 $$ 50 118 118 $$ 108 $$ 108 51 51 Debt Debtsecurities carriedat securitiescarried fairvalue atfair value 15,036 15,036 17,620 17,620 477 477 441 441 2,221 2,221 2,235 2,235 351 351 305 305 —— — — Held-to-maturity Held-to-maturitysecurities securities 3,348 3,348 3,630 3,630 —— —— —— —— —— —— 274 274 64 64 Subordinate Subordinatesecurities securities —— —— 55 99 3838 25 25 22 2424 69 69 81 81 Residual Residualinterests interests —— —— —— —— —— —— —— —— 19 19 25 25 All otherassets Allother assets (2) (2) 1010 1212 —— 2828 —— —— —— 113 113 —— — — Total Totalretained retainedpositions positions $$ 19,110 $$ 22,661 19,110 22,661 $$ 488 $$ 488 498 498 $$ 2,269 $$ 2,269 2,372 2,372 $$ 403 $$ 403 560 560 $$ 470 $$ 470 221 221 Principal Principalbalance balanceoutstanding outstanding (3) (3) 232,761 $$ 265,332 $$ 232,761 265,332 $$ 10,549 $$ 10,549 16,280 16,280 $$ 10,254 $$ 10,254 19,373 19,373 $$ 28,129 $$ 28,129 35,788 35,788 $$ 26,504 $$ 26,504 23,826 23,826 Consolidated ConsolidatedVIEs VIEs Maximum Maximumloss lossexposure exposure (1) (1) $$ 14,502 $$ 14,502 18,084 18,084 $$ 571 $$ 571 —— $$ —— $$ —— $$ —— $$ 2525 $$ —— $$ — — On-balance On-balancesheet sheetassets assets Trading Tradingaccount accountassetsassets $$ 232 $$ 232 434 434 $$ 571 $$ 571 —— $$ —— $$ —— $$ —— $$ 9999 $$ —— $$ — — Loans Loansand andleases, leases,net net 14,030 14,030 17,223 17,223 —— —— —— —— —— —— —— — — All Allother otherassets assets 240 240 427 427 —— —— —— —— —— —— —— — — Total Totalassets assets $$ 14,502 $$ 14,502 18,084 18,084 $$ 571 $$ 571 —— $$ —— $$ —— $$ —— $$ 9999 $$ —— $$ — — On-balance On-balancesheet sheetliabilities liabilities Long-term Long-termdebt debt $$ —— $$ —— $$ —— $$ —— $$ —— $$ —— $$ —— $$ 7474 $$ —— $$ — — All Allother otherliabilities liabilities 33 44 —— —— —— —— —— —— —— — — Total Totalliabilities liabilities $$ 33 $$ 44 $$ —— $$ —— $$ —— $$ —— $$ —— $$ 7474 $$ —— $$ — — (1) (1) Maximum Maximumloss lossexposure exposureincludesincludesobligations obligationsunder underloss-sharing reinsuranceand loss-sharingreinsurance andother arrangementsfor otherarrangements fornon-agency mortgageand residentialmortgage non-agencyresidential andcommercial mortgagesecuritizations, commercialmortgage securitizations,but butexcludes excludes the thereserve reservefor forrepresentations representationsand warrantiesobligations andwarranties obligationsand andcorporate corporateguarantees guaranteesand andalso excludesservicing alsoexcludes servicingadvances advancesand andother otherservicing servicingrights andobligations. rightsand obligations.For Formore moreinformation, information,seesee Note Note77––Representations Representationsand andWarranties WarrantiesObligations ObligationsandandCorporate Guaranteesand CorporateGuarantees andNote Note2020––Fair FairValue ValueMeasurements. Measurements. (2) (2) Not included in the table above are all other assets of $148 million and $189 million, representing the unpaid principal balance of mortgage loans eligible Not included in the table above are all other assets of $148 million and $189 million, representing the unpaid principal balance of mortgage loans eligible for repurchase from unconsolidated for repurchase from unconsolidated residential residentialmortgage mortgagesecuritization securitizationvehicles, vehicles,principally guaranteedby principallyguaranteed byGNMA, GNMA,andandall allother otherliabilities liabilitiesof $148million of$148 millionand $189million, and$189 million,representing representingthetheprincipal amountthat principalamount thatwould wouldbebepayable payabletoto thesecuritization the securitizationvehicles vehiclesififthe theCorporation Corporationwas wastotoexercise therepurchase exercisethe repurchaseoption, option,atatDecember December31, 31,2017 2017andand2016. 2016. (3) (3) Principal balance outstanding includes loans where the Corporation was the transferor to securitization vehicles with which it has continuing involvement, Principal balance outstanding includes loans where the Corporation was the transferor to securitization vehicles with which it has continuing involvement, which may include servicing the loans.which may include servicing the loans. Bankof Bank ofAmerica America2017 2017 159 159 Other Other Asset-backed Asset-backed Securitizations Securitizations The The tabletable below below summarizes summarizes select select information information related related to to home home equity equity loan, loan, credit credit card card and and other other asset-backed asset-backed VIEs VIEs in in which which the the Corporation Corporation held held aa variable variable interestinterest at at December December 31, 31, 2017 2017 and and 2016.2016. Home Home Equity Equity Loan, Loan, Credit Credit Card Card and and OtherOther Asset-backed Asset-backed VIEs VIEs Home Home EquityEquity Loan Loan (1)(1) Credit Card Credit Card (2, 3) (2,3) Resecuritization Resecuritization Trusts Trusts Municipal Bond Municipal Trusts Bond Trusts December December 31 31 (Dollars in (Dollars in millions) millions) 2017 2017 2016 2016 2017 2017 2016 2016 2017 2017 2016 2016 2017 2017 2016 2016 Unconsolidated Unconsolidated VIEs VIEs Maximum Maximum loss exposure loss exposure $$ 1,522 $$ 1,522 2,732 2,732 $$ —— $$ —— $$ 8,204 $$ 8,204 9,906 9,906 $$ 1,631 $$ 1,631 1,635 1,635 On-balance On-balance sheet sheet assets assets Senior Senior securities securities (4) (4):: Trading account Trading account assetsassets $$ —— $$ — — $$ —— $$ —— $$ 869 869 $$ 902 902 $$ 33 $$ 33 — — Debt securities Debt securities carried carried at fair value at fair value 36 36 46 46 —— —— 1,661 1,661 2,338 2,338 —— — — Held-to-maturity Held-to-maturity securitiessecurities —— — — —— —— 5,644 5,644 6,569 6,569 —— — — Subordinate Subordinate securitiessecurities (4) (4) —— — — —— —— 30 30 97 97 —— — — Total Total retained retained positions positions $$ 36 $$ 36 46 46 $$ —— $$ —— $$ 8,204 $$ 8,204 9,906 9,906 $$ 33 33 $$ — — Total assets of Total assets VIEs (5) of VIEs (5) $$ 2,432 $$ 2,432 4,274 4,274 $$ —— $$ —— $$ 19,281 $$ 19,281 22,155 22,155 $$ 2,287 $$ 2,287 2,406 2,406 Consolidated Consolidated VIEs VIEs Maximum loss Maximum loss exposure exposure $$ 112 $$ 112 149 149 $$ 24,337 $$ 24,337 25,859 25,859 $$ 628 628 $$ 420 420 $$ 1,453 $$ 1,453 1,442 1,442 On-balance On-balance sheet sheet assets assets Trading Trading account account assets assets $$ —— $$ — — $$ —— $$ —— $$ 1,557 $$ 1,557 1,428 1,428 $$ 1,452 $$ 1,452 1,454 1,454 Loans Loans and and leases leases 177 177 244 244 32,554 32,554 35,135 35,135 — — —— —— — — Allowance for Allowance for loan loan andand lease lease losses losses (9) (9) (16) (16) (988) (988) (1,007) (1,007) — — —— —— — — All All other other assets assets 66 77 1,385 1,385 793 793 — — —— 11 — — Total assets assets Total $$ 174 $$ 174 235 $$ 235 32,951 $$ 32,951 34,921 $$ 34,921 1,557 $$ 1,557 1,428 1,428 $$ 1,453 $$ 1,453 1,454 1,454 On-balance On-balance sheet sheet liabilities liabilities Short-term borrowings Short-term borrowings $$ —— $$ — — $$ —— $$ —— $$ — $$ — —— $$ 312 $$ 312 348 348 Long-term Long-term debt debt 76 76 108 108 8,598 8,598 9,049 9,049 929 929 1,008 1,008 —— 12 12 All All other liabilities other liabilities —— — — 16 16 13 13 — — —— —— — — Total liabilities Total liabilities $$ 76 $$ 76 108 108 $$ 8,614 $$ 8,614 9,062 9,062 $$ 929 929 $$ 1,008 1,008 $$ 312 $$ 312 360 360 (1) (1) For Forunconsolidated unconsolidated home loan VIEs, equity loan homeequity VIEs,the maximum loss themaximum lossexposure outstanding trust includesoutstanding exposure includes trustcertificates issued by certificatesissued trustsin bytrusts in rapid rapid amortization, amortization,netnetofofrecorded recorded reserves. bothconsolidated Forboth reserves. For consolidated and and unconsolidated unconsolidated home home equity equity loan VIEs,the loan VIEs, the maximum maximum loss loss exposure exposure excludes excludes the reserve for the reserve for representations representations and and warranties warranties obligations obligations and corporate guarantees. and corporate guarantees. For For more more information, information,seesee Note Note 77 –– Representations Representations and Warranties Obligations andWarranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees. Guarantees. and Corporate (2) (2) At At December December 31, 2017 and 31,2017 and 2016, and leases loans and 2016,loans leases in consolidated credit the consolidated in the credit card included $15.6 trust included card trust $15.6 billion $17.6 billion and $17.6 billion and billion of seller’s interest. of seller’s interest. (3) (3) At At December December 31, 2017 and 31,2017 2016,all and 2016, all other other assets assets in consolidated credit the consolidated in the credit card included restricted trust included card trust restricted cash, short-term investments, certain short-term cash,certain investments,and and unbilled accrued interest unbilled accrued and fees. interest and fees. (4) (4) The The retained retained senior subordinate securities and subordinate senior and securities were using quoted valued using were valued quoted market prices or market prices or observable inputs (Level market inputs observable market (Level 22 of the fair of the fair value value hierarchy). hierarchy). (5) (5) Total Total assets assets include the Corporation loans the include loans Corporation transferred which itit has with which transferred with has continuing involvement,which continuing involvement, which may include servicing may include servicing the the loan. loan. Home Home Equity Equity Loans Loans Credit Card Credit Securitizations Card Securitizations The Corporation Corporation retains The interests in retains interests home equity in home equity securitization securitization The The Corporation Corporation securitizessecuritizes originated originated and and purchased purchased credit credit cardcard trusts to trusts which itit transferred transferred home to which home equity equity loans. loans. These These retained retained loans. loans. The Corporation’s continuing The Corporation’s involvement with continuing involvement with the the interests interests primarily primarily include include senior securities. In senior securities. addition, the In addition, the securitization securitization trust includes servicing trust includes servicing the receivables, retaining the receivables, retaining Corporation may Corporation may be obligated to be obligated to provide provide subordinate subordinate funding funding to to an an undivided undivided interest interest (seller’s interest) in (seller’s interest) in the receivables, and the receivables, and the trusts during the trusts during aa rapid amortization event. rapid amortization event. This This obligation obligation is is holding holding certain retained interests certain retained subordinate interests including subordinate interests including interests included included in in the maximum loss the maximum exposure in loss exposure the table in the above. The table above. The in in accrued accrued interest interest and and fees fees on the securitized on the receivables and securitized receivables and charges charges that that will ultimately be will ultimately be recorded recorded as result of as aa result the rapid of the rapid cash cash reserve reserve accounts.accounts. amortization amortization events events depend depend on on the the undrawn undrawn portion portion of of the the homehome During During 2017, 2017, 2016 2016 and and 2015 2015,, new new senior senior debt debt securities securities equity equity lines lines of of credit credit (HELOCs), (HELOCs), performanceperformance of of thethe loans, loans, the the issued issued to to third-party third-party investors investors from from the the credit credit card card securitization securitization amount of amount of subsequent subsequent draws draws and and thethe timing timing of of related related cash flows. cash flows. trust trust were were $3.1 $3.1 billion, billion, $750 $750 millionmillion and and $2.3 $2.3 billion. billion. During During 2015, 2015, the Corporation deconsolidated the Corporation deconsolidated several several HELOC HELOC At December At December 31, 31, 2017 2017 and and 2016,2016, the the Corporation Corporation held held trusts trustswith withtotal totalassets assetsof of$488 $488millionmillionand andtotaltotalliabilities liabilitiesof of$611 $611 subordinate subordinate securities securities issued issued by by thethe credit credit cardcard securitization securitization million million as as its its obligation obligation to to provide provide subordinated subordinated funding funding is is no no trust trust with with aa notional notional principal principal amount amount of of $7.4 $7.4 billion billion andand $7.5$7.5 longer longer considered considered to to bebe aa potentially potentially significant significant variable variable interest interest billion. billion. These These securities securities serve serve as as aa formform of of credit credit enhancement enhancement in in the the trusts trusts following following aa decline decline in in the the amount amount of of credit credit available available to to the the senior senior debt debt securities securities and and havehave aa stated stated interest interest rate rate of of to be to be drawn drawn by borrowers. In by borrowers. In connection connection with with deconsolidation, deconsolidation,the the zero zero percent. percent. During During 2017, 2017, 2016 2016 and and 2015, 2015, the the credit credit card card Corporation Corporation recorded recorded aa gain gain of of $123 $123 millionmillion in in otherother income income in in securitization securitization trust trust issued issued $500 $500 million, million, $121 $121 million million and and $371$371 the Consolidated the Consolidated Statement Statement of of Income. Income. The derecognition of The derecognition of million million of of these these subordinate subordinate securities. securities. assets and assets liabilities represents and liabilities represents non-cash non-cash investinginvesting and and financing financing activities and, activities and, accordingly, accordingly, is not reflected is not reflected on on the the Consolidated Consolidated Statement Statement of of Cash Cash Flows. Flows. There There were were no no deconsolidations deconsolidations of of HELOC HELOC trusts trusts in in 2017 2017 or or 2016. 2016. 160 160 Bank of Bank of America America 2017 2017 Resecuritization Trusts Resecuritization Trusts Municipal Bond Municipal Trusts Bond Trusts The Corporation The Corporation transfers typically MBS, securities, typically transfers securities, MBS, into into The The Corporation administers municipal Corporation administers municipal bond bond trusts trusts that hold that hold resecuritization resecuritization vehicles vehicles at request of the request at the of customers customers seeking seeking highly-rated, long-term, highly-rated, fixed-rate municipal municipal bonds. long-term, fixed-rate bonds. The The trusts trusts securities securities with characteristics. Generally, specific characteristics. with specific Generally, there there are are no no obtain financing by obtain financing issuing floating-rate floating-rate trust by issuing trust certificates certificates that that significantongoing significant ongoingactivities activitiesperformed performedin inaaresecuritization resecuritizationtrust, trust, reprice reprice on weekly or on aa weekly other short-term short-term basis or other basis to to third-party third-party and no and no single investor has single investor has the the unilateral ability to unilateral ability to liquidate liquidate the the investors. investors. trust. trust. The The Corporation’s commitments to liquidity commitments Corporation’s liquidity to unconsolidated unconsolidated The Corporation The Corporation resecuritized resecuritized $25.1 billion and $23.4 billion billion,$23.4 $25.1 billion, and municipal municipal bond bond trusts, including those trusts,including those for for which which the Corporation the Corporation $30.7 $30.7 billion billion of securities in of securities 2017, 2016 in 2017, 2016 and and 2015. Securities 2015. Securities was was transferor, transferor, totaled totaled $1.6$1.6 billion billion at both December at both December 31, 2017 31, 2017 transferred into transferred into resecuritization resecuritization vehicles 2017,2016 during 2017, vehicles during 2016 and and and and 2016. 2016. The The weighted-average weighted-average remaining remaining life life ofof bonds bonds held held in in 2015 were 2015 were measured measured at at fair changes in with changes value with fair value fair value value in fair the the trusts trusts at at December December 31, 2017 was 31, 2017 was 6.06.0 years. years. There There werewere no no recorded recorded in account profits trading account in trading prior to profits prior to the resecuritization the resecuritization material material write-downs write-downs or downgrades of or downgrades assets or of assets or issuers during issuers during and no and gain or no gain loss on or loss on sale sale was recorded. During was recorded. During 2017, 2017, 2016 2016 2017,2016 2017, 2016 and 2015. and 2015. and and 2015, 2015, resecuritization resecuritization proceeds proceeds included included securities securities with with an an initial initial fair value of fair value of $3.3 $3.3 billion, billion, $3.3$3.3 billion billion and and $9.8 billion, $9.8 billion, Interest Entities Variable Interest Other Variable Other Entities including including $6.9 $6.9 billion which were billion which classified as were classified as HTM HTM during 2015. during 2015. The The table summarizes select below summarizes table below information related select information related to other to other Substantially all Substantially all of of the the other securities received other securities received as as VIEs VIEsin whichthe inwhich theCorporation Corporationheld heldaavariable variableinterest interestat December atDecember resecuritization resecuritizationproceeds proceedswere classifiedas wereclassified astrading tradingsecurities securitiesand and 31,2017 31, 2017 and 2016. and 2016. were categorized were categorized as as Level within the Level 22 within the fair fair value value hierarchy. hierarchy. Other Other VIEs VIEs Consolidated Consolidated Unconsolidated Unconsolidated Total Total Consolidated Consolidated Unconsolidated Unconsolidated Total Total December December31 31 (Dollarsininmillions) (Dollars millions) 2017 2017 2016 2016 Maximum Maximumloss lossexposure exposure $$ 4,660 4,660 $$ 19,785 19,785 $$ 24,445 24,445 $$ 6,114 6,114 $$ 17,754 17,754 $$ 23,868 23,868 On-balance On-balancesheet sheetassets assets Trading Tradingaccount accountassets assets $$ 2,709 $$ 2,709 346 $$ 346 3,055 $$ 3,055 2,358 $$ 2,358 233 $$ 233 2,591 2,591 Debt Debtsecurities securitiescarried carriedat atfair fairvalue value — — 160 160 160 160 — — 122 122 122 122 Loansand Loans andleases leases 2,152 2,152 3,596 3,596 5,748 5,748 3,399 3,399 3,249 3,249 6,648 6,648 Allowancefor Allowance forloan loanand andlease leaselosses losses (3) (3) (32) (32) (35) (35) (9) (9) (24) (24) (33) (33) Loans Loansheld-for-sale held-for-sale 27 27 940 940 967 967 188 188 464 464 652 652 Allother All otherassets assets 62 62 14,276 14,276 14,338 14,338 369 369 13,156 13,156 13,525 13,525 Total Total $$ 4,947 $$ 4,947 19,286 $$ 19,286 24,233 $$ 24,233 6,305 6,305 $$ 17,200 $$ 17,200 23,505 23,505 On-balance On-balancesheet sheetliabilities liabilities Long-term Long-termdebt debt(1)(1) $$ 270 270 $$ —— $$ 270 270 $$ 395 395 $$ —— $$ 395 395 All Allother otherliabilities liabilities 18 18 3,417 3,417 3,435 3,435 2424 2,959 2,959 2,983 2,983 Total Total $$ 288 288 $$ 3,417 3,417 $$ 3,705 3,705 $$ 419 419 $$ 2,959 2,959 $$ 3,378 3,378 Total assetsof Totalassets ofVIEs VIEs $$ 4,947 4,947 $$ 69,746 69,746 $$ 74,693 74,693 $$ 6,305 6,305 $$ 62,269 62,269 $$ 68,574 68,574 (1) (1) Includes Includes$1$1million millionandand$229 $229million millionof debtat long-termdebt oflong-term December31, atDecember 31,2017 2017andand2016 byother issuedby 2016issued otherconsolidated whichhas VIEs,which consolidatedVIEs, recourseto hasrecourse tothe thegeneral ofthe creditof generalcredit theCorporation. Corporation. Customer Vehicles Customer Vehicles by the the CDOs by CDOs and and maymay be be aa derivative derivative counterparty counterparty to CDOs. the CDOs. to the Customer Customer vehicles vehicles include include credit-linked, equity-linked and credit-linked, equity-linked and The Corporation’s Corporation’s maximum The maximum loss exposure to loss exposure to consolidated consolidated and and commodity-linked note commodity-linked note vehicles, vehicles,repackaging vehicles,and repackaging vehicles, asset and asset unconsolidated unconsolidated CDOs CDOs totaled totaled $358 $358 millionmillion andand $430$430 million million at at acquisition acquisition vehicles, vehicles, which which are typically created are typically created on on behalf behalf of of December 31, December 2017 and 31, 2017 2016. and 2016. customers who customers who wish wish to obtain market to obtain market or or credit credit exposure exposure to to aa specific specific company, company,index, index,commodity commodity or or financial instrument. financial instrument. Investment Vehicles Investment Vehicles The Corporation’s The Corporation’s maximum maximum loss exposure to loss exposure to consolidated consolidated The TheCorporation Corporationsponsors,sponsors,investsinvestsin inororprovides providesfinancing, financing,which which and unconsolidated and unconsolidated customer customer vehicles totaled $2.3 vehicles totaled billion and $2.3 billion and may may be be inin connection connection with with thethe sale sale of of assets, assets, to variety of to aa variety of $2.9 $2.9 billionbillion at December 31, at December 31, 20172017 and and 2016, including the 2016, including the investment investment vehiclesvehicles that hold loans, loans, real that hold real estate, estate, debt debt securities securities notional amount notional amount of of derivatives derivatives to to which which the Corporation is the Corporation is aa or or other instruments and financial instruments other financial and are are designed designed to to provide provide the the counterparty, net counterparty, net of recorded, and previously recorded, losses previously of losses and the the desired desired investment investment profile profile to investors or to investors Corporation. At the Corporation. or the At Corporation’s Corporation’s investment, investment, ifif any, any, in securities issued in securities issued by by thethe December 31, December 31, 2017 2017 and and 2016, 2016, the the Corporation’s consolidated Corporation’s consolidated vehicles. The vehicles. The Corporation Corporation also also had had liquidity commitments, liquidity commitments, investment investment vehiclesvehicles had total assets had total assets of of $249 $249 million million and $846 and $846 including includingwritten writtenput optionsand putoptions collateralvalue andcollateral valueguarantees, guarantees,with with million. million.The Corporationalso TheCorporation alsoheldheldinvestments investmentsin unconsolidated inunconsolidated certainunconsolidated certain unconsolidatedvehicles vehiclesof millionand $442million of$442 and$323 million $323million vehicles vehicles with with total assets of total assets $20.3 billion of $20.3 billion andand $17.3 billion at $17.3 billion at at December December 31, at 31, 20172017 and and 2016,2016, thatthat are included in are included in the table the table December December31, 2017and 31,2017 and2016. 2016.The Corporation’smaximum TheCorporation’s maximumloss loss above. above. exposure exposure associated associated with both consolidated with both consolidated and and unconsolidated unconsolidated investment vehicles investment vehicles totaled totaled $5.7 billion and $5.7 billion and $5.1$5.1 billion billion at at Collateralized Debt Collateralized Obligation Vehicles Debt Obligation Vehicles December December31, 31,2017 2017and and20162016comprised comprisedprimarily primarilyof on-balance ofon-balance The Corporationreceives TheCorporation receivesfees feesfor forstructuring structuringCDO CDOvehicles, vehicles,which which assets less sheet assets sheet liabilities. non-recourse liabilities. less non-recourse hold diversified hold diversified pools pools of securities, typically fixed-income securities, of fixed-income typically In Inprior periods,the priorperiods, theCorporation Corporationtransferred transferredservicing servicingadvanceadvance corporate corporate debt debt or or ABS, which the ABS, which the CDO vehicles fund CDO vehicles fund by issuing by issuing receivables receivables to independent third to independent third parties parties in connection with in connection with thethe multiple multipletranchestranchesof debtand ofdebt securities.CDOs equitysecurities. andequity CDOsare generally aregenerally sale of sale of MSRs. MSRs. Portions Portions of of the receivables were the receivables transferred into were transferred into managed managed by third-party portfolio by third-party managers. The portfolio managers. Corporation The Corporation unconsolidated securitization trusts. unconsolidated securitization trusts. The Corporation retained The Corporation retained typically typically transfers transfers assets assets to to these these CDOs, CDOs,holds holds securities securities issuedissued senior interests in senior interests such receivables receivables with in such with aa maximum maximum loss loss exposure exposure and andfunding funding obligation obligation of of$50$50 million million and and$150$150 million, million, Bankof Bank ofAmerica America2017 2017 161 161 including a funded balance of $39 million and $75 million at Settlement Actions December 31, 2017 and 2016, which were classified in other The Corporation has vigorously contested any request for debt securities carried at fair value. repurchase where it has concluded that a valid basis for repurchase does not exist and will continue to do so in the future. Leveraged Lease Trusts However, in an effort to resolve legacy mortgage-related issues, The Corporation’s net investment in consolidated leveraged lease the Corporation has reached bulk settlements, certain of which trusts totaled $2.0 billion and $2.6 billion at December 31, 2017 have been for significant amounts, in lieu of a loan-by-loan review and 2016. The trusts hold long-lived equipment such as rail cars, process. The Corporation’s liability in connection with the power generation and distribution equipment, and commercial transactions and claims not covered by these settlements could aircraft. The Corporation structures the trusts and holds a be material to the Corporation’s results of operations or liquidity significant residual interest. The net investment represents the for any particular reporting period. The Corporation may reach other Corporation’s maximum loss exposure to the trusts in the unlikely settlements in the future if opportunities arise on terms it believes event that the leveraged lease investments become worthless. to be advantageous. However, there can be no assurance that the Debt issued by the leveraged lease trusts is non-recourse to the Corporation will reach future settlements or, if it does, that the Corporation. terms of past settlements can be relied upon to predict the terms Tax Credit Vehicles of future settlements. The Corporation holds investments in unconsolidated limited Unresolved Repurchase Claims partnerships and similar entities that construct, own and operate Unresolved representations and warranties repurchase claims affordable housing, wind and solar projects. An unrelated third represent the notional amount of repurchase claims made by party is typically the general partner or managing member and counterparties, typically the outstanding principal balance or the has control over the significant activities of the vehicle. The unpaid principal balance at the time of default. In the case of firstCorporation earns a return primarily through the receipt of tax lien mortgages, the claim amount is often significantly greater than credits allocated to the projects. The maximum loss exposure the expected loss amount due to the benefit of collateral and, in included in the Other VIEs table was $13.8 billion and $12.6 some cases, mortgage insurance or mortgage guarantee billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016. The Corporation’s risk payments. Claims received from a counterparty remain of loss is generally mitigated by policies requiring that the project outstanding until the underlying loan is repurchased, the claim is qualify for the expected tax credits prior to making its investment. rescinded by the counterparty, the Corporation determines that The Corporation’s investments in affordable housing the applicable statute of limitations has expired, or partnerships, which are reported in other assets on the representations and warranties claims with respect to the Consolidated Balance Sheet, totaled $8.0 billion and $7.4 billion, applicable trust are settled, and fully and finally released. The including unfunded commitments to provide capital contributions Corporation does not include duplicate claims in the amounts of $3.1 billion and $2.7 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016. disclosed. The unfunded commitments are expected to be paid over the next The table below presents unresolved repurchase claims at 5 years. During 2017, 2016 and 2015, the Corporation recognized December 31, 2017 and 2016. The unresolved repurchase claims tax credits and other tax benefits from investments in affordable include only claims where the Corporation believes that the housing partnerships of $1.0 billion, $1.1 billion and $928 million counterparty has the contractual right to submit claims. The and reported pre-tax losses in other noninterest income of $766 unresolved repurchase claims predominantly relate to subprime million, $789 million and $629 million, respectively. Tax credits and pay option first-lien loans and home equity loans originated are recognized as part of the Corporation’s annual effective tax primarily between 2004 and 2008. For more information, see rate used to determine tax expense in a given quarter. Accordingly, Private-label Securitizations and Whole-loan Sales Experience in the portion of a year’s expected tax benefits recognized in any this Note and Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies. given quarter may differ from 25 percent. The Corporation may from time to time be asked to invest additional amounts to support a troubled affordable housing project. Such additional Unresolved Repurchase Claims by Counterparty, Net of investments have not been and are not expected to be significant. Duplicate Claims NOTE 7 Representations and Warranties December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 Obligations and Corporate Guarantees By counterparty The Corporation securitizes first-lien residential mortgage loans Private-label securitization trustees, wholegenerally in the form of RMBS guaranteed by the GSEs or by GNMA loan investors, including third-party in the case of FHA-insured, VA-guaranteed and Rural Housing securitization sponsors and other (1) $ 16,064 $ 16,685 Service-guaranteed mortgage loans, and sells pools of first-lien Monolines 1,565 1,583 residential mortgage loans in the form of whole loans. In addition, GSEs 5 9 in prior years, legacy companies and certain subsidiaries sold Total unresolved repurchase claims by counterparty, net of duplicate claims $ 17,634 $ 18,277 pools of first-lien residential mortgage loans and home equity loans (1) Includes $11.4 billion and $11.9 billion of claims based on individual file reviews and $4.7 as private-label securitizations or in the form of whole loans. In billion and $4.8 billion of claims submitted without individual file reviews at December 31, 2017 connection with these transactions, the Corporation or certain of and 2016. its subsidiaries or legacy companies make and have made various During 2017, the Corporation received $151 million in new representations and warranties. Breaches of these repurchase claims and $794 million in claims were resolved, representations and warranties have resulted in and may continue including $640 million related to settlements. Of the remaining to result in the requirement to repurchase mortgage loans or to unresolved monoline claims, substantially all of the claims pertain otherwise make whole or provide other remedies to investors, to second-lien loans and are currently the subject of litigation with securitization trusts, guarantors, insurers or other parties a single monoline insurer. There may be additional claims or file (collectively, repurchases). requests in the future. 162 162 Bank of America Bank of America 2017 2017 In addition to the unresolved repurchase claims in the warranties is established when those obligations are both Unresolved Repurchase Claims by Counterparty, Net of Duplicate probable and reasonably estimable. Claims table, the Corporation has received notifications from a The Corporation’s representations and warranties reserve and sponsor of third-party securitizations with whom the Corporation the corresponding estimated range of possible loss at December engaged in whole-loan transactions indicating that the Corporation 31, 2017 consider, among other things, the repurchase experience may have indemnity obligations with respect to specific loans for implied in prior settlements, and uses the experience implied in which the Corporation has not received a repurchase request. those prior settlements in the assessment for those trusts where These notifications were received prior to 2015, and totaled $1.3 the Corporation has a continuing possibility of timely claims in billion at both December 31, 2017 and 2016. During 2017, the order to determine the representations and warranties reserve Corporation reached agreements with certain parties requesting and the corresponding estimated range of possible loss. indemnity. One such agreement is subject to acceptance by a The table below presents a rollforward of the reserve for securitization trustee. The impact of these agreements is included representations and warranties and corporate guarantees. in the provision and reserve for representations and warranties. The presence of repurchase claims on a given trust, receipt of notices of indemnification obligations and receipt of other Representations and Warranties and Corporate communications, as discussed above, are all factors that inform Guarantees the Corporation’s reserve for representations and warranties and the corresponding estimated range of possible loss. (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 Reserve for representations and warranties and corporate guarantees, January 1 $ 2,339 $ 11,326 Private-label Securitizations and Whole-loan Sales Additions for new sales 4 4 Experience Payments (1) (814) (9,097) The notional amount of unresolved repurchase claims at December Provision 393 106 31, 2017 and 2016 included $6.9 billion and $5.6 billion of claims Reserve for representations and related to loans in specific private-label securitization groups or warranties and corporate guarantees, tranches where the Corporation owns substantially all of the December 31 $ 1,922 $ 2,339 outstanding securities or will otherwise realize the benefit of any (1) In February 2016, the Corporation made an $8.5 billion settlement payment as part of the settlement with BNY Mellon. repurchase claims paid. The overall decrease in the notional amount of outstanding The representations and warranties reserve represents the unresolved repurchase claims in 2017 was primarily due to claims Corporation’s best estimate of probable incurred losses as of that were resolved as a result of settlements. Outstanding December 31, 2017. However, it is reasonably possible that future repurchase claims remained unresolved primarily due to (1) the representations and warranties losses may occur in excess of the level of detail, support and analysis accompanying such claims, amounts recorded for these exposures. which impact overall claim quality and, therefore, claims resolution, The Corporation currently estimates that the range of possible and (2) the lack of an established process to resolve disputes loss for representations and warranties exposures could be up to related to these claims. $1 billion over existing accruals at December 31, 2017. This The Corporation reviews properly presented repurchase claims estimate is lower than the estimate at December 31, 2016 due on a loan-by-loan basis. For time-barred claims, the counterparty to recent reductions in risk as we reach settlements with is informed that the claim is denied on the basis of the statute of counterparties. The Corporation treats claims that are time-barred limitations and the claim is treated as resolved. For timely claims, as resolved and does not consider such claims in the estimated if the Corporation, after review, does not believe a claim is valid, range of possible loss. The estimated range of possible loss it will deny the claim and generally indicate a reason for the denial. reflects principally exposures related to loans in private-label If the counterparty agrees with the Corporation’s denial of the securitization trusts, including related indemnity claims. It claim, the counterparty may rescind the claim. If there is a represents a reasonably possible loss, but does not represent a disagreement as to the resolution of the claim, meaningful probable loss, and is based on currently available information, dialogue and negotiation between the parties are generally significant judgment and a number of assumptions that are subject necessary to reach a resolution on an individual claim. The to change. Corporation has performed an initial review with respect to The reserve for representations and warranties exposures and substantially all outstanding claims and, although the Corporation the corresponding estimated range of possible loss do not does not believe a valid basis for repurchase has been established consider certain losses related to servicing, including foreclosure by the claimant, it considers such claims activity in the computation and related costs, fraud, indemnity, or claims (including for RMBS) of its liability for representations and warranties. related to securities law or monoline insurance litigation. Losses with respect to one or more of these matters could be material to Reserve and Estimated Range of Possible Loss the Corporation’s results of operations or liquidity for any particular The reserve for representations and warranties and corporate reporting period. guarantees is included in accrued expenses and other liabilities Future provisions and/or ranges of possible loss for on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the related provision is representations and warranties may be significantly impacted if included in mortgage banking income in the Consolidated actual experiences are different from the Corporation’s Statement of Income. The reserve for representations and assumptions in predictive models. Bank of America 2017 163 Bank of America 2017 163 NOTE 8 Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill The table below presents goodwill balances by business segment and All Other at December 31, 2017 and 2016. The reporting units utilized for goodwill impairment testing are the operating segments or one level below. Goodwill December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 Consumer Banking $ 30,123 $ 30,123 Global Wealth & Investment Management 9,677 9,681 Global Banking 23,923 23,923 Global Markets 5,182 5,197 All Other 46 820 Less: Goodwill of business held for sale (1) — (775) Total goodwill $ 68,951 $ 68,969 (1) Reflects the goodwill assigned to the non-U.S. consumer credit card business, which was included in assets of business held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2016. In 2017, the Corporation sold its non-U.S. consumer credit card business. During 2017, the Corporation completed its annual goodwill impairment test as of June 30, 2017 for all applicable reporting units. Based on the results of the annual goodwill impairment test, the Corporation determined there was no impairment. Intangible Assets The table below presents the gross and net carrying values and accumulated amortization for intangible assets at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Intangible Assets (1, 2) Gross Accumulated Net Gross Accumulated Net Carrying Value Amortization Carrying Value Carrying Value Amortization Carrying Value (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Purchased credit card and affinity relationships $ 5,919 $ 5,604 $ 315 $ 6,830 $ 6,243 $ 587 Core deposit and other intangibles (3) 3,835 2,140 1,695 3,836 2,046 1,790 Customer relationships 3,886 3,584 302 3,887 3,275 612 Total intangible assets (4) $ 13,640 $ 11,328 $ 2,312 $ 14,553 $ 11,564 $ 2,989 (1) Excludes fully amortized intangible assets. (2) At December 31, 2017 and 2016, none of the intangible assets were impaired. (3) Includes $1.6 billion at both December 31, 2017 and 2016 of intangible assets associated with trade names that have an indefinite life and, accordingly, are not amortized. (4) Includes $67 million at December 31, 2016 of intangible assets assigned to the non-U.S. consumer credit card business, which was included in assets of business held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2016. Amortization of intangibles expense was $621 million, $730 million and $834 million for 2017, 2016 and 2015. The Corporation estimates aggregate amortization expense will be $538 million, $105 million and $53 million for the years through 2020 and none for the years thereafter. 164 Bank of America 2017 164 Bank of America 2017 NOTE 9 Deposits The table below presents information about the Corporation’s time deposits of $100 thousand or more at December 31, 2017 and 2016. The Corporation also had aggregate time deposits of $17.0 billion and $18.3 billion in denominations that met or exceeded the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance limit at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Time Deposits of $100 Thousand or More December 31 December 31, 2017 2016 Over Three Three Months Months to (Dollars in millions) or Less Twelve Months Thereafter Total Total U.S. certificates of deposit and other time deposits $ 12,505 $ 10,660 $ 2,027 $ 25,192 $ 32,898 Non-U.S. certificates of deposit and other time deposits 10,561 3,652 1,259 15,472 14,677 The scheduled contractual maturities for total time deposits at December 31, 2017 are presented in the table below. Contractual Maturities of Total Time Deposits (Dollars in millions) U.S. Non-U.S. Total Due in 2018 $ 46,774 $ 14,264 $ 61,038 Due in 2019 2,623 657 3,280 Due in 2020 1,661 49 1,710 Due in 2021 514 15 529 Due in 2022 452 562 1,014 Thereafter 264 9 273 Total time deposits $ 52,288 $ 15,556 $ 67,844 NOTE 10 Federal Funds Sold or Purchased, Securities Financing Agreements and Short-term Borrowings The table below presents federal funds sold or purchased, securities financing agreements, which include securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, and short-term borrowings. The Corporation elects to account for certain securities financing agreements and short-term borrowings under the fair value option. For more information on the election of the fair value option, see Note 21 – Fair Value Option. Amount Rate Amount Rate (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell Average during year $ 222,818 1.07% $ 216,161 0.52% Maximum month-end balance during year 237,064 n/a 225,015 n/a Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase Average during year $ 199,501 1.30% $ 183,818 0.97% Maximum month-end balance during year 218,017 n/a 196,631 n/a Short-term borrowings Average during year 37,337 2.48% 29,440 1.95% Maximum month-end balance during year 46,202 n/a 33,051 n/a n/a = not applicable Bank of America, N.A. maintains a global program to offer up to a maximum of $75 billion outstanding at any one time, of bank notes with fixed or floating rates and maturities of at least seven days from the date of issue. Short-term bank notes outstanding under this program totaled $14.2 billion and $9.3 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016. These short-term bank notes, along with FHLB advances, U.S. Treasury tax and loan notes, and term federal funds purchased, are included in short-term borrowings on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Bank of America 2017 165 Offsetting of Securities Financing Agreements The Securities Financing Agreements table presents securities The Corporation enters into securities financing agreements to financing agreements included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet accommodate customers (also referred to as “matched-book in federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under transactions”), obtain securities to cover short positions, and to agreements to resell, and in federal funds purchased and finance inventory positions. Substantially all of the Corporation’s securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase at securities financing activities are transacted under legally December 31, 2017 and 2016. Balances are presented on a gross enforceable master repurchase agreements or legally enforceable basis, prior to the application of counterparty netting. Gross assets master securities lending agreements that give the Corporation, and liabilities are adjusted on an aggregate basis to take into in the event of default by the counterparty, the right to liquidate consideration the effects of legally enforceable master netting securities held and to offset receivables and payables with the agreements. For more information on the offsetting of derivatives, same counterparty. see Note 2 – Derivatives. Securities Financing Agreements Gross Assets/ Amounts Net Balance Financial Net Assets/ Liabilities (1) Offset Sheet Amount Instruments (2) Liabilities (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2017 Securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell (3) $ 348,472 $ (135,725) $ 212,747 $ (165,720) $ 47,027 Securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase $ 312,582 $ (135,725) $ 176,857 $ (146,205) $ 30,652 Other (4) 22,711 — 22,711 (22,711) — Total $ 335,293 $ (135,725) $ 199,568 $ (168,916) $ 30,652 December 31, 2016 Securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell (3) $ 326,970 $ (128,746) $ 198,224 $ (154,974) $ 43,250 Securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase $ 299,028 $ (128,746) $ 170,282 $ (140,774) $ 29,508 Other (4) 14,448 — 14,448 (14,448) — Total $ 313,476 $ (128,746) $ 184,730 $ (155,222) $ 29,508 (1) Includes activity where uncertainty exists as to the enforceability of certain master netting agreements under bankruptcy laws in some countries or industries. (2) Includes securities collateral received or pledged under repurchase or securities lending agreements where there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement. These amounts are not offset on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, but are shown as a reduction to derive a net asset or liability. Securities collateral received or pledged where the legal enforceability of the master netting agreements is uncertain is excluded from the table. (3) Excludes repurchase activity of $10.2 billion and $10.1 billion reported in loans and leases on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2017 and 2016. (4) Balance is reported in accrued expenses and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and relates to transactions where the Corporation acts as the lender in a securities lending agreement and receives securities that can be pledged as collateral or sold. In these transactions, the Corporation recognizes an asset at fair value, representing the securities received, and a liability, representing the obligation to return those securities. Repurchase Agreements and Securities Loaned securities lending agreement and receives securities that can be pledged as collateral or sold. Certain agreements contain a right Transactions Accounted for as Secured Borrowings to substitute collateral and/or terminate the agreement prior to The following tables present securities sold under agreements to maturity at the option of the Corporation or the counterparty. Such repurchase and securities loaned by remaining contractual term agreements are included in the table below based on the remaining to maturity and class of collateral pledged. Included in “Other” are contractual term to maturity. transactions where the Corporation acts as the lender in a Remaining Contractual Maturity After 30 Days Overnight and 30 Days or Through 90 Greater than Continuous Less Days 90 Days (1) Total (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2017 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase $ 125,956 $ 79,913 $ 46,091 $ 38,935 $ 290,895 Securities loaned 9,853 5,658 2,043 4,133 21,687 Other 22,711 — — — 22,711 Total $ 158,520 $ 85,571 $ 48,134 $ 43,068 $ 335,293 December 31, 2016 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase $ 129,853 $ 77,780 $ 31,851 $ 40,752 $ 280,236 Securities loaned 8,564 6,602 1,473 2,153 18,792 Other 14,448 — — — 14,448 Total $ 152,865 $ 84,382 $ 33,324 $ 42,905 $ 313,476 (1) No agreements have maturities greater than three years. 166 Bank of America 2017 Class of Collateral Pledged Securities Sold Under Agreements Securities to Repurchase Loaned Other Total (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2017 U.S. government and agency securities $ 158,299 $ — $ 409 $ 158,708 Corporate securities, trading loans and other 12,787 2,669 624 16,080 Equity securities 23,975 13,523 21,628 59,126 Non-U.S. sovereign debt 90,857 5,495 50 96,402 Mortgage trading loans and ABS 4,977 — — 4,977 Total $ 290,895 $ 21,687 $ 22,711 $ 335,293 December 31, 2016 U.S. government and agency securities $ 153,184 $ — $ 70 $ 153,254 Corporate securities, trading loans and other 11,086 1,630 127 12,843 Equity securities 24,007 11,175 14,196 49,378 Non-U.S. sovereign debt 84,171 5,987 55 90,213 Mortgage trading loans and ABS 7,788 — — 7,788 Total $ 280,236 $ 18,792 $ 14,448 $ 313,476 The Corporation is required to post collateral with a market additional collateral or may receive or return collateral pledged value equal to or in excess of the principal amount borrowed under when appropriate. Repurchase agreements and securities loaned repurchase agreements. For securities loaned transactions, the transactions are generally either overnight, continuous (i.e., no Corporation receives collateral in the form of cash, letters of credit stated term) or short-term. The Corporation manages liquidity risks or other securities. To determine whether the market value of the related to these agreements by sourcing funding from a diverse underlying collateral remains sufficient, collateral is generally group of counterparties, providing a range of securities collateral valued daily, and the Corporation may be required to deposit and pursuing longer durations, when appropriate. Bank of America 2017 167 NOTE 11 Long-term Debt Long-term debt consists of borrowings having an original maturity of one year or more. The table below presents the balance of longterm debt at December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the related contractual rates and maturity dates as of December 31, 2017. December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 Notes issued by Bank of America Corporation Senior notes: Fixed, with a weighted-average rate of 3.64%, ranging from 0.39% to 8.40%, due 2018 to 2048 $ 119,548 $ 108,933 Floating, with a weighted-average rate of 1.54%, ranging from 0.04% to 6.13%, due 2018 to 2044 21,048 13,164 Senior structured notes 15,460 17,049 Subordinated notes: Fixed, with a weighted-average rate of 4.90%, ranging from 2.94% to 8.57%, due 2018 to 2045 22,004 26,047 Floating, with a weighted-average rate of 1.00%, ranging from 0.20% to 2.56%, due 2018 to 2026 4,058 4,350 Junior subordinated notes (related to trust preferred securities): Fixed, with a weighted-average rate of 6.91%, ranging from 5.25% to 8.05%, due 2027 to 2067 3,282 3,280 Floating, with a weighted-average rate of 2.13%, ranging from 1.91% to 2.60%, due 2027 to 2056 553 552 Total notes issued by Bank of America Corporation 185,953 173,375 Notes issued by Bank of America, N.A. Senior notes: Fixed, with a weighted-average rate of 1.78%, ranging from 0.02% to 2.05%, due in 2018 4,686 5,936 Floating, with a weighted-average rate of 2.60%, ranging from 1.44% to 2.80%, due 2018 to 2041 1,033 3,383 Subordinated notes: Fixed, with a rate of 6.00%, due in 2036 1,679 4,424 Floating, with a rate of 1.33%, due in 2019 1 598 Advances from Federal Home Loan Banks: Fixed, with a weighted-average rate of 5.22%, ranging from 0.01% to 7.72%, due 2018 to 2034 146 162 Floating, with a weighted-average rate of 1.42%, ranging from 1.35% to 1.60%, due 2018 to 2019 5,000 — Securitizations and other BANA VIEs (1) 8,641 9,164 Other 432 3,084 Total notes issued by Bank of America, N.A. 21,618 26,751 Other debt Structured liabilities 18,574 15,171 Nonbank VIEs (1) 1,232 1,482 Other 25 44 Total other debt 19,831 16,697 Total long-term debt $ 227,402 $ 216,823 (1) Represents the total long-term debt included in the liabilities of consolidated VIEs on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Bank of America Corporation and Bank of America, N.A. The weighted-average rates are the contractual interest rates on maintain various U.S. and non-U.S. debt programs to offer both the debt and do not reflect the impacts of derivative transactions. senior and subordinated notes. The notes may be denominated Certain senior structured notes and structured liabilities are in U.S. dollars or foreign currencies. At December 31, 2017 and accounted for under the fair value option. For more information on 2016, the amount of foreign currency-denominated debt translated these notes, see Note 21 – Fair Value Option. Debt outstanding of into U.S. dollars included in total long-term debt was $51.8 billion $2.7 billion at December 31, 2017 was issued by a 100 percent and $44.7 billion. Foreign currency contracts may be used to owned finance subsidiary of the parent company and is convert certain foreign currency-denominated debt into U.S. unconditionally guaranteed by the parent company. dollars. The following table shows the carrying value for aggregate At December 31, 2017, long-term debt of consolidated VIEs in annual contractual maturities of long-term debt as of December the table above included debt from credit card, home equity and 31, 2017. Included in the table are certain structured notes issued all other VIEs of $8.6 billion, $76 million and $1.2 billion, by the Corporation that contain provisions whereby the borrowings respectively. Long-term debt of VIEs is collateralized by the assets are redeemable at the option of the holder (put options) at specified of the VIEs. For more information, see Note 6 – Securitizations and dates prior to maturity. Other structured notes have coupon or Other Variable Interest Entities. repayment terms linked to the performance of debt or equity The weighted-average effective interest rates for total long-term securities, indices, currencies or commodities, and the maturity debt (excluding senior structured notes), total fixed-rate debt and may be accelerated based on the value of a referenced index or total floating-rate debt were 3.44 percent, 3.87 percent and 1.49 security. In both cases, the Corporation or a subsidiary may be percent, respectively, at December 31, 2017, and 3.80 percent, required to settle the obligation for cash or other securities prior 4.36 percent and 1.52 percent, respectively, at December 31, to the contractual maturity date. These borrowings are reflected 2016. The Corporation’s ALM activities maintain an overall interest in the table as maturing at their contractual maturity date. rate risk management strategy that incorporates the use of During 2017, the Corporation had total long-term debt interest rate contracts to manage fluctuations in earnings that are maturities and redemptions in the aggregate of $48.8 billion caused by interest rate volatility. The Corporation’s goal is to consisting of $29.1 billion for Bank of America Corporation, $13.3 manage interest rate sensitivity so that movements in interest billion for Bank of America, N.A. and $6.4 billion of other debt. rates do not significantly adversely affect earnings and capital. During 2016, the Corporation had total long-term debt maturities and redemptions in the aggregate of $51.6 billion consisting of 168 Bank of America 2017 $30.6 billion for Bank of America Corporation, $11.6 billion for substantially different, for accounting purposes, from the Bank of America, N.A. and $9.4 billion of other debt. exchanged securities. Therefore, there was no impact to the In December 2017, pursuant to a private offering, the Corporation’s results of operations as any amounts paid to debt Corporation exchanged $11.0 billion of outstanding long-term debt holders were capitalized, and the premiums or discounts on the for new fixed/floating-rate senior notes, subject to certain terms outstanding long-term debt were carried over to the new securities and conditions. Based on the attributes of the exchange and will be amortized over their contractual lives using a revised transactions, the newly issued securities are not considered effective interest rate. Long-term Debt by Maturity (Dollars in millions) 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Thereafter Total Bank of America Corporation Senior notes $ 19,577 $ 15,115 $ 10,580 $ 16,196 $ 9,691 $ 69,437 $ 140,596 Senior structured notes 2,749 1,486 950 437 2,017 7,821 15,460 Subordinated notes 2,973 1,552 — 375 476 20,686 26,062 Junior subordinated notes — — — — — 3,835 3,835 Total Bank of America Corporation 25,299 18,153 11,530 17,008 12,184 101,779 185,953 Bank of America, N.A. Senior notes 5,699 — — — — 20 5,719 Subordinated notes — 1 — — — 1,679 1,680 Advances from Federal Home Loan Banks 3,009 2,013 11 2 3 108 5,146 Securitizations and other Bank VIEs (1) 2,300 3,200 3,098 — — 43 8,641 Other 51 194 15 — 9 163 432 Total Bank of America, N.A. 11,059 5,408 3,124 2 12 2,013 21,618 Other debt Structured liabilities 5,677 2,340 1,545 870 803 7,339 18,574 Nonbank VIEs (1) 22 45 — — — 1,165 1,232 Other — — — — — 25 25 Total other debt 5,699 2,385 1,545 870 803 8,529 19,831 Total long-term debt $ 42,057 $ 25,946 $ 16,199 $ 17,880 $ 12,999 $ 112,321 $ 227,402 (1) Represents the total long-term debt included in the liabilities of consolidated VIEs on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Trust Preferred and Hybrid Securities extension period, distributions on the Trust Securities will also be Trust preferred securities (Trust Securities) are primarily issued by deferred, and the Corporation’s ability to pay dividends on its trust companies (the Trusts) that are not consolidated. These Trust common and preferred stock will be restricted. Securities are mandatorily redeemable preferred security The Trust Securities generally are subject to mandatory obligations of the Trusts. The sole assets of the Trusts generally redemption upon repayment of the related Notes at their stated are junior subordinated deferrable interest notes of the maturity dates or their earlier redemption at a redemption price Corporation or its subsidiaries (the Notes). The Trusts generally equal to their liquidation amount plus accrued distributions to the are 100 percent-owned finance subsidiaries of the Corporation. date fixed for redemption and the premium, if any, paid by the Obligations associated with the Notes are included in the longCorporation upon concurrent repayment of the related Notes. term debt table on page 168. Periodic cash payments and payments upon liquidation or Certain of the Trust Securities were issued at a discount and redemption with respect to Trust Securities are guaranteed by the may be redeemed prior to maturity at the option of the Corporation. Corporation or its subsidiaries to the extent of funds held by the The Trusts generally have invested the proceeds of such Trust Trusts (the Preferred Securities Guarantee). The Preferred Securities in the Notes. Each issue of the Notes has an interest Securities Guarantee, when taken together with the Corporation’s rate equal to the corresponding Trust Securities distribution rate. other obligations including its obligations under the Notes, The Corporation has the right to defer payment of interest on the generally will constitute a full and unconditional guarantee, on a Notes at any time or from time to time for a period not exceeding subordinated basis, by the Corporation of payments due on the five years provided that no extension period may extend beyond Trust Securities. the stated maturity of the relevant Notes. During any such Bank of America 2017 169 The Trust Securities Summary table details the outstanding Trust Securities and the related Notes previously issued which remained outstanding at December 31, 2017. Trust Securities Summary (Dollars in millions) Aggregate Aggregate Stated Maturity Interest Principal Amount Principal Amount of the Trust Per Annum Interest Payment Issuer Issuance Date of Trust Securities of the Notes Securities Rate of the Notes Dates Redemption Period December 31, 2017 Bank of America Capital Trust VI March 2005 $ 27 $ 27 March 2035 5.63% Semi-Annual Any time Capital Trust VII (1) August 2005 6 6 August 2035 5.25 Semi-Annual Any time Capital Trust XI May 2006 658 678 May 2036 6.63 Semi-Annual Any time Capital Trust XV May 2007 1 1 June 2056 3-mo. LIBOR + 80 bps Quarterly On or after 6/01/37 NationsBank Capital Trust III February 1997 131 135 January 2027 3-mo. LIBOR + 55 bps Quarterly On or after 1/15/07 BankAmerica Capital III January 1997 103 105 January 2027 3-mo. LIBOR + 57 bps Quarterly On or after 1/15/02 Fleet Capital Trust V December 1998 79 82 December 2028 3-mo. LIBOR + 100 bps Quarterly On or after 12/18/03 BankBoston Capital Trust III June 1997 53 55 June 2027 3-mo. LIBOR + 75 bps Quarterly On or after 6/15/07 Capital Trust IV June 1998 102 106 June 2028 3-mo. LIBOR + 60 bps Quarterly On or after 6/08/03 MBNA Capital Trust B January 1997 70 73 February 2027 3-mo. LIBOR + 80 bps Quarterly On or after 2/01/07 Countrywide Capital III June 1997 200 206 June 2027 8.05 Semi-Annual Only under special event Capital V November 2006 1,495 1,496 November 2036 7.00 Quarterly On or after 11/01/11 Merrill Lynch Capital Trust I December 2006 1,050 1,051 December 2066 6.45 Quarterly On or after 12/11 Capital Trust III August 2007 750 751 September 2067 7.375 Quarterly On or after 9/12 Total $ 4,725 $ 4,772 (1) Notes are denominated in British pound. Presentation currency is U.S. dollar. NOTE 12 Commitments and Contingencies these commitments, excluding commitments accounted for under In the normal course of business, the Corporation enters into a the fair value option, was $793 million, including deferred revenue number of off-balance sheet commitments. These commitments of $16 million and a reserve for unfunded lending commitments expose the Corporation to varying degrees of credit and market of $777 million. At December 31, 2016, the comparable amounts risk and are subject to the same credit and market risk limitation were $779 million, $17 million and $762 million, respectively. The reviews as those instruments recorded on the Consolidated carrying value of these commitments is classified in accrued Balance Sheet. expenses and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The following table also includes the notional amount of Credit Extension Commitments commitments of $4.8 billion and $7.0 billion at December 31, The Corporation enters into commitments to extend credit such 2017 and 2016 that are accounted for under the fair value option. as loan commitments, SBLCs and commercial letters of credit to However, the following table excludes cumulative net fair value of meet the financing needs of its customers. The following table $120 million and $173 million on these commitments, which is includes the notional amount of unfunded legally binding lending classified in accrued expenses and other liabilities. For more commitments net of amounts distributed (e.g., syndicated or information regarding the Corporation’s loan commitments participated) to other financial institutions. The distributed accounted for under the fair value option, see Note 21 – Fair Value amounts were $11.0 billion and $12.1 billion at December 31, Option. 2017 and 2016. At December 31, 2017, the carrying value of 170 Bank of America 2017 Credit Extension Commitments Expire After One Expire After Three Expire in One Year Through Years Through Five Expire After Five Year or Less Three Years Years Years Total (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2017 Notional amount of credit extension commitments Loan commitments $ 85,804 $ 140,942 $ 147,043 $ 21,342 $ 395,131 Home equity lines of credit 6,172 4,457 2,288 31,250 44,167 Standby letters of credit and financial guarantees (1) 19,976 11,261 3,420 1,144 35,801 Letters of credit 1,291 117 129 87 1,624 Legally binding commitments 113,243 156,777 152,880 53,823 476,723 Credit card lines (2) 362,030 — — — 362,030 Total credit extension commitments $ 475,273 $ 156,777 $ 152,880 $ 53,823 $ 838,753 December 31, 2016 Notional amount of credit extension commitments Loan commitments $ 82,609 $ 133,063 $ 152,854 $ 22,129 $ 390,655 Home equity lines of credit 8,806 10,701 2,644 25,050 47,201 Standby letters of credit and financial guarantees (1) 19,165 10,754 3,225 1,027 34,171 Letters of credit 1,285 103 114 53 1,555 Legally binding commitments 111,865 154,621 158,837 48,259 473,582 Credit card lines (2) 377,773 — — — 377,773 Total credit extension commitments $ 489,638 $ 154,621 $ 158,837 $ 48,259 $ 851,355 (1) The notional amounts of SBLCs and financial guarantees classified as investment grade and non-investment grade based on the credit quality of the underlying reference name within the instrument were $27.3 billion and $8.1 billion at December 31, 2017, and $25.5 billion and $8.3 billion at December 31, 2016. Amounts in the table include consumer SBLCs of $421 million and $376 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016. (2) Includes business card unused lines of credit. Legally binding commitments to extend credit generally have and $1.4 billion for 2018 through 2022, respectively, and $5.1 specified rates and maturities. Certain of these commitments have billion in the aggregate for all years thereafter. adverse change clauses that help to protect the Corporation against deterioration in the borrower’s ability to pay. Other Guarantees Other Commitments Bank-owned Life Insurance Book Value Protection At December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Corporation had The Corporation sells products that offer book value protection to commitments to purchase loans (e.g., residential mortgage and insurance carriers who offer group life insurance policies to commercial real estate) of $344 million and $767 million, and corporations, primarily banks. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, commitments to purchase commercial loans of $994 million and the notional amount of these guarantees, which is recorded as $636 million, which upon settlement will be included in loans or derivatives totaled $10.4 billion and $13.9 billion. At December LHFS. 31, 2017 and 2016, the Corporation’s maximum exposure related At December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Corporation had to these guarantees totaled $1.6 billion and $3.2 billion, with commitments to purchase commodities, primarily liquefied natural estimated maturity dates between 2033 and 2039. The net fair gas, of $1.5 billion and $1.9 billion, which upon settlement will value including the fee receivable associated with these be included in trading account assets. At December 31, 2017 and guarantees was $3 million and $4 million at December 31, 2017 2016, the Corporation had commitments to enter into resale and and 2016, and reflects the probability of surrender as well as the forward-dated resale and securities borrowing agreements of multiple structural protection features in the contracts. $56.8 billion and $48.9 billion, and commitments to enter into Indemnifications forward-dated repurchase and securities lending agreements of In the ordinary course of business, the Corporation enters into $34.3 billion and $24.4 billion. These commitments expire various agreements that contain indemnifications, such as tax primarily within the next 12 months. indemnifications, whereupon payment may become due if certain The Corporation has entered into agreements to purchase retail external events occur, such as a change in tax law. The automobile loans from certain auto loan originators. These indemnification clauses are often standard contractual terms and agreements provide for stated purchase amounts and contain were entered into in the normal course of business based on an cancellation provisions that allow the Corporation to terminate its assessment that the risk of loss would be remote. These commitment to purchase at any time, with a minimum notification agreements typically contain an early termination clause that period. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Corporation’s permits the Corporation to exit the agreement upon these events. maximum purchase commitment was $345 million and $475 The maximum potential future payment under indemnification million. In addition, the Corporation has a commitment to originate agreements is difficult to assess for several reasons, including or purchase auto loans and leases up to $3.0 billion from a the occurrence of an external event, the inability to predict future strategic partner during 2018. This commitment extends through changes in tax and other laws, the difficulty in determining how November 2022 and can be terminated with 12 months prior such laws would apply to parties in contracts, the absence of notice. exposure limits contained in standard contract language and the The Corporation is a party to operating leases for certain of its timing of any early termination clauses. Historically, any payments premises and equipment. Commitments under these leases are made under these guarantees have been de minimis. The approximately $2.3 billion, $2.1 billion, $1.9 billion, $1.7 billion Bank of America 2017 171 Corporation has assessed the probability of making such under these arrangements is difficult to estimate; however, the payments in the future as remote. potential for the Corporation to incur material losses pursuant to these arrangements is remote. Merchant Services In accordance with credit and debit card association rules, the Other Guarantees Corporation sponsors merchant processing servicers that process The Corporation has entered into additional guarantee agreements credit and debit card transactions on behalf of various merchants. and commitments, including sold risk participation swaps, liquidity In connection with these services, a liability may arise in the event facilities, lease-end obligation agreements, partial credit of a billing dispute between the merchant and a cardholder that guarantees on certain leases, real estate joint venture guarantees, is ultimately resolved in the cardholder’s favor. If the merchant divested business commitments and sold put options that require defaults on its obligation to reimburse the cardholder, the gross settlement. The maximum potential future payment under cardholder, through its issuing bank, generally has until six months these agreements was approximately $5.9 billion and $6.7 billion after the date of the transaction to present a chargeback to the at December 31, 2017 and 2016. The estimated maturity dates merchant processor, which is primarily liable for any losses on of these obligations extend up to 2040. The Corporation has made covered transactions. However, if the merchant processor fails to no material payments under these guarantees. meet its obligation to reimburse the cardholder for disputed In the normal course of business, the Corporation periodically transactions, then the Corporation, as the sponsor, could be held guarantees the obligations of its affiliates in a variety of liable for the disputed amount. In 2017 and 2016, the sponsored transactions including ISDA-related transactions and non-ISDA entities processed and settled $812.2 billion and $731.4 billion related transactions such as commodities trading, repurchase of transactions and recorded losses of $28 million and $33 million. agreements, prime brokerage agreements and other transactions. A significant portion of this activity was processed by a joint venture in which the Corporation holds a 49 percent ownership, which is Payment Protection Insurance Claims Matter recorded in other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and On June 1, 2017, the Corporation sold its non-U.S. consumer credit in All Other. At both December 31, 2017 and 2016, the carrying card business. Included in the calculation of the gain on sale, the value of the Corporation’s investment in the merchant services Corporation recorded an obligation to indemnify the purchaser for joint venture was $2.9 billion. substantially all PPI exposure above reserves assumed by the As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the maximum potential purchaser. exposure for sponsored transactions totaled $346.4 billion and $325.7 billion. However, the Corporation believes that the Litigation and Regulatory Matters maximum potential exposure is not representative of the actual In the ordinary course of business, the Corporation and its potential loss exposure and does not expect to make material subsidiaries are routinely defendants in or parties to many pending payments in connection with these guarantees. and threatened legal, regulatory and governmental actions and proceedings. Exchange and Clearing House Member Guarantees In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of The Corporation is a member of various securities and derivative such matters, particularly where the claimants seek very large or exchanges and clearinghouses, both in the U.S. and other indeterminate damages or where the matters present novel legal countries. As a member, the Corporation may be required to pay theories or involve a large number of parties, the Corporation a pro-rata share of the losses incurred by some of these generally cannot predict what the eventual outcome of the pending organizations as a result of another member default and under matters will be, what the timing of the ultimate resolution of these other loss scenarios. The Corporation’s potential obligations may matters will be, or what the eventual loss, fines or penalties related be limited to its membership interests in such exchanges and to each pending matter may be. clearinghouses, to the amount (or multiple) of the Corporation’s In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, the contribution to the guarantee fund or, in limited instances, to the Corporation establishes an accrued liability when those matters full pro-rata share of the residual losses after applying the present loss contingencies that are both probable and estimable. guarantee fund. The Corporation’s maximum potential exposure In such cases, there may be an exposure to loss in excess of any under these membership agreements is difficult to estimate; amounts accrued. As a matter develops, the Corporation, in however, the potential for the Corporation to be required to make conjunction with any outside counsel handling the matter, these payments is remote. evaluates on an ongoing basis whether such matter presents a loss contingency that is probable and estimable. Once the loss Prime Brokerage and Securities Clearing Services contingency is deemed to be both probable and estimable, the In connection with its prime brokerage and clearing businesses, Corporation will establish an accrued liability and record a the Corporation performs securities clearance and settlement corresponding amount of litigation-related expense. The services with other brokerage firms and clearinghouses on behalf Corporation continues to monitor the matter for further of its clients. Under these arrangements, the Corporation stands developments that could affect the amount of the accrued liability ready to meet the obligations of its clients with respect to securities that has been previously established. Excluding expenses of transactions. The Corporation’s obligations in this respect are internal and external legal service providers, litigation-related secured by the assets in the clients’ accounts and the accounts expense of $753 million was recognized for 2017 compared to of their customers as well as by any proceeds received from the $1.2 billion for 2016. transactions cleared and settled by the firm on behalf of clients or their customers. The Corporation’s maximum potential exposure 172 Bank of America 2017 For a limited number of the matters disclosed in this Note, for Ambac v. Countrywide I which a loss, whether in excess of a related accrued liability or The Corporation, Countrywide and other Countrywide entities are where there is no accrued liability, is reasonably possible in future named as defendants in an action filed on September 29, 2010 periods, the Corporation is able to estimate a range of possible in New York Supreme Court. Ambac asserts claims for fraudulent loss. In determining whether it is possible to estimate a range of inducement as well as breach of contract and seeks damages in possible loss, the Corporation reviews and evaluates its matters excess of $2.2 billion, plus unspecified punitive damages. on an ongoing basis, in conjunction with any outside counsel On May 16, 2017, the First Department issued its decision on handling the matter, in light of potentially relevant factual and legal the parties’ cross-appeals of the trial court’s October 22, 2015 developments. In cases in which the Corporation possesses summary judgment rulings. Among other things, the First sufficient appropriate information to estimate a range of possible Department reversed on the applicability of New York insurance loss, that estimate is aggregated and disclosed below. There may law to Ambac’s common-law fraud claim, ruling that Ambac must be other disclosed matters for which a loss is probable or prove all of the elements of its fraudulent inducement claim, reasonably possible but such an estimate of the range of possible including justifiable reliance and loss causation; reversed as to loss may not be possible. For those matters where an estimate Ambac’s remedy for its breach of contract claims, finding that of the range of possible loss is possible, management currently Ambac’s sole remedy is the repurchase protocol of cure, estimates the aggregate range of possible loss is $0 to $1.3 billion repurchases or substitution of any materially defective loan; in excess of the accrued liability (if any) related to those matters. affirmed the trial court’s ruling that Ambac’s compensatory This estimated range of possible loss is based upon currently damages claim was an impermissible request for rescissory available information and is subject to significant judgment and a damages; reversed the dismissal of Ambac’s claim for variety of assumptions, and known and unknown uncertainties. reimbursement of claims payments, but affirmed the dismissal of The matters underlying the estimated range will change from time Ambac’s claim for reimbursements of attorneys’ fees; and to time, and actual results may vary significantly from the current reversed as to the meaning of specific representations and estimate. Therefore, this estimated range of possible loss warranties, ruling that disputed issues of fact precluded summary represents what the Corporation believes to be an estimate of judgment. On July 25, 2017, the First Department granted Ambac’s possible loss only for certain matters meeting these criteria. It motion for leave to appeal to the Court of Appeals. That appeal is does not represent the Corporation’s maximum loss exposure. pending. Information is provided below regarding the nature of all of these contingencies and, where specified, the amount of the claim Ambac v. Countrywide II associated with these loss contingencies. Based on current On December 30, 2014, Ambac filed a complaint in New York knowledge, management does not believe that loss contingencies Supreme Court against the same defendants, claiming fraudulent arising from pending matters, including the matters described inducement against Countrywide, and successor and vicarious herein will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated liability against the Corporation. Ambac claims damages in excess financial position or liquidity of the Corporation. However, in light of $600 million plus punitive damages. On December 19, 2016, of the inherent uncertainties involved in these matters, some of the Court granted in part and denied in part Countrywide’s motion which are beyond the Corporation’s control, and the very large or to dismiss the complaint. indeterminate damages sought in some of these matters, an Ambac v. Countrywide III adverse outcome in one or more of these matters could be material On December 30, 2014, Ambac filed an action in Wisconsin state to the Corporation’s results of operations or liquidity for any court against Countrywide. The complaint seeks damages in particular reporting period. excess of $350 million plus punitive damages. Countrywide has Ambac Bond Insurance Litigation challenged the Wisconsin courts’ jurisdiction over it. Following a Ambac Assurance Corporation and the Segregated Account of ruling by the lower court that jurisdiction did not exist, the Ambac Assurance Corporation (together, Ambac) have filed five Wisconsin Court of Appeals reversed. On June 30, 2017, the separate lawsuits against the Corporation and its subsidiaries Wisconsin Supreme Court reversed the decision of the Wisconsin relating to bond insurance policies Ambac provided on certain Court of Appeals and held that Countrywide did not consent to the securitized pools of HELOCs, first-lien subprime home equity loans, jurisdiction of the Wisconsin courts and remanded the case to the fixed-rate second-lien mortgage loans and negative amortization Court of Appeals for further consideration of whether specific pay option adjustable-rate mortgage loans. Ambac alleges that jurisdiction exists. On December 14, 2017, the Wisconsin Court they have paid or will pay claims as a result of defaults in the of Appeals ruled that specific jurisdiction over Countrywide does underlying loans and assert that the defendants misrepresented not exist for this matter. On January 16, 2018, Ambac asked the the characteristics of the underlying loans and/or breached certain Wisconsin Supreme Court to review the decision of the Court of contractual representations and warranties regarding the Appeals. underwriting and servicing of the loans. In those actions where the Corporation is named as a defendant, Ambac contends the Corporation is liable on various successor and vicarious liability theories. Bank of America 2017 173 Ambac v. Countrywide IV June 30, 2013 through December 31, 2014. On April 7, 2017, the On July 21, 2015, Ambac filed an action in New York Supreme FDIC amended its complaint to add a claim for additional deposit Court against Countrywide asserting the same claims for insurance and interest in the amount of $583 million for the fraudulent inducement that Ambac asserted in Ambac v. quarters ending March 31, 2012 through March 31, 2013. The Countrywide III. Ambac simultaneously moved to stay the action FDIC asserts these claims based on BANA’s alleged underreporting pending resolution of its appeal in Ambac v. Countrywide III. of counterparty exposures that resulted in underpayment of Countrywide moved to dismiss the complaint. On September 20, assessments for those quarters. BANA disagrees with the FDIC’s 2016, the Court granted Ambac’s motion to stay the action pending interpretation of the regulations as they existed during the relevant resolution of Ambac v. Countrywide III. time period and is defending itself against the FDIC’s claims. Pending final resolution, BANA has pledged security satisfactory Ambac v. First Franklin to the FDIC related to the disputed additional assessment On April 16, 2012, Ambac filed an action against BANA, First amounts. Franklin and various Merrill Lynch entities, including Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (MLPF&S) in New York Interchange and Related Litigation Supreme Court relating to guaranty insurance Ambac provided on In 2005, a group of merchants filed a series of putative class a First Franklin securitization sponsored by Merrill Lynch. The actions and individual actions directed at interchange fees complaint alleges fraudulent inducement and breach of contract, associated with Visa and MasterCard payment card transactions. including breach of contract claims against BANA based upon its These actions, which were consolidated in the U.S. District Court servicing of the loans in the securitization. The complaint alleges for the Eastern District of New York under the caption In re Payment that Ambac has paid hundreds of millions of dollars in claims and Card Interchange Fee and Merchant Discount Anti-Trust Litigation has accrued and continues to accrue tens of millions of dollars in (Interchange), named Visa, MasterCard and several banks and additional claims. Ambac seeks as damages the total claims it bank holding companies, including the Corporation, as defendants. has paid and its projected future claims payment obligations, as Plaintiffs allege that defendants conspired to fix the level of default well as specific performance of defendants’ contractual interchange rates and that certain rules of Visa and MasterCard repurchase obligations. were unreasonable restraints of trade. Plaintiffs sought compensatory and treble damages and injunctive relief. ATM Access Fee Litigation On October 19, 2012, defendants reached a proposed On January 10, 2012, a putative consumer class action was filed settlement that would have provided for, among other things, (i) in U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia against Visa, Inc., payments by defendants to the class and individual plaintiffs MasterCard, Inc. and several financial institutions, including the totaling approximately $6.6 billion, allocated to each defendant Corporation and BANA alleging that surcharges paid at financial based upon various loss-sharing agreements; (ii) distribution to institution ATMs are artificially inflated by Visa and MasterCard class merchants of an amount equal to 10 basis points (bps) of rules and regulations. The network rules are alleged to be the default interchange across all Visa and MasterCard credit card product of a conspiracy between Visa, MasterCard and financial transactions; and (iii) modifications to certain Visa and MasterCard institutions in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act. Plaintiffs rules. Although the District Court approved the class settlement seek compensatory and treble damages and injunctive relief. agreement, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit On February 13, 2013, the District Court granted defendants’ reversed the decision on appeal. The Interchange class case was motion to dismiss. On August 4, 2015, the U.S. Court of Appeals remanded to the District Court, where proceedings have resumed. for the District of Columbia Circuit vacated the District Court’s In addition to the class actions, a number of merchants filed decision and remanded the case to the District Court, where individual actions against the defendants. The Corporation was proceedings have resumed. named as a defendant in one such individual action. In addition, a number of individual actions were filed that do not name the Deposit Insurance Assessment Corporation as a defendant. As a result of various loss-sharing On January 9, 2017, the FDIC filed suit against BANA in U.S. District agreements, however, the Corporation remains liable for any Court for the District of Columbia alleging failure to pay a December settlement or judgment in these individual suits where it is not 15, 2016 invoice for additional deposit insurance assessments named as a defendant. and interest in the amount of $542 million for the quarters ending 174 Bank of America 2017 LIBOR, Other Reference Rates, Foreign Exchange (FX) and Mortgage-backed Securities Litigation Bond Trading Matters The Corporation and its affiliates, Countrywide entities and their Government authorities in the U.S. and various international affiliates, and Merrill Lynch entities and their affiliates have been jurisdictions continue to conduct investigations, to make inquiries named as defendants in cases relating to their various roles in of, and to pursue proceedings against, a significant number of FX MBS offerings and, in certain instances, have received claims for market participants, including the Corporation, regarding FX contractual indemnification related to the MBS securities actions. market participants’ conduct and systems and controls. Plaintiffs in these cases generally sought unspecified Government authorities also continue to conduct investigations compensatory and/or rescissory damages, unspecified costs and concerning conduct and systems and controls of panel banks in legal fees and generally alleged false and misleading statements. connection with the setting of other reference rates as well as the The indemnification claims include claims from underwriters of trading of government, sovereign, supranational and agency MBS that were issued by these entities, and from underwriters bonds. The Corporation is responding to and cooperating with and issuers of MBS backed by loans originated by these entities. these proceedings and investigations. In addition, the Corporation, BANA and certain Merrill Lynch Mortgage Repurchase Litigation entities have been named as defendants along with most of the U.S. Bank Harborview Repurchase Litigation other LIBOR panel banks in a number of individual and putative On August 29, 2011, U.S. Bank, National Association (U.S. Bank), class actions by persons alleging they sustained losses on U.S. as trustee for the HarborView Mortgage Loan Trust 2005-10 (the dollar LIBOR-based financial instruments as a result of collusion Trust), a mortgage pool backed by loans originated by Countrywide or manipulation by defendants regarding the setting of U.S. dollar Home Loans, Inc. (CHL), filed a complaint in New York Supreme LIBOR. Plaintiffs assert a variety of claims, including antitrust, Court, in a case entitled U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee Commodity Exchange Act (CEA), Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt for HarborView Mortgage Loan Trust, Series 2005-10 v. Organizations (RICO), Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. (dba Bank of America Home Loans), Act), common law fraud and breach of contract claims, and seek Bank of America Corporation, Countrywide Financial Corporation, compensatory, treble and punitive damages, and injunctive relief. Bank of America, N.A. and NB Holdings Corporation, alleging All cases naming the Corporation and its affiliates relating to U.S. breaches of representations and warranties. This litigation has dollar LIBOR have been consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the been stayed since March 23, 2017, pending finalization of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. settlement discussed below. In a series of rulings beginning in March 2013, the District On December 5, 2016, the defendants and certain certificateCourt dismissed antitrust, RICO, Exchange Act and certain state holders in the Trust agreed to settle the litigation in an amount law claims, dismissed all manipulation claims based on alleged not material to the Corporation, subject to acceptance by U.S. trader conduct as to the Corporation and BANA, and substantially Bank. U.S. Bank has initiated a trust instruction proceeding in limited the scope of CEA and various other claims. On May 23, Minnesota state court relating to the proposed settlement, and 2016, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed that proceeding is ongoing. the District Court’s dismissal of the antitrust claims and remanded for further proceedings in the District Court, and on December 20, U.S. Bank SURF/OWNIT Repurchase Litigation 2016, the District Court again dismissed certain plaintiffs’ On August 29, 2014 and September 2, 2014, U.S. Bank, solely antitrust claims in their entirety and substantially limited the scope in its capacity as Trustee for seven securitization trusts (the Trusts), of the remaining antitrust claims. served seven summonses with notice commencing actions Certain antitrust, CEA and state law claims remain pending in against First Franklin Financial Corporation, Merrill Lynch Mortgage the District Court against the Corporation, BANA and certain Merrill Lending, Inc., Merrill Lynch Mortgage Investors, Inc. (MLMI) and Lynch entities, and the Court is continuing to consider motions Ownit Mortgage Solutions Inc. in New York Supreme Court. The regarding them. Plaintiffs whose antitrust, Exchange Act and/or summonses advance breach of contract claims alleging that state law claims were previously dismissed by the District Court defendants breached representations and warranties related to are pursuing appeals in the Second Circuit. loans securitized in the Trusts. The summonses allege that In addition, the Corporation, BANA and MLPF&S were named defendants failed to repurchase breaching mortgage loans from as defendants along with other FX market participants in a putative the Trusts, and seek specific performance of defendants’ alleged class action filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District obligation to repurchase breaching loans, declaratory judgment, of New York, in which plaintiffs allege that they sustained losses compensatory, rescissory and other damages, and indemnity. as a result of the defendants’ alleged conspiracy to manipulate On February 25, 2015 and March 11, 2015, U.S. Bank served the prices of over-the-counter FX transactions and FX transactions complaints regarding four of the seven Trusts. On December 7, on an exchange. Plaintiffs assert antitrust claims and claims for 2015, the Court granted in part and denied in part defendants’ violations of the CEA and seek compensatory and treble damages, motion to dismiss the complaints. The Court dismissed claims for as well as declaratory and injunctive relief. On October 1, 2015, breach of representations and warranties against MLMI, the Corporation, BANA and MLPF&S executed a final settlement dismissed U.S. Bank’s claims for indemnity and attorneys’ fees, agreement, in which they agreed to pay $187.5 million to settle and deferred a ruling regarding defendants’ alleged failure to the litigation. The settlement is subject to final District Court provide notice of alleged representations and warranties breaches, approval. but upheld the complaints in all other respects. On December 28, 2016, U.S. Bank filed a complaint with respect to a fifth Trust. Bank of America 2017 175 NOTE 13 Shareholders’ Equity and fourth quarters of 2017, and cash dividends of $0.075 per share for the first and second quarter of 2017, or $0.39 per share Common Stock for the year, resulting in an adjustment to the exercise price of these warrants in each quarter. As a result of the Corporation’s 2017 dividends of $0.39 per common share, the exercise price Declared Quarterly Cash Dividends on Common Stock (1) of the warrants expiring on January 16, 2019 was adjusted to $12.757 per share. The warrants expiring on October 28, 2018, Dividend Declaration Date Record Date Payment Date Per Share which have an exercise price of $30.79 per share, also contain January 31, 2018 March 2, 2018 March 30, 2018 $ 0.12 this anti-dilution provision except the adjustment is triggered only October 25, 2017 December 1, 2017 December 29, 2017 0.12 when the Corporation declares quarterly dividends at a level July 26, 2017 September 1, 2017 September 29, 2017 0.12 greater than $0.32 per common share. April 26, 2017 June 2, 2017 June 30, 2017 0.075 On August 24, 2017, the holders of the Corporation’s Series January 26, 2017 March 3, 2017 March 31, 2017 0.075 T 6% Non-cumulative preferred stock (Series T) exercised warrants (1) In 2017 and through February 22, 2018. to acquire 700 million shares of the Corporation’s common stock. The carrying value of the preferred stock was $2.9 billion and, The following table summarizes common stock repurchases upon conversion, was recorded as additional paid-in capital. For during 2017, 2016 and 2015. more information, see Note 15 – Earnings Per Common Share. In connection with employee stock plans, in 2017, the Common Stock Repurchase Summary Corporation issued approximately 66 million shares and repurchased approximately 27 million shares of its common stock (in millions) 2017 2016 2015 to satisfy tax withholding obligations. At December 31, 2017, the Total share repurchases, including CCAR Corporation had reserved 869 million unissued shares of common capital plan repurchases 509 333 140 stock for future issuances under employee stock plans, common Purchase price of shares repurchased and stock warrants, convertible notes and preferred stock. retired (1) CCAR capital plan repurchases $ 9,347 $ 4,312 $ 2,374 Preferred Stock Other authorized repurchases 3,467 800 — The cash dividends declared on preferred stock were $1.6 billion, Total shares repurchased $ 12,814 $ 5,112 $ 2,374 $1.7 billion and $1.5 billion for 2017, 2016 and 2015, (1) Represents reductions to shareholders’ equity due to common stock repurchases. respectively. The following table presents a summary of perpetual preferred stock outstanding at December 31, 2017. On June 28, 2017, following the Federal Reserve’s nonAll series of preferred stock in the Preferred Stock Summary objection to the Corporation’s 2017 Comprehensive Capital table have a par value of $0.01 per share, are not subject to the Analysis and Review (CCAR) capital plan, the Board of Directors operation of a sinking fund, have no participation rights, and with (Board) authorized the repurchase of $12.0 billion of common the exception of the Series L Preferred Stock, are not convertible. stock from July 1, 2017 through June 30, 2018, plus repurchases The holders of the Series B Preferred Stock and Series 1 through expected to be approximately $900 million to offset the effect of 5 Preferred Stock have general voting rights and vote together with equity-based compensation plans during the same period. The the common stock. The holders of the other series included in the common stock repurchase authorization includes both common table have no general voting rights. All outstanding series of stock and warrants. The Corporation’s 2017 capital plan also preferred stock of the Corporation have preference over the included a request to increase the quarterly common stock Corporation’s common stock with respect to the payment of dividend from $0.075 per share to $0.12 per share. On December dividends and distribution of the Corporation’s assets in the event 5, 2017, following approval by the Federal Reserve, the Board of a liquidation or dissolution. With the exception of the Series B, authorized the repurchase of an additional $5.0 billion of common F, G and T Preferred Stock, if any dividend payable on these series stock through June 30, 2018. is in arrears for three or more semi-annual or six or more quarterly In 2017, the Corporation repurchased $12.8 billion of common dividend periods, as applicable (whether consecutive or not), the stock in connection with the 2017 and 2016 CCAR capital plans holders of these series and any other class or series of preferred and pursuant to other repurchases approved by the Board and the stock ranking equally as to payment of dividends and upon which Federal Reserve. Other authorized repurchases included $1.8 equivalent voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable billion of common stock pursuant to the Corporation’s plan (voting as a single class) will be entitled to vote for the election announced on January 13, 2017 and $1.7 billion under the of two additional directors. These voting rights terminate when the authorization announced on December 5, 2017. Corporation has paid in full dividends on these series for at least At December 31, 2017, the Corporation had warrants two semi-annual or four quarterly dividend periods, as applicable, outstanding and exercisable to purchase 122 million shares of its following the dividend arrearage. common stock expiring on October 28, 2018, and warrants The 7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred outstanding and exercisable to purchase 143 million shares of Stock, Series L (Series L Preferred Stock) does not have early common stock expiring on January 16, 2019. These warrants were redemption/call rights. Each share of the Series L Preferred Stock originally issued in connection with preferred stock issuances to may be converted at any time, at the option of the holder, into 20 the U.S. Department of the Treasury in 2009 and 2008, and are shares of the Corporation’s common stock plus cash in lieu of listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The exercise price of the fractional shares. The Corporation may cause some or all of the warrants expiring on January 16, 2019 is subject to continued Series L Preferred Stock, at its option, at any time or from time to adjustment each time the quarterly cash dividend is in excess of time, to be converted into shares of common stock at the then$0.01 per common share to compensate the holders of the applicable conversion rate if, for 20 trading days during any period warrants for dilution resulting from an increased dividend. The of 30 consecutive trading days, the closing price of common stock Corporation had cash dividends of $0.12 per share for the third exceeds 130 percent of the then-applicable conversion price of 176 Bank of America 2017 the Series L Preferred Stock. If a conversion of Series L Preferred record date but prior to the dividend payment date, the Corporation Stock occurs at the option of the holder, subsequent to a dividend will still pay any accrued dividends payable. Preferred Stock Summary (Dollars in millions, except as noted) Initial Total Liquidation Issuance Shares Preference per Share Carrying Per Annum Series Description Date Outstanding (in dollars) Value (1) Dividend Rate Redemption Period (2) 7% Cumulative June Series B Redeemable 1997 7,110 $ 100 $ 1 7.00% n/a September On or after Series D (3) 6.204% Non-Cumulative 2006 26,174 25,000 654 6.204% September 14, 2011 Floating Rate NonNovember On or after Series E (3) Cumulative 2006 12,691 25,000 317 3-mo. LIBOR + 35 bps (4) November 15, 2011 Floating Rate NonMarch On or after Series F Cumulative 2012 1,409 100,000 141 3-mo. LIBOR + 40 bps (4) March 15, 2012 Adjustable Rate NonMarch On or after Series G Cumulative 2012 4,926 100,000 493 3-mo. LIBOR + 40 bps (4) March 15, 2012 September On or after Series I (3) 6.625% Non-Cumulative 2007 14,584 25,000 365 6.625% October 1, 2017 Fixed-to-Floating Rate January 8.00% to, but excluding, 1/30/18; On or after Series K (5) Non-Cumulative 2008 61,773 25,000 1,544 3-mo. LIBOR + 363 bps thereafter January 30, 2018 7.25% Non-Cumulative January Series L Perpetual Convertible 2008 3,080,182 1,000 3,080 7.25% n/a Fixed-to-Floating Rate April 8.125% to, but excluding, 5/15/18; On or after Series M (5) Non-Cumulative 2008 52,399 25,000 1,310 3-mo. LIBOR + 364 bps thereafter May 15, 2018 September Series T (6) 6% Non-cumulative 2011 354 100,000 35 6.00% After May 7, 2019 Fixed-to-Floating Rate May 5.2% to, but excluding, 6/1/23; On or after Series U (5) Non-Cumulative 2013 40,000 25,000 1,000 3-mo. LIBOR + 313.5 bps thereafter June 1, 2023 Fixed-to-Floating Rate June 5.125% to, but excluding, 6/17/19; On or after Series V (5) Non-Cumulative 2014 60,000 25,000 1,500 3-mo. LIBOR + 338.7 bps thereafter June 17, 2019 September On or after Series W (3) 6.625% Non-Cumulative 2014 44,000 25,000 1,100 6.625% September 9, 2019 Fixed-to-Floating Rate September 6.250% to, but excluding, 9/5/24; On or after Series X (5) Non-Cumulative 2014 80,000 25,000 2,000 3-mo. LIBOR + 370.5 bps thereafter September 5, 2024 January On or after Series Y (3) 6.500% Non-Cumulative 2015 44,000 25,000 1,100 6.500% January 27, 2020 Fixed-to-Floating Rate October 6.500% to, but excluding,10/23/24; On or after Series Z (5) Non-Cumulative 2014 56,000 25,000 1,400 3-mo. LIBOR + 417.4 bps thereafter October 23, 2024 Fixed-to-Floating Rate March 6.100% to, but excluding, 3/17/25; On or after Series AA (5) Non-Cumulative 2015 76,000 25,000 1,900 3-mo. LIBOR + 389.8 bps thereafter March 17, 2025 January On or after Series CC (3) 6.200% Non-Cumulative 2016 44,000 25,000 1,100 6.200% January 29, 2021 Fixed-to-Floating Rate March 6.300% to, but excluding, 3/10/26; On or after Series DD (5) Non-Cumulative 2016 40,000 25,000 1,000 3-mo. LIBOR + 455.3 bps thereafter March 10, 2026 April On or after Series EE (3) 6.000% Non-Cumulative 2016 36,000 25,000 900 6.000% April 25, 2021 Floating Rate NonNovember On or after Series 1 (7) Cumulative 2004 3,275 30,000 98 3-mo. LIBOR + 75 bps (8) November 28, 2009 Floating Rate NonMarch On or after Series 2 (7) Cumulative 2005 9,967 30,000 299 3-mo. LIBOR + 65 bps (8) November 28, 2009 November On or after Series 3 (7) 6.375% Non-Cumulative 2005 21,773 30,000 653 6.375% November 28, 2010 Floating Rate NonNovember On or after Series 4 (7) Cumulative 2005 7,010 30,000 210 3-mo. LIBOR + 75 bps (4) November 28, 2010 Floating Rate NonMarch On or after Series 5 (7) Cumulative 2007 14,056 30,000 422 3-mo. LIBOR + 50 bps (4) May 21, 2012 Total 3,837,683 $ 22,622 (1) Amounts shown are before third-party issuance costs and certain book value adjustments of $299 million. (2) The Corporation may redeem series of preferred stock on or after the redemption date, in whole or in part, at its option, at the liquidation preference plus declared and unpaid dividends. Series B and Series L Preferred Stock do not have early redemption/call rights. (3) Ownership is held in the form of depositary shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock, paying a quarterly cash dividend, if and when declared. (4) Subject to 4.00% minimum rate per annum. (5) Ownership is held in the form of depositary shares, each representing a 1/25th interest in a share of preferred stock, paying a semi-annual cash dividend, if and when declared, until the first redemption date at which time, it adjusts to a quarterly cash dividend, if and when declared, thereafter. (6) Represents shares that were not surrendered when the holders of Series T preferred stock exercised warrants to acquire 700 million shares of common stock in the third quarter of 2017. (7) Ownership is held in the form of depositary shares, each representing a 1/1,200th interest in a share of preferred stock, paying a quarterly cash dividend, if and when declared. (8) Subject to 3.00% minimum rate per annum. n/a = not applicable Bank of America 2017 177 NOTE 14 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) The table below presents the changes in accumulated OCI after-tax for 2015, 2016 and 2017. Available-forDebt Sale Marketable Debit Valuation Employee Foreign (Dollars in millions) Securities Equity Securities Adjustments Derivatives Benefit Plans Currency (1) Total Balance, December 31, 2014 $ 1,641 $ 17 n/a $ (1,661) $ (3,350) $ (669) $ (4,022) Cumulative adjustment for accounting change — — $ (1,226) — — — (1,226) Net change (1,625) 45 615 584 394 (123) (110) Balance, December 31, 2015 $ 16 $ 62 $ (611) $ (1,077) $ (2,956) $ (792) $ (5,358) Net change (1,315) (30) (156) 182 (524) (87) (1,930) Balance, December 31, 2016 $ (1,299) $ 32 $ (767) $ (895) $ (3,480) $ (879) $ (7,288) Net change 91 (30) (293) 64 288 86 206 Balance, December 31, 2017 $ (1,208) $ 2 $ (1,060) $ (831) $ (3,192) $ (793) $ (7,082) The table below presents the net change in fair value recorded in accumulated OCI, net realized gains and losses reclassified into earnings and other changes for each component of OCI beforeand after-tax for 2017, 2016 and 2015. Changes in OCI Components Beforeand After-tax BeforeTax AfterBeforeTax AfterBeforeTax Aftertax effect tax tax effect tax tax effect tax (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Debt securities: Net increase in fair value $ 202 $ 26 $ 228 $ (1,645) $ 622 $ (1,023) $ (1,564) $ 595 $ (969) Reclassifications into earnings: Gains on sales of debt securities (255) 97 (158) (490) 186 (304) (1,138) 432 (706) Other income 41 (20) 21 19 (7) 12 81 (31) 50 Net realized gains reclassified into earnings (214) 77 (137) (471) 179 (292) (1,057) 401 (656) Net change (12) 103 91 (2,116) 801 (1,315) (2,621) 996 (1,625) Available-for-sale marketable equity securities: Net increase (decrease) in fair value 38 (12) 26 (49) 19 (30) 72 (27) 45 Net realized gains reclassified into earnings (2) (90) 34 (56) — — — — — — Net change (52) 22 (30) (49) 19 (30) 72 (27) 45 Debit valuation adjustments: Net increase (decrease) in fair value (490) 171 (319) (271) 104 (167) 436 (166) 270 Net realized losses reclassified into earnings (2) 42 (16) 26 17 (6) 11 556 (211) 345 Net change (448) 155 (293) (254) 98 (156) 992 (377) 615 Derivatives: Net increase (decrease) in fair value (50) 1 (49) (299) 113 (186) 55 (22) 33 Reclassifications into earnings: Net interest income 327 (122) 205 553 (205) 348 974 (367) 607 Personnel (148) 56 (92) 32 (12) 20 (91) 35 (56) Net realized losses reclassified into earnings 179 (66) 113 585 (217) 368 883 (332) 551 Net change 129 (65) 64 286 (104) 182 938 (354) 584 Employee benefit plans: Net increase (decrease) in fair value 223 (55) 168 (921) 329 (592) 408 (121) 287 Reclassifications into earnings: Prior service cost 4 (1) 3 5 (2) 3 5 (2) 3 Net actuarial losses 175 (60) 115 92 (34) 58 164 (60) 104 Net realized losses reclassified into earnings (3) 179 (61) 118 97 (36) 61 169 (62) 107 Settlements, curtailments and other 3 (1) 2 15 (8) 7 1 (1) — Net change 405 (117) 288 (809) 285 (524) 578 (184) 394 Foreign currency: Net increase (decrease) in fair value (439) 430 (9) 514 (601) (87) 600 (723) (123) Net realized gains reclassified into earnings (1,2) (606) 701 95 — — — (38) 38 — Net change (1,045) 1,131 86 514 (601) (87) 562 (685) (123) Total other comprehensive income (loss) $ (1,023) $ 1,229 $ 206 $ (2,428) $ 498 $ (1,930) $ 521 $ (631) $ (110) (1) During 2017, foreign currency included a pre-tax gain on derivatives and related income tax expense associated with the Corporation’s net investment in its non-U.S. consumer credit card business, which was sold in 2017. The derivative gain was partially offset by a loss on the related foreign currency translation adjustment. (2) Reclassifications of pre-tax AFS marketable equity securities, DVA and foreign currency are recorded in other income in the Consolidated Statement of Income. (3) Reclassifications of pre-tax employee benefit plan costs are recorded in personnel expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income. n/a = not applicable 178 Bank of America 2017 NOTE 15 Earnings Per Common Share The calculation of EPS and diluted EPS for 2017, 2016 and 2015 is presented below. For more information on the calculation of EPS, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles. (Dollars in millions, except per share information; shares in thousands) 2017 2016 2015 Earnings per common share Net income $ 18,232 $ 17,822 $ 15,910 Preferred stock dividends (1,614) (1,682) (1,483) Net income applicable to common shareholders $ 16,618 $ 16,140 $ 14,427 Average common shares issued and outstanding 10,195,646 10,284,147 10,462,282 Earnings per common share $ 1.63 $ 1.57 $ 1.38 Diluted earnings per common share Net income applicable to common shareholders $ 16,618 $ 16,140 $ 14,427 Add preferred stock dividends due to assumed conversions (1) 186 300 300 Net income allocated to common shareholders $ 16,804 $ 16,440 $ 14,727 Average common shares issued and outstanding 10,195,646 10,284,147 10,462,282 Dilutive potential common shares (2) 582,782 762,659 773,948 Total diluted average common shares issued and outstanding 10,778,428 11,046,806 11,236,230 Diluted earnings per common share $ 1.56 $ 1.49 $ 1.31 (1) Represents the Series T dividends under the “if-converted” method prior to conversion. (2) Includes incremental dilutive shares from RSUs, restricted stock and warrants. In connection with an investment in the Corporation’s Series NOTE 16 Regulatory Requirements and T preferred stock in 2011, the Series T holders also received warrants to purchase 700 million shares of the Corporation’s Restrictions common stock at an exercise price of $7.142857 per share. On The Federal Reserve, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency August 24, 2017, the Series T holders exercised the warrants and (OCC) and FDIC (collectively, U.S. banking regulators) jointly acquired the 700 million shares of the Corporation’s common establish regulatory capital adequacy guidelines for U.S. banking stock using the Series T preferred stock as consideration for the organizations. As a financial holding company, the Corporation is exercise price, which increased common shares outstanding, but subject to capital adequacy rules issued by the Federal Reserve. had no effect on diluted earnings per share as this conversion had The Corporation’s banking entity affiliates are subject to capital been included in the Corporation’s diluted earnings per share adequacy rules issued by the OCC. calculation under the applicable accounting guidance. The use of Basel 3 updated the composition of capital and established a the Series T preferred stock as consideration represents a nonCommon equity tier 1 capital ratio. Common equity tier 1 capital cash financing activity and, accordingly, is not reflected in the primarily includes common stock, retained earnings and Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. For 2016 and 2015, the accumulated OCI. Basel 3 revised minimum capital ratios and 700 million average dilutive potential common shares were buffer requirements, added a supplementary leverage ratio, and included in the diluted share count under the “if-converted” addressed the adequately capitalized minimum requirements method. under the Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) framework. Finally, Basel For 2017, 2016 and 2015, 62 million average dilutive potential 3 established two methods of calculating risk-weighted assets, common shares associated with the Series L preferred stock were the Standardized approach and the Advanced approaches. not included in the diluted share count because the result would The Corporation and its primary banking entity affiliate, BANA, have been antidilutive under the “if-converted” method. For 2017, are Advanced approaches institutions under Basel 3. As Advanced 2016 and 2015, average options to purchase 21 million, 45 million approaches institutions, the Corporation and its banking entity and 66 million shares of common stock, respectively, were affiliates are required to report regulatory risk-based capital ratios outstanding but not included in the computation of EPS because and risk-weighted assets under both the Standardized and the result would have been antidilutive under the treasury stock Advanced approaches. The approach that yields the lower ratio is method. For 2017, 2016 and 2015, average warrants to purchase used to assess capital adequacy, including under the PCA 122 million shares of common stock were outstanding but not framework, and was the Advanced approaches method at included in the computation of EPS because the result would have December 31, 2017 and 2016. been antidilutive under the treasury stock method. For 2017, The following table presents capital ratios and related average warrants to purchase 143 million shares of common stock information in accordance with Basel 3 Standardized and were included in the diluted EPS calculation under the treasury Advanced approaches – Transition as measured at December 31, stock method compared to 150 million shares of common stock 2017 and 2016 for the Corporation and BANA. in both 2016 and 2015. Bank of America 2017 179 Regulatory Capital under Basel 3 – Transition (1) Bank of America Corporation Bank of America, N.A. Standardized Advanced Regulatory Standardized Advanced Regulatory Approach Approaches Minimum (2) Approach Approaches Minimum (3) (Dollars in millions, except as noted) December 31, 2017 Risk-based capital metrics: Common equity tier 1 capital $ 171,063 $ 171,063 $ 150,552 $ 150,552 Tier 1 capital 191,496 191,496 150,552 150,552 Total capital (4) 227,427 218,529 163,243 154,675 Risk-weighted assets (in billions) (5) 1,434 1,449 1,201 1,007 Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 11.9% 11.8% 7.25% 12.5% 14.9% 6.5% Tier 1 capital ratio 13.4 13.2 8.75 12.5 14.9 8.0 Total capital ratio 15.9 15.1 10.75 13.6 15.4 10.0 Leverage-based metrics: Adjusted quarterly average assets (in billions) (6) $ 2,224 $ 2,224 $ 1,672 $ 1,672 Tier 1 leverage ratio 8.6% 8.6% 4.0 9.0% 9.0% 5.0 December 31, 2016 Risk-based capital metrics: Common equity tier 1 capital $ 168,866 $ 168,866 $ 149,755 $ 149,755 Tier 1 capital 190,315 190,315 149,755 149,755 Total capital (4) 228,187 218,981 163,471 154,697 Risk-weighted assets (in billions) 1,399 1,530 1,176 1,045 Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 12.1% 11.0% 5.875% 12.7% 14.3% 6.5% Tier 1 capital ratio 13.6 12.4 7.375 12.7 14.3 8.0 Total capital ratio 16.3 14.3 9.375 13.9 14.8 10.0 Leverage-based metrics: Adjusted quarterly average assets (in billions) (6) $ 2,131 $ 2,131 $ 1,611 $ 1,611 Tier 1 leverage ratio 8.9% 8.9% 4.0 9.3% 9.3% 5.0 (1) Under the applicable bank regulatory rules, the Corporation is not required to and, accordingly, will not restate previously-filed regulatory capital metrics and ratios in connection with the change in accounting method as described in Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles . Therefore, the December 31, 2016 amounts in the table are as originally reported. The cumulative impact of the change in accounting method resulted in an insignificant pro forma change to the Corporation’s capital metrics and ratios. (2) The December 31, 2017 and 2016 amounts include a transition capital conservation buffer of 1.25 percent and 0.625 percent and a transition global systemically important bank surcharge of 1.5 percent and 0.75 percent. The countercyclical capital buffer for both periods is zero. (3) Percentage required to meet guidelines to be considered “well capitalized” under the PCA framework. (4) Total capital under the Advanced approaches differs from the Standardized approach due to differences in the amount permitted in Tier 2 capital related to the qualifying allowance for credit losses. (5) During the fourth quarter of 2017, the Corporation obtained approval from U.S. banking regulators to use its Internal Models Methodology to calculate counterparty credit risk-weighted assets for derivatives under the Advanced approaches. (6) Reflects adjusted average total assets for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. The capital adequacy rules issued by the U.S. banking cash deposited with clearing organizations of $11.9 billion and regulators require institutions to meet the established minimums $10.2 billion primarily recorded in other assets on the outlined in the table above. Failure to meet the minimum Consolidated Balance Sheet. requirements can lead to certain mandatory and discretionary The primary sources of funds for cash distributions by the actions by regulators that could have a material adverse impact Corporation to its shareholders are capital distributions received on the Corporation’s financial position. At December 31, 2017 and from its bank subsidiaries, BANA and Bank of America California, 2016, the Corporation and its banking entity affiliates were “well N.A. In 2017, the Corporation received dividends of $22.2 billion capitalized.” from BANA and $275 million from Bank of America California, N.A. The amount of dividends that a subsidiary bank may declare in a Other Regulatory Matters calendar year is the subsidiary bank’s net profits for that year The Federal Reserve requires the Corporation’s bank subsidiaries combined with its retained net profits for the preceding two years. to maintain reserve requirements based on a percentage of certain Retained net profits, as defined by the OCC, consist of net income deposit liabilities. The average daily reserve balance requirements, less dividends declared during the period. In 2018, BANA can in excess of vault cash, maintained by the Corporation with the declare and pay dividends of approximately $6.0 billion to the Federal Reserve were $8.9 billion and $7.7 billion for 2017 and Corporation plus an additional amount equal to its retained net 2016. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Corporation had cash profits for 2018 up to the date of any such dividend declaration. and cash equivalents in the amount of $4.1 billion and $4.8 billion, Bank of America California, N.A. can pay dividends of $195 million and securities with a fair value of $17.3 billion and $14.6 billion in 2018 plus an additional amount equal to its retained net profits that were segregated in compliance with securities regulations. In for 2018 up to the date of any such dividend declaration. addition, at December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Corporation had 180 Bank of America 2017 NOTE 17 Employee Benefit Plans The Corporation’s noncontributory, nonqualified pension plans are unfunded and provide supplemental defined pension benefits Pension and Postretirement Plans to certain eligible employees. The Corporation sponsors a qualified noncontributory trusteed In addition to retirement pension benefits, certain benefitspension plan (Qualified Pension Plan), a number of noncontributory eligible employees may become eligible to continue participation nonqualified pension plans, and postretirement health and life as retirees in health care and/or life insurance plans sponsored plans that cover eligible employees. Non-U.S. pension plans by the Corporation. These plans are referred to as the sponsored by the Corporation vary based on the country and local Postretirement Health and Life Plans. During 2017, the practices. Corporation established and funded a Voluntary Employees’ The Qualified Pension Plan has a balance guarantee feature Beneficiary Association trust in the amount of $300 million for the for account balances with participant-selected investments, Postretirement Health and Life Plans. applied at the time a benefit payment is made from the plan that The Pension and Postretirement Plans table summarizes the effectively provides principal protection for participant balances changes in the fair value of plan assets, changes in the projected transferred and certain compensation credits. The Corporation is benefit obligation (PBO), the funded status of both the responsible for funding any shortfall on the guarantee feature. accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) and the PBO, and the Benefits earned under the Qualified Pension Plan have been weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit frozen. Thereafter, the cash balance accounts continue to earn obligations for the pension plans and postretirement plans at investment credits or interest credits in accordance with the terms December 31, 2017 and 2016. The estimate of the Corporation’s of the plan document. PBO associated with these plans considers various actuarial The Corporation has an annuity contract that guarantees the assumptions, including assumptions for mortality rates and payment of benefits vested under a terminated U.S. pension plan discount rates. The discount rate assumptions are derived from (Other Pension Plan). The Corporation, under a supplemental a cash flow matching technique that utilizes rates that are based agreement, may be responsible for, or benefit from actual on Aa-rated corporate bonds with cash flows that match estimated experience and investment performance of the annuity assets. benefit payments of each of the plans. The decreases in the The Corporation made no contribution under this agreement in weighted-average discount rate in 2017 and 2016 resulted in 2017 or 2016. Contributions may be required in the future under increases to the PBO of approximately $1.1 billion and $1.3 billion this agreement. at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Pension and Postretirement Plans (1) Qualified Non-U.S. Nonqualified and Other Postretirement Pension Plan Pension Plans Pension Plans Health and Life Plans (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Change in fair value of plan assets Fair value, January 1 $ 18,239 $ 17,962 $ 2,789 $ 2,738 $ 2,744 $ 2,805 $ — $ — Actual return on plan assets 2,285 1,075 118 541 128 74 — — Company contributions — — 23 48 98 104 393 104 Plan participant contributions — — 1 1 — — 125 125 Settlements and curtailments — — (190) (20) — (6) — — Benefits paid (816) (798) (54) (118) (246) (233) (230) (242) Federal subsidy on benefits paid n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 12 13 Foreign currency exchange rate changes n/a n/a 256 (401) n/a n/a n/a n/a Fair value, December 31 $ 19,708 $ 18,239 $ 2,943 $ 2,789 $ 2,724 $ 2,744 $ 300 $ — Change in projected benefit obligation Projected benefit obligation, January 1 $ 14,982 $ 14,461 $ 2,763 $ 2,580 $ 3,047 $ 3,053 $ 1,125 $ 1,152 Service cost — — 24 25 1 — 6 7 Interest cost 606 634 72 86 117 127 43 47 Plan participant contributions — — 1 1 — — 125 125 Plan amendments — — — — — — (19) — Settlements and curtailments — — (200) (31) — (6) — — Actuarial loss (gain) 934 685 (26) 535 128 106 (7) 25 Benefits paid (816) (798) (54) (118) (246) (233) (230) (242) Federal subsidy on benefits paid n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 12 13 Foreign currency exchange rate changes n/a n/a 234 (315) n/a n/a 1 (2) Projected benefit obligation, December 31 $ 15,706 $ 14,982 $ 2,814 $ 2,763 $ 3,047 $ 3,047 $ 1,056 $ 1,125 Amounts recognized on Consolidated Balance Sheet Other assets $ 4,002 $ 3,257 $ 610 $ 475 $ 730 $ 760 $ — $ — Accrued expenses and other liabilities — — (481) (449) (1,053) (1,063) (756) (1,125) Net amount recognized, December 31 $ 4,002 $ 3,257 $ 129 $ 26 $ (323) $ (303) $ (756) $ (1,125) Funded status, December 31 Accumulated benefit obligation $ 15,706 $ 14,982 $ 2,731 $ 2,645 $ 3,046 $ 3,046 n/a n/a Overfunded (unfunded) status of ABO 4,002 3,257 212 144 (322) (302) n/a n/a Provision for future salaries — — 83 118 1 1 n/a n/a Projected benefit obligation 15,706 14,982 2,814 2,763 3,047 3,047 $ 1,056 $ 1,125 Weighted-average assumptions, December 31 Discount rate 3.68% 4.16% 2.39% 2.56% 3.58% 4.01% 3.58% 3.99% Rate of compensation increase n/a n/a 4.31 4.51 4.00 4.00 n/a n/a (1) The measurement date for the Qualified Pension Plan, Non-U.S. Pension Plans, Nonqualified and Other Pension Plans, and Postretirement Health and Life Plans was December 31 of each year reported. n/a = not applicable Bank of America 2017 181 The Corporation’s estimate of its contributions to be made to minimum funding amount required by the Employee Retirement the Non-U.S. Pension Plans, Nonqualified and Other Pension Plans, Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). and Postretirement Health and Life Plans in 2018 is $17 million, Pension Plans with ABO and PBO in excess of plan assets as $92 million and $19 million, respectively. The Corporation does of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are presented in the table below. not expect to make a contribution to the Qualified Pension Plan in For these plans, funding strategies vary due to legal requirements 2018. It is the policy of the Corporation to fund no less than the and local practices. Plans with PBO and ABO in Excess of Plan Assets Nonqualified Non-U.S. and Other Pension Plans Pension Plans (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2017 2016 PBO $ 671 $ 626 $ 1,054 $ 1,065 ABO 644 594 1,053 1,064 Fair value of plan assets 191 179 1 1 Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost Qualified Pension Plan Non-U.S. Pension Plans (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 Components of net periodic benefit cost (income) Service cost $ — $ — $ — $ 24 $ 25 $ 27 Interest cost 606 634 621 72 86 93 Expected return on plan assets (1,068) (1,038) (1,045) (136) (123) (133) Amortization of net actuarial loss 154 139 170 8 6 6 Other — — — (7) 2 1 Net periodic benefit cost (income) $ (308) $ (265) $ (254) $ (39) $ (4) $ (6) Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net cost for years ended December 31 Discount rate 4.16% 4.51% 4.12% 2.56% 3.59% 3.56% Expected return on plan assets 6.00 6.00 6.00 4.73 4.84 5.27 Rate of compensation increase n/a n/a n/a 4.51 4.67 4.70 Nonqualified and Postretirement Health Other Pension Plans and Life Plans (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 Components of net periodic benefit cost (income) Service cost $ 1 $ — $ — $ 6 $ 7 $ 8 Interest cost 117 127 122 43 47 48 Expected return on plan assets (95) (101) (92) — — (1) Amortization of net actuarial loss (gain) 34 25 34 (21) (81) (46) Other — 3 — 4 4 4 Net periodic benefit cost (income) $ 57 $ 54 $ 64 $ 32 $ (23) $ 13 Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net cost for years ended December 31 Discount rate 4.01% 4.34% 3.80% 3.99% 4.32% 3.75% Expected return on plan assets 3.50 3.66 3.26 n/a n/a 6.00 Rate of compensation increase 4.00 4.00 4.00 n/a n/a n/a n/a = not applicable The asset valuation method used to calculate the expected subsequent remeasurement) is recognized on a level basis during return on plan assets component of net periodic benefit cost for the year. the Qualified Pension Plan recognizes 60 percent of the prior year’s Assumed health care cost trend rates affect the postretirement market gains or losses at the next measurement date with the benefit obligation and benefit cost reported for the Postretirement remaining 40 percent spread equally over the subsequent four Health and Life Plans. The assumed health care cost trend rate years. used to measure the expected cost of benefits covered by the Gains and losses for all benefit plans except postretirement Postretirement Health and Life Plans is 7.00 percent for 2018, health care are recognized in accordance with the standard reducing in steps to 5.00 percent in 2023 and later years. A oneamortization provisions of the applicable accounting guidance. Net percentage-point increase in assumed health care cost trend rates periodic postretirement health and life expense was determined would have increased the service and interest costs, and the using the “projected unit credit” actuarial method. For the benefit obligation by $1 million and $26 million in 2017. A onePostretirement Health and Life Plans, 50 percent of the percentage-point decrease in assumed health care cost trend unrecognized gain or loss at the beginning of the fiscal year (or at rates would have lowered the service and interest costs, and the benefit obligation by $1 million and $23 million in 2017. 182 Bank of America 2017 The Corporation’s net periodic benefit cost (income) recognized million and $45 million in 2017, and approximately $6 million and for the plans is sensitive to the discount rate and expected return $47 million to be recognized in 2018. For the Non-U.S. Pension on plan assets. With all other assumptions held constant, a 25 Plans, Nonqualified and Other Pension Plans, and Postretirement bp decline in the discount rate and expected return on plan assets Health and Life Plans, a 25 bp decline in discount rates and assumptions would have resulted in an increase in the net periodic expected return on assets would not have a significant impact on benefit cost for the Qualified Pension Plan of approximately $6 the net periodic benefit cost for 2017 and 2018. Pretax Amounts Included in Accumulated OCI Nonqualified Postretirement Qualified Non-U.S. and Other Health and Pension Plan Pension Plans Pension Plans Life Plans Total (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Net actuarial loss (gain) $ 3,992 $ 4,429 $ 196 $ 216 $ 1,014 $ 953 $ (30) $ (44) $ 5,172 $ 5,554 Prior service cost (credits) — — 4 4 — — (11) 12 (7) 16 Amounts recognized in accumulated OCI $ 3,992 $ 4,429 $ 200 $ 220 $ 1,014 $ 953 $ (41) $ (32) $ 5,165 $ 5,570 Pretax Amounts Recognized in OCI Nonqualified Postretirement Qualified Non-U.S. and Other Health and Pension Plan Pension Plans Pension Plans Life Plans Total (1) (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Current year actuarial loss (gain) $ (283) $ 648 $ (12) $ 100 $ 95 $ 133 $ (7) $ 25 $ (207) $ 906 Amortization of actuarial gain (loss) (154) (139) (8) (6) (34) (28) 21 81 (175) (92) Current year prior service cost (credit) — — — — — — (19) — (19) — Amortization of prior service cost — — — (1) — — (4) (4) (4) (5) Amounts recognized in OCI $ (437) $ 509 $ (20) $ 93 $ 61 $ 105 $ (9) $ 102 $ (405) $ 809 (1) Pretax amounts to be amortized from accumulated OCI as period cost during 2018 are estimated to be $176 million. Plan Assets of the plan’s liabilities. The selected asset allocation strategy is The Qualified Pension Plan has been established as a retirement designed to achieve a higher return than the lowest risk strategy. vehicle for participants, and trusts have been established to The expected rate of return on plan assets assumption was secure benefits promised under the Qualified Pension Plan. The developed through analysis of historical market returns, historical Corporation’s policy is to invest the trust assets in a prudent asset class volatility and correlations, current market conditions, manner for the exclusive purpose of providing benefits to anticipated future asset allocations, the funds’ past experience, participants and defraying reasonable expenses of administration. and expectations on potential future market returns. The expected The Corporation’s investment strategy is designed to provide a return on plan assets assumption is determined using the total return that, over the long term, increases the ratio of assets calculated market-related value for the Qualified Pension Plan and to liabilities. The strategy attempts to maximize the investment the Other Pension Plan and the fair value for the Non-U.S. Pension return on assets at a level of risk deemed appropriate by the Plans and Postretirement Health and Life Plans. The expected Corporation while complying with ERISA and any applicable return on plan assets assumption represents a long-term average regulations and laws. The investment strategy utilizes asset view of the performance of the assets in the Qualified Pension allocation as a principal determinant for establishing the risk/ Plan, the Non-U.S. Pension Plans, the Other Pension Plan, and return profile of the assets. Asset allocation ranges are Postretirement Health and Life Plans, a return that may or may not established, periodically reviewed and adjusted as funding levels be achieved during any one calendar year. The Other Pension Plan and liability characteristics change. Active and passive investment is invested solely in an annuity contract which is primarily invested managers are employed to help enhance the risk/return profile of in fixed-income securities structured such that asset maturities the assets. An additional aspect of the investment strategy used match the duration of the plan’s obligations. to minimize risk (part of the asset allocation plan) includes The target allocations for 2018 by asset category for the matching the exposure of participant-selected investment Qualified Pension Plan, Non-U.S. Pension Plans, and Nonqualified measures. No plan assets are expected to be returned to the and Other Pension Plans are presented in the following table. Corporation during 2018. Equity securities for the Qualified Pension Plan include common The assets of the Non-U.S. Pension Plans are primarily stock of the Corporation in the amounts of $261 million (1.33 attributable to a U.K. pension plan. This U.K. pension plan’s assets percent of total plan assets) and $203 million (1.11 percent of are invested prudently so that the benefits promised to members total plan assets) at December 31, 2017 and 2016. are provided with consideration given to the nature and the duration Bank of America 2017 183 2018 Target Allocation Percentage Nonqualified Qualified Non-U.S. and Other Asset Category Pension Plan Pension Plans Pension Plans Equity securities 30-60 5-35 0-5 Debt securities 40-70 40-80 95-100 Real estate 0-10 0-15 0-5 Other 0-5 0-25 0-5 Fair Value Measurements For more information on fair value measurements, including descriptions of Level 1, 2 and 3 of the fair value hierarchy and the valuation methods employed by the Corporation, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles and Note 20 – Fair Value Measurements. Combined plan investment assets measured at fair value by level and in total at December 31, 2017 and 2016 are summarized in the Fair Value Measurements table. Fair Value Measurements Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2017 Cash and short-term investments Money market and interest-bearing cash $ 2,190 $ — $ — $ 2,190 Cash and cash equivalent commingled/mutual funds — 1,004 — 1,004 Fixed income U.S. government and agency securities 3,331 854 9 4,194 Corporate debt securities — 2,417 — 2,417 Asset-backed securities — 1,832 — 1,832 Non-U.S. debt securities 693 898 — 1,591 Fixed income commingled/mutual funds 775 1,676 — 2,451 Equity Common and preferred equity securities 5,833 — — 5,833 Equity commingled/mutual funds 271 1,753 — 2,024 Public real estate investment trusts 138 — — 138 Real estate Private real estate — — 93 93 Real estate commingled/mutual funds — 13 831 844 Limited partnerships — 155 85 240 Other investments (1) 101 649 74 824 Total plan investment assets, at fair value $ 13,332 $ 11,251 $ 1,092 $ 25,675 December 31, 2016 Cash and short-term investments Money market and interest-bearing cash $ 776 $ — $ — $ 776 Cash and cash equivalent commingled/mutual funds — 997 — 997 Fixed income U.S. government and agency securities 3,125 816 10 3,951 Corporate debt securities — 1,892 — 1,892 Asset-backed securities — 2,246 — 2,246 Non-U.S. debt securities 789 705 — 1,494 Fixed income commingled/mutual funds 778 1,503 — 2,281 Equity Common and preferred equity securities 6,120 — — 6,120 Equity commingled/mutual funds 735 1,225 — 1,960 Public real estate investment trusts 145 — — 145 Real estate Private real estate — — 150 150 Real estate commingled/mutual funds — 12 748 760 Limited partnerships — 132 38 170 Other investments (1) 15 732 83 830 Total plan investment assets, at fair value $ 12,483 $ 10,260 $ 1,029 $ 23,772 (1) Other investments include interest rate swaps of $156 million and $257 million, participant loans of $20 million and $36 million, commodity and balanced funds of $451 million and $369 million and other various investments of $197 million and $168 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016. 184 Bank of America 2017 The Level 3 Fair Value Measurements table presents a reconciliation of all plan investment assets measured at fair value using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) during 2017, 2016 and 2015. Level 3 Fair Value Measurements Actual Return on Plan Assets Still Balance Held at the Purchases, Sales Balance January 1 Reporting Date and Settlements December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2017 Fixed income U.S. government and agency securities $ 10 $ — $ (1) $ 9 Real estate Private real estate 150 8 (65) 93 Real estate commingled/mutual funds 748 63 20 831 Limited partnerships 38 14 33 85 Other investments 83 5 (14) 74 Total $ 1,029 $ 90 $ (27) $ 1,092 2016 Fixed income U.S. government and agency securities $ 11 $ — $ (1) $ 10 Real estate Private real estate 144 1 5 150 Real estate commingled/mutual funds 731 21 (4) 748 Limited partnerships 49 (2) (9) 38 Other investments 102 4 (23) 83 Total $ 1,037 $ 24 $ (32) $ 1,029 2015 Fixed income U.S. government and agency securities $ 11 $ — $ — $ 11 Real estate Private real estate 127 14 3 144 Real estate commingled/mutual funds 632 37 62 731 Limited partnerships 65 (1) (15) 49 Other investments 127 (5) (20) 102 Total $ 962 $ 45 $ 30 $ 1,037 Projected Benefit Payments Benefit payments projected to be made from the Qualified Pension Plan, Non-U.S. Pension Plans, Nonqualified and Other Pension Plans, and Postretirement Health and Life Plans are presented in the table below. Projected Benefit Payments Nonqualified Postretirement Qualified Non-U.S. and Other Health and (Dollars in millions) Pension Plan (1) Pension Plans (2) Pension Plans (2) Life Plans (3) 2018 $ 927 $ 90 $ 237 $ 92 2019 912 98 239 87 2020 924 104 242 84 2021 912 112 239 81 2022 919 121 232 78 2023 2027 4,455 695 1,073 343 (1) Benefit payments expected to be made from the plan’s assets. (2) Benefit payments expected to be made from a combination of the plans’ and the Corporation’s assets. (3) Benefit payments (net of retiree contributions) expected to be made from a combination of the plans’ and the Corporation’s assets. Defined Contribution Plans common stock were held by these plans. Payments to the plans The Corporation maintains qualified and non-qualified defined for dividends on common stock were $86 million, $60 million and contribution retirement plans. The Corporation recorded expense $48 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. of $1.0 billion in each of 2017, 2016 and 2015 related to the Certain non-U.S. employees are covered under defined qualified defined contribution plans. At December 31, 2017 and contribution pension plans that are separately administered in 2016, 218 million and 224 million shares of the Corporation’s accordance with local laws. Bank of America 2017 185 NOTE 18 Stock-based Compensation Plans The table below presents the status at December 31, 2017 of The Corporation administers a number of equity compensation the cash-settled RSUs granted under the KEEP and changes during plans, with awards being granted predominantly from the Bank of 2017. America Key Employee Equity Plan (KEEP). Under this plan, 450 million shares of the Corporation’s common stock are authorized Cash-settled Restricted Units to be used for grants of awards. During 2017 and 2016, the Corporation granted 85 million and Units 163 million RSU awards to certain employees under the KEEP. Outstanding at January 1, 2017 121,235,489 Generally, one-third of the RSUs vest on each of the first three Granted 3,105,988 anniversaries of the grant date provided that the employee remains Vested (79,525,864) continuously employed with the Corporation during that time. The Canceled (2,605,987) RSUs are authorized to settle predominantly in shares of common Outstanding at December 31, 2017 42,209,626 stock of the Corporation, and are expensed ratably over the vesting period, net of estimated forfeitures, for non-retirement eligible At December 31, 2017, there was an estimated $1.1 billion of employees based on the grant-date fair value of the shares. Certain total unrecognized compensation cost related to certain shareRSUs will be settled in cash or contain settlement provisions that based compensation awards that is expected to be recognized subject these awards to variable accounting whereby over a period of up to four years, with a weighted-average period compensation expense is adjusted to fair value based on changes of 1.7 years. The total fair value of restricted stock vested in 2017, in the share price of the Corporation’s common stock up to the 2016 and 2015 was $1.3 billion, $358 million and $145 million, settlement date. Awards granted in years prior to 2016 were respectively. In 2017, 2016 and 2015, the amount of cash paid predominantly cash settled. to settle equity-based awards for all equity compensation plans Effective October 1, 2017, the Corporation changed its was $1.9 billion, $1.7 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively. accounting method for determining when stock-based Stock Options compensation awards granted to retirement-eligible employees are The table below presents the status of all option plans at December deemed authorized, changing from the grant date to the beginning 31, 2017 and changes during 2017. of the year preceding the grant date when the incentive award plans are generally approved. As a result, the estimated value of the awards is now expensed ratably over the year preceding the grant date. The compensation cost for all prior periods presented Stock Options herein has been restated. For more information, see Note 1 – WeightedSummary of Significant Accounting Principles. average The compensation cost for the stock-based plans was $2.2 Options Exercise Price billion, $2.2 billion and $2.1 billion in 2017, 2016 and 2015 and Outstanding at January 1, 2017 42,357,282 $ 50.57 the related income tax benefit was $829 million, $835 million and Forfeited (25,769,108) 55.15 $792 million for 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Outstanding at December 31, 2017 16,588,174 43.44 Restricted Stock/Units All options outstanding as of December 31, 2017 were vested The table below presents the status at December 31, 2017 of the and exercisable with a weighted-average remaining contractual share-settled restricted stock/units and changes during 2017. term of less than one year and have no aggregate intrinsic value. No options have been granted since 2008. Stock-settled Restricted Stock/Units Weightedaverage Grant Shares/Units Date Fair Value Outstanding at January 1, 2017 156,492,946 $ 11.99 Granted 81,555,447 24.58 Vested (52,187,746) 12.01 Canceled (6,587,404) 16.93 Outstanding at December 31, 2017 179,273,243 17.53 186 Bank of America 2017 NOTE 19 Income Taxes statutory tax rate also impacted the Corporation’s tax-advantaged On December 22, 2017, the President signed into law the Tax Act energy investments, resulting in a downward valuation adjustment which made significant changes to federal income tax law of $946 million recorded in other income and a related income including, among other things, reducing the statutory corporate tax benefit of $347 million, which when netted against the $2.3 income tax rate to 21 percent from 35 percent and changing the billion, resulted in a net impact on income tax expense of $1.9 taxation of the Corporation’s non-U.S. business activities. The billion. For more information on the Tax Act, see Note 1 – Summary estimated impact on net income was $2.9 billion, driven by $2.3 of Significant Accounting Principles. billion in income tax expense, largely from a lower valuation of The components of income tax expense for 2017, 2016 and certain U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities. The change in the 2015 are presented in the table below. Income Tax Expense (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Current income tax expense U.S. federal $ 1,310 $ 302 $ 2,539 U.S. state and local 557 120 210 Non-U.S. 939 984 561 Total current expense 2,806 1,406 3,310 Deferred income tax expense U.S. federal 7,238 5,416 1,855 U.S. state and local 835 (279) 515 Non-U.S. 102 656 597 Total deferred expense 8,175 5,793 2,967 Total income tax expense $ 10,981 $ 7,199 $ 6,277 Total income tax expense does not reflect the tax effects of stock and additional paid-in capital $41 million and $44 million in items that are included in OCI each period. For more information, 2016 and 2015. see Note 14 – Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss). Income tax expense for 2017, 2016 and 2015 varied from the Other tax effects included in OCI each period resulted in a benefit amount computed by applying the statutory income tax rate to of $1.2 billion and $498 million in 2017 and 2016 and an expense income before income taxes. A reconciliation of the expected U.S. of $631 million in 2015. In addition, prior to 2017, total income federal income tax expense, calculated by applying the federal tax expense does not reflect tax effects associated with the statutory tax rate of 35 percent, to the Corporation’s actual income Corporation’s employee stock plans which decreased common tax expense, and the effective tax rates for 2017, 2016 and 2015 are presented in the table below. Reconciliation of Income Tax Expense Amount Percent Amount Percent Amount Percent (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Expected U.S. federal income tax expense $ 10,225 35.0% $ 8,757 35.0% $ 7,765 35.0% Increase (decrease) in taxes resulting from: State tax expense, net of federal benefit 881 3.0 420 1.7 438 2.0 Tax law changes (1) 2,281 7.8 348 1.4 289 1.3 Changes in prior-period UTBs, including interest 133 0.5 (328) (1.3) (52) (0.2) Nondeductible expenses 97 0.3 180 0.7 40 0.1 Affordable housing/energy/other credits (1,406) (4.8) (1,203) (4.8) (1,087) (4.9) Tax-exempt income, including dividends (672) (2.3) (562) (2.2) (539) (2.4) Non-U.S. tax rate differential (272) (0.9) (307) (1.2) (559) (2.5) Share-based compensation (236) (0.8) — — — — Other (50) (0.2) (106) (0.5) (18) (0.1) Total income tax expense $ 10,981 37.6% $ 7,199 28.8% $ 6,277 28.3% (1) Amounts for 2016 and 2015 are for Non-U.S. tax law changes. The reconciliation of the beginning unrecognized tax benefits (UTB) balance to the ending balance is presented in the following table. Reconciliation of the Change in Unrecognized Tax Benefits (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Balance, January 1 $ 875 $ 1,095 $ 1,068 Increases related to positions taken during the current year 292 104 36 Increases related to positions taken during prior years 750 1,318 187 Decreases related to positions taken during prior years (122) (1,091) (177) Settlements (17) (503) (1) Expiration of statute of limitations (5) (48) (18) Balance, December 31 $ 1,773 $ 875 $ 1,095 Bank of America 2017 187 At December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, the balance of the Corporation’s UTBs which would, if recognized, affect the Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities Corporation’s effective tax rate was $1.2 billion, $0.6 billion and $0.7 billion, respectively. Included in the UTB balance are some December 31 items the recognition of which would not affect the effective tax (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 Deferred tax assets rate, such as the tax effect of certain temporary differences, the Net operating loss carryforwards $ 8,506 $ 9,199 portion of gross state UTBs that would be offset by the tax benefit Security, loan and debt valuations 2,939 4,726 of the associated federal deduction and the portion of gross nonAllowance for credit losses 2,598 4,362 U.S. UTBs that would be offset by tax reductions in other Accrued expenses 2,021 3,016 jurisdictions. Tax credit carryforwards 1,793 3,125 The Corporation files income tax returns in more than 100 state Employee compensation and retirement benefits 1,705 3,042 and non-U.S. jurisdictions each year. The IRS and other tax Available-for-sale securities 510 784 authorities in countries and states in which the Corporation has Other 1,034 1,599 significant business operations examine tax returns periodically Gross deferred tax assets 21,106 29,853 (continuously in some jurisdictions). The following table Valuation allowance (1,644) (1,117) summarizes the status of examinations by major jurisdiction for Total deferred tax assets, net of valuation the Corporation and various subsidiaries at December 31, 2017. allowance 19,462 28,736 Deferred tax liabilities Tax Examination Status Equipment lease financing 2,492 3,489 Tax credit partnerships 734 539 Status at Intangibles 670 1,171 Years under December 31 Fee income 601 847 Examination (1) 2017 Mortgage servicing rights 349 829 United States 2012 – 2013 IRS Appeals Long-term borrowings 227 355 United States 2014 – 2016 Field examination Other 1,764 1,915 New York 2015 Field examination Gross deferred tax liabilities 6,837 9,145 United Kingdom 2016 To begin in 2018 Net deferred tax assets, net of valuation (1) All tax years subsequent to the years shown remain subject to examination. allowance $ 12,625 $ 19,591 It is reasonably possible that the UTB balance may decrease The table below summarizes the deferred tax assets and by as much as $0.4 billion during the next 12 months, since related valuation allowances recognized for the net operating loss resolved items will be removed from the balance whether their (NOL) and tax credit carryforwards at December 31, 2017. resolution results in payment or recognition. The Corporation recognized expense of $1 million and $56 million in 2017 and 2016 and a benefit of $82 million in 2015 Net Operating Loss and Tax Credit Carryforward Deferred for interest and penalties, net-of-tax, in income tax expense. At Tax Assets December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Corporation’s accrual for Net interest and penalties that related to income taxes, net of taxes Deferred Valuation Deferred First Year and remittances, was $185 million and $167 million. (Dollars in millions) Tax Asset Allowance Tax Asset Expiring Significant components of the Corporation’s net deferred tax Net operating losses U.S. $ 868 $ — $ 868 After 2027 assets and liabilities at December 31, 2017 and 2016 are Net operating losses presented in the following table. Amounts at December 31, 2017 U.K. (1) 5,347 — 5,347 None reflect appropriate revaluations as a result of the Tax Act’s new Net operating losses other 21 percent federal tax rate. non-U.S. 657 (578) 79 Various Net operating losses U.S. states (2) 1,634 (584) 1,050 Various General business credits 1,721 — 1,721 After 2036 Foreign tax credits 72 (72) — n/a (1) Represents U.K. broker/dealer net operating losses which may be carried forward indefinitely. (2) The net operating losses and related valuation allowances for U.S. states before considering the benefit of federal deductions were $2.1 billion and $739 million. n/a = not applicable 188 Bank of America 2017 Management concluded that no valuation allowance was losses are conducted on a daily basis by personnel who are necessary to reduce the deferred tax assets related to the U.K. independent of the front office. A price verification group, which is NOL carryforwards and U.S. NOL and general business credit also independent of the front office, utilizes available market carryforwards since estimated future taxable income will be information including executed trades, market prices and marketsufficient to utilize these assets prior to their expiration. The observable valuation model inputs so that fair values are majority of the Corporation’s U.K. net deferred tax assets, which reasonably estimated. The Corporation performs due diligence consist primarily of NOLs, are expected to be realized by certain procedures over third-party pricing service providers in order to subsidiaries over an extended number of years. Management’s support their use in the valuation process. Where market conclusion is supported by financial results, profit forecasts for information is not available to support internal valuations, the relevant entities and the indefinite period to carry forward independent reviews of the valuations are performed and any NOLs. However, a material change in those estimates could lead material exposures are escalated through a management review management to reassess its U.K. valuation allowance process. conclusions. While the Corporation believes its valuation methods are At December 31, 2017, U.S. federal income taxes had not been appropriate and consistent with other market participants, the use provided on approximately $5 billion of temporary differences of different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair associated with investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries that are value of certain financial instruments could result in a different essentially permanent in duration. If the Corporation were to estimate of fair value at the reporting date. record the associated deferred tax liability, the amount would be During 2017, there were no changes to valuation approaches approximately $1 billion. or techniques that had, or are expected to have, a material impact on the Corporation’s consolidated financial position or results of NOTE 20 Fair Value Measurements operations. Under applicable accounting standards, fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to Trading Account Assets and Liabilities and Debt Securities transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most The fair values of trading account assets and liabilities are primarily advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly based on actively traded markets where prices are based on either transaction between market participants on the measurement direct market quotes or observed transactions. The fair values of date. The Corporation determines the fair values of its financial debt securities are generally based on quoted market prices or instruments under applicable accounting standards that require market prices for similar assets. Liquidity is a significant factor in an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the determination of the fair values of trading account assets and the use of unobservable inputs. The Corporation categorizes its liabilities and debt securities. Market price quotes may not be financial instruments into three levels based on the established readily available for some positions such as positions within a fair value hierarchy. The Corporation conducts a review of its fair market sector where trading activity has slowed significantly or value hierarchy classifications on a quarterly basis. Transfers into ceased. Some of these instruments are valued using a discounted or out of fair value hierarchy classifications are made if the cash flow model, which estimates the fair value of the securities significant inputs used in the financial models measuring the fair using internal credit risk, interest rate and prepayment risk models values of the assets and liabilities became unobservable or that incorporate management’s best estimate of current key observable in the current marketplace. These transfers are assumptions such as default rates, loss severity and prepayment considered to be effective as of the beginning of the quarter in rates. Principal and interest cash flows are discounted using an which they occur. For more information regarding the fair value observable discount rate for similar instruments with adjustments hierarchy and how the Corporation measures fair value, see Note that management believes a market participant would consider in 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles. The Corporation determining fair value for the specific security. Other instruments accounts for certain financial instruments under the fair value are valued using a net asset value approach which considers the option. For more information, see Note 21 – Fair Value Option. value of the underlying securities. Underlying assets are valued using external pricing services, where available, or matrix pricing Valuation Processes and Techniques based on the vintages and ratings. Situations of illiquidity generally The Corporation has various processes and controls in place so are triggered by the market’s perception of credit uncertainty that fair value is reasonably estimated. A model validation policy regarding a single company or a specific market sector. In these governs the use and control of valuation models used to estimate instances, fair value is determined based on limited available fair value. This policy requires review and approval of models by market information and other factors, principally from reviewing personnel who are independent of the front office and periodic the issuer’s financial statements and changes in credit ratings reassessments of models so that they are continuing to perform made by one or more rating agencies. as designed. In addition, detailed reviews of trading gains and Bank of America 2017 189 Derivative Assets and Liabilities using interest rates approximating the Corporation’s current The fair values of derivative assets and liabilities traded in the origination rates for similar loans adjusted to reflect the inherent OTC market are determined using quantitative models that utilize credit risk. The borrower-specific credit risk is embedded within multiple market inputs including interest rates, prices and indices the quoted market prices or is implied by considering loan to generate continuous yield or pricing curves and volatility factors performance when selecting comparables. to value the position. The majority of market inputs are actively quoted and can be validated through external sources, including Short-term Borrowings and Long-term Debt brokers, market transactions and third-party pricing services. The Corporation issues structured liabilities that have coupons or When third-party pricing services are used, the methods and repayment terms linked to the performance of debt or equity assumptions are reviewed by the Corporation. Estimation risk is securities, indices, currencies or commodities. The fair values of greater for derivative asset and liability positions that are either these structured liabilities are estimated using quantitative option-based or have longer maturity dates where observable models for the combined derivative and debt portions of the notes. market inputs are less readily available, or are unobservable, in These models incorporate observable and, in some instances, which case, quantitative-based extrapolations of rate, price or unobservable inputs including security prices, interest rate yield index scenarios are used in determining fair values. The fair values curves, option volatility, currency, commodity or equity rates and of derivative assets and liabilities include adjustments for market correlations among these inputs. The Corporation also considers liquidity, counterparty credit quality and other instrument-specific the impact of its own credit spread in determining the discount factors, where appropriate. In addition, the Corporation rate used to value these liabilities. The credit spread is determined incorporates within its fair value measurements of OTC derivatives by reference to observable spreads in the secondary bond market. a valuation adjustment to reflect the credit risk associated with Securities Financing Agreements the net position. Positions are netted by counterparty, and fair The fair values of certain reverse repurchase agreements, value for net long exposures is adjusted for counterparty credit repurchase agreements and securities borrowed transactions are risk while the fair value for net short exposures is adjusted for the determined using quantitative models, including discounted cash Corporation’s own credit risk. The Corporation also incorporates flow models that require the use of multiple market inputs including FVA within its fair value measurements to include funding costs interest rates and spreads to generate continuous yield or pricing on uncollateralized derivatives and derivatives where the curves, and volatility factors. The majority of market inputs are Corporation is not permitted to use the collateral it receives. An actively quoted and can be validated through external sources, estimate of severity of loss is also used in the determination of including brokers, market transactions and third-party pricing fair value, primarily based on market data. services. Loans and Loan Commitments Deposits The fair values of loans and loan commitments are based on The fair values of deposits are determined using quantitative market prices, where available, or discounted cash flow analyses models, including discounted cash flow models that require the using market-based credit spreads of comparable debt use of multiple market inputs including interest rates and spreads instruments or credit derivatives of the specific borrower or to generate continuous yield or pricing curves, and volatility factors. comparable borrowers. Results of discounted cash flow analyses The majority of market inputs are actively quoted and can be may be adjusted, as appropriate, to reflect other market conditions validated through external sources, including brokers, market or the perceived credit risk of the borrower. transactions and third-party pricing services. The Corporation Mortgage Servicing Rights considers the impact of its own credit spread in the valuation of The fair values of MSRs are primarily determined using an optionthese liabilities. The credit risk is determined by reference to adjusted spread (OAS) valuation approach, which factors in observable credit spreads in the secondary cash market. prepayment risk to determine the fair value of MSRs. This approach Asset-backed Secured Financings consists of projecting servicing cash flows under multiple interest The fair values of asset-backed secured financings are based on rate scenarios and discounting these cash flows using riskexternal broker bids, where available, or are determined by adjusted discount rates. discounting estimated cash flows using interest rates Loans Held-for-sale approximating the Corporation’s current origination rates for The fair values of LHFS are based on quoted market prices, where similar loans adjusted to reflect the inherent credit risk. available, or are determined by discounting estimated cash flows 190 Bank of America 2017 Recurring Fair Value Assets and liabilities carried at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2017 and 2016, including financial instruments which the Corporation accounts for under the fair value option, are summarized in the following tables. December 31, 2017 Fair Value Measurements Netting Assets/Liabilities (Dollars in millions) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Adjustments (1) at Fair Value Assets Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell $ — $ 52,906 $ — $ — $ 52,906 Trading account assets: U.S. Treasury and agency securities (2, 3) 38,720 1,922 — — 40,642 Corporate securities, trading loans and other — 28,714 1,864 — 30,578 Equity securities (3) 60,747 23,958 235 — 84,940 Non-U.S. sovereign debt (3) 6,545 15,839 556 — 22,940 Mortgage trading loans, MBS and ABS: U.S. government-sponsored agency guaranteed (2) — 20,586 — — 20,586 Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS — 8,174 1,498 — 9,672 Total trading account assets (4) 106,012 99,193 4,153 — 209,358 Derivative assets (3, 5) 6,305 341,178 4,067 (313,788) 37,762 AFS debt securities: U.S. Treasury and agency securities 51,915 1,608 — — 53,523 Mortgage-backed securities: Agency — 192,929 — — 192,929 Agency-collateralized mortgage obligations — 6,804 — — 6,804 Non-agency residential — 2,669 — — 2,669 Commercial — 13,684 — — 13,684 Non-U.S. securities 772 5,880 25 — 6,677 Other taxable securities — 5,261 509 — 5,770 Tax-exempt securities — 20,106 469 — 20,575 Total AFS debt securities 52,687 248,941 1,003 — 302,631 Other debt securities carried at fair value: Mortgage-backed securities: Agency-collateralized mortgage obligations — 5 — — 5 Non-agency residential — 2,764 — — 2,764 Non-U.S. securities 8,191 1,297 — — 9,488 Other taxable securities — 229 — — 229 Total other debt securities carried at fair value 8,191 4,295 — — 12,486 Loans and leases — 5,139 571 — 5,710 Mortgage servicing rights (6) — — 2,302 — 2,302 Loans held-for-sale — 1,466 690 — 2,156 Other assets 19,367 789 123 — 20,279 Total assets $ 192,562 $ 753,907 $ 12,909 $ (313,788) $ 645,590 Liabilities Interest-bearing deposits in U.S. offices $ — $ 449 $ — $ — $ 449 Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase — 36,182 — — 36,182 Trading account liabilities: U.S. Treasury and agency securities 17,266 734 — — 18,000 Equity securities (3) 33,019 3,885 — — 36,904 Non-U.S. sovereign debt (3) 11,976 7,382 — — 19,358 Corporate securities and other — 6,901 24 — 6,925 Total trading account liabilities 62,261 18,902 24 — 81,187 Derivative liabilities (3, 5) 6,029 334,261 5,781 (311,771) 34,300 Short-term borrowings — 1,494 — — 1,494 Accrued expenses and other liabilities 21,887 945 8 — 22,840 Long-term debt — 29,923 1,863 — 31,786 Total liabilities $ 90,177 $ 422,156 $ 7,676 $ (311,771) $ 208,238 (1) Amounts represent the impact of legally enforceable master netting agreements and also cash collateral held or placed with the same counterparties. (2) Includes $21.3 billion of GSE obligations. (3) During 2017, for trading account assets and liabilities, $1.1 billion of U.S. Treasury and agency securities assets, $5.3 billion of equity securities assets, $3.1 billion of equity securities liabilities, $3.3 billion of non-U.S. sovereign debt assets and $1.5 billion of non-U.S. sovereign debt liabilities were transferred from Level 1 to Level 2 based on the liquidity of the positions. In addition, $14.1 billion of equity securities assets and $4.3 billion of equity securities liabilities were transferred from Level 2 to Level 1. Also in 2017, $4.2 billion of derivative assets and $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities were transferred from Level 1 to Level 2 and $758 million of derivative assets and $608 million of derivative liabilities were transferred from Level 2 to Level 1 based on the observability of inputs used to measure fair value. For further disaggregation of derivative assets and liabilities, see Note 2 – Derivatives. (4) Includes securities with a fair value of $16.8 billion that were segregated in compliance with securities regulations or deposited with clearing organizations. This amount is included in the parenthetical disclosure on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. (5) Derivative assets and liabilities reflect the effects of contractual amendments by two central clearing counterparties to legally re-characterize daily cash variation margin from collateral, which secures an outstanding exposure, to settlement, which discharges an outstanding exposure. One of these central clearing counterparties amended its governing documents, which became effective in January 2017. In addition, the Corporation elected to transfer its existing positions to the settlement platform for the other central clearing counterparty in September 2017. (6) MSRs include the $1.7 billion core MSR portfolio held in Consumer Banking, the $135 million non-core MSR portfolio held in All Other and the $510 million non-U.S. MSR portfolio held in Global Markets. Bank of America 2017 191 December 31, 2016 Fair Value Measurements Netting Assets/Liabilities (Dollars in millions) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Adjustments (1) at Fair Value Assets Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell $ — $ 49,750 $ — $ — $ 49,750 Trading account assets: U.S. Treasury and agency securities (2) 34,587 1,927 — — 36,514 Corporate securities, trading loans and other 171 22,861 2,777 — 25,809 Equity securities 50,169 21,601 281 — 72,051 Non-U.S. sovereign debt 9,578 9,940 510 — 20,028 Mortgage trading loans, MBS and ABS: U.S. government-sponsored agency guaranteed (2) — 15,799 — — 15,799 Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS — 8,797 1,211 — 10,008 Total trading account assets (3) 94,505 80,925 4,779 — 180,209 Derivative assets (4) 7,337 619,848 3,931 (588,604) 42,512 AFS debt securities: U.S. Treasury and agency securities 46,787 1,465 — — 48,252 Mortgage-backed securities: Agency — 189,486 — — 189,486 Agency-collateralized mortgage obligations — 8,330 — — 8,330 Non-agency residential — 2,013 — — 2,013 Commercial — 12,322 — — 12,322 Non-U.S. securities 1,934 3,600 229 — 5,763 Other taxable securities — 10,020 594 — 10,614 Tax-exempt securities — 16,618 542 — 17,160 Total AFS debt securities 48,721 243,854 1,365 — 293,940 Other debt securities carried at fair value: Mortgage-backed securities: Agency-collateralized mortgage obligations — 5 — — 5 Non-agency residential — 3,114 25 — 3,139 Non-U.S. securities 15,109 1,227 — — 16,336 Other taxable securities — 240 — — 240 Total other debt securities carried at fair value 15,109 4,586 25 — 19,720 Loans and leases — 6,365 720 — 7,085 Mortgage servicing rights (5) — — 2,747 — 2,747 Loans held-for-sale — 3,370 656 — 4,026 Debt securities in assets of business held for sale 619 — — — 619 Other assets 11,824 1,739 239 — 13,802 Total assets $ 178,115 $ 1,010,437 $ 14,462 $ (588,604) $ 614,410 Liabilities Interest-bearing deposits in U.S. offices $ — $ 731 $ — $ — $ 731 Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase — 35,407 359 — 35,766 Trading account liabilities: U.S. Treasury and agency securities 15,854 197 — — 16,051 Equity securities 25,884 3,014 — — 28,898 Non-U.S. sovereign debt 9,409 2,103 — — 11,512 Corporate securities and other 163 6,380 27 — 6,570 Total trading account liabilities 51,310 11,694 27 — 63,031 Derivative liabilities (4) 7,173 615,896 5,244 (588,833) 39,480 Short-term borrowings — 2,024 — — 2,024 Accrued expenses and other liabilities 12,978 1,643 9 — 14,630 Long-term debt — 28,523 1,514 — 30,037 Total liabilities $ 71,461 $ 695,918 $ 7,153 $ (588,833) $ 185,699 (1) Amounts represent the impact of legally enforceable master netting agreements and also cash collateral held or placed with the same counterparties. (2) Includes $17.5 billion of GSE obligations. (3) Includes securities with a fair value of $14.6 billion that were segregated in compliance with securities regulations or deposited with clearing organizations. This amount is included in the parenthetical disclosure on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. (4) During 2016, $2.3 billion of derivative assets and $2.4 billion of derivative liabilities were transferred from Level 1 to Level 2 and $2.0 billion of derivative assets and $1.8 billion of derivative liabilities were transferred from Level 2 to Level 1 based on the observability of inputs used to measure fair value. For further disaggregation of derivative assets and liabilities, see Note 2 – Derivatives. (5) MSRs include the $2.1 billion core MSR portfolio held in Consumer Banking, the $212 million non-core MSR portfolio held in All Other and the $469 million non-U.S. MSR portfolio held in Global Markets. 192 Bank of America 2017 The following tables present a reconciliation of all assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) during 2017, 2016 and 2015, including net realized and unrealized gains (losses) included in earnings and accumulated OCI. Level 3 – Fair Value Measurements in 2017 (1) Change in Unrealized Gains/ Total (Losses) Realized/ Gross Gross Related to Balance Unrealized Gains/ Gross Transfers Transfers Balance Financial January 1 Gains/ (Losses) into out of December 31 Instruments (Dollars in millions) 2017 (Losses) (2) in OCI (3) Purchases Sales Issuances Settlements Level 3 Level 3 2017 Still Held (2) Trading account assets: Corporate securities, trading loans and other $ 2,777 $ 229 $ — $ 547 $ (702) $ 5 $ (666) $ 728 $(1,054) $ 1,864 $ 2 Equity securities 281 18 — 55 (70) — (10) 146 (185) 235 (1) Non-U.S. sovereign debt 510 74 (8) 53 (59) — (73) 72 (13) 556 70 Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS 1,211 165 (2) 1,210 (990) — (233) 218 (81) 1,498 72 Total trading account assets 4,779 486 (10) 1,865 (1,821) 5 (982) 1,164 (1,333) 4,153 143 Net derivative assets (4) (1,313) (984) — 664 (979) — 949 48 (99) (1,714) (409) AFS debt securities: Non-U.S. securities 229 2 16 49 — — (271) — — 25 — Other taxable securities 594 4 8 5 — — (42) 34 (94) 509 — Tax-exempt securities 542 1 3 14 (70) — (11) 35 (45) 469 — Total AFS debt securities 1,365 7 27 68 (70) — (324) 69 (139) 1,003 — Other debt securities carried at fair value – Non-agency residential MBS 25 (1) — — (21) — (3) — — — — Loans and leases (5, 6) 720 15 — 3 (34) — (126) — (7) 571 11 Mortgage servicing rights (6, 7) 2,747 70 — — (25) 258 (748) — — 2,302 (248) Loans held-for-sale (5) 656 100 (3) 3 (189) — (346) 501 (32) 690 14 Other assets 239 74 (57) 2 (189) — (10) 64 — 123 22 Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase (5) (359) (5) — — — (12) 171 (58) 263 — — Trading account liabilities – Corporate securities and other (27) 14 — 8 (17) (2) — — — (24) 2 Accrued expenses and other liabilities (5) (9) — — — — — 1 — — (8) — Long-term debt (5) (1,514) (135) (31) 84 — (288) 514 (711) 218 (1,863) (196) (1) Assets (liabilities). For assets, increase (decrease) to Level 3 and for liabilities, (increase) decrease to Level 3. (2) Includes gains/losses reported in earnings in the following income statement line items: Trading account assets/liabilities primarily trading account profits; Net derivative assets primarily trading account profits and mortgage banking income; MSRs primarily mortgage banking income; Long-term debt primarily trading account profits. For MSRs, the amounts reflect the changes in modeled MSR fair value due to observed changes in interest rates, volatility, spreads and the shape of the forward swap curve, and periodic adjustments to the valuation model to reflect changes in the modeled relationships between inputs and projected cash flows, as well as changes in cash flow assumptions including cost to service. (3) Includes unrealized gains/losses in OCI on AFS securities, foreign currency translation adjustments and the impact of changes in the Corporation’s credit spreads on long-term debt accounted for under the fair value option. For more information, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles. (4) Net derivatives include derivative assets of $4.1 billion and derivative liabilities of $5.8 billion. (5) Amounts represent instruments that are accounted for under the fair value option. (6) Issuances represent loan originations and MSRs recognized following securitizations or whole-loan sales. (7) Settlements represent the net change in fair value of the MSR asset due to the recognition of modeled cash flows and the passage of time. Significant transfers into Level 3, primarily due to decreased Significant transfers out of Level 3, primarily due to increased price observability, during 2017 included $1.2 billion of trading price observability, during 2017 included $1.3 billion of trading account assets, $501 million of LHFS and $711 million of longaccount assets, $139 million of AFS debt securities, $263 million term debt. Transfers occur on a regular basis for long-term debt of federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under instruments due to changes in the impact of unobservable inputs agreements to repurchase and $218 million of long-term debt. on the value of the embedded derivative in relation to the instrument as a whole. Bank of America 2017 193 Level 3 – Fair Value Measurements in 2016 (1) Change in Unrealized Gains/ Total (Losses) Realized/ Gross Gross Related to Balance Unrealized Gains/ Gross Transfers Transfers Balance Financial January 1 Gains/ (Losses) into out of December 31 Instruments (Dollars in millions) 2016 (Losses) (2) in OCI (3) Purchases Sales Issuances Settlements Level 3 Level 3 2016 Still Held (2) Trading account assets: Corporate securities, trading loans and other $ 2,838 $ 78 $ 2 $ 1,508 $ (847) $ — $ (725) $ 728 $ (805) $ 2,777 $ (82) Equity securities 407 74 — 73 (169) — (82) 70 (92) 281 (59) Non-U.S. sovereign debt 521 122 91 12 (146) — (90) — — 510 120 Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS 1,868 188 (2) 988 (1,491) — (344) 158 (154) 1,211 64 Total trading account assets 5,634 462 91 2,581 (2,653) — (1,241) 956 (1,051) 4,779 43 Net derivative assets (4) (441) 285 — 470 (1,155) — 76 (186) (362) (1,313) (376) AFS debt securities: Non-agency residential MBS 106 — — — (106) — — — — — — Non-U.S. securities — — (6) 584 (92) — (263) 6 — 229 — Other taxable securities 757 4 (2) — — — (83) — (82) 594 — Tax-exempt securities 569 — (1) 1 — — (2) 10 (35) 542 — Total AFS debt securities 1,432 4 (9) 585 (198) — (348) 16 (117) 1,365 — Other debt securities carried at fair value – Non-agency residential MBS 30 (5) — — — — — — — 25 — Loans and leases (5, 6) 1,620 (44) — 69 (553) 50 (194) 6 (234) 720 17 Mortgage servicing rights (6, 7) 3,087 149 — — (80) 411 (820) — — 2,747 (107) Loans held-for-sale (5) 787 79 50 22 (256) — (93) 173 (106) 656 70 Other assets 374 (13) — 38 (111) — (52) 3 — 239 (36) Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase (5) (335) (11) — — — (22) 27 (19) 1 (359) 4 Trading account liabilities – Corporate securities and other (21) 5 — — (11) — — — — (27) 4 Short-term borrowings (5) (30) 1 — — — — 29 — — — — Accrued expenses and other liabilities (5) (9) — — — — — — — — (9) — Long-term debt (5) (1,513) (74) (20) 140 — (521) 948 (939) 465 (1,514) (184) (1) Assets (liabilities). For assets, increase (decrease) to Level 3 and for liabilities, (increase) decrease to Level 3. (2) Includes gains/losses reported in earnings in the following income statement line items: Trading account assets/liabilities trading account profits; Net derivative assets primarily trading account profits and mortgage banking income; MSRs primarily mortgage banking income; Long-term debt primarily trading account profits. For MSRs, the amounts reflect the changes in modeled MSR fair value due principally to observed changes in interest rates, volatility, spreads and the shape of the forward swap curve. (3) Includes unrealized gains/losses in OCI on AFS securities, foreign currency translation adjustments and the impact of changes in the Corporation’s credit spreads on long-term debt accounted for under the fair value option. For more information, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles. (4) Net derivatives include derivative assets of $3.9 billion and derivative liabilities of $5.2 billion. (5) Amounts represent instruments that are accounted for under the fair value option. (6) Issuances represent loan originations and MSRs recognized following securitizations or whole-loan sales. (7) Settlements represent the net change in fair value of the MSR asset due to the recognition of modeled cash flows and the passage of time. Significant transfers into Level 3, primarily due to decreased Significant transfers out of Level 3, primarily due to increased price observability, during 2016 included $956 million of trading price observability, during 2016 included $1.1 billion of trading account assets, $186 million of net derivative assets, $173 million account assets, $362 million of net derivative assets, $117 million of LHFS and $939 million of long-term debt. Transfers occur on a of AFS debt securities, $234 million of loans and leases, $106 regular basis for long-term debt instruments due to changes in the million of LHFS and $465 million of long-term debt. impact of unobservable inputs on the value of the embedded derivative in relation to the instrument as a whole. 194 Bank of America 2017 Level 3 – Fair Value Measurements in 2015 (1) Change in Unrealized Gains/ Total (Losses) Realized/ Gross Gross Related to Balance Unrealized Gains/ Gross Transfers Transfers Balance Financial January 1 Gains/ (Losses) into out of December 31 Instruments (Dollars in millions) 2015 (Losses) (2) in OCI (3) Purchases Sales Issuances Settlements Level 3 Level 3 2015 Still Held (2) Trading account assets: Corporate securities, trading loans and other $ 3,270 $ (31) $ (11) $ 1,540 $ (1,616) $ — $ (1,122) $ 1,570 $ (762) $ 2,838 $ (123) Equity securities 352 9 — 49 (11) — (11) 41 (22) 407 3 Non-U.S. sovereign debt 574 114 (179) 185 (1) — (145) — (27) 521 74 Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS 2,063 154 1 1,250 (1,117) — (493) 50 (40) 1,868 (93) Total trading account assets 6,259 246 (189) 3,024 (2,745) — (1,771) 1,661 (851) 5,634 (139) Net derivative assets (4) (920) 1,335 (7) 273 (863) — (261) (40) 42 (441) 605 AFS debt securities: Non-agency residential MBS 279 (12) — 134 — — (425) 167 (37) 106 — Non-U.S. securities 10 — — — — — (10) — — — — Other taxable securities 1,667 — — 189 — — (160) — (939) 757 — Tax-exempt securities 599 — — — — — (30) — — 569 — Total AFS debt securities 2,555 (12) — 323 — — (625) 167 (976) 1,432 — Other debt securities carried at fair value – Non-agency residential MBS — (3) — 33 — — — — — 30 — Loans and leases (5, 6) 1,983 (23) — — (4) 57 (237) 144 (300) 1,620 13 Mortgage servicing rights (6, 7) 3,530 187 — — (393) 637 (874) — — 3,087 (85) Loans held-for-sale (5) 173 (51) (8) 771 (203) 61 (61) 203 (98) 787 (39) Other assets 911 (55) — 11 (130) — (51) 10 (322) 374 (61) Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase (5) — (11) — — — (131) 217 (411) 1 (335) — Trading account liabilities – Corporate securities and other (36) 19 — 30 (34) — — — — (21) (3) Short-term borrowings (5) — 17 — — — (52) 10 (24) 19 (30) 1 Accrued expenses and other liabilities (5) (10) 1 — — — — — — — (9) 1 Long-term debt (5) (2,362) 287 19 616 — (188) 273 (1,592) 1,434 (1,513) 255 (1) Assets (liabilities). For assets, increase (decrease) to Level 3 and for liabilities, (increase) decrease to Level 3. (2) Includes gains/losses reported in earnings in the following income statement line items: Trading account assets/liabilities trading account profits; Net derivative assets primarily trading account profits and mortgage banking income; MSRs primarily mortgage banking income; Long-term debt primarily trading account profits. For MSRs, the amounts reflect the changes in modeled MSR fair value due principally to observed changes in interest rates, volatility, spreads and the shape of the forward swap curve. (3) Includes unrealized gains/losses in OCI on AFS securities, foreign currency translation adjustments and the impact of changes in the Corporation’s credit spreads on long-term debt accounted for under the fair value option. For more information, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles. (4) Net derivatives include derivative assets of $5.1 billion and derivative liabilities of $5.6 billion. (5) Amounts represent instruments that are accounted for under the fair value option. (6) Issuances represent loan originations and MSRs recognized following securitizations or whole-loan sales. (7) Settlements represent the net change in fair value of the MSR asset due to the recognition of modeled cash flows and the passage of time. Significant transfers into Level 3, primarily due to decreased Significant transfers out of Level 3, primarily due to increased price observability, during 2015 included $1.7 billion of trading price observability, unless otherwise noted, during 2015 included account assets, $167 million of AFS debt securities, $144 million $851 million of trading account assets, as a result of increased of loans and leases, $203 million of LHFS, $411 million of federal market liquidity, $976 million of AFS debt securities, $300 million funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements of loans and leases, $322 million of other assets and $1.4 billion to repurchase and $1.6 billion of long-term debt. Transfers occur of long-term debt. on a regular basis for these long-term debt instruments due to changes in the impact of unobservable inputs on the value of the embedded derivative in relation to the instrument as a whole. Bank of America 2017 195 The following tables present information about significant unobservable inputs related to the Corporation’s material categories of Level 3 financial assets and liabilities at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Quantitative Information about Level 3 Fair Value Measurements at December 31, 2017 (Dollars in millions) Inputs Fair Valuation Significant Unobservable Ranges of Weighted Financial Instrument Value Technique Inputs Inputs Average Loans and Securities (1) Instruments backed by residential real estate assets $ 871 Yield 0% to 25% 6% Trading account assets – Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS 298 Discounted cash Prepayment speed 0% to 22% CPR 12% Loans and leases 570 flow Default rate 0% to 3% CDR 1% Loans held-for-sale 3 Loss severity 0% to 53% 17% Instruments backed by commercial real estate assets $ 286 Yield 0% to 25% 9% Discounted cash Trading account assets – Corporate securities, trading loans and other 244 Price $0 to $100 $67 flow Trading account assets – Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS 42 Commercial loans, debt securities and other $ 4,023 Yield 0% to 12% 5% Trading account assets – Corporate securities, trading loans and other 1,613 Prepayment speed 10% to 20% 16% Trading account assets – Non-U.S. sovereign debt 556 Discounted cash Default rate 3% to 4% 4% Trading account assets – Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS 1,158 flow, Market Loss severity 35% to 40% 37% comparables AFS debt securities – Other taxable securities 8 Price $0 to $145 $63 Loans and leases 1 Loans held-for-sale 687 Auction rate securities $ 977 Price $10 to $100 $94 Trading account assets – Corporate securities, trading loans and other 7 Discounted cash flow, Market AFS debt securities – Other taxable securities 501 comparables AFS debt securities – Tax-exempt securities 469 MSRs $ 2,302 Weighted-average life, fixed rate (4) 0 to 14 years 5 years Discounted cash Weighted-average life, variable rate (4) 0 to 10 years 3 years flow Option Adjusted Spread, fixed rate 9% to 14% 10% Option Adjusted Spread, variable rate 9% to 15% 12% Structured liabilities Long-term debt $ (1,863) Discounted cash Equity correlation 15% to 100% 63% flow, Market Long-dated equity volatilities 4% to 84% 22% comparables, Industry standard Yield 7.5% n/a derivative pricing (2) Price $0 to $100 $66 Net derivative assets Credit derivatives $ (282) Yield 1% to 5% 3% Upfront points 0 points to 100 points 71 points Discounted cash Credit correlation 35% to 83% 42% flow, Stochastic Prepayment speed 15% to 20% CPR 16% recovery correlation model Default rate 1% to 4% CDR 2% Loss severity 35% n/a Price $0 to $102 $82 Equity derivatives $ (2,059) Industry standard Equity correlation 15% to 100% 63% derivative pricing (2) Long-dated equity volatilities 4% to 84% 22% Commodity derivatives $ (3) Discounted cash Natural gas forward price $1/MMBtu to $5/MMBtu $3/MMBtu flow, Industry Correlation 71% to 87% 81% standard derivative pricing (2) Volatilities 26% to 132% 57% Interest rate derivatives $ 630 Correlation (IR/IR) 15% to 92% 50% Industry standard Correlation (FX/IR) 0% to 46% 1% derivative pricing (3) Long-dated inflation rates -14% to 38% 4% Long-dated inflation volatilities 0% to 1% 1% Total net derivative assets $ (1,714) (1) The categories are aggregated based upon product type which differs from financial statement classification. The following is a reconciliation to the line items in the table on page 191: Trading account assets – Corporate securities, trading loans and other of $1.9 billion, Trading account assets – Non-U.S. sovereign debt of $556 million, Trading account assets – Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS of $1.5 billion, AFS debt securities – Other taxable securities of $509 million, AFS debt securities – Tax-exempt securities of $469 million, Loans and leases of $571 million and LHFS of $690 million. (2) Includes models such as Monte Carlo simulation and Black-Scholes. (3) Includes models such as Monte Carlo simulation, Black-Scholes and other methods that model the joint dynamics of interest, inflation and foreign exchange rates. (4) The weighted-average life is a product of changes in market rates of interest, prepayment rates and other model and cash flow assumptions. CPR = Constant Prepayment Rate CDR = Constant Default Rate MMBtu = Million British thermal units IR = Interest Rate FX = Foreign Exchange n/a = not applicable 196 Bank of America 2017 Quantitative Information about Level 3 Fair Value Measurements at December 31, 2016 (Dollars in millions) Inputs Fair Valuation Significant Unobservable Ranges of Weighted Financial Instrument Value Technique Inputs Inputs Average Loans and Securities (1) Instruments backed by residential real estate assets $ 1,066 Yield 0% to 50% 7% Trading account assets – Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS 337 Discounted cash Prepayment speed 0% to 27% CPR 14% flow, Market Loans and leases 718 comparables Default rate 0% to 3% CDR 2% Loans held-for-sale 11 Loss severity 0% to 54% 18% Instruments backed by commercial real estate assets $ 317 Yield 0% to 39% 11% Trading account assets – Corporate securities, trading loans and other 178 Discounted cash Price $0 to $100 $65 flow, Market Trading account assets – Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS 53 comparables Loans held-for-sale 86 Commercial loans, debt securities and other $ 4,486 Yield 1% to 37% 14% Trading account assets – Corporate securities, trading loans and other 2,565 Prepayment speed 5% to 20% 19% Trading account assets – Non-U.S. sovereign debt 510 Discounted cash Default rate 3% to 4% 4% flow, Market Trading account assets – Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS 821 comparables Loss severity 0% to 50% 19% AFS debt securities – Other taxable securities 29 Price $0 to $292 $68 Loans and leases 2 Duration 0 to 5 years 3 years Loans held-for-sale 559 Enterprise value/EBITDA multiple 34x n/a Auction rate securities $ 1,141 Price $10 to $100 $94 Trading account assets – Corporate securities, trading loans and other 34 Discounted cash flow, Market AFS debt securities – Other taxable securities 565 comparables AFS debt securities – Tax-exempt securities 542 MSRs $ 2,747 Weighted-average life, fixed rate (4) 0 to 15 years 6 years Discounted cash Weighted-average life, variable rate (4) 0 to 14 years 4 years flow Option Adjusted Spread, fixed rate 9% to 14% 10% Option Adjusted Spread, variable rate 9% to 15% 12% Structured liabilities Long-term debt $ (1,514) Equity correlation 13% to 100% 68% Discounted cash flow, Market Long-dated equity volatilities 4% to 76% 26% comparables, Yield 6% to 37% 20% Industry standard Price $12 to $87 $73 derivative pricing (2) Duration 0 to 5 years 3 years Net derivative assets Credit derivatives $ (129) Yield 0% to 24% 13% Upfront points 0 to 100 points 72 points Discounted cash Credit spreads 17 bps to 814 bps 248 bps flow, Stochastic Credit correlation 21% to 80% 44% recovery correlation model Prepayment speed 10% to 20% CPR 18% Default rate 1% to 4% CDR 3% Loss severity 35% n/a Equity derivatives $ (1,690) Industry standard Equity correlation 13% to 100% 68% derivative pricing (2) Long-dated equity volatilities 4% to 76% 26% Commodity derivatives $ 6 Natural gas forward price $2/MMBtu to $6/MMBtu $4/MMBtu Discounted cash flow, Industry Correlation 66% to 95% 85% standard derivative Volatilities 23% to 96% 36% pricing (2) Interest rate derivatives $ 500 Correlation (IR/IR) 15% to 99% 56% Correlation (FX/IR) 0% to 40% 2% Industry standard derivative pricing (3) Illiquid IR and long-dated inflation rates -12% to 35% 5% Long-dated inflation volatilities 0% to 2% 1% Total net derivative assets $ (1,313) (1) The categories are aggregated based upon product type which differs from financial statement classification. The following is a reconciliation to the line items in the table on page 192: Trading account assets – Corporate securities, trading loans and other of $2.8 billion, Trading account assets – Non-U.S. sovereign debt of $510 million, Trading account assets – Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS of $1.2 billion, AFS debt securities – Other taxable securities of $594 million, AFS debt securities – Tax-exempt securities of $542 million, Loans and leases of $720 million and LHFS of $656 million. (2) Includes models such as Monte Carlo simulation and Black-Scholes. (3) Includes models such as Monte Carlo simulation, Black-Scholes and other methods that model the joint dynamics of interest, inflation and foreign exchange rates. (4) The weighted-average life is a product of changes in market rates of interest, prepayment rates and other model and cash flow assumptions. CPR = Constant Prepayment Rate CDR = Constant Default Rate EBITDA = Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization MMBtu = Million British thermal units IR = Interest Rate FX = Foreign Exchange n/a = not applicable Bank of America 2017 197 In the previous tables, instruments backed by residential and or $125 million. These sensitivities are hypothetical and actual commercial real estate assets include RMBS, commercial MBS, amounts may vary materially. As the amounts indicate, changes whole loans and mortgage CDOs. Commercial loans, debt in fair value based on variations in assumptions generally cannot securities and other include corporate CLOs and CDOs, be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in commercial loans and bonds, and securities backed by non-real assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the estate assets. Structured liabilities primarily include equity-linked effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the fair value of notes that are accounted for under the fair value option. MSRs that continue to be held by the Corporation is calculated The Corporation uses multiple market approaches in valuing without changing any other assumption. In reality, changes in one certain of its Level 3 financial instruments. For example, market factor may result in changes in another, which might magnify or comparables and discounted cash flows are used together. For a counteract the sensitivities. In addition, these sensitivities do not given product, such as corporate debt securities, market reflect any hedge strategies that may be undertaken to mitigate comparables may be used to estimate some of the unobservable such risk. The Corporation manages the risk in MSRs with inputs and then these inputs are incorporated into a discounted derivatives such as options and interest rate swaps, which are not cash flow model. Therefore, the balances disclosed encompass designated as accounting hedges, as well as securities including both of these techniques. MBS and U.S. Treasury securities. The securities used to manage The level of aggregation and diversity within the products the risk in the MSRs are classified in other assets on the disclosed in the tables results in certain ranges of inputs being Consolidated Balance Sheet. wide and unevenly distributed across asset and liability categories. Structured Liabilities and Derivatives Sensitivity of Fair Value Measurements to Changes in For credit derivatives, a significant increase in market yield, upfront Unobservable Inputs points (i.e., a single upfront payment made by a protection buyer at inception), credit spreads, default rates or loss severities would Loans and Securities result in a significantly lower fair value for protection sellers and A significant increase in market yields, default rates, loss higher fair value for protection buyers. The impact of changes in severities or duration would result in a significantly lower fair value prepayment speeds would have differing impacts depending on for long positions. Short positions would be impacted in a the seniority of the instrument. directionally opposite way. The impact of changes in prepayment Structured credit derivatives are impacted by credit correlation. speeds would have differing impacts depending on the seniority Default correlation is a parameter that describes the degree of of the instrument and, in the case of CLOs, whether prepayments dependence among credit default rates within a credit portfolio can be reinvested. A significant increase in price would result in that underlies a credit derivative instrument. The sensitivity of this a significantly higher fair value for long positions, and short input on the fair value varies depending on the level of positions would be impacted in a directionally opposite way. subordination of the tranche. For senior tranches that are net purchases of protection, a significant increase in default Mortgage Servicing Rights correlation would result in a significantly higher fair value. Net The weighted-average lives and fair value of MSRs are sensitive short protection positions would be impacted in a directionally to changes in modeled assumptions. The weighted-average life is opposite way. a product of changes in market rates of interest, prepayment rates For equity derivatives, commodity derivatives, interest rate and other model and cash flow assumptions. The weighted-average derivatives and structured liabilities, a significant change in longlife represents the average period of time that the MSRs’ cash dated rates and volatilities and correlation inputs (i.e., the degree flows are expected to be received. Absent other changes, an of correlation between an equity security and an index, between increase (decrease) to the weighted-average life would generally two different commodities, between two different interest rates, result in an increase (decrease) in the fair value of the MSRs. For or between interest rates and foreign exchange rates) would result example, a 10 percent or 20 percent decrease in prepayment rates, in a significant impact to the fair value; however, the magnitude which impacts the weighted-average life, could result in an increase and direction of the impact depend on whether the Corporation is in fair value of $83 million or $172 million, while a 10 percent or long or short the exposure. For structured liabilities, a significant 20 percent increase in prepayment rates could result in a decrease increase in yield or decrease in price would result in a significantly in fair value of $76 million or $147 million. A 100 bp or 200 bp lower fair value. A significant decrease in duration may result in a decrease in OAS levels could result in an increase in fair value of significantly higher fair value. $69 million or $143 million, while a 100 bp or 200 bp increase in OAS levels could result in a decrease in fair value of $65 million 198 Bank of America 2017 Nonrecurring Fair Value The Corporation holds certain assets that are measured at fair value, but only in certain situations (e.g., impairment) and these measurements are referred to herein as nonrecurring. The amounts below represent assets still held as of the reporting date for which a nonrecurring fair value adjustment was recorded during 2017, 2016 and 2015. Assets Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 (Dollars in millions) Level 2 Level 3 Level 2 Level 3 Assets Loans held-for-sale $ — $ 2 $ 193 $ 44 Loans and leases (1) — 894 — 1,416 Foreclosed properties (2, 3) — 83 — 77 Other assets 425 — 358 — Gains (Losses) 2017 2016 2015 Assets Loans held-for-sale $ (6) $ (54) $ (8) Loans and leases (1) (336) (458) (993) Foreclosed properties (41) (41) (57) Other assets (124) (74) (28) (1) Includes $135 million of losses on loans that were written down to a collateral value of zero during 2017 compared to losses of $150 million and $174 million for 2016 and 2015. (2) Amounts are included in other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and represent the carrying value of foreclosed properties that were written down subsequent to their initial classification as foreclosed properties. Losses on foreclosed properties include losses recorded during the first 90 days after transfer of a loan to foreclosed properties. (3) Excludes $801 million and $1.2 billion of properties acquired upon foreclosure of certain government-guaranteed loans (principally FHA-insured loans) at December 31, 2017 and 2016. The table below presents information about significant unobservable inputs related to the Corporation’s nonrecurring Level 3 financial assets and liabilities at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Loans and leases backed by residential real estate assets represent residential mortgages where the loan has been written down to the fair value of the underlying collateral. Quantitative Information about Nonrecurring Level 3 Fair Value Measurements (Dollars in millions) Inputs Significant Valuation Unobservable Ranges of Financial Instrument Fair Value Technique Inputs Inputs Weighted Average December 31, 2017 Loans and leases backed by residential real estate assets $ 894 Market comparables OREO discount 15% to 58% 23% Costs to sell 5% to 49% 7% December 31, 2016 Loans and leases backed by residential real estate assets $ 1,416 Market comparables OREO discount 8% to 56% 21% Costs to sell 7% to 45% 9% NOTE 21 Fair Value Option credit derivatives at fair value. The Corporation also elected the fair value option for certain loans held in consolidated VIEs. Loans and Loan Commitments The Corporation elects to account for certain consumer and Loans Held-for-sale commercial loans and loan commitments that exceed the The Corporation elects to account for residential mortgage LHFS, Corporation’s single-name credit risk concentration guidelines commercial mortgage LHFS and certain other LHFS under the fair under the fair value option. Lending commitments, both funded value option with interest income on these LHFS recorded in other and unfunded, are actively managed and monitored and, as interest income. These loans are actively managed and monitored appropriate, credit risk for these lending relationships may be and, as appropriate, certain market risks of the loans may be mitigated through the use of credit derivatives, with the mitigated through the use of derivatives. The Corporation has Corporation’s public side credit view and market perspectives elected not to designate the derivatives as qualifying accounting determining the size and timing of the hedging activity. These credit hedges and therefore they are carried at fair value with changes derivatives do not meet the requirements for designation as in fair value recorded in other income. The changes in fair value accounting hedges and therefore are carried at fair value with of the loans are largely offset by changes in the fair value of the changes in fair value recorded in other income. Electing the fair derivatives. Election of the fair value option allows the Corporation value option allows the Corporation to carry these loans and loan to reduce the accounting volatility that would otherwise result from commitments at fair value, which is more consistent with the asymmetry created by accounting for the financial instruments management’s view of the underlying economics and the manner at the lower of cost or fair value and the derivatives at fair value. in which they are managed. In addition, election of the fair value The Corporation has not elected to account for certain other LHFS option allows the Corporation to reduce the accounting volatility under the fair value option primarily because these loans are that would otherwise result from the asymmetry created by floating-rate loans that are not hedged using derivative accounting for the financial instruments at historical cost and the instruments. Bank of America 2017 199 Loans Reported as Trading Account Assets historical cost and the derivatives at fair value. The Corporation The Corporation elects to account for certain loans that are held has not elected to carry other long-term deposits at fair value for the purpose of trading and are risk-managed on a fair value because they are not hedged using derivatives. basis under the fair value option. Short-term Borrowings Other Assets The Corporation elects to account for certain short-term The Corporation elects to account for certain long-term fixed-rate borrowings, primarily short-term structured liabilities, under the margin loans that are hedged with derivatives under the fair value fair value option because this debt is risk-managed on a fair value option. Election of the fair value option allows the Corporation to basis. reduce the accounting volatility that would otherwise result from The Corporation elects to account for certain asset-backed the asymmetry created by accounting for the financial instruments secured financings, which are also classified in short-term at historical cost and the derivatives at fair value. borrowings, under the fair value option. Election of the fair value option allows the Corporation to reduce the accounting volatility Securities Financing Agreements that would otherwise result from the asymmetry created by The Corporation elects to account for certain securities financing accounting for the asset-backed secured financings at historical agreements, including resale and repurchase agreements, under cost and the corresponding mortgage LHFS securing these the fair value option based on the tenor of the agreements, which financings at fair value. reflects the magnitude of the interest rate risk. The majority of securities financing agreements collateralized by U.S. government Long-term Debt securities are not accounted for under the fair value option as The Corporation elects to account for certain long-term debt, these contracts are generally short-dated and therefore the primarily structured liabilities, under the fair value option. This longinterest rate risk is not significant. term debt is either risk-managed on a fair value basis or the related hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting. Long-term Deposits The Corporation elects to account for certain long-term fixed-rate Fair Value Option Elections and rate-linked deposits that are hedged with derivatives that do The table below provides information about the fair value carrying not qualify for hedge accounting under the fair value option. amount and the contractual principal outstanding of assets and Election of the fair value option allows the Corporation to reduce liabilities accounted for under the fair value option at December the accounting volatility that would otherwise result from the 31, 2017 and 2016. asymmetry created by accounting for the financial instruments at Fair Value Option Elections Fair Value Fair Value Carrying Carrying Fair Value Contractual Amount Less Fair Value Contractual Amount Less Carrying Principal Unpaid Carrying Principal Unpaid Amount Outstanding Principal Amount Outstanding Principal December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 (Dollars in millions) Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell $ 52,906 $ 52,907 $ (1) $ 49,750 $ 49,615 $ 135 Loans reported as trading account assets (1) 5,735 11,804 (6,069) 6,215 11,557 (5,342) Trading inventory – other 12,027 n/a n/a 8,206 n/a n/a Consumer and commercial loans 5,710 5,744 (34) 7,085 7,190 (105) Loans held-for-sale 2,156 3,717 (1,561) 4,026 5,595 (1,569) Customer receivables and other assets 3 n/a n/a 253 250 3 Long-term deposits 449 421 28 731 672 59 Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase 36,182 36,187 (5) 35,766 35,929 (163) Short-term borrowings 1,494 1,494 — 2,024 2,024 — Unfunded loan commitments 120 n/a n/a 173 n/a n/a Long-term debt (2) 31,786 31,512 274 30,037 29,862 175 (1) A significant portion of the loans reported as trading account assets are distressed loans that trade and were purchased at a deep discount to par, and the remainder are loans with a fair value near contractual principal outstanding. (2) Includes structured liabilities with a fair value of $31.4 billion and $29.7 billion, and contractual principal outstanding of $31.1 billion and $29.5 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016. n/a = not applicable 200 Bank of America 2017 The following tables provide information about where changes in the fair value of assets and liabilities accounted for under the fair value option are included in the Consolidated Statement of Income for 2017, 2016 and 2015. Gains (Losses) Relating to Assets and Liabilities Accounted for Under the Fair Value Option Trading Mortgage Account Banking Other Profits Income Income Total (Dollars in millions) 2017 Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell $ (57) $ — $ — $ (57) Loans reported as trading account assets 318 — — 318 Trading inventory – other (1) 3,821 — — 3,821 Consumer and commercial loans (9) — 35 26 Loans held-for-sale (2) — 211 87 298 Unfunded loan commitments — — 36 36 Long-term debt (3, 4) (1,044) — (146) (1,190) Other (5) (36) — 13 (23) Total $ 2,993 $ 211 $ 25 $ 3,229 2016 Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell $ (64) $ — $ 1 $ (63) Loans reported as trading account assets 301 — — 301 Trading inventory – other (1) 57 — — 57 Consumer and commercial loans 49 — (37) 12 Loans held-for-sale (2) 11 518 6 535 Unfunded loan commitments — — 487 487 Long-term debt (3, 4) (489) — (97) (586) Other (5) (21) — 52 31 Total $ (156) $ 518 $ 412 $ 774 2015 Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell $ (195) $ — $ — $ (195) Loans reported as trading account assets (199) — — (199) Trading inventory – other (1) 1,284 — — 1,284 Consumer and commercial loans 52 — (295) (243) Loans held-for-sale (2) (36) 673 63 700 Unfunded loan commitments — — (210) (210) Long-term debt (3, 4) 2,107 — (633) 1,474 Other (5) 37 — 23 60 Total $ 3,050 $ 673 $ (1,052) $ 2,671 (1) The gains in trading account profits are primarily offset by losses on trading liabilities that hedge these assets. (2) Includes the value of IRLCs on funded loans, including those sold during the period. (3) The majority of the net gains (losses) in trading account profits relate to the embedded derivative in structured liabilities and are offset by gains (losses) on derivatives and securities that hedge these liabilities. (4) For the cumulative impact of changes in the Corporation’s own credit spreads and the amount recognized in OCI, see Note 14 – Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss). For more information on how the Corporation’s own credit spread is determined, see Note 20 – Fair Value Measurements. (5) Includes gains (losses) on other assets, long-term deposits, federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase and short-term borrowings. Gains (Losses) Related to Borrower-specific Credit Risk for Assets Accounted for Under the Fair Value Option (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Loans reported as trading account assets $ 24 $ 7 $ 37 Consumer and commercial loans 36 (53) (200) Loans held-for-sale (22) (34) 37 Bank of America 2017 201 NOTE 22 Fair Value of Financial Instruments deposits with no stated maturities, the carrying value is considered Financial instruments are classified within the fair value hierarchy to approximate fair value and does not take into account the using the methodologies described in Note 20 – Fair Value significant value of the cost advantage and stability of the Measurements. The following disclosures include financial Corporation’s long-term relationships with depositors. The instruments that are not carried at fair value or only a portion of Corporation accounts for certain long-term fixed-rate deposits the ending balance is carried at fair value on the Consolidated under the fair value option. Balance Sheet. Long-term Debt Short-term Financial Instruments The Corporation uses quoted market prices, when available, to The carrying value of short-term financial instruments, including estimate fair value for its long-term debt. When quoted market cash and cash equivalents, time deposits placed and other shortprices are not available, fair value is estimated based on current term investments, federal funds sold and purchased, certain market interest rates and credit spreads for debt with similar terms resale and repurchase agreements, customer and other and maturities. The Corporation accounts for certain structured receivables, customer payables (within accrued expenses and liabilities under the fair value option. other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet), and shortterm borrowings, approximates the fair value of these instruments. Fair Value of Financial Instruments These financial instruments generally expose the Corporation to The carrying values and fair values by fair value hierarchy of certain limited credit risk and have no stated maturities or have shortfinancial instruments where only a portion of the ending balance term maturities and carry interest rates that approximate market. was carried at fair value at December 31, 2017 and 2016 are The Corporation accounts for certain resale and repurchase presented in the following table. agreements under the fair value option. Under the fair value hierarchy, cash and cash equivalents are Fair Value of Financial Instruments classified as Level 1. Time deposits placed and other short-term investments, such as U.S. government securities and short-term Fair Value commercial paper, are classified as Level 1 or Level 2. Federal Carrying funds sold and purchased are classified as Level 2. Resale and Value Level 2 Level 3 Total repurchase agreements are classified as Level 2 because they (Dollars in millions) December 31, 2017 are generally short-dated and/or variable-rate instruments Financial assets collateralized by U.S. government or agency securities. Customer Loans $ 904,399 $ 68,586 $ 849,576 $ 918,162 and other receivables primarily consist of margin loans, servicing Loans held-for-sale 11,430 10,521 909 11,430 Financial liabilities advances and other accounts receivable and are classified as Deposits 1,309,545 1,309,398 — 1,309,398 Level 2 or Level 3. Customer payables and short-term borrowings Long-term debt 227,402 235,126 1,863 236,989 are classified as Level 2. December 31, 2016 Held-to-maturity Debt Securities Financial assets HTM debt securities, which consist primarily of U.S. agency debt Loans $ 873,209 $ 71,793 $ 815,329 $ 887,122 securities, are classified as Level 2 using the same methodologies Loans held-for-sale 9,066 8,082 984 9,066 as AFS U.S. agency debt securities. For more information on HTM Financial liabilities debt securities, see Note 3 – Securities. Deposits 1,260,934 1,261,086 — 1,261,086 Long-term debt 216,823 220,071 1,514 221,585 Loans The fair values for commercial and consumer loans are generally Commercial Unfunded Lending Commitments determined by discounting both principal and interest cash flows Fair values are generally determined using a discounted cash flow expected to be collected using a discount rate for similar valuation approach which is applied using market-based CDS or instruments with adjustments that the Corporation believes a internally developed benchmark credit curves. The Corporation market participant would consider in determining fair value. The accounts for certain loan commitments under the fair value option. Corporation estimates the cash flows expected to be collected The carrying values and fair values of the Corporation’s commercial using internal credit risk, interest rate and prepayment risk models unfunded lending commitments were $897 million and $4.0 billion that incorporate the Corporation’s best estimate of current key at December 31, 2017, and $937 million and $4.9 billion at assumptions, such as default rates, loss severity and prepayment December 31, 2016. Substantially all commercial unfunded speeds for the life of the loan. The carrying value of loans is lending commitments are classified as Level 3. The carrying value presented net of the applicable allowance for loan losses and of these commitments is included in accrued expenses and other excludes leases. The Corporation accounts for certain commercial liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. loans and residential mortgage loans under the fair value option. The Corporation does not estimate the fair values of consumer unfunded lending commitments because, in many instances, the Deposits Corporation can reduce or cancel these commitments by providing The fair value for certain deposits with stated maturities is notice to the borrower. For more information on commitments, see determined by discounting contractual cash flows using current Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies. market rates for instruments with similar maturities. The carrying value of non-U.S. time deposits approximates fair value. For 202 Bank of America 2017 202 Bank of America 2017 NOTE23 NOTE 23Business BusinessSegment SegmentInformation Information liquidatingbusinesses, liquidating businesses,and residualexpense andresidual expenseallocations. allocations.ALM ALM The Corporationreports TheCorporation reportsitsitsresults operationsthrough resultsofofoperations throughthe the activities encompass activities encompass certain certain residential residential mortgages, mortgages, debt debt followingfour following fourbusiness segments:Consumer businesssegments: ConsumerBanking, Banking,GWIM, GWIM, securities,interest interestrate securities, rateand andforeign currencyrisk foreigncurrency management riskmanagement Global Bankingand GlobalBanking andGlobal Markets,with GlobalMarkets, withthetheremaining remainingoperations operations activities, the impact of certain allocation activities, the impact of certain allocation methodologies and methodologies and recorded in recorded in All Other.All Other. accountinghedge accounting ineffectiveness.The hedgeineffectiveness. resultsofofcertain Theresults certainALM ALM activities are activities allocated toto the are allocated the business business segments. segments. Equity Equity ConsumerBanking Consumer Banking investmentsinclude investments includethe themerchant merchantservicesservicesjoint ventureasaswell jointventure well ConsumerBanking Consumer Bankingoffersoffersa adiversified diversifiedrange credit,banking rangeofofcredit, bankingand and asas a a portfolio portfolio ofof equity, equity, real estate and real estate and other other alternative alternative investment products investment products and and services consumers and services toto consumers and small investments.The small investments. Theinitial impactofofthe initialimpact theTax TaxAct Actwas recordedininAllAll wasrecorded businesses. Consumer businesses. Consumer Banking Banking productproduct offerings offerings include Other. include Other. traditionalsavings traditional accounts,money savingsaccounts, moneymarket savingsaccounts, marketsavings accounts,CDs CDs and IRAs, checking accounts, and and IRAs, checking accounts, and investment accounts and investment accounts and Basis Presentation BasisofofPresentation products,asaswell products, wellasascredit creditand anddebit residentialmortgages cards,residential debitcards, mortgages The The management management accounting accounting and and reporting reporting process process derives derives and home equity loans, and direct and indirect and home equity loans, and direct and indirect loans to consumers loans to consumers segment segment and and business business results results by by utilizing utilizing allocation allocation andsmall and businessesininthe smallbusinesses theU.S. U.S.Consumer ConsumerBanking includesthe Bankingincludes methodologiesfor the methodologies forrevenue revenueand expense.The andexpense. Thenetnetincome incomederivedderived impactofofservicing impact mortgagesand residentialmortgages servicingresidential andhomehomeequity equityloans loans forforthethebusinesses businessesisisdependent dependentupon revenueand uponrevenue andcostcostallocations allocations ininthe portfolio. coreportfolio. thecore usingananactivity-based using activity-basedcosting costingmodel,model,fundsfundstransfer transferpricing, pricing,andand othermethodologies other methodologiesand andassumptions assumptionsmanagementmanagementbelieves believesare are Global Wealth & Investment Global Wealth & Investment Management Management appropriate appropriate toto reflect reflect the the results results ofof the the business. business. GWIM providesa ahigh-touch high-touchclient GWIMprovides experiencethrough clientexperience network througha anetwork Totalrevenue, Total revenue,net netofofinterest interestexpense, expense,includesincludesnet netinterest interest ofoffinancial advisorsfocused financialadvisors focusedononclients clientswith withover $250,000inin income over$250,000 incomeononananFTE basisand FTEbasis noninterestincome. andnoninterest income.The adjustment Theadjustment total investableassets, totalinvestable assets,including tailoredsolutions solutionstotomeet includingtailored meet ofofnet interestincome netinterest incometotoananFTE FTEbasis basisresults corresponding resultsinina acorresponding clients’needs clients’ needsthrough througha afull investmentmanagement, setofofinvestment fullset management, increase increaseininincomeincometax expense.The taxexpense. Thesegment segmentresults resultsalso reflect alsoreflect brokerage, banking and retirement products. brokerage, banking and retirement products. GWIM also provides GWIM also provides and revenue certain certain revenue and expense methodologies that are utilized toto methodologies expense that are utilized comprehensivewealth comprehensive managementsolutions wealthmanagement targetedtotohigh solutionstargeted highnet determinenet net determine income.The netincome. Thenet netinterest interestincome incomeofofthe businesses thebusinesses worthand worth andultra ultrahigh highnet worthclients, clients,asaswell networth wellasascustomized includesthe customized includes resultsofofa afunds theresults fundstransfer transferpricingpricingprocess processthat that solutions to meet clients’ wealth solutions to meet clients’ wealth structuring, investment structuring, investment matches matches assets assets andand liabilities liabilities with with similar similar interest interest rate rate sensitivity sensitivity management,trust management, trustandandbanking bankingneeds,needs,including includingspecialty specialtyassetasset and maturitycharacteristics. characteristics.InInsegments andmaturity segmentswhere wherethe totalofof thetotal managementservices. management services. liabilitiesand liabilities andequity exceedsassets, equityexceeds assets,which whichare depositgenerallydepositaregenerally takingsegments, taking segments,the theCorporation Corporationallocatesallocatesassets assetstotomatch match GlobalBanking Global Banking liabilities.Net liabilities. interestincome Netinterest incomeofofthe businesssegments thebusiness segmentsalso also GlobalBanking Global Bankingprovidesprovidesa awide widerange lending-relatedproducts rangeofoflending-related products includes allocationofofnet includesananallocation netinterest incomegenerated interestincome generatedbybycertain certain andservices, and integratedworking services,integrated capitalmanagement managementand workingcapital treasury ofofthe andtreasury theCorporation’s Corporation’sALM ALMactivities. activities. solutions, and underwriting and advisory solutions, and underwriting and advisory services through the services through the addition,the InInaddition, businesssegments thebusiness segmentsare areimpacted impactedbybythe the Corporation’snetwork Corporation’s networkofofoffices officesand clientrelationship relationshipteams. andclient teams. migration customersand migrationofofcustomers clientsand andclients andtheir deposit,loan theirdeposit, loanandand Bankingalso GlobalBanking Global alsoprovides providesinvestment investmentbanking bankingproducts productstoto brokerage brokeragebalancesbalancesbetween betweenbusinesses. businesses.SubsequentSubsequenttotothe date thedate clients. The clients. economics ofof certain The economics investment banking certain investment banking and and ofofmigration, migration,the theassociated associatednet interestincome, netinterest noninterest income,noninterest underwritingactivities underwriting activitiesare sharedprimarily areshared betweenGlobal primarilybetween Banking income GlobalBanking incomeand noninterestexpense andnoninterest expenseare arerecorded recordedininthe thebusiness businesstoto and Global and Global MarketsMarkets under under anan internal internal revenue-sharing revenue-sharing which whichthe thecustomers customersororclients clientsmigrated. migrated. arrangement.Global arrangement. GlobalBanking Bankingclients generallyinclude clientsgenerally includemiddlemiddleTheTheCorporation’s Corporation’sALM ALMactivities activitiesinclude interestrate overallinterest includeananoverall rate marketcompanies, market companies,commercial commercialreal estatefirms, realestate not-for-profit risk firms,not-for-profit managementstrategy riskmanagement strategythat thatincorporates incorporatesthe theuse useofofvarious various companies, large companies, large global corporations, financial global corporations, institutions, derivatives financial institutions, derivativesand andcash cashinstruments instrumentstotomanage managefluctuations fluctuationsinin leasingclients, leasing clients,and mid-sizedU.S.-based andmid-sized businessesrequiring U.S.-basedbusinesses requiring earnings earningsand capitalthat andcapital thatare causedbybyinterest arecaused interestrate ratevolatility. volatility.The The customizedand customized andintegrated financialadvice integratedfinancial adviceand andsolutions. solutions. Corporation’sgoal Corporation’s manageinterest goalisistotomanage interestrate ratesensitivity sensitivitysosothat that movementsinininterest movements interestratesratesdodonot notsignificantly significantlyadverselyadverselyaffect affect GlobalMarkets Global Markets earningsand earnings capital.The andcapital. Theresults majorityofofthe resultsofofa amajority Corporation’s theCorporation’s Markets offers Global Markets Global offers sales sales and including ALM services, including trading services, and trading ALMactivities activitiesare areallocated allocatedtotothe thebusiness businesssegments segmentsand and research,toto institutional research, institutional clientsclients across across fixed-income, fixed-income,credit, credit, fluctuate fluctuatebased basedononthe theperformance performanceofofthe theALMALMactivities. activities.ALM ALM currency,commodity currency, commodity and and equity equity businesses. businesses. Global Global Markets Markets activities activitiesinclude includeexternalexternalproductproductpricingpricingdecisions decisionsincluding including providesmarket-making, provides market-making,financing, securitiesclearing, financing,securities clearing,settlement settlement deposit depositpricing pricingstrategies, strategies,the theeffects effectsofofthe theCorporation’s Corporation’sinternal internal and andcustody servicesglobally custodyservices institutionalinvestor globallytotoinstitutional investorclients clientsinin funds transferpricing fundstransfer pricingprocess processand andthethenet neteffects effectsofofother otherALMALM supportofoftheir support investingand theirinvesting andtrading activities.Global tradingactivities. Markets activities. GlobalMarkets activities. alsoworks also workswith commercialand withcommercial andcorporate corporateclients clientstotoprovide provideriskrisk Certain expenses Certain expenses not directly attributable not directly attributable toto a a specific specific management products. As a result of management products. As a result of market-making activities, market-making activities, businesssegment business segmentare areallocated allocatedtotothe thesegments. segments.The Thecosts costsofof Marketsmay GlobalMarkets Global maybeberequired requiredtotomanagemanagerisk broadrange riskinina abroad range certain centralizedororshared certaincentralized sharedfunctions functionsare areallocated allocatedbased basedonon financial products. ofof financial products. InIn addition, addition,the economics ofof certain the economics certain methodologies methodologiesthat thatreflect reflectutilization. utilization. investmentbanking investment bankingand underwritingactivities andunderwriting activitiesare areshared sharedprimarily primarily The tables below The tables below present present net net income income (loss) (loss) and and the the betweenGlobal between GlobalMarkets Marketsand andGlobal GlobalBanking Bankingunder underananinternal internal components componentsthereto thereto(with (withnet interestincome netinterest incomeononananFTE FTEbasis) basis) revenue-sharingarrangement. revenue-sharing arrangement. for2017, for 2017,20162016and 2015,and and2015, totalassets andtotal assetsatatDecember December31, 31,2017 2017 and2016 and 2016for eachbusiness foreach segment,asaswell businesssegment, wellasasAllAllOther, including Other,including AllOther All Other thefour businesssegments’ fourbusiness segments’total totalrevenue, revenue,net net a areconciliation reconciliationofofthe consistsofofALM Otherconsists AllAllOther ALMactivities, equityinvestments, activities,equity investments,non-core non-core interestexpense, ofofinterest expense,ononananFTE basis,and FTEbasis, andnet netincomeincometotothe the mortgageloans mortgage loansand servicingactivities, andservicing activities,the thenetnetimpact periodic impactofofperiodic ConsolidatedStatement StatementofofIncome, Income,and andtotal totalassetsassetstotothe the Consolidated revisionstotothe revisions theMSR MSRvaluation valuationmodel modelfor forbothbothcorecoreand non-core andnon-core ConsolidatedBalance BalanceSheet. Sheet. Consolidated MSRsand MSRs andthe relatedeconomic therelated economichedge hedgeresults resultsand andineffectiveness, ineffectiveness, BankofofAmerica Bank America2017 2017 203 203 Results of Business Segments and All Other At and for the year ended December 31 Total Corporation (1) Consumer Banking (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 Net interest income (FTE basis) $ 45,592 $ 41,996 $ 39,847 $ 24,307 $ 21,290 $ 20,428 Noninterest income 42,685 42,605 44,007 10,214 10,441 11,091 Total revenue, net of interest expense (FTE basis) 88,277 84,601 83,854 34,521 31,731 31,519 Provision for credit losses 3,396 3,597 3,161 3,525 2,715 2,346 Noninterest expense 54,743 55,083 57,617 17,787 17,654 18,710 Income before income taxes (FTE basis) 30,138 25,921 23,076 13,209 11,362 10,463 Income tax expense (FTE basis) 11,906 8,099 7,166 5,002 4,190 3,814 Net income $ 18,232 $ 17,822 $ 15,910 $ 8,207 $ 7,172 $ 6,649 Period-end total assets $ 2,281,234 $ 2,188,067 $ 749,325 $ 702,333 Global Wealth & Investment Management Global Banking 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 Net interest income (FTE basis) $ 6,173 $ 5,759 $ 5,527 $ 10,504 $ 9,471 $ 9,244 Noninterest income 12,417 11,891 12,507 9,495 8,974 8,377 Total revenue, net of interest expense (FTE basis) 18,590 17,650 18,034 19,999 18,445 17,621 Provision for credit losses 56 68 51 212 883 686 Noninterest expense 13,564 13,175 13,938 8,596 8,486 8,482 Income before income taxes (FTE basis) 4,970 4,407 4,045 11,191 9,076 8,453 Income tax expense (FTE basis) 1,882 1,632 1,475 4,238 3,347 3,114 Net income $ 3,088 $ 2,775 $ 2,570 $ 6,953 $ 5,729 $ 5,339 Period-end total assets $ 284,321 $ 298,931 $ 424,533 $ 408,330 Global Markets All Other 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 Net interest income (FTE basis) $ 3,744 $ 4,558 $ 4,191 $ 864 $ 918 $ 457 Noninterest income (loss) 12,207 11,532 10,822 (1,648) (233) 1,210 Total revenue, net of interest expense (FTE basis) 15,951 16,090 15,013 (784) 685 1,667 Provision for credit losses 164 31 99 (561) (100) (21) Noninterest expense 10,731 10,169 11,374 4,065 5,599 5,113 Income (loss) before income taxes (FTE basis) 5,056 5,890 3,540 (4,288) (4,814) (3,425) Income tax expense (benefit) (FTE basis) 1,763 2,072 1,117 (979) (3,142) (2,354) Net income (loss) $ 3,293 $ 3,818 $ 2,423 $ (3,309) $ (1,672) $ (1,071) Period-end total assets $ 629,007 $ 566,060 $ 194,048 $ 212,413 Business Segment Reconciliations 2017 2016 2015 Segments’ total revenue, net of interest expense (FTE basis) $ 89,061 $ 83,916 $ 82,187 Adjustments (2): ALM activities 312 (300) (208) Liquidating businesses and other (1,096) 985 1,875 FTE basis adjustment (925) (900) (889) Consolidated revenue, net of interest expense $ 87,352 $ 83,701 $ 82,965 Segments’ total net income 21,541 19,494 16,981 Adjustments, net-of-taxes (2): ALM activities (355) (651) (694) Liquidating businesses and other (2,954) (1,021) (377) Consolidated net income $ 18,232 $ 17,822 $ 15,910 December 31 2017 2016 Segments’ total assets $ 2,087,186 $ 1,975,654 Adjustments (2): ALM activities, including securities portfolio 625,488 612,996 Liquidating businesses and other (3) 89,008 118,073 Elimination of segment asset allocations to match liabilities (520,448) (518,656) Consolidated total assets $ 2,281,234 $ 2,188,067 (1) There were no material intersegment revenues. (2) Adjustments include consolidated income, expense and asset amounts not specifically allocated to individual business segments. (3) At December 31, 2016, includes assets of the non-U.S. consumer credit card business which were included in assets of business held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 204 Bank of America 2017 204 Bank of America 2017 NOTE 24 Parent Company Information The following tables present the Parent Company-only financial information. This financial information is presented in accordance with bank regulatory reporting requirements. Condensed Statement of Income (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Income Dividends from subsidiaries: Bank holding companies and related subsidiaries $ 12,088 $ 4,127 $ 18,970 Nonbank companies and related subsidiaries 202 77 53 Interest from subsidiaries 7,043 2,996 2,004 Other income (loss) 28 111 (623) Total income 19,361 7,311 20,404 Expense Interest on borrowed funds from related subsidiaries 189 969 1,169 Other interest expense 5,555 5,096 5,098 Noninterest expense 1,672 2,704 4,631 Total expense 7,416 8,769 10,898 Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in undistributed earnings of subsidiaries 11,945 (1,458) 9,506 Income tax expense (benefit) 950 (2,311) (3,532) Income before equity in undistributed earnings of subsidiaries 10,995 853 13,038 Equity in undistributed earnings (losses) of subsidiaries: Bank holding companies and related subsidiaries 8,725 16,817 3,068 Nonbank companies and related subsidiaries (1,488) 152 (196) Total equity in undistributed earnings (losses) of subsidiaries 7,237 16,969 2,872 Net income $ 18,232 $ 17,822 $ 15,910 Condensed Balance Sheet December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 Assets Cash held at bank subsidiaries (1) $ 4,747 $ 20,248 Securities 596 909 Receivables from subsidiaries: Bank holding companies and related subsidiaries 146,566 117,072 Banks and related subsidiaries 146 171 Nonbank companies and related subsidiaries 4,745 26,500 Investments in subsidiaries: Bank holding companies and related subsidiaries 296,506 287,416 Nonbank companies and related subsidiaries 5,225 6,875 Other assets 14,554 11,038 Total assets (2) $ 473,085 $ 470,229 Liabilities and shareholders’ equity Accrued expenses and other liabilities $ 10,286 $ 14,284 Payables to subsidiaries: Banks and related subsidiaries 359 352 Bank holding companies and related subsidiaries 1 4,013 Nonbank companies and related subsidiaries 9,340 12,010 Long-term debt 185,953 173,375 Total liabilities 205,939 204,034 Shareholders’ equity 267,146 266,195 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $ 473,085 $ 470,229 (1) Balance includes third-party cash held of $193 million and $342 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016. (2) During 2016, the Corporation entered into intercompany arrangements with certain key subsidiaries under which the Corporation transferred certain parent company assets to NB Holdings Corporation. Bank of America 2017 205 Condensed Statement of Cash Flows (Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Operating activities Net income $ 18,232 $ 17,822 $ 15,910 Reconciliation of net income to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities: Equity in undistributed (earnings) losses of subsidiaries (7,237) (16,969) (2,872) Other operating activities, net (2,593) (2,860) (2,583) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 8,402 (2,007) 10,455 Investing activities Net sales of securities 312 — 15 Net payments to subsidiaries (7,087) (65,481) (7,944) Other investing activities, net (1) (308) 70 Net cash used in investing activities (6,776) (65,789) (7,859) Financing activities Net decrease in short-term borrowings — (136) (221) Net decrease in other advances (6,672) (44) (770) Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt 37,704 27,363 26,492 Retirement of long-term debt (29,645) (30,804) (27,393) Proceeds from issuance of preferred stock — 2,947 2,964 Common stock repurchased (12,814) (5,112) (2,374) Cash dividends paid (5,700) (4,194) (3,574) Net cash used in financing activities (17,127) (9,980) (4,876) Net decrease in cash held at bank subsidiaries (15,501) (77,776) (2,280) Cash held at bank subsidiaries at January 1 20,248 98,024 100,304 Cash held at bank subsidiaries at December 31 $ 4,747 $ 20,248 $ 98,024 NOTE 25 Performance by Geographical Area Since the Corporation’s operations are highly integrated, certain asset, liability, income and expense amounts must be allocated to arrive at total assets, total revenue, net of interest expense, income before income taxes and net income by geographic area. The Corporation identifies its geographic performance based on the business unit structure used to manage the capital or expense deployed in the region as applicable. This requires certain judgments related to the allocation of revenue so that revenue can be appropriately matched with the related capital or expense deployed in the region. Total Revenue, Total Assets at Net of Interest Income Before (Dollars in millions) Year End (1) Expense (2) Income Taxes Net Income U.S. (3) 2017 $ 1,965,490 $ 74,830 $ 25,108 $ 15,550 2016 1,901,043 72,418 22,282 16,183 2015 72,117 20,181 14,711 Asia 2017 103,255 3,405 676 464 2016 85,410 3,365 674 488 2015 3,524 726 457 Europe, Middle East and Africa 2017 189,661 7,907 2,990 1,926 2016 174,934 6,608 1,705 925 2015 6,081 938 516 Latin America and the Caribbean 2017 22,828 1,210 439 292 2016 26,680 1,310 360 226 2015 1,243 342 226 Total Non-U.S. 2017 315,744 12,522 4,105 2,682 2016 287,024 11,283 2,739 1,639 2015 10,848 2,006 1,199 Total Consolidated 2017 $ 2,281,234 $ 87,352 $ 29,213 $ 18,232 2016 2,188,067 83,701 25,021 17,822 2015 82,965 22,187 15,910 (1) Total assets include long-lived assets, which are primarily located in the U.S. (2) There were no material intercompany revenues between geographic regions for any of the periods presented. (3) Substantially reflects the U.S. 206 Bank of America 2017 Glossary Alt-A Mortgage – A type of U.S. mortgage that is considered riskier Margin Receivable – An extension of credit secured by eligible than A-paper, or “prime,” and less risky than “subprime,” the securities in certain brokerage accounts. riskiest category. Typically, Alt-A mortgages are characterized by borrowers with less than full documentation, lower credit scores Matched Book – Repurchase and resale agreements or securities and higher LTVs. borrowed and loaned transactions where the overall asset and liability position is similar in size and/or maturity. Generally, these Assets in Custody – Consist largely of custodial and nonare entered into to accommodate customers where the discretionary trust assets excluding brokerage assets Corporation earns the interest rate spread. administered for clients. Mortgage Servicing Rights (MSR) – The right to service a mortgage Assets Under Management (AUM) – The total market value of loan when the underlying loan is sold or securitized. Servicing assets under the investment advisory and/or discretion of GWIM includes collections for principal, interest and escrow payments which generate asset management fees based on a percentage from borrowers and accounting for and remitting principal and of the assets’ market values. AUM reflects assets that are interest payments to investors. generally managed for institutional, high net worth and retail clients, and are distributed through various investment products Net Interest Yield – Net interest income divided by average total including mutual funds, other commingled vehicles and separate interest-earning assets. accounts. Nonperforming Loans and Leases – Includes loans and leases that Banking Book – All onand off-balance sheet financial instruments have been placed on nonaccrual status, including nonaccruing of the Corporation except for those positions that are held for loans whose contractual terms have been restructured in a manner trading purposes. that grants a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties. Client Brokerage Assets – Client assets which are held in brokerage accounts. Operating Margin – Income before income taxes divided by total revenue, net of interest expense. Committed Credit Exposure – Any funded portion of a facility plus the unfunded portion of a facility on which the lender is legally Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) – A framework established by the bound to advance funds during a specified period under prescribed U.S. banking regulators requiring banks to maintain certain levels conditions. of regulatory capital ratios, comprised of five categories of capitalization: “well capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” Credit Derivatives – Contractual agreements that provide “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically protection against a specified credit event on one or more undercapitalized.” Insured depository institutions that fail to meet referenced obligations. certain of these capital levels are subject to increasingly strict limits on their activities, including their ability to make capital Credit Valuation Adjustment (CVA) – A portfolio adjustment required distributions, pay management compensation, grow assets and to properly reflect the counterparty credit risk exposure as part of take other actions. the fair value of derivative instruments. Subprime Loans – Although a standard industry definition for Debit Valuation Adjustment (DVA) – A portfolio adjustment required subprime loans (including subprime mortgage loans) does not to properly reflect the Corporation’s own credit risk exposure as exist, the Corporation defines subprime loans as specific product part of the fair value of derivative instruments and/or structured offerings for higher risk borrowers. liabilities. Troubled Debt Restructurings (TDRs) – Loans whose contractual Funding Valuation Adjustment (FVA) – A portfolio adjustment terms have been restructured in a manner that grants a concession required to include funding costs on uncollateralized derivatives to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties. Certain consumer and derivatives where the Corporation is not permitted to use the loans for which a binding offer to restructure has been extended collateral it receives. are also classified as TDRs. Interest Rate Lock Commitment (IRLC) – Commitment with a loan Value-at-Risk (VaR) – VaR is a model that simulates the value of applicant in which the loan terms are guaranteed for a designated a portfolio under a range of hypothetical scenarios in order to period of time subject to credit approval. generate a distribution of potential gains and losses. VaR Letter of Credit – A document issued on behalf of a customer to represents the loss the portfolio is expected to experience with a a third party promising to pay the third party upon presentation of given confidence level based on historical data. A VaR model is specified documents. A letter of credit effectively substitutes the an effective tool in estimating ranges of potential gains and losses issuer’s credit for that of the customer. on our trading portfolios. Loan-to-value (LTV) – A commonly used credit quality metric. LTV is calculated as the outstanding carrying value of the loan divided by the estimated value of the property securing the loan. Bank of America 2017 207 Acronyms ABS Asset-backed securities ICAAP Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process AFS Available-for-sale IMM Internal models methodology ALM Asset and liability management IRLC Interest rate lock commitment AUM Assets under management IRM Independent risk management AVM Automated valuation model ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association, BANA Bank of America, National Association Inc. BHC Bank holding company LCR Liquidity Coverage Ratio bps basis points LGD Loss given default CCAR Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review LHFS Loans held-for-sale CDO Collateralized debt obligation LIBOR London InterBank Offered Rate CDS Credit default swap LTV Loan-to-value CGA Corporate General Auditor MBS Mortgage-backed securities CLO Collateralized loan obligation MD&A Management’s Discussion and Analysis of CLTV Combined loan-to-value Financial Condition and Results of Operations MLGWM Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management CVA Credit valuation adjustment MLI Merrill Lynch International DIF Deposit Insurance Fund MLPCC Merrill Lynch Professional Clearing Corp DVA Debit valuation adjustment MLPF&S Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith EAD Exposure at Default Incorporated EPS Earnings per common share MRC Management Risk Committee ERC Enterprise Risk Committee MSA Metropolitan Statistical Area FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board MSR Mortgage servicing right FCA Financial Conduct Authority NSFR Net Stable Funding Ratio FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation OAS Option-adjusted spread FHA Federal Housing Administration OCC Office of the Comptroller of the Currency FHLB Federal Home Loan Bank OCI Other comprehensive income FHLMC Freddie Mac OREO Other real estate owned FICC Fixed-income, currencies and commodities OTC Over-the-counter FICO Fair Isaac Corporation (credit score) OTTI Other-than-temporary impairment FLUs Front line units PCA Prompt Corrective Action FNMA Fannie Mae PCI Purchased credit-impaired FTE Fully taxable-equivalent PPI Payment protection insurance FVA Funding valuation adjustment RMBS Residential mortgage-backed securities GAAP Accounting principles generally accepted in the RSU Restricted stock unit United States of America SBLC Standby letter of credit GLS Global Liquidity Sources SEC Securities and Exchange Commission GM&CA Global Marketing and Corporate Affairs SLR Supplementary leverage ratio GNMA Government National Mortgage Association TDR Troubled debt restructurings GSE Government-sponsored enterprise TLAC Total loss-absorbing capacity G-SIB Global systemically important bank TTF Time-to-required funding GWIM Global Wealth & Investment Management VA U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs HELOC Home equity line of credit VaR Value-at-Risk HQLA High Quality Liquid Assets VIE Variable interest entity HTM Held-to-maturity 208 Bank of America 2017 Disclosure Controls and Procedures Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries As of the end of the period covered by this report and pursuant to Bank of America’s disclosure controls and procedures were Rule 13a-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange effective, as of the end of the period covered by this report, in Act), Bank of America’s management, including the Chief Executive recording, processing, summarizing and reporting information Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the required to be disclosed by the Corporation in reports that it files effectiveness and design of our disclosure controls and or submits under the Exchange Act, within the time periods procedures (as that term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and Exchange Act). Based upon that evaluation, Bank of America’s forms. Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that Bank of America 2017 209 Bank of America 2017 209 Executive Management Team and Board of Directors Bank of America Corporation Executive Management Team Board of Directors Brian T. Moynihan* Brian T. Moynihan Monica C. Lozano Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer, College Futures Foundation; Bank of America Corporation Former Chairman, Dean C. Athanasia* US Hispanic Media Inc. President, Preferred and Jack O. Bovender, Jr. Small Business Banking, and Lead Independent Director, Thomas J. May Co-head, Consumer Banking Bank of America Corporation; Former Chairman and Former Chairman Chief Executive Officer, Catherine P. Bessant* and Chief Executive Officer, Eversource Energy; Chief Operations and Technology Officer HCA Inc. Chairman, Viacom, Inc. Sheri B. Bronstein Sharon L. Allen Lionel L. Nowell, III Global Human Resources Executive Former Chairman, Former Senior Vice President Deloitte LLP and Treasurer, PepsiCo, Inc. Paul M. Donofrio* Chief Financial Officer Susan S. Bies Michael D. White Former Member, Former Chairman, President and Anne M. Finucane Board of Governors of the Chief Executive Officer, DIRECTV Vice Chairman Federal Reserve System Thomas D. Woods Geoffrey S. Greener* Frank P. Bramble, Sr. Former Vice Chairman and Senior Chief Risk Officer Former Executive Vice Chairman, Executive Vice President, MBNA Corporation Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce Christine P. Katziff Corporate General Auditor Pierre J. P. de Weck R. David Yost Former Chairman and Former Chief Executive Officer, Terrence P. Laughlin* Global Head of Private AmerisourceBergen Corporation Vice Chairman and Head of Wealth Management, Global Wealth & Investment Deutsche Bank AG Maria T. Zuber Management Vice President for Research and E. A. Arnold W. Donald Griswold Professor of Geophysics, David G. Leitch* President and Massachusetts Institute of Technology Global General Counsel Chief Executive Officer, Carnival Corporation and Thomas K. Montag* Carnival plc Chief Operating Officer Linda P. Hudson Thong M. Nguyen* Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, President, Retail Banking, The Cardea Group, LLC; and Co-head, Consumer Banking Former President and Chief Executive Officer, Andrea B. Smith* BAE Systems, Inc. Chief Administrative Officer Bruce R. Thompson Vice Chairman * Executive Officer 210 Bank of America 2017 210 Bank of America 2017 Corporate Information Bank of America Corporation Headquarters Annual Report on Form 10-K The principal executive offices of Bank of America Corporation The Corporation’s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K is available (the Corporation) are located in the Bank of America Corporate at http://investor.bankofamerica.com. The Corporation also will Center, 100 North Tryon Street, Charlotte, NC 28255. provide a copy of the 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K (without exhibits) upon written request addressed to: Stock Listing Bank of America Corporation The Corporation’s common stock is listed on the New York Office of the Corporate Secretary Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol BAC. The stock is Hearst Tower, 214 North Tryon Street typically listed as BankAm in newspapers. As of December 31, NC1-027-20-05 2017, there were 175,958 registered holders of the Corporation’s Charlotte, NC 28255 common stock. Shareholder Inquiries Investor Relations For inquiries concerning dividend checks, electronic deposit of Analysts, portfolio managers and other investors seeking dividends, dividend reinvestment, tax statements, electronic additional information about Bank of America stock should delivery, transferring ownership, address changes or lost or stolen contact our Equity Investor Relations group at 1.704.386.5681 stock certificates, contact Bank of America Shareholder or i_r@bankofamerica.com. For additional information about Services at Computershare Trust Company, N.A. via the Internet Bank of America from a credit perspective, including debt and at www.computershare.com/bac; call 1.800.642.9855; or write to preferred securities, contact our Fixed Income Investor Relations P.O. Box 505005, Louisville, KY 40233. For general shareholder group at 1.866.607.1234 or fixedincomeir@bankofamerica.com. information, contact Bank of America Office of the Corporate Visit the Investor Relations area of the Bank of America website, Secretary at 1.800.521.3984. Shareholders outside of the United http://investor.bankofamerica.com, for stock and dividend States and Canada may call 1.781.575.2621. information, financial news releases, links to Bank of America SEC filings, electronic versions of our annual reports and other items of interest to the Corporation’s shareholders. Electronic Delivery ongoing commitment As part of our ongoing commitment to reduce paper to reduce paper consumption, consumption, we offer electronic methods for customer communications communications and and Customers transactions. Customers Customers can can sign up to sign up to receive receive online online statements statements For assistance with Bank of America products and services, call through through their their Bank Bank of America or of America or Merrill Merrill Lynch Lynch account account website. website. 1.800.432.1000, or visit the Bank of America website at In In 2012, 2012, wewe adopted adopted the the SEC’s SEC’s Notice and Access rule, which allows www.bankofamerica.com. Additional toll-free numbers for specific Notice certain and Access issuers rule, which to inform allows certain shareholders of theissuers to inform electronic availability products and services are listed on our website at shareholders of the electronic availability of Proxy materials, www.bankofamerica.com/contact. of Proxy materials, including the Annual Report, which significantly including the Annual Report, which significantly reduced the reduced the number of printed copies we produce and mail to number of printed copies we produce and mail to shareholders. shareholders. still Shareholders Shareholders receiving printed copiesprinted still receiving can joincopies can join our efforts by News Media News media seeking information should visit our online our efforts by electing to receive an electing to receive an electronic copy of the Annual Report Annual electronic copy of the and Proxy and ProxyIfmaterials. Reportmaterials. you have an If you have maintained account an account in your namein maintained newsroom at http://newsroom.bankofamerica.com for news your at name at Computershare Computershare Investor Investor Services, youServices, may sign youupmay sign up for this releases, press kits and other items relating to the Corporation, including a complete list of the Corporation’s media relations service for this at service at www.computershare.com/bac. www.computershare.com/bac. If yourare If your shares held are shares by specialists grouped by business specialty or geography. aheld broker, or bank broker, by a bank otheror other nominee, you mayyou nominee, may elect to elect receive receive an to an electronic copy of the Proxy Proxy materials materials online online at at www.proxyvote.com, or contact your broker. broker Bank of America 2017 211 Bank of America 2017 211 212 Bank of America 2017 Investment products: Are Not FDIC Insured Are Not Bank Guaranteed May Lose Value “Bank of America Merrill Lynch” is the marketing name for the global banking and global markets businesses of Bank of America Corporation. Lending, derivatives and other commercial banking activities are performed globally by banking affiliates of Bank of America Corporation, including Bank of America, N.A., Member FDIC. Securities, strategic advisory, and other investment banking activities are performed globally by investment banking affiliates of Bank of America Corporation (“Investment Banking Affiliates”), including, in the United States, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Merrill Lynch Professional Clearing Corp., both of which are registered as broker-dealers and Members of SIPC, and, in other jurisdictions, by locally registered entities. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Merrill Lynch Professional Clearing Corp. are registered as futures commission merchants with the CFTC and are members of the NFA. Global Wealth and Investment Management is a division of Bank of America Corporation (“BofA Corp.”). Merrill Lynch Wealth Management, Merrill Edge®, U.S. Trust, and Bank of America Merrill Lynch are affiliated sub-divisions within Global Wealth and Investment Management. Merrill Lynch makes available products and services offered by Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (“MLPF&S”) and other subsidiaries of BofA Corp. Merrill Edge is available through MLPF&S, and consists of the Merrill Edge Advisory Center (investment guidance) and self-directed online investing. U.S. Trust, Bank of America Private Wealth Management operates through Bank of America, N.A., and other subsidiaries of BofA Corp. Bank of America Merrill Lynch is a marketing name for the Retirement Services businesses of BofA Corp. Banking products are provided by Bank of America, N.A., and affiliated banks, Members FDIC and wholly owned subsidiaries of BofA Corp. Zelle and Zelle related marks are wholly owned by Early Warning Services, LLC and are used herein under license. Transfers require enrollment in the service and must be made from a Bank of America consumer checking or savings account to a domestic bank account or debit card. Recipients have 14 days to register to receive money or the transfer will be canceled. It may take 1 to 3 business days to complete the first transfer to a newly registered recipient. After that, future transfers between registered users will typically be completed within minutes. We will send you an email alert with delivery details immediately after you schedule the transfer. Dollar and frequency limits apply. See the Online Banking Service Agreement for details, including cut-off and delivery times. Data connection required. Wireless carrier charges may apply. Please recycle. The annual report is printed on 30% post-consumer waste (PCW) recycled paper. © 2018 Bank of America Corporation. All rights reserved. © 2018 Bank of America Corporation 00-04-1375B 3/2018
