CR Report Corporate responsibility in PFA activities and results for 2017 PFA · C R report 2017 1 Corporate responsibility in PFA activities and results for 2017 Contents 100 years of experience and commitment ..................................................................................... 5 PFA in figures and overview of 2017 ............................................................................................. 6 Policy and strategy directs PFA’s corporate responsibility ................................................................ 8 CR strategy status of the 2017 activities ........................................................................................ 10 PFA’s CR efforts 2018 .................................................................................................................. 12 Responsible value creation ............................................................................................................. 14 Society .......................................................................................................................................... 20 Customers ..................................................................................................................................... 25 Employees ..................................................................................................................................... 30 About this report ........................................................................................................................... 32 CR key figures and facts ................................................................................................................. 36 Implementation of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compacts – an overview ............................. 41 Implementation of the recommendations of the Committee on Corporate Governance for active ownership .... 42 Responsible value creation ............................................................................................................. 44 Society .......................................................................................................................................... 47 Customers ..................................................................................................................................... 53 Employees ..................................................................................................................................... 54 The photos in this report The photos in this report show organisations and projects that have been elected as the 2018 causes and have received financial support from PFA Brug Livet Fonden. Photos by photographer Jakob Dall. Photo on page 13 by Lisbeth Grønhøj Terp. Front page: Gigtramte Børns Forældreforening TRANSLATION: This is a translation of PFA Holding’s Corporate Responsibility report 2017 in Danish. In case of any discrepancy between the Danish text and the English translation, the Danish text shall prevail. 4 PFA · C R report 2017 100 years of experience and commitment An anniversary year leaving many new footprints in society In many ways, 2017 was a special year for PFA. We celebrated our 100th anniversary, which was marked for the benefit of both customers and society. During the year, we initiated a number of activities aiming to contribute positively to the development of society. The outcome of the activities is described in this report, which details the results for the year of our work with corporate responsibility and engagement in the development of society. The involvement of our employees and customers is This way, PFA’s corporate responsibility covers a wide an essential part of our dealing with corporate responfield. Our basis for acting as a responsible compasibility and contributing with solutions regarding a ny is the UN Global Compact and the international number of important subjects. The subjects include conventions and principles on which there is globhealth and preventive measures, inspiration for a good al consensus. We find that this is the best approach senior life and communication of savings trends to the when we, in the capacity as company, investor and various age groups. 100 years of experience makes us business partner, are to communicate what we stand liable to engage in the development of society – and for and what we expect from our cooperative relations. we feel strongly about doing so. To mark the anniversary, we, among other things, launched the Think Tank We anticipate a new and exciting 2018, when we once – The New 3rd Age, which has contributed with recomagain give priority to a number of new efforts which mendations to how the individual will ensure the best will benefit our customers, society and employees well. possible life as a senior citizen towards 2040. Also, we We look forward to a year with constructive customput savings on the agenda injecting humour and satire er dialogues, responsible investments, intense debates into a new campaign based on the Pension Estimaand a continued commitment in Danish society. tor. The campaign was intended as a helping hand to those who rarely consider the subject – be it because it is difficult to understand or because it is not considered that relevant. Please enjoy reading. In 2017, we combined our efforts in a Corporate Responsibility strategy entitled 'Investing in a sustainYours sincerely able society 2017-2020'. The work with responsible investments and the respect for climate, environment Allan Polack and human rights were key elements of the total stratGroup CEO egy. This year, we have worked on realising the 15 focus areas of the strategy. For instance, we have, in dialogue with a number of stakeholders, prepared and published our method to ensure that the Paris Agreement on reduction of greenhouse gases is integrated into our investment processes. This report provides more detailed information about the subject. PFA · C R report 2017 5 PFA in figures and overview of 2017 70,000 Pension consultations (face-to-face, phone, online and seminars) 2016: 70,000 1.7 million 310 Visitors at My PFA Customers returned to work with Up by 600,000 our help The number has increased by 247, as the implementation of PFA EarlyCare® is included approximately 1.2 million Individual customers 2016 1.2 million 138 485,341 Cases handled by the Customer Representative Calls to PFA's Advisory Services incl. proactive cases Centre and Health Centre Up by 20 Up by 5,583 calls 8.9 Customer satisfaction Measured on the basis of 229,112 calls to PFA's Advisory Services Centre 6 PFA · C R report 2017 CO2 81.6 1,894 tons Employee satisfaction Up by 289 tons Up by 1.6 according to the index 36 per cent 232 tons Women in management Total amount of waste Down by 5 per cent. Reduced by 49 tons 1,296 Employees (average number of full-time employees) Up by 20 DKK 34.0 billion DKK 9.4 billion Payments Total taxes paid by PFA 2016: DKK 31.8 billion 2016: DKK 8.6 billion Pension DKK 20.5 billion Insurance DKK 2.0 billion Payouts Pension: 2016: DKK 16.2 billion Insurance: 2016: DKK 2.2 billion PFA · C R report 2017 7 Policy and strategy directs PFA's corporate responsibility PFA’s policies on corporate responsibility and responsible investments as well as the CR strategy 'Investing in a sustainable society 2017-2020' define the target for PFA’s contribution to the development of society and indicate its direction. At the same time, PFA’s efforts contribute to support some of the UN’s Global Goals for sustainable development. PFA’s CR efforts are based on the objective of realising PFA contributes to five of the UN's Global Goals the 15 goals that were defined in the 2017 CR stratAs part of the work on the CR strategy, PFA has egy. The report describes the work on the efforts and given priority to particularly five of the UN’s 17 the evaluation in order to fix new goals for 2018. The Global Goals for sustainable development, as they strategic efforts are the means by which PFA’s corpoare a natural fit with PFA’s core business. In 2020, rate responsibility policy and the policy for responsible we will prepare an overall status of PFA’s contribuinvestments are implemented. We are focusing on tions to the goals. The UN’s Global Goals cover the efforts that match PFA’s core business, and which can years 2015-2030 and PFA has given priority to the contribute to the development in society with maximum following goals: effect. Four key areas of PFA’s corporate responsibility PFA’s corporate responsibility policy is based on PFA’s role as company, investor and employer. It defines the way in which we want to assume responsibility in society. Our corporate responsibility is based on four focus areas: Responsible value creation, Customers, Society and Employees. The focus areas are key to linking policy, strategy and efforts together. This way, we can summarise the year’s activities and results in PFA’s annual corporate responsibility report. The focus areas form the basis of specific activities, including activities related to PFA's objective to contribute to the UN’s Global Goals for sustainable development. PFA bases corporate responsibility on international conventions and guidelines PFA’s corporate responsibility policy is built on international principles and conventions. The work is based on observing: • The UN Global Compact’s ten principles for responsible corporate behaviour focusing on human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. PFA joined the principles in 2009. • The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights which became part of PFA's corporate responsibility policy in 2016. • The Paris Agreement on reduction of greenhouse gases. This was incorporated in PFA's corporate responsibility policy in 2016. • The six UN-backed principles for responsible investments, where PFA reentered the organisation Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) in 2016. 8 PFA · C R report 2017 MusikBeRiget Selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2017 causes. PFA · C R report 2017 9 CR strategy status of the 2017 activities In 2017, PFA’s corporate responsibility started with As for the strategy, 10 of the efforts consisted in activworking on the 15 prioritised efforts for 2017 which ities that were initiated in 2017. The remaining four are described in the CR strategy. The 14 efforts are efforts were continuations of already initiated efforts. either fully realised or in satisfactory process, and they The realised efforts are described in this report under are further described below. The efforts concerning the relevant sections. They are briefly mentioned in measurement of PFA’s contribution regarding five of the total status to create an overview. We also briefthe UN's Global Goals will not be settled until 2020, ly describe the initiated efforts in this overview. At the when the total results and the effects of the CR stratesame time, they will form part of the prioritised efforts gy will be reported. for 2018, which are described on page 12. Overview of the work with 15 focus areas in 2017 Below, we briefly describe what has been accomplished for the individual efforts, and on which page they are described in the report. CR activities broken down by area Status at end-2017 Responsible value creation Developing investment processes that focus on ensuring that the Method and guidelines used carbon emissions comply with the Paris Agreement. Including prefor implementing the Paris 1. paring a method to identify companies which work against the Agreement in the investment Paris Agreement and initiating a dialogue with selected carbon process have been prepared. intensive sectors. Read more on page 16. Method and action plan used Publishing a plan of action and method of application of the UN for implementing the UN guiding 2. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights in the investprinciples in the investment proment process, beginning the implementation in selected sectors cess have been prepared. Read and communicating about the progress of the work. more on page 18. Alternative investments, Integrating policy and principles for responsible investments in property investments and property investments and alternative investments and ensuring 3. responsible tax practice are that ‘responsible tax’ is integrated into screening of and active integrated into the annual ownership dialogue with companies in our company portfolio. cycle for PFA’s RI Board. Renovation of the domicile with sizable reuse, new systems, which will reduce the The planning of the renovation of PFA’s domicile will concentrate carbon emissions from the 4. on ensuring a healthy working environment for the employees and building and tests of differa sizeable reuse of the existing building stock. ent office environments made available to the employees. The project continues in 2018. Activity completed Activity continues Activity postponed to 2020 10 PFA · C R report 2017 CR activities broken down by area Status at end-2017 Society 5. Establishing a think tank on the third age in order to contribute to The Think Tank – The New 3rd Age the public debate with potential solutions allowing for increased life was established, see page 20. expectancy. PFA is participating in a pilot proMapping out potential use of properties and material in a more ject about temporary use/rental of 6. energy and resource-efficient way. a property. The project continues in 2018. Benchmarking PFA’s contribution Benchmarking PFA’s efforts against five of the UN's Global Goals against five of the UN's Global Goals 7. to which PFA has given priority. to which PFA has given priority will be postponed to 2020. Customers PFA’s focus on communicating about 8. pension is described on page 25. The Increasing knowledge about pension, targeting communication to Pension Estimator was relaunched specific groups and relaunching the Pension Estimator. through a new campaign, see page 25. Initiated a partnership on stress Mapping out the possibilities of cooperation with external experts management, read more on page 9. and suppliers to ensure better expertise and more options when it 26. Efforts and dialogue on new comes to helping the individual return safely and securely to work partnerships continue in 2018. after an illness or an accident. Employees After-work-meetings on the work 10. Involving employees in specific projects through after-work meeton PFA’s think tank, etc. The efforts ings, mentor systems, etc. continue in 2018. PFA has prepared a health strate11. Revitalising PFA’s own health strategy. gy for the employees. The strategy is described on page 31. Continuation of existing initiatives Responsible investments: Holding minimum 10 Responsible 12. Investment Board meetings per year with focus on investment PFA’s RI Board is described on page 14. screening, active ownership dialogue with companies and communication about the progress of the work. 13. Working on Code of Conduct during the process of concluding PFA’s Code of Conduct is described contracts as part of responsible procurement. on page 19. 14. Supporting and cooperating with associations and projects which PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s activities are are elected by PFA Brug Livet Fonden. described on page 23. Dialogue with NGOs and customers is 15. Organised NGO and customer dialogue about prioritised efforts described on page 15 and 25. Page within corporate responsibility. 44 contains a list of the structured dialogue on responsible investments. Activity completed Activity continues Activity postponed to 2020 PFA · C R report 2017 11 PFA’s CR efforts 2018 PFA regularly evaluates the priority of the efforts in the corporate responsibility area, as a need for dealing with new subjects may arise in existing processes. In connection with the evaluation of the prioritised efforts for 2017, we have identified new goals and efforts for 2018. The new efforts are assessed in relation to areas in the CR strategy 'Investing in a sustainable society 2017which PFA would be able to contribute in the best pos2020'. We will continue prioritising activities in which sible way to the development of society. At the same PFA’s operation may have a possible influence on societime, we have assessed the areas in which PFA may ty and where we can contribute with specific knowledge negatively affect the environment, human rights and and qualifications. society. In 2018, we will review the efforts and define new The basis of PFA’s future work with corporate responefforts for 2019, and we will also in 2018 report on the sibility will be determined in 2018. At the same time, progress of the work on implementing the strategy. a total communication strategy will include the goals that can contribute to PFA’s work on responsibility and support the continued development of our reputation. 2018 is the second year of the work with implementing CR strategy — Investing in a sustainable society 2017-2020 15 specific focus areas for 2018 Responsible value creation Customers 1. Prepare a total revised tax policy for the PFA 8. Help senior employees and companies secure a Group. better transition from working life to life in retire2. Review the work on voting at listed companies’ ment. general meetings. 9. Establish a private customer panel to bring for3. Prepare a method of implementing the Paris ward a better customer experience and digital Agreement in PFA’s property portfolio and continsolutions as well as to revitalise PFA Health ue the focus on climate and employee satisfaction Forum. during the renovation of PFA’s domicile. 4. Implement PFA’s climate screening model for listed Employees companies and efforts for 2018 in the action plan to ensure that the UN Guiding Principles on Busi10. Establish a diversity policy and revise internal ness and Human Rights are implemented in the guidelines to ensure that PFA complies with the investment process. standards to preventing and protecting employees against corruption and bribery. Society 11. Strategic partnerships with organisations that help groups of people where particular employee 5. A pilot project with focus on a more resource-efficompetences are called on. cient use of properties. 6. Strategic partnerships with focus on bringing PFA’s Continuation of existing initiatives data and experience on the health area into play. 7. Launch the recommendations for the good life in 12. Responsible investments: Holding a minimum of the third age from the Think Tank – The New 3rd 10 RI Board meetings. Age and make the recommendations come alive. 13. Work with Code of Conduct in the process of concluding contracts. 14. Select the PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s causes of the year, cooperate with the causes and coordinate the foundation’s activities at the Folkemødet. 15. Organised NGO and customer dialogue about prioritised corporate responsibility efforts. 12 PFA · C R report 2017 WutomiAgri Selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2017 causes. wutomiagri.wordpress.com PFA · C R report 2017 13 Responsible value creation Investment funds DKK 594 billion Total return on investments DKK 26,3 billion Excluded countries / Excluded companies 3 / 34 Responsibility is one of PFA’s fundamental values, and responsible value creation is a key element in PFA’s CR strategy ‘Investing in a sustainable society 2017-2020’. As a responsible investor, PFA aspires to generate a high and long-term investment return, where the customers can trust that their savings are invested with respect for human beings, the environment and internationally recognised conventions. Responsibility is also a key parameter when PFA enters into contracts. This is the reason why we have a Code of Conduct which is integrated into the process of concluding contracts and it is thus a part of our dialogue with business partners. Policy for responsible investments Responsible Investment Board The policy for responsible investments is based on PFA’s Responsible Investment Board (RI Board) held 10 PFA’s compliance with the international UN convenmeetings in 2017 which focused on the implementations and principles, including the six UN-backed tion of PFA’s policy for responsible investments. During Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), the UN the year, PFA and Global Engagement Services (GES) Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights have been in dialogue with a number of companies, and the Paris Agreement on global reduction of and the RI Board has been assessing the progress of greenhouse gases. PFA focuses on translating the these cases on an ongoing basis. Furthermore, the international conventions into action in PFA, on acquirBoard has prepared guidelines for PFA’s approach to ing the necessary data and on integrating it in the ensuring that both the Paris Agreement and the UN processes of the investment area. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights are integrated into the investment process. This is PFA’s policy for responsible investments was updated described on page 16. in 2017 in order to ensure that PFA complies with the recommendations of active ownership from the DanPFA gives priority to dialogue with stakeholders. Thereish Committee on Corporate Governance. In connection fore, the board has during the year held meetings with with the update, we added an expectation of the a number of organisations in order to deal with particucompanies in which PFA invests to act responsibly in lar subjects and ensure that the work with responsible terms of tax, and PFA screens the companies to assess investments progresses. The subjects of interest are, whether they comply with OECD’s BEPS measures on for instance, the rights of the Native Americans in concorrect tax payment and whether they pursue responnection with the Dakota Access Pipeline, investments sible tax practices. in tobacco shares and responsible tax practice. In 2018, the Board will maintain its focus on responsible tax and voting at international companies’ general meetings. PFA offers investments in sustainable investment fund At the end of 2017, PFA’s customers were given the opportunity to invest in the fund ‘UBS Globale Bæredygtige Aktier’ (UBS Global Sustainable Shares) through You Invest. The fund was selected because it had generated the best return and is based on a best-in-class approach to sustainable investments. This implied excluding tobacco and weapon investments. Also, the fund is investing in long-term alternatives such as energy, water and health. The work with selecting the investments for the fund is taking place as a parallel to PFA’s dialogue with customers and organisations on tobacco shares, etc. 14 PFA · C R report 2017 Active ownership in 2017 PFA wants to be an active owner in the companies in During the year, we closed our dialogue with Synwhich we are investing. Active ownership covers vargenta. The dialogue began in 2014 and focused ious activities such as monitoring and screening of on unacceptable conditions in Syngenta’s supplier investments, dialogue with companies, voting and chain. The purpose of the dialogue was to assess the possible divestment and exclusion. In the section company’s measures, as Syngenta initiated a multi below, we describe a number of the activities, wherestakeholder consultation and later two pilot projects in as you can find the specific data in the data section of India. The company’s focus in these activities has been the report on page 44. to improve the processes in order to ensure payment of minimum wages in the supplier chain. Meanwhile, Monitoring and screening of companies and countries Syngenta was taken over and is no longer listed on the PFA is consulting Global Engagement Services (GES) stock exchange. PFA no longer has any investments in for screening of possible violations of PFA’s policy for the company. responsible investments. If a violation of the policy is suspected in a company in which PFA invests, GES will We cooperate with other investors about dialogue investigate the case and enter into dialogue with the with companies to enhance the effect of the comcompany about compliance with the international conpany dialogue. This is the case in the PRI as well as ventions on which our policy is based. in the Nordic Engagement Cooperation (NEC), which PFA became a member of in the autumn 2017. It is We are evaluating the results of our dialogue with expected that, in 2018, the members of the NEC will GES on an ongoing basis. The purpose is to determine put focus on identifying potential violations of human whether there is progress in the dialogue, or whethand labour rights in a specific sector which is not being er we, alone or together with other investors, should addressed adequately at present. enter into dialogue with a company in order to push the development towards compliance with PFA’s poliDuring the year, we have held meetings with external cy for responsible investments. In 2017, GES assessed managers from Denmark, England and USA in order 209 cases that indicated violation of the policy for to discuss the progress of their work on responsible responsible investments among the companies in our investments. At the meetings, specific companies were investment portfolios. discussed in order to deal with potential violations of PFA’s policy for responsible investments, and the manPFA screens and analyses its own investments in forager’s momentum of dialogue with the companies was eign government bonds based on PFA’s method and also addressed. guidelines for responsible investments in government bonds. PFA does not enter into engagement dialogues with countries, as this is considered to be a foreign policy issue. In 2017, there has been particular focus on Venezuela, which was subject to a negative development both politically and economically. The country is experiencing an increasing pressure from its population Nordic Engagement Coorporation and the international society after a controversial eleccooperation on dialogue with companies tion in 2017. We have decided to keep our investments PFA became a member of the NEC in 2017. The in Venezuelan government bonds and we follow the other members are: Folksam (Sweden), KLP (Nordevelopment in the international dialogue with the govway) and Ilmarinen (Finland). The membership of ernment towards a stabilisation. the NEC makes it possible to cooperate on a dialogue with companies and in this way, we can Active ownership dialogue with companies and strengthen our influence. The NEC members meet managers four times a year to discuss momentum in the In 2017, GES engaged in dialogue with 89 companies dialogue with companies, determine possible new in PFA’s portfolio on 109 cases of which 10 cases condialogues and close existing dialogues once the cerning verified violations of PFA’s policy were solved fixed goals have been achieved. The NEC prepares by a change of the companies’ practice. PFA was in a report every year which describes the work on direct dialogue with 13 companies on potential vioactive ownership under the framework of the NEC. lations of PFA’s policy for responsible investments. The development in the dialogue is updated regularly through our log of active ownership at pfa.dk. PFA · C R report 2017 15 Exclusion How the Paris Agreement is implemented in PFA PFA excludes companies when violations of PFA’s policy In 2017, PFA has prepared guidelines and a methfor responsible investments are considered to be presod for the implementation of the Paris Agreement ent and when we have not succeeded in exerting our in the investment process. This is made based influence through dialogue with the company in queson a constructive dialogue with, among others, tion. An assessment of a possible exclusion follows the WWF-Denmark. A variety of data and methods exist process of PFA’s guidelines for exclusion. In 2017, we for measurement of companies’ carbon emissions, excluded the US-based company Energy Transfer Equity and it has not been finally settled how much carbon and its subsidiary Energy Transfer Partners. The reason investors are allowed to emit while complying with for the exclusion is that the company did not want to the goals fixed in the Paris Agreement. Consequententer into dialogue with PFA about its communication ly, we developed our own method in 2017 which with the Native Americans in connection with the Dakoincludes data from three different suppliers. ta Access Pipeline project in the USA. Furthermore, we removed L3 Technologies Inc. from the exclusion list, The method includes PFA’s listed shares and bonds, after the company had confirmed that it was no longer and it is meant to ensure a data-based approach to associated with the production of cluster munitions. the assessment of a number of different parameters concerning the companies’ carbon and environmental impact. The method includes three steps as shown in the figure on the next page: • Step one consists of a mapping of the carbon emission of the total portfolio. • Step two consists of PFA’s own climate screening which includes all companies which are either comprised by an energy-intensive industry, or which emits excessive amounts of carbon compared to the sector. The screening includes, among other Example on dialogue with companies things, the present emission, the percentage of involved in the Dakota Access Pipeline proreserves and the company’s possibilities within ject application of sustainable energy sources. In March 2017, the UN’s Special Rapporteur • Step three focuses on companies in which climate issued a report describing how the Native Amerscreening shows no focus on the company’s imicans’ rights were violated in connection with pact on the climate or on companies which have the construction of the Dakota Access Pipenot addressed their consumption of energy or set line (DAPL), North Dakota, USA. At the time in any targets for the carbon emissions or the way in question, PFA held investments in Phillips 66, which they contribute to the green transition. This Enbridge, Energy Transfer Equity (ETE) and its is done by preparing company-specific qualitative subsidiary Energy Transfer Partners (ETP), and analyses and assessing whether the investment in was attempting to open a dialogue with the comthe company complies with the targets defined in panies as a result of the UN report. As the only the Paris Agreement. company, ETE chose not to respond to our dialogue request. Therefore, we later decided to The method is accessible at pfa.dk and will regularly exclude ETE and ETP, as we did not succeed in be integrated in the investment process for which we establishing a constructive dialogue. have also put focus on contributing to the green tranPFA is still in dialogue with and holds investments sition through investments in energy-efficient projects in Phillips 66 and Enbridge two companies such as solar and wind power. which have minority investments in the company behind DAPL. The dialogue concerns both PFA’s expectations of 2018 are to create a broad clithe companies’ own processes, policies for conmate focus on investments, ensure better data and sulting local stakeholders and their possibility of qualitative analyses, create further dialogue with a influencing the company behind DAPL by making number of companies, and cooperate in international use of their influence. forums on the impact on climate. 16 PFA · C R report 2017 How the Paris Agreement is implemented in PFA PFA’s listed shares and bonds 1 Carbon mapping 2 PFA’s climate screening 3 Qualitative company analysis No further carbon analysis One of PFA’s goals for 2018 is to prepare a method The analysis showed that PFA is well-placed when it and map out possible scenarios for embedding comcomes to the two degree scenario as our share portpliance with the Paris Agreement into our property folio have had twice as big an exposure to renewable portfolio. An increasing property portfolio, nationalenergy compared to a two degree scenario. The anally as well as globally, requires a methodology which is ysis also showed that we have less coal, oil and gas based on the data available in the area. The mapping compared to the expected percentage under the replaces recent years’ focus on the energy consumpapplied two degree scenario. According to the scenario tion in the Danish property portfolio, as focus is now analysis, the maximum exposure to oil for an investor spread out on the entire portfolio. of PFA’s size would be 3 million barrels of oil, where our exposure was under 2 million barrels. PFA’s investMembership of the Institutional Investors Group ments in the car industry indicated that there was an on Climate Change (IIGCC) overexposure of car manufacturers making cars with In 2017, PFA signed up for a membership in the intercombustion engines. This exposure is expected to national climate organisation IIGCC. The membership change as more car manufacturers plan for production makes it possible for us to cooperate with other of electric cars. investors in putting climate on the global agenda and securing consistent climate legislation in the EU and PFA’s carbon emissions in the share portfolio in worldwide. 2017 PFA emits less carbon than our benchmark index. Cooperation on climate scenario analysis This is demonstrated in our mapping of the carbon PFA has participated in a European project prepared emissions from PFA’s share portfolio in 2017. The by the WWF. Among other things, the think tank 2 difference is primarily due to our investments in comDegrees Investing Initiative carried out a climate scepanies in the supply sector which are emitting less nario analysis of our share portfolio. The purpose was carbon than their competitors. The calculation is made to assess whether the companies in which we invest on the basis of normalised data for emission of carbon comply with the ambition outlined in the Paris Agreeper million USD invested in the respective sectors. The ment to limiting global warming to maximum two purpose of this method of calculation is to focus on degrees Celsius. the primary sources of carbon emissions and on the relationship between PFA’s portfolio and the benchmark index. Case PFA invests in the world’s biggest offshore wind farm – Walney Extension In 2017, we invested in the world’s biggest offshore wind farm, Walney Extension. The Danish energy company Ørsted holds an equity interest of 50 per cent, while PFA holds an equity interest of 25 per cent. The wind farm has a total capacity of 659 MW and is thus able to provide electricity from renewable energy sources to more than half a million UK homes. The wind farm is situated in the Irish Sea approximately 19 km from Walney Island in Cumbria in the north western England and it covers an area of 145 km2. PFA · C R report 2017 17 PFA’s carbon emissions in the share portfolio in 2017 compared to the benchmark index 15% 30% 14% 18% 23% Utility companies Utility Raw material Industry Energy companies and materials Raw material and materials Industry PFA Benchmark index Energy All other sectors Implementation of the UN Guiding Principles on developed our own heat map based on a number of Business and Human Rights company-specific measurement points relative to the It is one of PFA’s objectives to implement the UN Guidnegative impact on society. The measurement points ing Principles on Business and Human Rights in the allow for, among other things, whether the screening investment process. During 2017, we therefore prehas proved that the company is violating the OECD’s pared guidelines for the area as well as a method and and the UN’s guidelines, the actual number of vioan action plan. These are accessible at pfa.dk. The lations of the international guidelines found in the purpose is to ensure that the due diligence process, company and whether the company has a human which is key to the UN guiding principles, is embedrights policy. ded in PFA’s investment process. This was based on a constructive dialogue with a number of stakeholders The method covers different scenarios for how PFA as including Mellemfolkeligt Samvirke (MS) – ActionAid. a minority shareholder or owner with controlling influence must act with regard to companies that have a The due diligence concept included in the UN guidnegative impact on human rights and society. Active ing principles is also a part of the OECD’s guidelines ownership dialogue, openness on progress in the diafor multinational companies. The guidelines are based logue and cooperation with other investors about on the work that companies and investors do to inteexerting influence on a company are the areas that grate due diligence processes into their policies and PFA has brought into focus in its work with the UN management systems. For that reason, PFA now has guiding principles. The action plan describes the asset an overall approach to mapping the risks of the portclasses to which priority is given in 2018 and 2019. folio of causing, contributing to or being directly linked The order of priority is primarily justified by PFA’s interto an existing or potential negative impact on human nal efforts to include some data and new processes rights, environment and climate. The approach also which will be subject to evaluation before new asset includes the way in which we want to act to address classes can be included. and prevent negative impact. As an investor, it is difficult to gain an overview of the negative impact that a portfolio of several thousand companies may have. Therefore, we have 18 PFA · C R report 2017 PFA’s work on implementing the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights in the investment process • Mapping areas in which PFA as an investor may cause, contribute to or be directly linked to negative impact on society through our investments. • Giving priority to the efforts to implement the UN guiding principles with focus on cases in which a negative impact has been demonstrated or in which an impact of disproportionate character is suspected, or where the range of people affected is extensive. In-house processes are prepared to ensure that data is integrated into the investment considerations before an investment is made on the areas where the efforts are prioritised. • Integrating the due diligence process as part of the active ownership dialogue with the companies and external managers that PFA is in dialogue with. • Considering possible divestments and exclusions. Read more about guiding principles, method and action plan at pfa.dk. Embedding the policy for responsible investments and a data processing agreement has been prepared. in the property portfolio The policies are meant to strengthen the procurement The policy for responsible investments applies to all process and ensure that the work with the Code of asset classes in PFA’s portfolio. In 2017, the focus was Conduct is being fully integrated. In order to obtain a still on embedding the policy in property investments better overview of the entire contract portfolio and in both Denmark and globally. Investments in Denmark the obligations of the suppliers, PFA has established are made according to PFA’s Code of Conduct, which an in-house function which aims to create the right is based on international conventions and guidelines. processes and regularly follow up on all contracts The Code of Conduct forms the basis of the dialogue and deliveries to determine whether they comply on PFA’s expectations of our business partners includwith PFA's guidelines for Responsible Procurement. In ing managers, administrators and contractors. They order to obtain a complete overview and support the sign our Code of Conduct on entry into the respective in-house function optimally, PFA will implement a new contracts. As for property investments outside DenContract Management system. mark, PFA is in the process of implementing a method to ensure that PFA’s policy for responsible investments All vice presidents who are authorised to conclude forms part of the overall due diligence process for contracts with external business partners have parinvestments in foreign properties. ticipated in an introduction course on PFA’s policy for conclusion of contracts and process for ResponsiResponsible procurement is part of PFA’s concluble Procurement. In 2018, PFA will establish a body of sion of contracts contract managers under each executive management PFA’s Code of Conduct is based on the UN Global Comarea, which is to ensure that the operations in the pact’s principles for responsible corporate behaviour company will get closer to the contractual liabilities and focuses on the supplier’s work with responsibility. determined by the supplier. This will ensure an extenThis includes the supplier’s management systems and sive embedding of the processes – also when it comes due diligence in relation to a potential negative impact to PFA’ attitude towards external business partners on human rights and environment. PFA’s Code of Conwho do not comply with PFA’s Code of Conduct. duct forms part of the procurement and conclusion of contract process in PFA. PFA has reviewed its policies of outsourcing and conclusion of contracts in 2017 PFA · C R report 2017 19 Society PFA wants to make a positive contribution to the development of society. During the past 100 years, we have accumulated knowledge and experience which we gladly share. Our size and market share commit us to apply the knowledge we have accumulated and thereby assume co-responsibility for the development of our society. PFA contributes to society in a manner that enables our customers to live life – all their life. Half of all children born today can expect to live to be a hundred, technology develops at the speed of light, and we change jobs more often than ever before. This puts a strain on the flexibility in our society, and, at the same time, it provides new opportunities for PFA’s present and future role towards our customers and society. It must be worthwhile to save for retirement we have contributed to put focus on the dilemmas of In 2017, PFA continued its work on taking care of the being a responsible investor working with integrating interests of the customers and thus the people in Deninternational conventions and the UN guiding principles mark in relation to politicians and legislators. We have into the investment process. We did so through disgiven priority to translating our professional compecussions, participation in a Parliamentary hearing and tence and communicating how new bills may affect the through events at the Folkemødet. PFA was also repindividual pension saver in practice. In 2017, the Danresented in a task force under the minister of business ish Government presented two initiatives which are to and industry on new guidelines on responsible investaddress the interplay issues between public benefits ments. and private pension plans and ensure that it will always be worthwhile to save up for retirement irrespective The Think Tank – The New 3rd Age rethinks life as of your income. PFA has submitted its view and been a senior citizen in dialogue with the Danish Government and the parPeople in Denmark live longer, and, in 2040, an ties represented in Parliament with a view to contribute increasing number of us will live to be a hundred. Life towards making the initiatives less complex and more as a senior is not supposed to be a question of getting easily put into practice. One of the initiatives has been through and getting older but of progress and freeadopted, while the other is expected to be adopted dom to enjoy new experiences. In the light of changes during spring 2018. Furthermore, PFA follows the develin life expectancy and the major changes in the suropment of the European Commission’s drafting of a rounding world, PFA decided to focus on rethinking Pan-European pension product. a number of conditions in relation to the third age. Therefore, we established the Think Tank – The New Debate on and knowledge sharing of responsible 3rd Age in 2017. The purpose of the Think Tank was investments to debate and provide recommendations for how to One of PFA’s absolute core competences is investment ensure the good life in the third age towards 2040. and management of the customers’ long-term savings. The total recommendations of the Think Tank are pubWe want to be a responsible investor, and, during 2017, lished in 2018. PFA turned 100 – and so may you In 2017, PFA celebrated its 100th anniversary, and took the opportunity to focus on the changes in living conditions which the increasing life expectancy is likely to entail for the individual and for society. We boiled this down to the slogan: PFA is turning 100 – and so may you! 20 PFA · C R report 2017 Ordskælv Selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2017 causes. ordskaelv.org PFA · C R report 2017 21 The Think Tank’s work and debates The Think Tank is comprised of 12 participants and is broadly founded with representatives from Danish associations, organisations, the industry, experts as well as labour market parties. In its work with rethinking the future life as a senior citizen, the Think Tank dealt with three overall themes: 1. Health and quality of life 2. The transition from work to retirement 3. Housing and social relations The Think Tank’s work has frequently been the subject of debate. For instance, PFA had the good life in the third age on the agenda at the Folkemødet in Bornholm, where PFA once again took on the gold sponsorship. The themes for the debates included the future senior housing models, flexible retirement and various dilemmas in the life as a senior citizen. At the conference ’Denmark towards 2040’, the preliminary recommendations of the Think Tank were presented and discussed by a number of scientists and experts. The members of the Think Tank acknowledged the feedback by carrying it on to their continued work with the recommendations. PFA is building student housing for more than 1,000 students PFA has prospered by the development that Denmark has been going through during the last 100 years. We want to contribute to the continued development of a high professional standard of education. As part of PFA’s celebration of its 100th anniversary, we decided to build student housing in four university cities — Odense, Aalborg, Aarhus and Copenhagen — over the coming years. The purpose is to create modern and attractive student housing which accommodate the housing shortage that many students face. The project is driven by an ambition of developing an optimum framework of learning, community and sustainability. The first student housing facility will be finalised in Odense in 2020. PFA Seniorboligstandard® puts the good life as a senior citizen in focus In 2017, we developed PFA Seniorboligstandard®, which is a concept that makes 46 specific demands for how to construct senior-friendly housing in the future. The concept will thus form part of the basis of the good life as a senior citizen. For example, it should be uncomplicated to move around in one’s home, just as easy entry and exit is a must. A number of projects using PFA Seniorboligstandard® are already in the pipeline. In Hillerød, 50 senior-friendly housing units are being built, in Gartnerbyen in Odense, 36 senior-friendly housing units are being built, and as for PFA’s senior cohousing community project in Horsens, which is developed in cooperation with Realdania, all housing units are built according to the standard. Gigtramte Børns Forældreforening Selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2017 causes. gbf.dk 22 PFA · C R report 2017 Causes of the year 5 Information videos 5 Causes present at the Folkemødet 12 Number of votes cast for the 2017 causes 30,189 Followers on the foundation’s Facebook page 36,000+ For PFA Brug Livet Fonden, it is important to put focus A lot of visitors backed the initiative, and PFA counton the many dedicated volunteers who make a great ed 814 returned heart-shaped flyers at an event with effort to help vulnerable or marginalised groups live Bjørn Nørgaard, who is a member of the board of life. Every year, the foundation selects the causes of the foundation. This resulted in a donation of DKK the year, and, in cooperation with PFA, the foundation 162,800, which is earmarked for distribution. Later in draws attention to the causes, for instance by offering 2017, PFA’s employees participated in the DHL Relay them speaking time in PFA’s tent at the Folkemødet in Race. This resulted in a PFA donation to the foundaBornholm. tion of DKK 500 per team – a total amount of DKK 33,000. Causes featured on video In 2017, the foundation and PFA together produced Inspiration for senior citizens and launched videos featuring some of the causes in When phasing out working life and approaching life order to put spotlight on the causes of the year. Five in retirement, many people engage in voluntary work. of the causes accepted this opportunity, and the result Therefore, the foundation and four of the causes of was a video made in close cooperation with each the year were present at the customer event ’PFA Sencause. The videos were released during the year and iordag’ which focused on the good life as a senior received broad exposure. They were uploaded on the citizen with 800 participants. The foundation’s stand foundation’s website, on Facebook and on the various at the event was well-attended, and we had a good platforms of the individual causes. The videos were dialogue on the foundation’s work as well as on the frequently shared, liked and commented on at the activities of the individual causes. foundation’s Facebook page, where all posts reached almost 150,000 views together with likes and comments. 12 causes participated at the Folkemødet Once again, the foundation formed an integral part of PFA's tent at the Folkemødet. 12 causes agreed to participate in the foundation’s programme. Together with the causes of the year, the foundation hosted a number of debates on marginalised individuals in Denmark, mental vulnerability as a strength in the labour market, and the impact of the closed counties on persons with a handicap, among other things. Increased visibility and employee engagement At the Folkemødet, PFA Brug Livet Fonden attracted attention to its causes through PFA’s employees and representatives from the causes who handed out heart-shaped flyers. For each heart-shaped flyer which found its way back to PFA’s tent, PFA donated DKK 200 to the foundation. PFA · C R report 2017 23 Selection of the causes of the year At the end of 2017, the foundation selected five new causes among the 59 causes nominated for support at pfabruglivetfonden.dk. All visitors could then vote for their favourite cause at the foundation’s website. During the voting period, which lasted two weeks, more than 27,000 unique users visited the site and more than 30,000 votes were cast. The 15 causes that received the most votes were recommended to the foundation’s board. With the selection of the causes of the year, the board wanted to support a number of specific projects such as research into vaccines, agricultural development in Africa, a writers’ workshop for vulnerable souls as well as activities for children and families struggling with illness. Causes of the year The society ’Gigtramte Børns Forældreforening (GBF)' received DKK 50,000 earmarked for family courses: The purpose of the society is to ensure the best conditions for children suffering from arthritis. In order to do this, the society aims to improve treatment options and assistance/services, to inform about and draw the surrounding world’s attention to children's arthritis and it also holds courses for families with children suffering from arthritis. MusikBeRiget received DKK 25,000 for musical visits at Danish hospitals: MusikBeRiget is an initiative created by professional musicians who want to bring music to the hospitalised and their relatives. The purpose is to create good memories and interhuman experiences through live music in the middle of a humdrum day full of illness and treatment. Ordskælv received support in order to boost the digital platform of the writers’ workshop – estimated value is DKK 25,000: Ordskælv is a writers’ workshop and a non-profit publishing company which links vulnerable young adults with professional artists and gives the floor to those we often hear about but seldom hear from. The patient association ‘Patientforeningen Danmark’ received DKK 50,000 for research in aluminium in vaccines: Patientforeningen Danmark works for the interests of the patients. This means aiming at higher patient security, reliable diagnostics, better quality of treatment and improved conditions for those absent due to illness. The project ‘WutomiAgri’ received DKK 50,000 for education in agriculture in Mozambique: WutomiAgri is a non-profit relief organisation and agricultural college providing young adults in Mozambique with tools for taking charge of their own lives. The organisation educates the young adults to become entrepreneurs who can break the country’s established pattern of unemployment and poverty by operating a profitable farm. Five causes featured on video In 2017, we produced videos featuring five causes which were selected the previous year. The videos can be viewed at the foundation’s website and at the websites of the five respective causes. Børns Voksenvenner Sølund Musik-festival Julemærkefonden Foreningen for Børn med Handicap Cystisk Fibrose Foreningen – og deres Familier 24 PFA · C R report 2017 Customers PFA wants to focus on the customers and their individual needs. The customer experience is key to PFA. This is the case on the digital platforms, during consultations and in the contact with our health and advisory services centre, as well as when dealing with complaints and critical enquiries. PFA strives to make pension easy to understand for all its customers. We provide advisory services and put pension into the perspective of the individual customer’s life situation, age and needs. The information must be simple and transparent so that it supports the customer’s choice. In our efforts, we place high priority on combining digital solutions and self-service options in our planning. PFA is working on its feedback to critical enquiries and complaints so that bad experiences are minimised in the future. Customers take part in the product development can contribute with quick response to new ideas. In In order to give the highest priority to the custom2017, the Senior Customer Board held five meetings, ers’ wishes and needs, PFA listens to the customers and four meetings are scheduled for 2018. when products and benefits are being developed. This helps ensure that we create holistic solutions which Alternative campaign for the Pension Estimate benefit the individual customer, the company and socireaches new market segment ety in the long term. PFA’s strategic approach to the In 2017, PFA relaunched the digital tool ’the Pension health area is, among other things, based on data Estimator' and marketed a broad campaign: ”Meet from approximately 500,000 private customers and your older self”. The purpose of the campaign was to experience from more than 400 activities involving cormake pension seem more relevant and inspiring for porate customers. The customers also have a hand in people in the age group 35-50. We did so by combinthe creation of new strategies. During the year, PFA’s ing our digital tool with humour and satire. Customer Board has, for instance, contributed with input to the product PFA EarlyCare® prior to its launch, The Pension Estimator helps determine whether you debated responsible investments and the importance are saving enough for retirement, and the digital tool of complying with the climate goals fixed in the Paris is available to everyone who visits the website. This Agreement. way, we can engage more people in Denmark in their own pension plans and make pension easier to relate When specific products are selected and tested for a to and talk about. given purpose, it often takes place in cooperation with a corporate customer or PFA’s own employees. In this way, we can better estimate whether solutions and Results from the Pension Estimator campaign results match the needs that our customers express. During the campaign period from 30 October to 10 December, 107,049 persons visited PenIn connection with the development of digital tools, sionstallet.dk. Approximately one third of the we have, during the years, worked on integrating the visitors took the test. The campaign resulted in customers’ wishes and feedback into the developan increase in the knowledge of the Pension Estiment of the Investment Guide, which is a self-service mator among PFA’s own customers from 59 per and assisted service tool which helps the customer fix cent in February 2017 to 84 per cent in December an investment profile. This has led to a better under2017. This increase is demonstrated in a quesstanding of the final recommendation to the customer. tionnaire undertaken by PFA. The Investment Guide will be launched at the beginning of 2018. At the same time, a survey conducted by Epinion for PFA among the population in Denmark shows Establishment PFA’s Senior Customer Board that 58 per cent rate the campaign as good” or In 2017, PFA established a Senior Customer Board convery good , and half of the respondents interpret sisting of nine customers in the age group 59-70 with the campaign as a reminder of the importance of a gender distribution of five men and four women. saving for their retirement. 44 per cent find that The purpose is to create a confidential space furnished PFA delivered the message of making pension with a focus group of PFA’s own customers who form seem more relevant and easy to talk about in a a sounding board regarding products and needs which very understandable way. PFA · C R report 2017 25 PFA inspires customers to aim for the good life as The purpose is to use the individual person’s situaa senior citizen tion as a starting point and find a way back to work In 2017, we held 152 senior seminars for customers when possible through a targeted effort. Thus, PFA in the age group 55+. The seminars are based on the grants a course of treatment which is adjusted to the customers’ pension finances which means all financial customer's needs. conditions are included in the considerations for the time when salary is to be replaced by other income, In 2017, we were in contact with 1,424 sickness-absuch as public benefits, savings in securities and home sent customers through PFA EarlyCare®, PFA Active equity. Very often, the seminar will be supplementClaims Handling and Advisory services for Managers ed by a theme about inheritance, will and beneficiary & HR who had been absent from work for more than designation, and, when it comes to the extended sem2 weeks. At the end of the year, 310 of these cusinars, also a theme which deals with the late career tomers had returned to work with our assistance. and the transition to a life in retirement from a mental and practical point of view. During the year, a total of 4,487 customers attended the seminars. New partnership dealing with A new initiative was PFA Seniordag (PFA Senior Day). stress handling for managers PFA had invited customers in the age group 60+ PFA entered into an exclusive agreement with together with their spouses to a full day of focus on business psychologist Marie Kingston in 2017. She retirement and the good life as a senior citizen. At the is one of Denmark’s leading experts within stress 19 exhibition stands, it was possible to learn more prevention and she is co-author of the book ’Stop about health, housing, experiences, finances, activiStress’, which was named the best management ties and occupation. In addition, the senior day had book of 2016. Together with Marie Kingston, five relevant presentations from the main stage, and we have formed ‘PFA Stress Management for the customers had the opportunity to book a consulExecutives’, which is an add-on programme for tation with a pension or bank adviser from PFA. A total corporate customers and organisations. The purof 800 senior citizens were present throughout the pose is to equip our customers to prevent and senior day. reduce the number of stress-related claims. Increased efforts to prevent and to help sickThe programme ’PFA Stress Management for Execness-absent employees return to work utives’ addresses all PFA’s corporate customers In 2017, PFA introduced PFA EarlyCare®, which is a and organisations. It is very tool-oriented. This holistic product according to which the individumeans that the managers will get specific tools al employee can receive help already from the first to use in their handling and prevention of stress. day of sickness absence with a notification of illness One of the tools is the ’Stress staircase’ which of minimum 2 weeks. Help is provided by advisshows the development from well-being to stress, ers who are ready to guide and assist with putting which symptoms the manager should look for and together a programme which focuses on the indiwhich initiatives the manager can take to help an vidual customer’s immediate symptoms as well as employee prevent stress from progressing. other health-related parameters – both private and work-related – in order to ensure a positive, quick and permanent return to work. This way, the complete person is in focus in PFA EarlyCare®. Since the A customer representative sees the case adminisproduct was introduced, 677 PFA EarlyCare® enquirtration through the eyes of the customers ies have been handled. Many of the enquiries are PFA’s customer representative is the customers’ reprefrom customers and managers who need feedback, sentative in PFA. The customers’ trust is important to guidance and advice in social and health matters. us. Therefore, it is key that we have a person whom 80 per cent of the enquiries are mental issues and a the customers can turn to if they do not feel comfortmajority is related to stress. able about a situation or if they have questions. The customer representative cannot reverse cases or comActive claims handling is PFA’s targeted effort for plaints from the department of Complaints & Customer customers who have been absent due to illness for Satisfaction. The customer representative listens to more than three months and who apply for occuthe customer’s experience, helps navigate through the pational capacity insurance payouts or are already pension universe and passes on the customers' experireceiving payouts. ences to PFA, so that processes and products develop 26 PFA · C R report 2017 Corporate customers 5,451 Customers 1.2 million Consultations face to face, online, by phone and seminars 70,016 Phone calls to PFA’s Advisory Services Centre 229,112 Phone calls to PFA’s Health Centre 256,229 Customers who were helped back to work 310 Customer satisfaction (calls to PFA’s Advisory Services Centre) 8.9 Number of complaints 343 Cases handled by the Customer Representative 138 in their customer service. In 2017, the customer repthe customer’s problem and trying to accommodate the resentative reviewed 138 cases. This is 20 cases more customer by offering advice and guidance. By explaining than in 2016 – an increase of 17 per cent. the various connections and possibilities — and not least by acknowledging irregularities — we solve the customers’ Although we do our very best to offer fair treatment, we problems in the vast majority of cases. In 2017, the cusoccasionally hear from dissatisfied customers. For this tomer representative accommodated the customers in 81 purpose, we have a customer representative who our cusout of the total of 138 enquiries. tomers can contact about their experience and who may speed up their case or is able to give some advice to how to proceed. In fact, some customers simply like to share a regretful experience with PFA so that we can learn from our mistakes. It is all about listening and understanding Overview of subjects of customer representative cases in 2017 • Case processing time and observation of deadlines. It is PFA’s obligation that all agreements with the customers are complied with. It is therefore important that the advisers pay attention to inter-adjust deadlines with the individual customer and to always keep the customer informed about the progress of his or her case. In 2017, several self-service options were implemented, which may lead to an even better customer experience. • Changing jobs. PFA must ensure a reliable and secure process and inform the customers how important it is that they make active decisions and meet deadlines in connection with possible continuation of plans, as their insurance cover may otherwise lapse. (As PFA is subject to the rules of the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority, the given deadlines must always be met, as it is important that all customers have uniform conditions.) • Average interest rate and guaranteed benefits. Average interest rate plans with guaranteed benefits are very complex. Many customers believe mistakenly that they are covered by an interest rate guarantee. The customer representative can provide the customers with insight into how guaranteed benefits operate and ensure the customer that everything is done exactly right. PFA is working on integrating average interest rate plans into My PFA, so that the customers will receive an even better experience. • Proof of identity. New legislation in 2017 concerning the Danish Act on Measures to Prevent Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism implies that PFA is liable to request proof of identity for each individual customer. This may seem odd to a loyal customer or to customers with small deposits, however, PFA must always comply with the prevailing legislation. Through constructive dialogue with the customer, it is possible to explain the complex legislation in more detail. PFA · C R report 2017 27 Ordskælv Selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2017 causes. ordskaelv.org 28 PFA · C R report 2017 Outcome – customer complaints 2017 14 % in favour. The complaint was ruled in favour of the customer. 27 % were accommodated. Customer enquiries are dealt with 6 % pending through dialogue, and the customer drops the complaint. 3 % lapse 4 % partly accommodated 46 % rejected Dealing with the customers’ complaints Insurance and pension products can be quite compliIn PFA, the complaints we receive are handled in an cated. Some customer enquiries can be adequately independent department for Complaints & Customtaken care of with a detailed explanation of a proder Satisfaction which is attached to our legal unit. The uct or the issue that the customer has raised. In those department deals with already submitted complaints situations, we close the complaint as ’accommodatand has an additional focus of increasing overall ed’. This is positive for both PFA and the customers. customer satisfaction. The goal is to localise and proPFA will have the possibility of learning more about actively eliminate the factors that give occasion for the customers' needs. In 2017, we accommodated the dissatisfaction and which, eventually, make the cuscustomers in 93 out of the 343 cases, where the customers feel compelled to complain. tomers dropped their complaint because they received an explanation to the issues of their complaint. In 2017, the number of complaints was 343. This is an increase of 16 per cent compared to 2016 when Cases presented to the Danish Insurance ComPFA received 296 complaints. The activity in customplaints Board er enquiries generally increased in 2017, and so did In 2017, 92 complaints about PFA were presented to the number of legislative initiatives which implied an the Danish Insurance Complaints Board. Unfortunately, intensified focus from our customers. This includes, this is a rather large increase compared to 2016 when among others, the measures to prevent money laun44 complaints were filed. However, this was actually dering and financing of terrorism. In spite of the an unusually low number compared to previous years. increase in the number of complaints, 2017 saw a The number of complaints in 2017 is still relatively low decline in the number of customers whose complaints compared to PFA’s 1.2 million customers, and the fact were ruled in favour from 25 per cent in 2016 to 14 that PFA had more than 645,000 interactions with cusper cent in 2017. tomers during 2017. The complaints department especially focuses on During the year, the Danish Insurance Complaints balancing of expectations with the customers. The Board processed and finalised 61 complaints about department registers and analyses all complains PFA, whereas, in 2016, only 43 complaints were finalthat PFA receives. In addition, all customer enquirised. Overall, the board ruled in favour of PFA in ies regarding issues of a more general nature than approximately 82 per cent of the finalised cases in just the challenges of the individual customer are reg2017. We always make an effort to be professional istered. This gives a more accurate picture of which and accountable when making decisions. trends and general possibilities of improvement that PFA may initiate when it comes to PFA’s services, customer approach and products. PFA · C R report 2017 29 Employees Engaged employees are important ambassadors when it comes to extending the knowledge of PFA. In order for PFA to succeed in reaching the ambitious goals set in Strategy2020, it is important to have dedicated employees. PFA wants to ensure a clear direction, a high level of engagement and a healthy workplace. Strategy2020 is PFA’s overall business strategy towards 2020. The strategy has been the central point of the efforts in 2017, just like the employees were involved in the celebrations of PFA’s 100th anniversary and the embedding of the new brand that PFA introduced in 2017. Continued high employee engagement When PFA launched its new customer pledge: ’PFA – PFA completes an employee satisfaction survey every more for you’, the opportunity was taken to put PFA’s year in order to measure the work engagement and strategy on the agenda. To begin with, the executive employee motivation. Work engagement and employmanagement was equipped, later the 130 managee motivation are important elements when it comes ers in PFA, and finally all employees at a dialogue day, to performing well and delivering the results necesduring which it was possible to have brand and stratsary for PFA to be successful with its Strategy2020. egy elaborated at 10 different stands. At the stands, In 2017, 90 per cent of all employees participated in it was possible for the employees to get closer to the employee satisfaction survey. The year before, the the executive management and the employees who response rate was just under 93 per cent. PFA attained work in selected projects and ask them questions. a total score of 6 on a scale of 1 to 7, where 7 is best. After the dialogue day, all managers received a diaThis illustrates that PFA’s employees are happy to work logue kit for each team for its further work in defining with their colleagues, are motivated in their job, and their contributions to strategy and brand. The activthat they have a high engagement which is significantities were appreciated by employees and managers. ly higher than the industry benchmark of 5.5. This was demonstrated through satisfaction surveys following management meetings, where 77 per cent PFA’s goal for work engagement and employee motiof the participants at the management meetings rated vation was set at index 79.0 in 2017. This goal was their satisfaction as 5 or 6 on a scale from 1 to 6, surpassed as the total job satisfaction score finished at and at the dialogue meetings, 97 per cent answered 81.6. The highest scores in the survey were the work 3 or 4 on a scale from 1 to 4. At the same time, the engagement and the extent to which colleagues and employee satisfaction survey of the year showed teams are appreciated and back each other up. They that communication and involvement of the employeach scored 6.4 on the scale from 1 to 7. The lowest ees have contributed to an increase in the employees’ scores were ’the possibility of performing work tasks understanding of PFA’s goals and direction. The two of a designated quality’ and ’insufficient tools available goals ’the executive management in PFA communifor efficient work performance’ scoring 5.4 and 5.6, cates clearly about goals and results in connection to respectively, on a scale from 1 to 7 which is still rathStrategy2020' and ‘I have a good understanding of er high. PFA’s strategy and direction’ increased by 0.5 and 0.3 from 2016 to 2017, respectively. Involving communication about PFA’s strategy, brand and anniversary Workplace assessment 2017 In 2017, PFA’s Strategy2020 has still formed the basis In 2017, PFA completed the statutory workplace for a number of in-house activities with the purpose assessment the purpose of which is to give insight of ensuring a wide integration of goals and direction into the special attention points related to the employamong the employees. Furthermore, PFA’s 100th anniees' physical and mental working environment. The versary and the celebration of this throughout the workplace assessment complements the previously year ran through the internal communication as a concompleted employee satisfaction survey when it comes necting thread, which did its share towards creating to mental health. The workplace assessment showed pride and engagement among the employees. that the employees are satisfied with both the physical 30 PFA · C R report 2017 Number of employees (average number of full-time employees) 1,296 Employee engagement (converted into index score) 81.6 Sickness absence 3.2 % PFA Health Estimate 73.8 Women in management 36 % and the mental working environment. However, speefforts of integrating physical activity during the workcial attention is required when it comes to the physical day. work environment in the form of blinds, ventilation and toilet facilities, and these issues are passed on to 36 per cent women in PFA’s management the group working on the planning of PFA's new domPFA's target for the share of women in management icile in Marina Park. The greatest challenge in relation is 40 per cent. At the end of 2017, the share was to the assessment of the mental working environ36 per cent, which is just below target. The female ment is the fact that approximately one third of PFA’s representation in PFA’s management has varied employees experience that they do not have enough somewhat throughout the last few years and was 41 time to complete their work within the working per cent in 2014, 38 per cent in 2015 and reached 41 hours. However, job satisfaction is still rated high. The per cent again in 2016 and 36 per cent in 2017. As employees feel secure at work, and possible illness is the female representation in management has been handled professionally and proactively. balancing around the 40 per cent, no special measures have been initiated to increase the total share New health strategy in PFA of female managers. In 2017, we prepared a new health strategy, which will be presented to the employees at the beginning When looking at the distribution of women at manof 2018. The purpose is to create a framework which ager level, senior manager level and director/vice can boost initiatives to support a healthy lifestyle for president level, the distribution at year-end 2017 our employees, so that they can help create a healthy was 41, 34 and 21 per cent, respectively. In particuperformance culture in PFA. In addition to this, PFA lar, the share of managers and senior managers has will be the host of a health lab of initiatives and bendeclined compared to 2016 from 48 per cent and 37 efits which the employees can try out. This way, PFA’s per cent respectively. employees will contribute to gathering experience in connection with the benefits. Experience which will also be of use to our customers. The health strategy is based on data from PFA’s health screening in which 73 per cent of the employees participated. The average Health Estimate of PFA’s employees was 73.8. This is in the ‘healthy’ category and slightly above benchmark, which is 73.4. The strategy covers the following health strategic focus areas: Exercise and physical activity, diet, mental balance and recovery. In addition to the new strategy, an annual plan of health-promoting initiatives will be prepared. The plan for 2018 focuses on mental strength and well-being, just as focus will continue on the PFA · C R report 2017 31 About this report This report describes the PFA Group’s initiatives and results from the work on corporate responsibility in 2017. The framework for the work is PFA’s corporate responsibility policy from 2016 which resulted in the CR strategy ‘Investing in a sustainable society 2017-2020’. The report includes a status of the work on carrying out the CR strategy’s 15 specific activities for 2017 which are described in the 2016 CR Report. This way, the report follows up on the initiatives and goals we set for the corporate responsibility area in 2017. The report also describes 15 specific activities which will be focal points for the CR area in 2018. The report accounts for how PFA’s corporate responsibility policy is implemented in PFA, and it accounts for the targets we have set for our work on embedding the policy in the future. The report covers the PFA Group. PFA Holding’s The structure of this report annual report, this CR report and the CR pages at This report begins with a review of the framework for pfa.dk all comply with the Danish Financial Statecorporate responsibility in PFA and provides a status in ments Act regarding the reporting of the company’s model form of the 15 CR strategy activities for 2017. corporate responsibility and the recommendations Subsequently, the report is structured around the four of active ownership from the Danish Committee on core elements in PFA’s corporate responsibility poliCorporate Governance. The mentioned reports also cy: Responsible value creation, Customers, Society and represent PFA’s Communication on Progress report Employees. Each chapter accounts for the individual CR (COP) to the UN regarding PFA’s implementation of strategy efforts and describe the context in which they the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. Page are included. 41 provides an overview which explains how PFA has been working during the year to comply with the In the last part of the report we have collected data various human rights, labour rights, climate, enviand CR key figures. We describe how we have collected ronment and anti-corruption principles. Page 42 and calculated the figures and how the figures repreprovides an overview which explains how we comply sent data that help describe PFA’s work on corporate with the recommendations of active ownership from responsibility. The figures in the data section are prethe Danish Committee on Corporate Governance. sented compared to last year in order to illustrate the development. Risks and assessment of materiality During the year, PFA has evaluated the CR efforts PFA’s responsibility model is described on page 39 in connection with the implementation of the CR and helps ensure that the reader can easily navigate strategy. The work on defining CR efforts for the in the data section of the report. The responsibility following year was based on the evaluation and an model is updated so that it reflects the efforts for the assessment of materiality for PFA. Furthermore, we year towards implementing our corporate responsibilihave included subjects on which PFA has entered ty policy. PFA’s green accounts are included in the data into dialogues with a number of stakeholders. This section which states the consumption of waste, paper applies in particular to responsible investments. and CO2. The figures stated in the data section of the report are 2017 figures which are compared with figIn 2017, we continued our risk assessment of the CR ures from the two preceding years. The text part of efforts. This was made as part of the evaluation of the report primarily includes figures from 2017 which the CR efforts and to ensure that the applied proare compared to the previous year. The figures will be cesses are well-established. Also, it is to identify included wherever relevant in the report. whether the prioritised efforts prevent the identified risks. The risk assessment is still made based on subContact for the current CR report and PFA’s work jects identified in 2016. The subjects are listed in the with corporate responsibility is: table on page 33, and the risk assessment is updated Mette Vadstrup, CR Manager, in respect to our experience from 2017 and the tarCorporate Communications & External Relations, gets for 2018. mev@pfa.dk 32 PFA · C R report 2017 Outline of PFA’s risk assessment within corporate responsibility Risk PFA’s options Preventive measures Invest in green transition. Climate considerations are included in the policy for responsible investments. Explain PFA’s in-house efforts of reducing Negative impact on environment and climate the environmental impact. Measure and communicate about PFA’s green accounts. Reduce the carbon emissions in PFA’s properties and other portfolios. Integrate the Paris Agreement in the investment process. In-house processes have been established to prevent that employees are involved That PFA’s employees or customers are Protect customers and employees against in corruption and money laundering. PFA involved in corruption, bribery or money involvement in illegal or unethical practices. has a whistle-blower scheme which gives laundering. employees, customers and business partners the opportunity to report cases. PFA EarlyCare® focuses on preventive That employees are suddenly unable to Both PFA Active Claims Handling and PFA measures. PFA Active Claims Handling helps work due to illness or other reasons. EarlyCare® focus on preventive measures. customers/employees return to work. PFA is a member of relevant trade Cooperate with the industry and contribute organisations and cooperates with the industry Losing credibility by PFA not living up to with knowledge and experience to raise through these organisations. PFA contributes the expectations as a market leader that awareness of pension, health insurance and to public debate through the news media and contributes to developments in society. the work with responsible investments. by holding conferences, participating in the Folkemødet in Bornholm, etc. PFA has collected and published its recommendations. PFA offers online advisory tools such as Pension Check-Up and the Increase the understanding of private Investment Guide. PFA’s advisers all complete finances and pension conditions as well as Incorrect advice to customers or dissatisfied a certification at the Danish Insurance facilitate the customers’ access through customers. Academy in advisory services within pension digital solutions. Train and certify PFA’s and dissaving and compliance with the MiFID advisers. regulations. Dissatisfied customers have access to avenues of complaint and may contact PFA’s customer representative. Increase the knowledge of the UN Global That suppliers and business partners violate PFA’s Code of Conduct is included in the Compact and the work with responsible human rights. process of concluding contracts. corporate practice among business partners. Be open about PFA’s investment processes Reporting and publication of text at pfa.dk. and the integration of the UN conventions. That PFA through investments contribute to illegal activites such as violaton of human rights. Increase data integration to monitor the companies in PFA’s portfolio of listed An aim to integrate more ESG data in the companies. Make inspections in connection investment processes. with dialogue with a company. PFA has personnel policies and completes an annual satisfaction survey with following dialogues in the departments. In addition, Ensure that employees are committed, That employees are discriminated against or PFA prepares a compulsory workplace healthy and thriving at work. are not thriving at work. assessment with focus on the mental and Diversity among PFA’s employees. physical working environment. A health strategy has been prepared for PFA. In 2018, a diversity policy will be prepared. PFA · C R report 2017 33 Risk PFA’s options Preventive measures PFA has a tax policy on how PFA is to act Improve the awareness of how PFA in this area. PFA screens the investment That PFA is linked to unethical tax practice. prioritises responsible tax practice. portfolio of listed companies to uncover any unethical tax practice. It is PFA’s objective to engage in more That transparency on the dialogue with a transparency in the work on active Transparency permits the affected parties to company about active ownership results in a ownership, but it is also necessary to find be informed about progress of a dialogue. company losing confidence in the dialogue. a balance between transparency and the dialogue with the company. 34 PFA · C R report 2017 Patientforeningen Danmark Selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2017 causes. patientdanmark.dk PFA · C R report 2017 35 CR key figures and facts This part of the report comprises PFA’s key figures and corporate responsibility data. The figures are presented in the same order as the chapters in the report and together with figures from the preceding two years. The purpose is to provide an overview of how PFA’s corporate responsibility policy is complied with and to describe the development. The objective is to provide the reader with an opportunity to read this appendix as an independent part without having to consult the report for descriptions of specific activities. If the figures have changed considerably compared to previous years, or where a new calculation method has been introduced, we have made a short description in the individual table. Behind the figures in the report The figures in this report are based on the figures that are collected, calculated and applied to the activities in the PFA Group. The selection of data has been prioritised in order to quantify the activities and goals that have been set for PFA’s CR area and thus make them measurable. Figures collected and registered with PFA The figures which are collected and registered in PFA concern the total number of customers, customer enquiries and complaints as well as the application of products and satisfaction surveys in PFA. The calculation of the various categories is based on the method applied within the individual areas for calculating figures when it comes to number of consultations, e-mails, calls and processed cases. In addition to this, data regarding employees and employee conditions are also collected and calculated internally in PFA. All figures are collected after the statement of the year and apply to the year 2017. Carbon and resource consumption in PFA Regarding the figures on carbon and resource consumption in PFA, a range of suppliers of electricity, heating, paper and transportation, who have all supplied figures after the statement of 2017, are involved. The calculation method used for determining carbon consumption is still the Climate Compass’ Carbon Calculator, which PFA started using in 2015. This means that the figures are still comparable. The total figure is stated at the beginning of the report, whereas the other figures are only stated in the data section of PFA’s green accounts. Carbon mapping of the bond and equity portfolio PFA has been working with mapping the carbon consumption in the bond and equity portfolio based on figures from suppliers providing an overview of the companies’ carbon emissions. The figures stated by PFA on page 18 stand alone, as no comparable figures are available from previous years. In 2017, we prepared our own screening method, and it will be possible to apply more robust and comparable data in future screenings when it comes to the equity and bond investments. Work will be done in 2018 to be able to define a method for the work on integrating the Paris Agreement in the property portfolio. Until actual data is available, the investment area will not form part of PFA’s overall green accounts. The work with responsible investments The figures on company screenings and dialogues with companies are based on cooperation with an external supplier and log of the companies that PFA entered into dialogue with during the year. The voting data is based on PFA’s own log and the number of companies for which PFA’s business partners have provided analyses and evaluations. 36 PFA · C R report 2017 The PFA Group PFA-Fonden 49 % Other Shareholders 51 % PFA Brug Livet Fonden PFA Holding A/S PFA Asset PFA Pension, PFA Bank A/S Management A/S forsikringsaktieselskab 76 % PFA PFA U.S. PFA KapitalPFA Investment PFA Soraarneq, PFA Infrastruktur PFA U.S. PFA Barnaby PFA Barnaby Ejendomme A/S REIT, Inc. forening* Fund forsikringsaktieHolding ApS Holding, LLC P/S Komplementar (incl. 8 subsidiaries) selskab (incl. 11 subsidiaries) ApS PFA Property Kapitalforeningen Investment A/S Bankpension (incl. 2 subsidiaries) Aktier PFA Boliger A/S Kapitalforeningen Bankpension Emer(incl. 29 subsidiaries) ging Markets Aktier PFA Kollegier ApS Kapitalforeningen Bankpension Obligationer Investeringsforeningen PFA Invest *PFA Pension is not the sole investor in PFA Kapitalforening PFA's history dates back to 1917. The share capital of In 2017, PFA Pension founded an American subsidthe parent company PFA Holding amounts to DKK 1 iary, PFA U.S. REIT, Inc., as part of the investment million, and the dividend distributable by the compastrategy for 2017 with the purpose of optimising ny is a maximum of 5 per cent of the share capital, property and infrastructure investments and similar corresponding to DKK 50,000. This way, the owneralternative investments in the USA. ship structure supports PFA’s objective to create the greatest possible value for its customers. Also, PFA Pension established a number of subsidiaries for handling the company’s alternative investThe shareholders of PFA Holding are PFA-Fonden and ments: other shareholders, which primarily comprise the • PFA U.S. Holding, LLC, with the purpose of owning founding organisations from 1917, whose members infrastructure investments in the USA and employees for the most part are customers in • PFA Infra Neptune Holding ApS including subsidiPFA. In 2017, the PFA Group was adjusted as follows: aries, whose purpose is to invest (directly or indiThe PFA Group’s property companies were reorganrectly) in infrastructure assets located in England ised as at 1 January 2017. Hereafter, the property • The companies High Leas PV Ltd, Alcor LSPV Ltd, companies are organised under three parent properWest End Farm PV Ltd, Pobail CIC, Woodhouse Farm ty companies: PFA Ejendomme A/S, PFA Boliger A/S Solar PV, West End Farm PV CIC, all with the purand PFA Property Investment A/S. pose of building and operating solar farms • PFA Barneby P/S and associated general partner In 2017, the number of property companies in the companies with the purpose of investing, owning, PFA Group increased by 10 companies. This means managing and selling loans and loan portfolios, that the PFA Group comprises 43 companies at the including undertaking of discounted assets and end of the year, including 4 general partner comassets connected to these. panies. The increase in the number of property companies is a result of a continued increase in the Finally, PFA Pension founded the company PFA number of property investments including corporate Kollegier ApS which will contain the student housing transactions. that PFA is going to build as an offshoot of the 100 th anniversary. Ejendomsaktieselskabet BP, which PFA Pension assumed ownership of in connection with the merger with Bankpension on 30 September 2016, was transferred to PFA Ejendomme A/S as at 1 January 2017. The company has changed its name to Dirch Passers Allé 27 A/S, which is the address of the property of the previous headquarters of Bankpension which is owned by the company. PFA · C R report 2017 37 This CR Report concerns the PFA Group and comIndependence prises the following companies/legal entities: PFA is an independent pension company, and therefore, we are able to prioritise the customers’ interests. This is • PFA Holding A/S (parent company) both when we share the profit through CustomerCapital • PFA Pension, forsikringsaktieselskab and when we advise the customers about the possibil• PFA Asset Management A/S ities in their pension plan. Finally, independence also • PFA Bank A/S means investment freedom for PFA, so that we are able • PFA Boliger A/S (properties) and subsidiaries to create a positive investment return. • PFA Ejendomme A/S (properties) and subsidiaries • PFA Property Investment A/S and subsidiaries Economies of scale • PFA Kapitalforening With more than DKK 500 billion under management and • PFA Investment Fund more than 1.2 million individual customers, PFA is the • PFA Soraarneq, forsikringsaktieselskab largest commercial pension company in Denmark. The • PFA Infrastruktur Holding ApS and subsidiaries size implies that we are able to offer low costs because • PFA U.S. REIT, Inc. the total expenses are shared by our many customers. • PFA U.S. Holding, LLC PFA’s size also gives us access to attractive investments • PFA Barneby P/S and not least the possibility of attracting some of the • PFA Barneby Komplementar ApS best investment experts in Denmark. • PFA Kollegier ApS • Kapitalforeningen Bankpension Aktier Market-oriented • Kapitalforeningen Bankpension Emerging Markets PFA’s business model has been developed with the Aktier purpose of performing well in a competitive market • Kapitalforeningen Bankpension Obligationer characterised by a strong focus on the ability to deliver the best investment returns, products and services for the customers. Through a constant market-oriented PFA and its business model approach and an ongoing dialogue with our customers, 100 years ago, PFA was formed by a number of Danish PFA continues to offer the best pension and service soluemployer organisations and founded as an independtions on the market. ent company. The purpose back then was to ensure employees and their families financial security in the future. Over the years, we have grown steadily and now have approximately 1.2 million individual customers. Our purpose remains the same. It is a matter of creating as much value for our customers as possible. PFA’s business model is built on four cornerstones that form the basis of PFA’s value creation and ensure maximum profit for our customers. The four cornerstones are: PFA CustomerCapital PFA Pension has a unique model for sharing profit and risk, which makes it possible to return profit to the customers through PFA CustomerCapital. Customers who link 5 per cent of their payments to CustomerCapital will thus have the opportunity to obtain high returns on that part of their savings. CustomerCapital is meant to cover if PFA suffers a loss, and may therefore decrease and, in the worst case, be exhausted. Customers may deselect CustomerCapital, but already accumulated CustomerCapital cannot be converted into regular savings. 38 PFA · C R report 2017 Embedding CR efforts in PFA The framework of PFA’s work with responsibility is our corporate responsibility policy and the CR strategy ‘Investing in a sustainable society 2017-2020’ which both define the priorities of PFA’s contribution to society and indicate its direction. Add to this, the compliance with PFA’s other policies and guidelines on CR. The strategy, policies and guidelines can be found at pfa.dk. PFA’s overall responsibility for CR lies with the Executive Management. The CR department performs the daily work with CR as well as the coordination of activities and efforts in collaboration with other departments and companies within the PFA Group. The CR department is a part of Corporate Communications & External Relations. Responsibility for complying with the policy for responsible investments and the work with active ownership lies with PFA’s Responsible Investment Board (RI Board). As a minimum, the RI Board meets 10 times a year, and its members are PFA’s CFO, management and employees of PFA Asset Management, the Vice President of Corporate Communications & External Relations and the CR Manager. PFA's CFO is Chairman of the RI Board. The terms of reference for the RI Board can be found at pfa.dk. PFA’s responsibility model PFA’s responsibility model is based on the four key elements that constitute PFA’s policy for corporate responsibility: Responsible value creation, Society, Customers and Employees. The themes stated in the outer part of the wheel in the figure are the themes of 2017 and this report. The model can also be used to navigate throughout the entire report. Human rights & environment Risk Responsible management, investments suppliers Responsible Customer Engagement value creation trust Corporate Health Employees Customers Digitisation responsibility Stress Management Society handling PFA Pension on Brug Livet Fonden the agenda Social engagement PFA · C R report 2017 39 WutomiAgri Selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2017 causes. wutomiagri.wordpress.com 40 PFA · C R report 2017 Implementation of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact – an overview PFA's framework for the work on corporate responsibility is based on the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, including the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Consequently, the activities and results described in the report also include the ten principles. The table below describes on which pages in the report the various principles are dealt with and to which extent PFA has been engaged in the subjects under each principle. Global Compact principles PFA activity Page number in CR report Corporate responsibility policy, Policy for responsible investments and 8-11, 14 CR strategy 2017-2020 Screening of PFA’s equity and bond portfolio 15 1-10 Engagement dialogue with companies that violate PFA’s policy for 15-16 responsible investments RI Board meetings, assessments and decisions 14 Code of Conduct and risk assessment of suppliers 19 PFA has given priority to concentrating its efforts with translating the 19 methods of the UNGPs on the investment area and the contract formation process. Hereafter follows other business areas in PFA. Principles 1-2 Human rights  UNGPs are integrated in PFA’s Code of Conduct. 19  M ethod and guidelines used for embedding the UNGPs in the invest18-19 ment process. Principles 3-6  Employee satisfaction, health initiatives and competence development 30-31 Labour rights PFA has focused on mapping the carbon consumption in the equity and 18 bond portfolio. Principles 7-9 PFA has prepared guidelines and a method for the integration of the 16-17 Climate and environment Paris Agreement in the investment process PFA accounts for the company’s own environment and energy impact 49-51 resulting from the company’s office premises.  A n area on which PFA focuses when screening and in dialogue with 15-16 companies.  PFA has channelled great efforts into integrating processes and training 45 Principle 10 its employees with a view to preventing money laundering and financAnti-corruption ing of terrorism. PFA has entered into dialogues with a view to planning efforts for 12, 45 2018 to ensure that PFA will comply with the standards to prevent and protect employees against corruption and bribery. PFA · C R report 2017 41 Implementation of the recommendations of the Committee on Corporate Governance for active ownership Reason for partly/not following Recommendation Follows recommendation: 1. Policy for active ownership THE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS that institutional investors PFA’s policy for responsible investments is publicly Yes publish a policy on active ownership in connection with available at pfa.dk. equity investments in Danish listed companies. PFA is in a continuous dialogue with the compa2. Monitoring and dialogue nies in which it invests, and PFA uses its right to vote at the general meetings. The procedure deTHE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS that institutional investors pends on the size of investments, equity interest monitor and enter into dialogue with the companies in which Yes and the possibility of contacting the company dithey invest, with due regard to the investment strategy and rectly. PFA’s dialogue with companies may, among principle of proportionality. other things, concern value creation, corporate governance, strategy and corporate responsibility. PFA’s policy allows PFA to: 3. Escalation • express its views at a general meeting THE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS that institutional investors, • hold meetings with the management as part of the policy on active ownership, define how they Yes • cooperate with other investors can escalate their active ownership beyond the regular mon• vote for or against proposed resolutions at itoring and dialogue. general meetings • divest its position. 4. Cooperation with other investors THE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS that institutional investors, PFA cooperates both nationally and internationas part of the policy on active ownership, consider how they Yes ally with other investors on active ownership and cooperate with other investors with the purpose of achievdialogue with companies. ing increased reach and impact. 5. Voting policy THE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS that institutional investors, PFA’s approach to voting at companies’ general as part of the policy on active ownership, adopt a voting Yes meetings is described in the Policy for responsible policy and are willing to inform whether and how they have investments. voted. 6. Conflicts of interest It is the Responsible Investment Board which has the responsibility for assessing progress in THE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS that the policy on active Yes dialogue with companies. Any conflicting interests ownership includes a description of how to identify and among the employees are covered by PFA's guidehandle conflicting interests related to active ownership. lines for handling conflicts of interest. 7. Reporting PFA reports annually on active ownership activities and results. The reporting is made in PFA’s anTHE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS that institutional investors Yes nual corporate responsibility report. Furthermore, report on their active ownership activities, including any PFA regularly updates its log of active ownership voting activity, at least once a year. dialogue at pfa.dk. 42 PFA · C R report 2017 MusikBeRiget Selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2017 causes. PFA · C R report 2017 43 Human rights & environment Risk Responsibl e Responsible value management, investments suppliers creation Responsible value creat ion Data for active ownership Corporate responsibility Company screenings On behalf of PFA, Global Engagement Services (GES) is screening PFA’s equity and bond investments and assesses the engagement dialogue with the companies. We also enter into our own engagement dialogues with a number of companies and are involved in ongoing dialogues with external managers on PFA’s policy for responsible investments. In 2017, 209 cases from PFA’s portfolio were evaluated by GES against 135 cases in 2016. Dialogue has been engaged with 89 companies on 109 cases which included companies that had either violated international conventions or which showed indications that they had violated international conventions. This is 18 cases more than in 2016. GES engagement dialogues distributed on cases 2017 2016 2015 Engagement dialogue cases of established violation of PFA’s policy 34 31 21 for responsible investments Engagement dialogue cases with indications of violation of PFA’s 75 60 35 policy for responsible investments Total GES engagement dialogues distributed on cases 109 91 56 GES has closed 10 engagement dialogue cases with companies that fulfilled the audit criteria. However, in some cases, GES is still in dialogue with the company on another case. GES engagement dialogues distributed on subjects Area Total Per cent of total Environment 19 17 Human rights 37 34 Labour rights 32 29 Corruption 21 19 Controversial weapons 0 0 Total 109 100 44 PFA · C R report 2017 Overview of PFA’s direct dialogues with companies 2017 2016 Engagement dialogue cases of established violation of PFA’s policy for 7 5 responsible investments Engagement dialogue cases with indications of violation of PFA’s policy 6 8 for responsible investments Total number of PFA’s direct engagement dialogues with companies 13 13 PFA has been engaged in dialogue with Mærsk, Danske Bank, Nordea, Nestle, Wal-Mart, Enbridge, Phillips 66, Royal Dutch Shell, JBS SA, Mondelez, Barry Callebaut, Volkswagen and Energy Transfer Partners. PFA has closed its dialogue with the company Syngenta. The status of the dialogue with companies is accessible at PFA’s log under active ownership at pfa.dk Country screenings PFA makes its own screenings and analyses of investments in foreign government bonds. PFA’s country screening model is the basis of this work, and the assessment of countries is discussed in the RI Board. At the end of 2017, we invested in government bonds in 95 countries. The list of countries in which PFA has invested as well as a list of excluded countries are available at english.pfa.dk/responsible-investments. Voting at companies’ general meetings In compliance with our guidelines for voting at companies’ general meetings, PFA gives priority to voting at Danish companies’ general meetings. As for general meetings of foreign companies, PFA cooperates with an external supplier, Manifest, which provides analyses and voting recommendations. It is always PFA’s decision what to vote for at a foreign company’s general meeting. This should primarily be seen as a part of the active ownership dialogue which we are engaged in with the company and in particular concerning the cases that violate PFA’s policy for responsible investments. During 2017, PFA cast its vote at 34 general meetings of Danish companies. Foreign companies’ general meetings are analysed based on an observation list of companies with particular ESG-related issues that we already monitor. In 2017, invitations to 56 companies’ general meetings were analysed in order to assess whether any items on the agenda overlapped PFA’s focus on the company. We voted at five general meetings. The votes concerned reporting on climate, remuneration and auditing. Exclusion In 2017, PFA excluded the US-based company Energy Transfer Equity (ETE) and its subsidiary Energy Transfer Partners (ETP). This was due to the criticism of ETP’s consultancy with the Native Americans in connection with the Dakota Access pipeline project in the USA. PFA removed L3 Technologies Inc. from the exclusion list, after the company had confirmed that it was no longer associated with the production of cluster munitions. At pfa.dk we publish a list of the companies and countries in which we invest. A total exclusion list is also available there. Dialogue and transparency on the work with responsible investments The priority of entering into a constructive dialogue on the work with responsible investments continued in 2017 at the same high level with various stakeholders. This contributed considerably to ensuring input regarding the improvement of our processes and focus areas of responsible investments. PFA · C R report 2017 45 PFA participated in dialogue and as speaker in connection with the following activities in 2017 • 8 bilateral meetings with the WWF and Mellemfolkeligt Samvirke (MS) ActionAid • 1 meeting with Danwatch • 1 meeting with Tobacco Free Portfolio and the Danish Cancer Society • 2 meetings in Tax Dialogue • 4 debates on responsible investments at the Folkemødet • The Danish Parliament’s Foreign Affairs Committee’s hearing about investments in companies active in the Israeli settlements • UN High Level Political Forum • 3 contributions to debates on the Paris Agreement, transparency and responsible investments • The Ministry of Business and Industry’s task force on, for instance, draft preparation of guidelines regarding responsible investments. Responsible corporate practice Whistle-blower scheme in PFA The PFA Group has an overall whistle-blower scheme, which is managed by Got Ethics A/S. Employees, customers and business partners have access to report any illegal or irresponsible actions using the whistle-blower system at PFA’s website. Reportings on violations or potential violations of the current rules in force can either be made anonymously or by stating name or contact information. Two reports were filed and processed through the scheme in 2017. Money laundering, personal data and statutory requirements During 2017, PFA has also concentrated on implementing the changes to the Danish Act on Measures to Prevent Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, MiFID II, Insurance Distribution Directive (IDD), the Danish Act on Processing of Personal Data and first stage of the pension reform. Compliance with these statutory requirements presents a comprehensive process which implies considerable pressure on resources in PFA, as it affects all employees in the Group and requires changes of business and working procedures and of IT systems. In connection with the implementation of the new statutory requirements, PFA decided to streamline its processes and improve the customer experience. Prevention of corruption PFA has been working throughout the year with preventive measures against PFA being associated with corruption. This is an area on which we have been focusing, in particular regarding the companies in which investments are made; please read more about this subject on page 44. This year, we also decided that in 2018, we will complete an overall audit of internal guidelines to ensure that we comply with the standards of preventing and protecting employees against corruption and bribery. 46 PFA · C R report 2017 Corporate responsibility Society Society PFA Pension on Brug Livet the agenda Fonden Social engagement Councils and networks to promote corporate responsibility PFA gives priority to participating in councils and networks for the purpose of exchanging knowledge and stepping up the work on corporate responsibility. Besides informal dialogues with a number of different players and stakeholders, PFA has participated in the following ways in 2017: • Member of the UN Global Compact • Member of Dansif and Dansif’s task force for events • Member of the UN Global Compact Nordic Network • Member of the Danish Global Compact Network • Member of the organisation PRI • Member of the SRI task force under Insurance & Pension Denmark (IPD) (Forsikring & Pension) • Member of the CSR network under the Danish Chamber of Commerce (Dansk Erhverv) • Member of BlackRock Retirement Institute Advisory Council • Initiator of the Think Tank – The New 3rd Age • Member of Nordic Engagement Cooperation • Member of Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change • Participates in the project ‘Consider Copenhagen’ • Member of ‘Velkommen Hjem’ • Board member in Stockholm Environment Institute. Tax accounts for the PFA Group PFA contributes to increased transparency in the tax area and has developed a total statement of the taxes that we pay and collect each year. The statement forms part of the compliance with the PFA Group’s tax policy and describes a part of PFA’s contribution to society. Paid by PFA 2017 2016 2015 Corporation tax 9 **45 0** Payroll tax 139 126 110 Property tax 21 27 89 Non-life insurance tax 6 10 9 Other 4 9 8 Total 179 217** 216** PFA · C R report 2017 47 PFA has collected 2017* 2016 2015 Pension yield tax 3,861 3,379** 2,444** Taxes according to the Danish Pension Tax Act 618 607 2,045 A-tax and labour market contribution (pensions) 4,319 4,052 3,898 A-tax and labour market contribution (employees) 378 360 352 VAT 33 30 68 Total 9,209 8,428** 8,807** * The figures are calculated as at 31 December 2017. Changes to the figures will occur in connection with the final statement prior to the final report. ** Adjusted compared to previous announcement. Support for associations and voluntary work Throughout the year, PFA has cooperated with PFA Brug Livet Fonden's causes to promote awareness of the causes and their activities. Furthermore, PFA has engaged the employees who contributed by raising money to the foundation and increasing the foundation’s visibility. Mentoring war veterans In 2017, PFA initiated four mentorships under the mentor scheme ‘Velkommen Hjem’ (Welcome Home). As a company that was founded for the customers, PFA participates in order to return our generated value to the customers. This means that we convert our knowledge and experience into the right solution for the customers. We wish to do the same through the 'Velkommen Hjem’ scheme, where the expertise of four PFA mentors helps pave the way for the veterans’ return to the civilian business world. PFA’s support consists in providing selected veterans with access to mentors. Besides supporting the individual veteran with identification of competences and networking options, this opportunity will also provide the mentors with the possibility of self-development as managers by meeting someone with a different work profile than the traditional PFA employee. At the same time, the cooperation with ‘Velkommen Hjem’ may attract some competences to PFA which we would not have found elsewhere, and thus lead to a corporate skills upgrade in PFA. Partnerships regarding PFA Critical Illness PFA cooperates with the Danish Cancer Society, the Danish Heart Foundation (Hjerteforeningen), the Danish Stroke Association (Hjernesagen), and the Danish Multiple Sclerosis Society. The partnerships consist in PFA offering a one-year membership with one of the four organisations to customers who receive payouts from their critical illness insurance within one of the areas covered by the organisations. The purpose is to ensure that the customers are offered support and guidance from experts and patients’ associations. In 2017, 1,456 customers were offered a membership with one of the four organisations, and almost 8 per cent accepted. This is a drop compared to the previous year, when about 20 per cent accepted. The decline may be due to PFA’s new procedure which implies that letters regarding rulings and settlements are now forwarded to e-Boks rather than by ordinary mail as was the previous custom. Gold sponsor at the Folkemødet Again this year, PFA participated in the Folkemødet in Bornholm — The People’s Political Festival — which provides a platform for open debates involving politicians, citizens, NGOs and the corporate sector to meet under informal circumstances. With our 100th anniversary as an underlying basis, we presented an ambitious programme in PFA's own festival tent. PFA's tent hosted as many as 30 events, and also hosted an event at Politiken's grand stage. The purpose was, among other things, to put the thoughts from the PFA-initiated Think Tank – The New 3rd Age up for debate. PFA hosted 10 debates with focus on, for instance, the good life in the third age, health as well as responsible investments and climate. In addition to the debates, PFA was behind seven events on counselling in connection physical and mental health, pitching of entrepreneurships in Løvens Hule (Dragons’ Den) in a PFA version, Mads and the Dilemmas (based on a popular Danish radio programme) and finally a workshop based on the Think Tank and targeted at people in Denmark. PFA decided to be gold sponsor in order to contribute to the unique event, at which politicians meet informally with the people and other participants who have an influence on the development in society. 48 PFA · C R report 2017 PFA’s press coverage from the Folkemødet reached 2,319,000 readers, received a total PR score of 51+ and achieved a press penetration of 87 per cent. In connection with the Folkemødet, we achieved a total social media reach of 326,493. Meetings with Total Customers 43 Politicians 33 Public servants 31 Journalists 24 Top executives 11 Scientists 8 Total 150 Reputation According to Infomedia ratings, PFA holds the best reputation among the Danish commercial pension companies which progressed further in 2017. As Denmark’s leading pension company, PFA clearly had the for most press coverage in 2017. Considering the press coverage for the four largest Danish commercial pension companies alone, PFA was behind 48 per cent. The press coverage has been mostly positive with a very limited number of negative mentions, which led to PFA’s position in the top among the pension companies that have had the most positive media coverage. 2017 2016 2015 Mentions in the press 4,173 3,885 5,100 When it comes to corporate responsibility, media coverage mainly concerned subjects regarding the responsibility in PFA's investment of the customers’ savings. The subjects included tobacco, environment and tax havens. PFA has taken an open and transparent approach, which means that we are contacted by many journalists. PFA Brug Livet Fonden was mentioned several times particularly in connection with the announcement of the 2017 causes in December. When the Think Tank – The New 3rd Age was established in January, PFA made an important contribution to public debate about the future of Denmark, and also challenged the notion about what it means get older and having to retire from the labour market. This led to much media coverage and helped change the way in which we will define life as a senior and life in retirement in the future. We were also very engaged in the interplay issues which exist between public benefits and private pension plans. The problems imply that for many people in Denmark it will not be worthwhile to save up for retirement. PFA played a prominent part in the media in the efforts to make politicians create a more sustainable pension system. PFA · C R report 2017 49 Prizes and awards Denmark’s best telephone customer service PFA was awarded the “Kundeservice Award” of the year for best telephone customer service by DI Service (under the Confederation of Danish Industry) and the opinion-research institute Wilke. Denmark’s best digital pension company PFA was named the best digital pension company of the year by the news media FinansWatch and the opinion-research institute Wilke. PFA in ‘Hall of Fame’ PFA was acknowledged by the Dutch peace organisation PAX. The organisation has evaluated PFA’s policy and practice for exclusion of companies that produce cluster munitions. Berlingske Guld Image – best commercial pension company PFA was named by the Danish newspaper Berlingske Business as the commercial pension company with the best image, and thus PFA advanced nine positions. This was a result of the study 'Berlingske Guld Image' under the institute for opinion analysis IFO (Instituttet for Opinionsanalyse). PFA’s green accounts for PFA’s office premises in Denmark CO2 emissions in PFA 2017 2016 2015 Total CO2 emissions (t) 1,894 1,604 2,004 CO2 emissions (t) per employee 1.46 1.26 1.54 CO2 emissions from electricity 2017 2016 2015 Electricity consumption kWh 1,979,658 2,040,301 1,939,603 CO2 consumption from electricity (t) 475 386* 552 *The carbon emissions decline in spite of a minor increase in the electricity consumption. This is due to a positive development in the fuel combination for one produced kWh of average electricity in Denmark. The figure is published by Energinet and is included in the Carbon Calculator which can be accessed on climatecompass.dk. CO2 emissions from district heating 2017 2016 2015 District heating consumption kWh 3,201,730 2,756,570 2,556,990 CO2 consumption from district heating 425 374 339 50 PFA · C R report 2017 CO2 emissions from cars Number of cars Consumption in litres Petrol-driven cars 2017 1 5,127 2016 1 4,452 2015 4 7,687 Diesel-driven cars 2017 124 196,730 2016 130 179,803 2015 138 260,506 Cars in total Number of cars CO2 (t) 2017 125 544 2016 131 487 2015 142 710 CO2 emissions derived from air travels Year Air travels Kilometres flown 2017 427 706,422 2016 993 567,293 2015 833 637,637 Paper consumption Year Paper (t) 2017 62 2016 64 2015 85 PFA · C R report 2017 51 CO2 consumption (t)1 2017 2016 2015 Electricity 475 386 552 District heating 425 374 339 Air travel 147 62 70 Petrol-driven cars 12 10 18 Diesel-driven cars 522 477 692 Paper and derivative effects 313 295 330 Total 1,894 1,604 2,004 1) The figures have been calculated using the Climate Compass’ Carbon Calculator. Taxi driving is not included as a total figure for kilometres of taxi driving is not available. CO2 increase in scope overview (t) 2017 Scope 1 47 Scope 2 140 Scope 3 102 Total 289 PFA leans against Greenhouse Gass Protocol’s method in which carbon reductions are calculated in scopes. Scope 1 = petrol and diesel consumption, Scope 2 = electricity and district heating consumption, Scope 3 = air travels, waste disposal and values deriving from Scope 1 and 2. Digitisation of documents 2017 2016 2015 In kilograms of In kilograms of In kilograms of paper paper paper Reduction of letters sent through e-Boks 14,461 8,810 10,257 Reduction of letters available at the portal 683,783 403,980 425,764 Total reduction in kilograms of paper 698,244 412,790 436,021 Waste (t) 2017 2016 2015 Total waste1 232 2812 224 1) Waste includes the following types of waste: Waste deemed suitable for incineration, cardboard, paper, confidential paper, plastic film, iron and metal, food waste, glass, electronic waste and mixed waste to be sorted. 2) The increase is primarily due to an increase in the amount of building waste from major renovations in 2016. The amount in 2017 is back to the 2015 level. 52 PFA · C R report 2017 Customer trust Customers Corporate responsibility Customers Digitisation Stress handlin g PFA’s employees engage in daily dialogue with many different customers within a large variety of subjects. The listing below is based on the dialogue and contact on specific subjects that are recorded by PFA. Customer enquiries and contact Phone calls to E-mails to PFA's Phone calls to PFA’s Advisory Advisory Services PFA’s Advisory Advisory services 1 Services Centre Centre Services Centre2 Total 2017 70,016 229,112 89,311 256,229 644,668 2016 69,7373 208,618 68,121 271,140 617,616 2015 74,817 210,469 68,209 251,995 605,490 1) The figures include customers who have received advisory services at a seminar, by phone, online and face-to-face consultations. 2) The figures include all calls from PFA’s customers to the PFA Health Centre and Claims Centre and through Falck HealthCare. The figures are calculated according to a new method in 2017. Consequently, the figures for the other years have been adjusted. 3) The number of advisory activities is somewhat below the budgeted level, which is primarily due to a staff shortage of 6 FTE compared to the prescribed staffing. Settled complaints in the Complaints & Customer Satisfaction Department broken down by outcome Partially in favour Rejected Accommodated Found in favour Outcome (%) (%) (%) (%) Lapsed 2017 4 46 27 14 3* 2016 3 60 12 25 NA 2015 10 43 28 19 NA *Registration of the category ’Lapsed’ was commenced in 2017 and refers to cases where the complainant drops the case. Enquiries and proactive Customer Representative issues Referred to Found in Partially in Complaints Complaints Total Accommodated favour favour Rejected Pending Dept. Lapsed 2017 138 81 9 2 31 1 8 6 2016 118 62 14 1 27 4 3 7 2015 113 57 4 2 30 11 2 7 In 2014, PFA’s customer representative took up proactive case management. To provide an overview of the total number of cases, these have been included in the specification. The category ‘Lapsed’ comprises cases where the problem is solved during the normal process and the customer therefore says that no further action should be taken. PFA · C R report 2017 53 Engagement Employees Health Employees Corporate responsibility and working conditions Management Number of employees 2017 2016 2015 Number of employees (average number of full-time 1,296 1,276 1,299 employees) Staff turnover in per cent 16.0 14.6 11.6 Seniority and age 2017 Seniority Age Men 7.4 43.4 Women 8.8 43.5 Employees (m/f) 8.1 43.4 Employees in flex jobs 2017 2016 2015 Number of employees in flex jobs 9 9 10 Sickness absence 2017 2016 2015 Sickness absence (in per cent) 3.2 3.0 3.0 Occupational injuries 2017 2016 2015 Number of occupational injuries 7 6 3 PFA has a working environment organisation, whose purpose is to create a safe and healthy working environment at PFA. The figures are based on PFA's reports to the Danish Working Environment Authority. 54 PFA · C R report 2017 PFA satisfaction survey PFA satisfaction PFA satisfaction PFA satisfaction survey 20171 survey 2016 survey 2015 Employee engagement 82 80 76 PFA compared to the financial and insurance sector2 82 / 77 80 / 73 NA Would recommend others to apply for a job with PFA 83 NA 75 1. PFA's total score for the 2017 employee satisfaction survey exclusive of the question regarding job recommendation was 5.9 on a scale of 1 to 7. The index scores, which are applied for 2016 and 2017 in the table above, have been adjusted in accordance with the following formula: Index score = ( seven-stage score -1)*(100/(7-1)). The 2017 employee satisfaction survey shows that the engagement in PFA is very high and generally significally above benchmark in the sector. The high-scoring parameters in the survey are the work engagement and the good relationship among colleagues. Here, all results are 6.4 out of maximum score of 7. 2. In 2017 and 2016, PFA’s employee satisfaction survey could be compared against Enalyzer’s sectoral benchmark of the Danish financial and insurance industry. In 2017, 23 out of the 29 questions in PFA’s employee satisfaction survey could be benchmarked against the industry, which is why only the total score for these questions has been applied in the cross-sectional comparison. Number of women in management and on PFA's Customer Board 2017 2016 2015 Percentage Percentage Percentage Men Women Men Women Men Women of women of women of women Level 1 Directors/vice 15 4 34 14 4 22 13 2 13 presidents Level 2 37 19 21 31 18 37 24 14 38 Senior managers Level 3 45 31 41 37 34 48 40 31 44 Other managers Total 97 54 36 82 56 41 77 47 38 PFA’s Executive Board • By the end of 2017, PFA's Executive Management consists of four men. PFA’s Customer Board • PFA’s Customer Board comprises 72 members, of which 6 seats were vacant at the end of 2017 and 23 were occupied by women. This corresponds to a percentage of women of 32. PFA’s Senior Customer Board • PFA’s Senior Customer Board comprises 9 members, 4 of which are women. This corresponds to a percentage of women of 44. PFA · C R report 2017 55 PFA’s target figures and policy for gender distribution in boards of directors PFA’s latest update of target figures for the Board of Directors and the policy regarding the gender distribution in management was made in June 2017. The overall target for gender distribution within boards of directors with three members is 33.33/66.67 per cent; for boards of directors with four members the target is 25/75 per cent; and for boards of directors with more than four members it is an objective to increase the share of the under-represented gender gradually from 30 to minimum 40 per cent. The targeted gender distribution in PFA Holding and PFA Pension’s Board of Directors is 25/75 per cent. All targets were to be realised in 2017. The figure for boards of directors with three members was on target at the end of 2017 the gender distribution for the Group property companies reached 33.33/66.67 per cent in these companies, whereas the target figure was not met for PFA Soraarneq, in which the gender distribution was 0/100 per cent. For boards with four members, which applies to the Board of Directors of PFA Bank, the target was met at the end of 2017 as the gender distribution is 25/75 per cent. For boards with more than four members, which applies to the Board of Directors of PFA Asset Management, the target was not met at the end of 2017 as the gender distribution is 0/100 per cent. For the boards of directors of PFA Holding and PFA Pension, the target was met, as 25 per cent of each board including board members elected by the employees represent female board members. Learn more about PFA's key figures and initiatives to increase the proportion of the under-represented gender in boards and in PFA’s managerial positions at pfa.dk. 56 PFA · C R report 2017 PFA · C R report 2017 57 Gigtramte Børns forældreforening Selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2017 causes. gbf.dk BN6132 05.2018 PFA Pension Forsikringsaktieselskab CVR No.: 13 59 43 76 Sundkrogsgade 4 2100 Copenhagen Denmark Tel.: (+45) 39 17 50 00 pfa.dk
