CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 COP REPORT FOR RTX GROUP CVR NO.: 17 00 21 47 1. Table of Content 1. TABLE OF CONTENT 2 4. REPORTING ON CSR IN A MANAGEMENT PERSPECTIVE 14 2. INTRODUCTION AND CONTEXT 4 4.1 The RTX business model 15 2.1 Corporate Social Responsibility in RTX 5 4.2 Policies for CSR 16 2.2 RTX – Vision and Mission in a knowledge 4.3 Policy action and due diligence 17 based business environment 5 4.4 Risk management 17 2.3 Legislation and standards for CSR reporting 5 4.5 KPI’s and results 17 4.6 Objective for the underrepresented gender 17 3. PROGRESS ON MATERIAL CSR ISSUES 7 3.1 Stakeholders material to RTX and their 5. GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE INDEX expectations 8 AND SDG MAPPING 18 3.2 CSR issues material to our RTX’s business 5.1 Global Compact Principle Index 19 and our stakeholders 9 5.2 SDG’s material to RTX 19 3.3 CSR issues material to RTX 12 3.4 Progress on other material CSR issues 13 2018 COP report for RTX Group | 2 RTX and CSR In line with the societal developments and With a value set taking its offset in the approach that, as the growth of our company in the past a business, RTX influences and impacts people, environments and communities across the globe, we constantly years, RTX is committed to be a responsible strive for reducing any potential harm, while at the same business leader in a globalized world. The time maximizing the benefits for our stakeholders. Hereby, way we do it is defined by societal needs it becomes imperative for RTX and our employees that adherence to our stated values and responsible business and our business priorities as well as our conduct is crucial to maintain the continued support from values and commitment to the ten principles our stakeholders while serving as the foundation for our of the UN Global Compact, which we license to operate. believe constitutes a good foundation for In RTX we will continue the focusing on responsible business practices. As a company with a global reach and operation we journey towards a more sustaiare committed to meet our corporate responsibility to Safeguarding the world’s global health and respect commonly accepted human rights throughout our nable business environment. development challenges is a tall order, operations and business relationship as set out in the UN It is crucial that we understand and a successful implementation and Guiding Principles on business and human rights. At the the key risks of our business same time, we expect from our partners that they respect progress calls for close collaboration and and supply chain, and that we internationally recognized human rights as described in the well framed goals by influential stakeholders UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and prioritize the required efforts predominantly being the private sector, encourage them to work with all the Principles of the UN to address these areas. It is an governments and societal organizations. Global Compact. evolving process, which we are committed to report upon on My team and I are personally engaged, and we believe that through consistent focus, appropriate follow-up and an annual basis. evaluation we support the 2030 Agenda as defined in the UN Guiding Principles. PETER RØPKE CEO I hope the report will provide you with some inspiring insight about some of the fundamental principles, which we strive to follow, when we conduct business in RTX. 2018 COP report for RTX Group | 3 Introduction and context 2018 COP report for RTX Group | 4 2. Introduction and context 2.1 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Business Communications and Design Services, respectively, from the design and planning phase to delivery of wireless IN RTX is expected to become more streamlined and optimized communication services and products. with the establishment of the Operations division. RTX Group takes corporate social responsibility (CSR) serioRTX relies on the skills of its employees for its abilily to usly. CSR is an integral part of the way we work and of our Given the development of the span and depth of current supply turnkey solutions. corporate culture. We have aligned our business priorities CSR issues, we need to adapt our management system to and values with the ten principles of the United Nations this new situation, which in the long term may also give RTX The structure of the organization enables prompt integraGlobal Compact (UNGC). Since 2016, we have reported on better opportunities to take a more proactive approach to tion of additional skilled employees. Thanks to its locations CSR by way of a Communication of Progress (COP) and in new customer requirements and thus achieve a competitive near Aalborg University in Denmark and the industry encompliance with section 99a of the Danish Financial Stateadvantage through our CSR approach. At the heart of these vironments in Hong Kong and the US, the Group has access ments Act. We have noticed that our customers, investors efforts has been the establishment of our Code of Conduct to an international pool of resources in terms of developand other stakeholders have increasingly taken an interest for suppliers, all of whom are obliged to sign and comply ment, logistics and quality assurance. An adaptable develin our CSR practices making CSR a gradually more imporwith our commercial terms. However, experience with the opment organization enables the transfer and recruitment tant aspect of our business. We have therefore strengtheimplementation of the RTX Code of Conduct and other of engineers in different technology fields at short notice. ned our CSR practices and set new targets in 2017/18 for aspects of our management system now leads us to focus the purpose of providing a more detailed report. our approach on materiality in relation to CSR, which is also 2.3 LEGISLATION AND STANDARDS FOR a key underlying principle of new legislation and standards CSR REPORTING RTX Group is a global growth company serving a customer in this area. In 2017/18, we took a major step towards more base consisting of a wide range of major international brands proactively monitoring CSR, by engaging external CSR experSECTION 99 OF THE DANISH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACT who have been the main motivational factor in the developts to identify and assess our CSR practices, and to initiate an RTX is required by law to report on its CSR practices, as ment of our CSR practices. Obviously, European, American analysis of the materiality of CSR issues for RTX’s stakeholstated in section 99 a of the Danish Financial Statements and Japanese customers have different expectations, but ders and for our business. This CSR report covers the RTX Act, through which Denmark has implemented Directive our growing and increasingly diverse customer range has offices in Denmark , Hong Kong and the United States. 2014/95/EU on non-financial reporting. This RTX COP report widened our focus from safeguarding human rights to being Unless otherwise explicitly stated, the reported information for 2018 is aligned with the updated requirements of the compliant with product safety legislation such as REACH reflects CSR practice at RTX group level. new section 99 a, which came into effect in January 2018. and RoHS. The latter two are now a basic requirement from virtually all customers and following on from our ISO 9001 2.2 RTX – VISION AND MISSION IN One of the new requirements of section 99 a is the comply certification, RTX has built up a management system to deal A KNOWLEDGE-BASED BUSINESS or explain principle. Hence, if RTX does not have a policy with such very important CSR-related customer requirefor one of the four main CSR areas addressed in section 99 ENVIRONMENT ments. The management system also makes RTX more agile a, for example, we would be required to explain why not. in relation to continually staying updated on new legislation, In order for RTX to maintain its position as an attractive Having a policy for a particular CSR area most often means new standards, norms, etc. and to quickly responding to sub-supplier of specialized wireless development services that it has some level of materiality to the company. Thechanges and meeting customer expectations by applying and advanced IP products, it is essential that the Group’s refore, choosing to conduct a materiality analysis is both a similar requirements to suppliers and other partners in our employees have a broad insight into the engineering discigood way of determining the policy need and conversely, to value chain. Executing the CSR management system in RTX plines required to carry out high-tech development projects explain why a specific policy is not needed. 2018 COP report for RTX Group | 5 VISION VALUES MISSION Another new element of section 99 a is the requirement to report on any due diligence processes implemented to follow up and take action on particular CSR issues. RTX has due diligence processes in place for CSR issues and they Our vision is that We believe that our RTX’s mission is to enable are reflected throughout this COP. customized wireless teams are customer and global brands to freely solutions will lead goal-oriented, working innovate and launch Section 99 a offers different format options for reporting and as a Global Compact signatory, RTX has chosen to the way. RTX delivers openly and efficiently with targeted, unique wireless continue with its COP reporting to the Global Compact adapted simplicity a high level of integrity solutions by providing the standard. to users and market and mutual respect in an specialist knowhow that advantages to informel environment. makes it all possible – THE GLOBAL COMPACT STANDARD AND COP REPORTING The Global Compact standard requires signatories to rebusinesses. wireless wisdom. port their Communication on Progress (COP) annually, with a “…description of practical actions the company has taken or plans to take to implement the Ten Principles in each of the four areas (human rights, labor, environment, anti-corruption)” and “A measurement of outcomes”. Hence, Global Compact is a principles-based standard and as such, there is no official requirement to the format for the reporting on this progress. A commonly-used approach, however, is to report an index, which connects the principles with relevant sections in the report, as we have done in section 5.1 of this COP. Furthermore, we have utilized the materiality analysis prepared for this COP to provide a basic assessment of the SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) material to RTX. This assessment is visualized in section 5.2 in this report, which contains the information needed to report on the SDGs when submitting the COP. 2018 COP report for RTX Group | 6 Progress on material CSR issues 2018 COP report for RTX Group | 7 3. Progress on material CSR issues In accordance with the latest developments FIGURE 1 – STAKEHOLDERS in legislation, standards and norms directing the CSR reporting by companies, Compe­titors RTX has adopted a materiality approach to reporting in this COP. By applying a materiality approach, RTX first identified stakeholders material to our business and their expectations to our CSR practice, Union ShareManage­before identifying the CSR issues most ­holders ment NGO central to our business. As a consequence of this approach, we report in greater detail on the CSR issues material to our business, while perhaps not reporting as thoroughly on other material CSR issues. Employees RTX DS GROUP Custo­mers 3.1 STAKEHOLDERS MATERIAL TO RTX, AND THEIR EXPECTATIONS Family End Suppliers BC RTX is committed to be a responsible and sustainable comusers Customers pany, but the continued advancement of our CSR practice is also driven by our stakeholders and the expectations they express to us. First and foremost, customers of both Business Communication (BC) and Design Services (DS) drive us in various ways to engage on CSR in general and with extra emphasis on particular issues. Hence, our custGovern­omers are material to RTX in the sense that their expectament/EU tions to our CSR practice has an impact on our business. In 2018 COP report for RTX Group | 8 addition to customers, our material stakeholders include FIGURE 2 – MATERIALITY MATRIX FOR RTX GROUP our employees, suppliers and other business partners as well as shareholders. We do have other stakeholders of importance, but their impact on our business is often less tangible and hence not our primary consideration in terms High Transparency/ of this COP report. RoHs tracability 3.2 CSR ISSUES MATERIAL TO RTX’S Reach Employee working BUSINESS AND OUR STAKEHOLDERS conditions Product Supply Chain safety Management Materiality for stakeholders In the process of identifying stakeholders material to RTX, we mapped their expectations to our CSR practices in Sustainable packaging CSR reporting terms of particular CSR issues and the expected level of implementation for each of them. The CSR issues identified were then evaluated to determine the impact they have or Corporate governance Competence potentially could have on our business in the near to medidevelopment um term. Such an approach leverages the establishment of Environment-friendly a materiality matrix for RTX, which is depicted in figure 2. Stakeholder products consultation Anti-corruption The materiality matrix illustrates the degree of materiality and bribery of certain CSR issues to RTX’s business and our stakeholders respectively. The larger the dot representing a CSR Diversity and issue, the more comprehensive it is. The CSR issues placed inclusion in the top right part of the matrix have the highest level of materiality to RTX and are therefore also the issues that will be reported on in more detail in the following sections. Next, the other CSR issues in the matrix will be reported on Low in a more compact format. Low Materiality for RTX's business High 2018 COP report for RTX Group | 9 3.3 CSR ISSUES MATERIAL TO RTX TRANSPARENCY AND TRACEABILITY the reporting on due diligence set out for CSR issues. This PRODUCT SAFETY Our customers’ expectations to RTX and our efforts to enis exemplified in the new requirements on due diligence Product safety is of the utmost importance to Business sure compliance with the environmental directives, reflect in section 99 a of the Danish Financial Statements Act and Communications, Design Services and to RTX in general a broader tendency across stakeholders to expect more the general focus on due diligence in standards such as the and is the CSR issue of the greatest importance to RTX’s butransparency concerning CSR in general and traceability in Global Compact. siness and our stakeholders. The term product safety here terms of specific issues. encompasses both environmental and technological aspeAt RTX, we have increased our focus on due diligence in cts of products and will be elaborated on in the following. CONFLICT MINERALS CSR. In this COP report, we have increased transparency In the electronics industry, particular attention regarding by connecting our practices directly to the Global Compact LEGISLATION, STANDARDS AND OTHER PRODUCT SAFETY traceability is paid to conflict minerals, which refers to principles in section 5.1. REQUIREMENTS natural resources extracted in a conflict zone and sold to REACH, RoHS and WEEE are abbreviations for EU directiperpetuate the fighting. RTX will not support the latter in SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT ves, which regulate environmentally-safe production and any way. In 2013, we established a corporate policy requiHigh quality products and services is an RTX hallmark and handling of electronic equipment. Today, the overriding ring all suppliers to provide information about the origin of with manufacturing outsourced, our robust supply chain and paramount requirement of our customers is that the metals used to manufacture RTX designs and products. management practice is vital to meeting our customers’ RTX is compliant with these directives. This expectation is Since 2018, RTX has retrieved this information through a high expectations to quality and increasingly also to CSR formalized as a requirement in most of our contracts with Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT) provided by issues. Processes concerning the REACH, RoHS and WEEE customers, which more often than not also require RTX the Responsible Minerals Initiative. Based on information directives are already an integral part of our mainstream to ensure compliance by our suppliers, which are the de provided by our suppliers, we do not knowingly use metals supply chain management, which includes a rigorous profacto manufacturers of the products sold by our Business derived from conflict regions in our products. cess for obtaining and validating the information requested Communications division. The recent consolidation of RTX’s from suppliers. RTX regularly performs site visits at its supplier base with the majority of the spend allocated to We believe that our approach to conflict minerals meets EMS providers’ production plants and conducts scheduled fewer, large EMS (Electronics Manufacturing Service) comthe general expectations of our stakeholders that we audits, sometimes together with customers. panies, has made it easier for us to provide sufficient docupractice reasonable due diligence on this issue with our mentation for compliance with the directives. However, the supply chain. However, in order to further strengthen our THE RTX SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT directives and other expectations nevertheless require RTX approach and be aligned with future stakeholder expecRTX’s expectations to suppliers on the broader range of to establish a robust governance framework that ensures tations on the matter, we have integrated this issue more CSR issues are reflected in the RTX Supplier Code of Conthe ongoing and ad hoc management of our CSR practice. firmly into our CSR practice in general and our supply chain duct, which is based upon the principles of the UN Global management in particular. Compact. The majority of our current suppliers have signed In addition to compliance with the directives, RTX also our Code of Conduct or have affirmed that they support ensures that the products brought to market are within the TRANSPARENCY THROUGH REPORTING ON DUE DILIGENCE and have adopted the UN Global Compact. The RTX Code accepted SAR-value ranges for wireless devices. Extensive Stakeholder expectations on the issue of conflict minerals, of Conduct has been used to assess potential suppliers, measurements and prototyping ensure compliance and reflect a broader tendency in legislation, standards and and our contracts with suppliers selected require them to address a health aspect of product safety. norms towards achieving increased transparency through adhere to the Code of Conduct. 2018 COP report for RTX Group | 10 However, RTX acknowledges that our practice concerning committed to reducing the potential work pressure and the broader range of CSR issues can be strengthened our managers are instructed to monitor workloads in our and could potentially become a more integral part of our time registration system and act on work overload. RTX current robust supply chain management practice. The attempts to respond proactively to cooperative challenges RTX Code of Conduct would be central to such integration that unavoidably arise in a global organization with a diverand provide the basis on which to build such an extended sified portfolio; for example the whole company spent a full practice. week of workshops and meetings together to celebrate our anniversary in 2018. EMPLOYEE WORKING CONDITIONS At RTX, our employees are vital to our performance and to WORKPLACE ASSESSMENT the development of the innovative products and services RTX conducts a workplace assessment (APV) every three that enable us to uphold and expand our market share. years, most recently in 2018. Compared to the emploHence, it is important to RTX that our employees thrive and yee satisfaction survey, the workplace assessment more that their working conditions support this ambition. specifically targets particular aspects of our employees’ physical and mental work environment. Overall, the APV RTX utilizes two primary sources of information in order complements the positive impressions of the employee to continuously optimize the working conditions for our satisfaction survey, with the vast majority of our employees employees. One is the workplace assessment for emplobeing either very satisfied or satisfied with their job overall yees based in Denmark, which RTX is required to conduct and with a similar distribution of responses regarding the according to Danish legislation. Another is RTX’s employee physical and mental work environment respectively. satisfaction survey, which we ask all employees globally to take once a year. However, the details of the workplace assessment also reveal that some employees experience challenges in terms EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION of noise levels in the work place and the indoor climate, For the last three consecutive years (2016-18), the survey which RTX continuously addresses. results have shown that RTX’s employees are highly motivated and committed and our ratings have continued to CORPORATE GOVERNANCE climb year by year. RTX employees generally are appreGood corporate governance is vital to any company and is ciative of their colleagues, the ability to flex their working required by most stakeholders, although they might differ schedule and the lunch opportunities provided by RTX. in their expectations. For RTX, corporate governance is all about balancing the interests of our stakeholders and The employees are less appreciative of the steadily growing efficiently executing our system of rules, practices and work pressure and certain cooperative challenges. RTX processes by which we are directed and controlled. Hence, operations lead to occasional peak periods, but we are our Code of Conduct, supply chain management system, 2018 COP report for RTX Group | 11 surveys on working conditions etc. are all part of our RTX is a publicly listed company and the CEO and CFO corporate governance and are described in the preceding meet quarterly with investors for a business update and to sections in this COP. discuss the financial results of the quarter. At the end of the 2017/18 financial year, the RTX Group Corporate governance also concerns the governance of employed 264 people: 174 in Denmark and 90 outside CSR issues, which follows a distributed governance approEurope. We strive in all aspects to manage the company ach with responsibilities anchored at different levels and in a professional manner and to be as open and transpafunctions of the organization. The overall responsibility rent about our management as possible. The Executive for CSR reporting resides with the Executive Management, Management of RTX regularly invites all employees to which also has the overall responsibility for the working internal employee briefings where an open and constructiconditions of RTX employees. The everyday management ve dialogue is encouraged. We believe that a good working of CSR issues is handled independently in each of our two environment and a high level of job satisfaction leads to business units, including the supply chain management greater employee satisfaction, higher efficiency levels, for each division. We recently established an Operations lower staff turnover and low absenteeism. division for the purpose of alligning the approaches and ensuring an even more robust governance setup towards Every four years, RTX Group employees elect three memsuppliers. bers to the Board of Directors in pursuance of the Danish Companies Act. The current three employee representatives were elected to the Board of Directors in January 2015. The next election will take place in the 2018/19 financial year. Employee representatives are elected for four-year terms, and the successful candidates at the next election will join the Board of Directors following the Annual General Meeting to be held in January 2019. 2018 COP report for RTX Group | 12 3.4 PROGRESS ON OTHER MATERIAL CSR ISSUES In addition to the CSR issues considered highly material to RTX, the materiality matrix (figure 2) depicted in section 3.2 lists additional CSR issues that are material to RTX’s stakeholders, its business or both. In the following list, we provide a brief accumulated view of the status and progress on selected CSR issues. ENVIRONCOMPETENCE SUSTAINABLE ANTIDIVERSITY AND STAKEHOLDER MENTALLYDEVELOPMENT PACKAGING CORRUPTION INCLUSION CONSULTATION FRIENDLY AND BRIBERY PRODUCTS RTX is acutely aware of the Nearly all products from RTX RTX maintains zero tolerance RTX’s workforce is diverse Stakeholders generally importance of having the right are packaged in brown boxes towards corruption and and represents more than appreciate being consulted Many of the products employees and therefore from recycled cardboard, bribery. RTX has had a 10 different nationalities. and RTX already engages and services provided by supports and encourages which has not been exposed whistleblower policy and a Some of the more recent strongly with employees, RTX are environmentallycontinuous professional to chlorine or other chemical whisteblower program in place hires came from temporary investors and suppliers. The friendly beyond compliance. development. Embodying substances. We strive for since the 2012/2013 financial try-out positions established COP is part of RTX’s broader Increasingly customers request this awareness are our Lead the most compact packaging year. There is no history of in corperation between RTX stakeholder engagement and specific environmentallySpecialists, who spend a possible, with a minimum incidents involving RTX, and no and the local municipality. RTX is considering whether to friendly features and focus considerable part of their time of surplus space, allowing issues were reported through More women are being hired, widen the scope and level of is on more energy efficient on research and other activities for smaller packages and the whistleblower program but the ratio of women to the analyses performed and to products. Also in 2018, we leading to specialization in more efficient packaging in the reporting year or in men is still low, compared to include more of the value chain. believe that our efforts have specific fields of strategic in transport. This reduces prior years. RTX is considering other industries. Initiatives resulted in our customers importance to RTX. In addition transport costs per unit making the whistleblower has been taken to improve the recognizing RTX as a provider to cycles of activities for and results in a more program available to external situation and a diversity policy of environmentally-friendly leaders, project managers and environmentally-friendly partners, allowing e.g. (addressing gender equality) is products. RTX continues the other groups, we are currently product with less CO2 emitted suppliers to report on potential being considered. development of DECT ULE finalizing a career path per unit. irregularities. (Ultra Low Energy), providing program for all employees. low energy consuming operations. 2018 COP report for RTX Group | 13 CSR reporting in a management perspective 2018 COP report for RTX Group | 14 4. CSR reporting in a management perspective There is a tendency to integrate 4.1 THE RTX BUSINESS MODEL currently focused on subassembly, which involves delivemanagement perspectives in CSR legislation Further to the RTX vision, values and mission described in ring complete and fully functional PCBAs to customers. section 2.2, the RTX business model is generally based on Design Services even delivers complete products to certain and standards, and that is also the case for RTX as the preferred partner for the design, development customers and we expect this aspect of their business both the UN Global Compact and section & production of wireless communication solutions. RTX’s to grow in the coming years. Hence, the value chains of 99 a of the Danish Financial Statements Act. activities are organized in two business units: 1) Design Serthe two business units are converging and we expect the vices – which focuses on wireless communication product establishment of a new Operations unit will facilitate and This perspective is even more explicit in the design & development services; and 2) Business Communistrengthen the revised business models. Also, this organinew section 99, which requires disclosure cations – which focuses on ODM/OEM design & production zational change will have a positive impact on CSR manageof the company’s business model, policies, of advanced wireless business communications solutions. ment at RTX and possibly facilitate stronger integration of actions, due diligence, risk management, CSR into the business model. Although Design Services is focused on delivering services, KPIs, financial results, etc. Hence, although they also deliver modules for printed circuits boards and these requirements are to some extent addressed in the previous sections of this COP, we will also briefly touch on them in the following sections. SPECIFICATION AND DESIGN DEVELOPMENT AND TESTING AND CERTIFICATION PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY At RTX, we start by converting INTEGRATION Based on years of experience, CHAIN MANAGEMENT customers’ requirements and Following agile development our in-house pretest services Using a well-established user needs into a Product practices, we develop reduce the time to market network of ISO9001, SO14001, Requirement Specification. prototypes to evaluate system and lower approval and ISO13485, TS16949 and AS9100 Our engineering teams then performance in-house. We certification costs. If required, certified manufacturers, design a solution that is based integrate each design at we can also handle the full we guarantee a production on the right combination of system level so that every type approval service for our through the entire product mechanics, hardware and component and sub-system customers. life-cycle. software. Combined with our works perfectly, evaluating list of patented solutions and performance against test cases in-house developed protocols, for the fully integrated system. we deliver a compelling result to our customers. 2018 COP report for RTX Group | 15 4.2 POLICIES FOR CSR RTX is committed to the ten principles of the Global HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT Compact and hence to implementing the principles in our business, see the Global Compact Principle Index in section 5.1. As displayed in the index, the principles are categoPOLICY POLICY rized into the areas human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. These areas are similar to the ones ”RTX supports and respects the protection “RTX supports a precautionary approach companies are required to report under section 99 a of the of internationally proclaimed human rights to environmental challenges and initiatives Danish Financial Statements Act, specifically concerning their policies on these areas and the action taken. and commits all business units of the RTX to promote greater environmental reGroup to collaborate only with individuals, sponsibility. We commit all business units RTX has defined policies for human rights and environment of the RTX Group to collaborate only with as listed to the right which are considered highly material companies or organizations, which respect to our business and stakeholders, as reflected in the mathe internationally acknowledged UN Huindividuals, companies or organizations, teriality matrix in section 3.2 of this report. RTX has no deman Rights. which support a precautionary approach to fined policies for anti-corruption and labor as these areas environmental challenges. are not considered highly material to our business and staRTX is furthermore committed to our keholders. This is also reflected in the materiality matrix in section 3.2. Should these areas become highly material to employees and to ensuring that they thrive RTX, we will define specific policies for them. Nonetheless, in a safe and stimulating work environRTX furthermore supports the developRTX is taking action on all four areas in the Global Compact ment with good working conditions. RTX ment and diffusion of environmentally as listed in the index of section 5.1 in this COP. Group therefore requires all units of the friendly technologies. RTX Group therefore RTX Group to uphold or implement the encourages all business units to engage measures required for such a working with customers and other relevant stakeenvironment” holders who wish to develop or apply such technologies.” In addition, the RTX policy on human rights is supported by In addition, the RTX environmental policy is further suppora staff policy applying to all employees of the RTX Group. ted by a conflict minerals policy applying to all suppliers to RTX Group. 2018 COP report for RTX Group | 16 4.3 POLICY ACTION AND DUE DILIGENCE In addition, RTX has management procedures that include 4.6 OBJECTIVE FOR RTX has taken and continues to take action not only on our constant awareness of upcoming or potential bans of subTHE UNDERREPRESENTED GENDER policies, but on all of the four areas in section 99a and the stances used in our products. Our agile approach allows us ten principles of the Global Compact. However, as not all to react swiftly to such new requirements and we have zero RTX’s staff policy aims to attract and maintain highly quCSR issues are material to RTX’s stakeholders and our busitolerance towards suppliers, who do not engage properly alified and motivated employees. With regard to employness, we do not to apply due diligence to the same extent with us on this matter. ment and recruitment we endeavor to have both male on every CSR issue. and female candidates, despite the fact that we operate in 4.5 KPI’S AND RESULTS a male dominated working environment. RTX recognizes In section 3.2, we describe the actions and due diligence A central aspect of our corporate governance approach is that the current percentage of females in our staff of engiapproach taken on the CSR issues most important to RTX, to define relevant and realistic key performance indicators neers may be too low to secure a pipeline of future female and in section 5.1, we connect these to the ten Global Com(KPIs) that can help us deliver robust results. The results candidates for management level in RTX. In our recruitpact principles in a cross-referencing index. related to our CSR practice are elaborated in section 3, ment process RTX therefore encourages qualified female which accounts for our progress on CSR issues material to applicants to seek vacancies as they arise. The general split 4.4 RISK MANAGEMENT RTX and some expectations for the future. between male and female employees is 11% female and Given RTX’s business model with an outsourced producti89% male. on, our supply chain is overall the most material risk to our Exemplifying this is our KPI on absence, which is directly business from a CSR point of view. Consequently, we have tied to our performance and results. The Board of Directors has defined an ambition that the established a Supplier Code of Conduct (section 3.3) enfemale share of board members elected by the Annual compassing all four areas of the Global Compact standard. ABSENCE AS A KPI General Meeting should be at least 17% by 2021. In April More specifically, the materiality materix (figure 2) in sectiAs stated repeatedly in this COP (but never often enough) 2013 the Board of Directors adopted policy to ensure a on 3.2, identifies product safety is by far the most material our employees are our most vital resource and RTX relies greater number of female board members elected by the CSR issue for RTX and hence, this is the issue calling the on the availability of their power and ingenuity on an Annual General Meeting. The objective is to increase the dimost for risk management. Being ISO 9001 certified, RTX everyday basis. Hence, the health and well-being of our versity in a male dominated industry, but as of 2017/18 the has already demonstrated a high level of risk management employees is very important to us as is keeping the numBoard of Directors consists of 100% males. Within this male in terms of the quality of our products and services. ber of days of absence to a minimum. dominated industry it has been hard to identify the right female board member possessing the unique competenThe most imminent risks are related to some of the specific The target for the absence KPI is <3% for RTX in Denmark cies deemed relevant for the board duties in RTX. In order CSR issues, such as conflict minerals, SAR values and those and <1.5% for RTX in Hong Kong. The actual average abto promote, facilitate and increase the number of women covered by the REACH, RoHS and WEEE directives (e.g. sence across the group is <2% annually and we therefore in management level positions at RTX, Management has chemical substances). Robust management processes have consider this KPI to be met in 2018. defined an objective to increase the percentage of females been set up to ensure compliance by RTX Group and its at management level as vacancies arise. During 2017/18 suppliers, thereby de facto preventing and addressing the there were no vacant positions in the RTX management most common risks associated with product safety. team, hence no changes as compared to last year. 2018 COP report for RTX Group | 17 Global Compact Principle Index and SDG Mapping 2018 COP report for RTX Group | 18 5. Global Compact Principle Index and SDG Mapping 5.1 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE INDEX For each principle material to RTX, references are made to the section 3.2 in this COP report illustrating the implementation of the principle. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRON­MENT ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 3 PRINCIPLE 7 PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should support and respect the Businesses should uphold the freedom of Businesses should support a precautionary Businesses should work against corruption in all protection of internationally proclaimed human association and the effective recognition of the approach to environmental challenges; its forms, including extortion and bribery. rights; and right to collective bargaining; (references to section 3.2) (references to section 3.2) (references to section 3.2) (references to section 3.2) PRINCIPLE 8 PRINCIPLE 2 PRINCIPLE 4 Undertake initiatives to promote greater Make sure that they are not complicit in human The elimination of all forms of forced and environmental responsibility; and rights abuses. compulsory labour; (references to section 3.2) (references to section 3.2) (references to section 3.2) PRINCIPLE 9 PRINCIPLE 5 Encourage the development and diffusion of The effective abolition of child labour; and environmentally friendly technologies. (references to section 3.2) (references to section 3.2) PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. (references to section 3.2) 2018 COP report for RTX Group | 19 5.2 SDG’S MATERIAL TO RTX The determination of which SDG’s are material to RTX is currently based on a simple assessment based on the materiality matrix depicted in figure 2 in section 3.2 of this COP report and only considers CSR issues that are highly material to RTX. More advanced assessments are available and map more accurately the current and potential contribution to a goal. RTX will consider such options and the kind of resources needed to execute such an approach. 2018 COP report for RTX Group | 20 RTX A/S Stroemmen 6 9400 Noerresundby Denmark www.rtx.dk
