Grandi Lavori Fincosit SpA Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 Annual Report COP 2018 Annual Report Grandi Lavori Fincosit SpA is proud to reiterate its affiliation and partnership with the United Nation’s Global Compact network since 2009. We support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti‐corruption. We intend to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture, and day‐to‐day operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. 2 Human Rights Principles Assessment, Policies, Goals GLF’s goal is to convene all our employees and businesses to adhere the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Based on our commitment we have set codes of conduct in our Employee Handbook and Subcontract Agreements available online in our portal. Implementation Inside GLF Handbooks and Agreements have been implemented and available online; the top management supervises and monitors the effectiveness through the Company. Weekly meetings are carried out at the job sites to prevent/correct actions that may affect the Principles. Outside GLF GLF evaluates Subcontractor’s performances based on the criteria specified in the internal procedures. Because of the international exposure of this business, GLF guarantees prompt communications through hiring resources that are able to manage cross functional/cultural teams, including language barriers. Measurement of Outcomes No cases of misconducts or violations have been reported as of June 2018. ******* Our international exposure presents us with many opportunities to aid other countries that require a myriad of necessary assistance. GLF is proud to sponsor a Colombian non‐profit organization, Sharing for Kids http://sharingforkids.org/. 3 Since 2001, Sharing for Kids, a Florida corporation, is providing medical equipment assistance to the Napoleón Franco Pareja Children's Hospital Foundation (HINFP), La Casa del Niño www.lacasadelnino.org. Children are one of the most vulnerable populations in Latin America. Therefore, there are multiple organizations that have focused their social programs to close gaps in access to health and education. According to Cartagena Como Vamos (CCV), a program that monitors the changes that occur in the quality of life of the inhabitants of the city of Cartagena. In Cartagena, 10.30% of the population corresponds to children under 6 years of age, that is, 100.758 infants, this percentage places Cartagena at the national level as the city with the highest proportion of children in the total population. According to CCV:  The mortality rate in Cartagena for children under 5 years of age for 2013 was 13.88 per 1,000 live births.  In Cartagena, 16.36% of children under 6 years old presented chronic malnutrition in 2013, that is, 16,484 cases.  Only 20.23% (6,848) of children between 3 and 4 years old attended initial education programs in 2013 in Cartagena. The Napoleón Franco Pareja Children's Hospital Foundation is the only Pediatric University Hospital of the Caribbean Region specializing in the care of children from lower and middle socioeconomic strata of the city of Cartagena, Colombia and its surroundings. 4 Sharing for Kids volunteers feel very proud to donate to La Casa del Niño ‐ Napoleón Franco Pareja Children's Hospital Foundation, and to the medical teams that contribute to improve the care of patients in delicate health conditions with needed equipment such as 5 cardiac monitors, 20 vital signs monitors, cyclitic lamp, pneumatic surgery perforator, wheelchairs, stretchers, surgical instruments and several outpatient equipment. They successfully managed to get a donation of 28 computers donated by the Miami Children's Hospital to the HINFP, and managed the delivery to Cartagena in conjunction with an educational mission of American pediatric specialists for professors and medical students along with another donation of medical equipment. Sharing for Kids also contributed in the construction of the Miss Pilar Intensive Care Unit and the X‐ray room. Also, in commemoration of the sister program between the cities of Coral Gables and Cartagena, they joined forces with Rotary clubs to donate a cardiac monitor. 5 The following are some of the items donated by Sharing Kids to the hospital: 6 The founder and volunteers of Sharing for Kids make frequent visits to the hospital in Cartagena to assist their staff in supplying the most needed medical equipment and to enjoy with rejoiced hearts the progress their donations make. GLF is proud to be committed to this wonderful non‐profit organization that brings back healthy smiles to these children. 7 Labor Principles Assessment, Policies, Goals It is the policy of GLF to comply with all State and Federal Non‐Discrimination Laws and/or Affirmative Action & Equal Employment Opportunity Laws to assure that when qualified applicants are employed by GLF they are treated during their employment without regard to race, religion, sex, color, age, disability, pregnancy, and/or national origin in regard to: Employment, promotion, demotion, or transfer, recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay, benefits, or other forms of compensation, and selection for training, including apprenticeship, pre‐apprenticeship, and/or on the job training. Implementation GLF Human Resources [HR] has established and implemented Handbooks and Procedures. GLF HR trains new employees and efforts are geared toward the explanation of the applicable laws. Labor Rights are posted at each Job Site on the Dashboard. External Audits are periodically carried out to verify legal compliances. Measurement of Outcomes No cases of misconducts or violations have been reported as of June 2018. Accentuating these efforts, we created a Scholarship at Florida International University in Miami, FL, where deserving and/or minority students can enjoy the benefits of their hard work. Several students were the recipients of this scholarship last year. We also participate in partnering agreements with all the Departments of Transportation, Counties & Cities with positive outcomes. 8 Environmental Principles Assessment, Policies, Goals GLF is committed to follow the quality environmental policies, procedures and practices established by the Government in and outside Italy. Because of the nature of the business, assessments are developed during the bidding phase, studying and analyzing Owner’s requirements and regulations. Implementation Every jobsite strictly adhere to the contractual requirements and external inspections are carried out during the project phase to guarantee the implementation and observance of the required environmental rules. GLF holds the Environmental Management System ISO 14001:2004 Certificate, which complies with the strictest requirements in this field to ensure a safe and positive outcome on all our projects. Measurement of Outcomes No violations have been issued to GLF by the Owners. 9 Anti‐corruption Principles Assessment, Policies, Goals GLF is committed to complying with States laws and ICC Rules on Combating Corruption, which constitutes a major obstacle to the creation of trust and prevents contractual relationships from being affected. Implementation GLF has incorporated Part I of the ICC Rules on Combating Corruption 2011 in its Contract Documents. Measurement of Outcomes No cases of misconducts or violations have been reported as of June 2018. ******************* 10
