UN GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2017 2018 www.cinop.nl Preface This report covers the Communication on Progress (COP) of CINOP in implementing the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. The document provides insight in our activities, procedures and values in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. As social enterprise CINOP fully supports the ten principles of UN Global Compact. As a leading partner that can offer high level expertise in the Netherlands and all over the world, we aim to deliver longlasting impact in line with the Sustainable Development Goals. We are here for each individual to create an equal and inclusive society. Also this year we promise to live up to these standards that inspire us to go to work everyday. Being part of this network allows us to improve our activities and help to create a world of sustainable learning for all. We are part of the Global Compact because education is in our DNA, and that is why we ourselves keep learning and improving each and every day as well. Yours sincerely, CINOP is a social enterprise, meaning our priority is to create social impact instead of profit. Huub Dekkers CEO CINOP ’s-Hertogenbosch, The Netherlands 2 01. About CINOP CINOP is an independent, (inter)national We work with research, projectmanagement, expert and • Education: schools, educational institutions, consultancy organisation specialised in Lifelong VET centres, private training providers, Learning, Vocational Education & Training (VET), platforms, knowledge centres and umbrella adult education and employability. organisations. • Government: national and local governments, Based in ’s-Hertogenbosch in the Netherlands, semi-government, centres of expertise. the organisation currently employs about 130 • Labour market: branchand industry professionals that are providing worth 20 years associations, employers’ and employee’s of expertise and solutions both nationally and associations, training and development funds, internationally. private companies. Together we deliver sustainable solutions. 3 02. Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and CINOP to respect the Universal Declaration of respect the protection of internationally Human Rights (UDHR), across our activities and proclaimed human rights; and in relationships with the people we cooperate Principle 2: make sure that they are not with. complicit in human rights abuses. Actions and Envisaged Outcomes For us, every individual has unique talents and In CINOP’s general Code of Conduct, employees has the basic right to proper education and work. (and associates) declare to show respect for No matter who they are or where they live. This cultural costums, gender, and sexual orientation, specifically holds true for vulnerable groups like and avoid involvement in criminal activities that low literate, disabled students, refugees or people contravene human rights. without diplomas and/ or jobs. It’s in the DNA of For us every individual has unique talents and the right to proper education. 4 Our expert centre for studying with disabilities This promise is underlined by CINOP’s intention called handicap + studie, stimulates the statement and active participation to adhere participation of students with disabilities in to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons higher education. It is a major contributor to the with Disabilities. Last year, in cooperation with way CINOP is devoted to the right to education. the Dutch Institute of Human Rights (College Together with partners we work to create a van de Rechten van de Mens) and the Dutch climate where inclusion, individual autonomy, Ministry, we accomplished that 3 higher and complete participation are achieved for education instutes also signed a promise to students and staff with a disability. adapt their policy to be more in line with the convention. Our plan for next year is to expand the number of signatories and organize an international congres where we will promote this. As part of our Corporate Social Responsibility policy (CSR), CINOP takes responsibility in the current refugee situation in Europe by supporting refugees in learning Dutch when they arrive in the Netherlands. Based on the universal right on education (and work), CINOP is committed to ensure these refugees have fair chances to enter society and the labour market. CINOP developed a (free to use) Toolkit Dutch which supports refugees to learn Dutch together with their mentors. Human rights is considered as a cross cutting issue, especially in the projects related to the development theme ‘security and rule fo law’. The secretariat of the National Council of Bhutan was trained in the topic of human rights and visited the Netherlands Institute for Human Rights. In addition, speficic attention for human rights is included in NICHE projects in Indonesia where CINOP is involved in capacity building of the Police Academy, training for legislative drafters and improving an international law curriculum. Furthermore, various new global projects in which CINOP participates are directed at improving educational levels and strengthening employment. This ranges from support in capacity building at the Schools of Hygiene in Ghana to support in quality management in the initial training of nurses and midwifery in Benin. 5 03. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the employees, business partners or clients in freedom of association and the effective relation to (potential) human rights violations or recognition of the right to collective discrimination, nor was the organisation involved bargaining; in any human rights incidents before or during Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of the reporting period. forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child CINOP has its own Collective Labour Agreement; labour; every year new negotiations take place, supporPrinciple 6: the elimination of discrimination ted by Dutch labour union AOb (Algemene in respect of employment and occupation. Onderwijsbond). Employees can become a member of this union who represents their rights Actions and Envisaged Outcomes in labour and employment issues. CINOP employs professionals from various cultural, social and/or religious backgrounds, CINOP has an active Works Council in because we believe this contributes to the which employees from all working units are diversity of our staff. represented. They are actively involved by the board on issues concerning labour conditions In our recruitment procedures discrimination is and equality for employees. forbidden. We strictly select on suitability for the job in terms of knowledge skills. CINOP Since 2013 employees are able to work according promotes hiring of employees (and students) to the ‘any concept’: any time, any place, anywith disabilities. where. This means that employees have a large In our Human Resources policy gender equality degree of flexibility and freedom in executing remains an important factor. This implies above their work. all equal rights for men and women. In 2017 the majority of our employees are women. CINOP has a significant amount of women in managerial positions (i.e. our Management Team is equally divided between men and women). Via our projects CINOP aims to give both male and female students equal opportunities with regard to universal access to education and (future) employability. In particular in our international projects gender is a cross cutting theme. Internally in our workproces, CINOP has two counsellors (a woman and a man) who may be contacted by employees if they are facing inappropriate behaviour such as sexual harassment, aggression or violence, discrimination or bullying. The CINOP Complaints Committee and the councellors did not receive any complaints from 6 CINOP has a database with gender segregated • familiarity with institutional security policy; data of all employees and their specific functions. • unauthorized behavior such as possession of In our Corporate Social Responsibility Report weaponry, drug use, and truancy; data is published on gender, age, fulltime/ • physical violence such as theft, and parttime functions, absenteeism, etcetera. vandalism; • psychological and physical aggression such All employees have yearly progress and as (cyber)bullying, discrimination, performance interviews with their manager. intimidation, physical and sexual violence; The appraisal is based on projects for clients, • aggression and violence against gay, lesbian cooperation within the team, commercial or bisexual students or employees. performance and personal development. The results give institutes insights to improve The Social Safety Monitor is research from CINOP social security and safety and create a place and ecbo about the social safety of students where education can be peacefully enjoyed by and employees of educational institutes. The both students and staff. monitor offers insights into the institute’s current situation in comparison with a country wide benchmark and has been implemented for institutes of vocational education and training, all over the Netherlands. Indicators that are used involve; • the feeling of security amongst students and employees; In our recruitment procedures discrimination is forbidden. 7 04. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a The choice to locate the office directly opposite precautionary approach to environmental to the central train station also has to do with challenges; sustainability. It is our goal to stimulate the use Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote of public transport as much as possible for both greater environmental responsibility; and employees as well as visitors. Employees can Principle 9: encourage the development and also use a ‘greenwheels’ option (car sharing) in diffusion of environmentally friendly the mobility programme. CINOP employees who technologies. work outside Europe, have agreed to combine their missions to different countries, to reduce Actions and Envisaged Outcomes the number of flights. BREEAM is the world’s most widely used environmental assessment method for Procurement and purchase of materials for buildings. Clients can receive a certificate that projects in African countries, Latin America and assess criteria like architecture, materials, Asia, is mainly done in the respective countries finishing, waste, energy and climate system. to reduce prolonged transportation by land and Since we have received the BREAAM rating air. ‘very good’, the CINOP building is the most sustainable office in ’s-Hertogenbosch. As specialist in learning and education, we will contribute to environmental awareness via our Due to the large numbers of consultants who projects where possible. For example, in 2014 work out-of-office, we reduced our office space CINOP was active in Benin. Here the University use by renting one floor to a third party (in 2016.). of Parakou is faced with the need to improve agricultural production systems and to assure Our flexwork concept enables and stimulates food security in the light of changing climate employee to work at home when possible. This conditions. CINOP helped the university with to reduce travel cost and environmental impact. institutional capacity building, new training Furthermore, our mobility programme provides offers and improve their competencies, by employees incentives to use public transport developing the curricula, taking into account (instead of car use) or electric cars. food security and climate change. In our projects worldwide gender equality receives special attention. 8 05. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against monitored on possible cases of corruption. corruption in all its forms, including extortion CINOP stimulates employees and managers to and bribery. be honest and fair in business and financial transactions. In order to prevent any corruption, Actions and Envisaged Outcomes extortion or bribery, CINOP has strict CINOP is committed to the UN Convention administrative and control procedures in place Against Corruption (UNCAC) and condemns with double-checks and a strict division of any form of corruption. roles in place. Employees, associates and especially financial staff are knowledgeable In CINOP’s Code of Conduct, employees (and about the issues of corruption. associates) officially declare that they use information, funds and resources, either As required by law, CINOP has an external originating from projects or provided by CINOP, accountancy firm to audit and check all in a responsible manner and take responsibility procedures and transactions to control for all money and property, following the compliance with the financial rules and appropriate policy and procedural requirements. regulations. No complaints with regards to Especially international projects in countries with corruption, bribery or extortion were received perceived high levels of corruption are closely during 2017. CINOP stimulates employees and managers to be honest and fair in business and financial transactions. 9 CINOP P.O. Box 1585 5200 BP ’s-Hertogenbosch The Netherlands +31 (0)73-6800800 info@cinop.nl www.cinop.nl
