Solar A/S CVR NO.: 15 90 84 16 2017 Communication on progress incl our compliance with sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act 2 COP report 2017 Contents Using the power of business to A WORD FROM OUR CEO 3 improve the world OUR BUSINESS MODEL 4 CSR IN SOLAR 5 International standards for sustainability 5 Purpose of CSR 5 Strategy for CSR 5 Target Group 6 Organisation 6 Reporting 6 Diversity 6 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE 7 Policies , Risks and KPIs 7 Actions and results 8 LABOUR 9 Policies, Risks, KPIs and Actions and Results 10 HUMAN RIGHTS 11 Policies , Risks, KPIs and Actions and Results 11 ANTI-CORRUPTION 12 Policies , Risks, KPIs and Actions and Results 12 3 COP report 2017 A word from our CEO A word from our CEO 2017 was a year of increased focus on In the Solar Group, we have made a formal decision consolidating our core business in the to conduct business ethically and to contribute to Solar Group. We’ve strengthened our sustainable development. Our commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the focus on developing and improving areas of human rights, labour, environment and antiour capabilities within sourcing corruption remains firm. This communication on progress of electrical, heating, plumbing, also represents Solar Group’s compliance with sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. and ventilation products, and we continuously work to provide valueGoing forward We are a company constantly developing, and naturally, creating support and logistic services. that challenges our energy use. We will continue to plan and introduce initiatives that will consolidate Close to 100 years in the industry is quite an the sustainability mindset in our business. We have an accomplishment, and we’re proud to say that although ongoing dialogue with our suppliers to cooperate for a our communication of specific CSR initiatives has been joint socially responsible approach to sourcing. We will modest, we have a history of operating our business in continue to be a dedicated sourcing and services partner a socially responsible manner. It is important for us to to our customers, providing them with sustainable achieve a positive impact on society as a whole while advantages and supporting the continued sustainability maximising the creation of value for our customers, progress wherever possible. employees, shareholders and other stakeholders. We have a green profile by nature, working to promote If you are interested in learning more about specific CSR sustainable energy solutions and induce initiatives to the initiatives in the Solar Group, we welcome you on our benefit of our society. We have continually increased our website. competences when it comes to supplying green solutions to our customers. We walk the talk by proactively reducing CO2 emission in our business. Jens Andersen In 2017, we walked an extra mile to involve our employees CEO in our sustainability efforts. In this COP, you’ll be introduced to some of the many initiatives that were launched throughout the group, and I am pleased to see how sustainability is on top of mind. An important topic on the agenda for many of our employees. 4 COP report 2017 Our business model Our business model A leading sourcing and services The business model for our core business company We work with our customers: • to support them in running their businesses more Solar Group is a leading European sourcing and services efficiently company mainly within electrical, heating and plumbing, • to bundle their spend and improve their sourcing ventilation, and climate and energy solutions. • t o create the best offer and to proactively develop alternatives We serve professionals operating within the area of • t o optimise their productivity, optimise transportation technical installation and a variety of industrial costs and minimise required inventory customers. • to improve their employees’ skills and efficiency Our core business focus is product sourcing, valueadding services and optimising our customers’ businesses. Being a sourcing and services company, we focus on the individual customer. We strive to understand their Product sourcing specific requirements in order to provide relevant, personal and value-adding services. Solar Group is based in Denmark. Our customers Optimisation of our customers’ Value-adding businesses services 5 COP report 2017 CSR in Solar CSR in Solar Turning energy efficiency into profitable business Solar Group is dedicated to turning energy efficiency development. We want to embed the CSR thinking into into profitable and responsible business for our our projects and operational processes to make sure customers. As such, we have a green profile by nature, that CSR is not a standalone discipline, but a natural part working to promote sustainable energy solutions and of our way of doing business. induce initiatives to the benefit of our society. We acknowledge the fact that our success comes at a cost Bottom line is that we want to integrate CSR into our to the world around us in a number of ways. daily operations where it makes sense – and we want to be strategic in our way of communicating it to our Our CSR policy forms the framework for the way we stakeholders. work with CSR in Solar Group. The policy was approved by our CSR steering group late 2016 and was communicated to our employees in 2017. Strategy for CSR • Over the past years, we too have noted a significant increase in the customers’ demand for documented International standards for sustainability CSR initiatives on our behalf. They want to know In order to integrate CSR into our daily business, we that we are a socially responsible company – and have committed ourselves to upholding the Ten they want to be able to tell their customers that we Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the are. areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The Global Compact aims to promote a • We want to use CSR to attract new employees and sustainable development of society and forms the make ourselves attractive to our current framework of Solar’s work with CSR. employees. We believe that our CSR involvement to In addition, Solar is a listed company and as such a large extent is becoming a requirement from the obligated to uphold the standards of the Danish new generations. Financial Statements Act. Our yearly Communication of Progress to the UN Global Compact is therefore to be • We see a potential in using CSR as a strategy to seen as a supplement to our annual report. open up new markets for energy-efficient products and solutions. We can grab market shares if we communicate our principles and actions effectively Purpose of CSR to customers who care about environmentally In Solar, we have made a formal decision to conduct friendly product lines. business ethically and to contribute to sustainable 6 COP report 2017 CSR in Solar • Our investors have a significant interest in knowing Reporting Our diversity policy sets out our objective regarding the that we are a socially responsible company. The Once a year, we submit a Communication on Progress composition of the board. Solar wishes its board to be as development over the recent years has added CSR (COP) to the UN Global Compact. This communication diverse as possible, including equal participation of as yet another parameter to assess the vitality of a on progress also represents Solar Group’s compliance women and men, while still ensuring that the board company. with section 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial represents the overall skill set required. Statements Act. • We want to stay alert and able to be proactive when Our aim is for neither gender to be underrepresented on it comes to handling potential risks within CSR. To keep our CSR communication dynamic, we have the Board of Directors after Solar’s Annual General moved from a static CSR report and onto regular Meeting in 2019. Consequently, women must make up at • We aim to integrate considerations to environment, communication on cases on our website. In addition to least 40% of the board members elected by the Annual labour, human rights and anti-corruption into our cases, the website holds the required CSR General Meeting, which is deemed a fair distribution. business and to the relationships we have with our documentation. You can find more information here. Currently, women make up 20% of Solar’s board employees and business partners. members elected by the Annual General Meeting, which In addition, Solar Group submits data to the Carbon is the same as last year. • We want to be an active and committed business in Disclosure Project (CDP), an internationally recognised the communities and markets we operate in. reporting system to give our investors access to At Solar, we operate with two upper management levels: standardised and comparable data about our Solar Group Management (SGM) and senior level environmental impacts. management. The latter includes vice presidents or Target group directors who report to an SGM member. This CSR policy applies to Solar Group and constitutes the framework for our work with CSR. It serves to Diversity As at 31 December 2017, the overall gender distribution inform both internal and external stakeholders of what Our diversity policy expresses our view that all Solar in the two upper management levels was 18.18% women CSR means to Solar and how we go about it. Group employees are to be treated equally, with no and 81.82% men. Solar’s aim is for an overall distribution regard to gender, age, race or religion, ensuring equal of women and men of 25% and 75% respectively by rights for all when it comes to employment, employment 2020. Organisation terms, training and promotions. In Solar Group, CSR is anchored with our Senior Vice In support of this objective, we now require that both President of HR and Communications. Our group HR We aim for a higher degree of diversity, as we believe genders are represented among the final candidates for community constitutes a steering group that makes sure that this will make us a better and stronger business. senior management positions. that we at all times have 3-4 focus areas for our However, we do not compromise on qualifications. We organisation to work with over the coming year. The will continue to employ the most qualified candidate steering group plays a vital role in keeping our CSR regardless of his/her gender, political, religious or profile proactive and effective, and through their personal orientation. positions in the management teams, they know Solar’s strategy – and what to initiate to support the strategy in We believe it is important that the Board of Directors the best possible way. represents a wide diversity of skills, age and gender, and that we maintain a dynamic balance between continuity The current focus areas are: and renewal through a periodic turnover of board • Responsible sourcing and procurement members. management • Human rights • Environment 7 COP report 2017 Environment and climate Environment and climate We are no strangers to green thinking In the Solar Group, we are no strangers to green Our activities in central warehouses include the handling thinking. We have a green profile by nature, and work to of hazardous materials. As we acknowledge the fact that promote sustainable energy solutions and induce these may pose an environmental risk, we have defined initiatives to the benefit of our society. However, as is and standardised procedures for the handling of these. the case for any other business, Solar’s business In addition, standards have been created for our four key activities leave a mark on the environment, for instance markets with strict guidelines on procedures if an when we transport our products and services from A to incident was to happen involving a hazardous material. B. To minimise the inconveniences that come from our business activities, reducing our emission of carbon is a In both matters, we consider the risks under control. CSR priority. KPIs Polices CDP’s Climate Disclosure Score is a measure of the Since 2010, Solar has reported data to the Carbon quality and comprehensiveness of the information Disclosure Project and to UN Global Compact. In provided in the company’s response to CDP’s annual addition to monitoring our emission, we focus on finding climate change questionnaire. The disclosure score is a ways to further reduce emission in our daily business. metric of good internal management, an understanding Our CDP work is described in a CDP strategy which is of climate change issues and company transparency on available to all employees on our intranet. climate change. Therefore, our disclosure score is a KPI which we monitor. Data is collected from Solar A/S, Solar Danmark A/S, Solar Norge AS, Solar Sverige AB, Solar Nederland B.V., Energy labels show how an appliance ranks on a scale Solar Polska Sp. Z o.o., GFI, MAG45 and P/F Solar Føroyar. from A to G according to its energy consumption, class A being the most energy efficient. A KPI has been defined to eliminate the use of company cars less efficient than Risks classes A and B. Equally important, we expect that our The nature of Solar Group’s business activities does not distributors use trucks within the best Euro norm for pose significant risks when it comes to the environment. transportation of our goods to ensure a reasonable limit Our most significant strain on the environment comes to the contamination we cause. from our distribution activities and our use of company cars. Therefore, we make a priority of reducing the footprint that we leave. 8 COP report 2017 CASE Actions and results In 2017, Solar Group updated our CDP handbook. Our handbook is the framework we use for our work with Powered by the sun CDP and describes in detail how, what and when to To Karsten Hillmann, CEO of Solar Polaris, sustainability is a take on life rather than a business discipline. One of the collect. The handbook was implemented in 2016 and largest solar contractors in Scandinavia, Solar Polaris is a service company with a unique approach to promote solar consolidated in our group during 2017. energy to their mainly Scandinavian audience. With a major focus on solid project management, they plan, implement and service professional solar installation, driven by an ambition to accelerate the green transition for a greater good. The updated framework involves an increased focus on “Solar power can play a major role in the creation of a sustainable and CO2 neutral society also in Denmark where the documentation delivered by our suppliers on solar power complements wind power very well. And given the fact that it is also a money saver, there is really not consumption and emission factors. We need high quality much to consider,” says Karsten Hillmann. data from our suppliers to ensure that we base our initiatives on facts, and not assumptions. Only when the wind blows Behind Solar Polaris is a concern for the well-being of our society and an urge to guide our way of life onto a more On that same note, we have adjusted our internal sustainable path. And although the Danish company appreciates the general movement towards a greener society, reporting processes to ensure that the employees they question the imbalance we’re creating in continuing to mainly back wind power: “In Denmark, we are only green involved, have sufficient time to deliver the needed data when the wind blows. Don’t get me wrong: wind power is an amazing power source. However, we are missing a huge in the right quality for our reporting. We monitor the opportunity by not supporting both wind and solar energy,” says Karsten, who argues that the two sustainable energy reporting process closely and use the tightened control sources supplement each other beautifully. And considering the aesthetics, solar cells are easily installed on flat roof to deliver high quality figures to our CDP reporting. tops where they make up an almost invisible power source. Figures for 2017 CDP will be available at our website in Q1 2018. You can read more about Solar Polaris here To minimise the risk for errors in our internal reporting process, our subsidiaries now enter the requested data directly into a system available on our intranet. In addition to minimising the risk for errors, it facilitates the transparency we wish to have within our group. 9 COP report 2017 Labour Labour An active effort to develop our employees The Solar Group’s approach is for all employees in the individual enterprises to be treated in the same way, regardless of gender, age, race and religion so that all employees have equal opportunities when it comes to employment, employment terms, training and promotions. We aim for a higher degree of diversity, as we believe that this makes us a strong business. Solar always hires the most qualified candidate regardless of this person’s political, religious or personal orientation. It is an expressed requirement to have both genders represented in a candidate pool for a vacant management position in Solar Group. We make active efforts to develop our employees and want to make it clear that employees at all levels can find interesting careers in Solar. To do so, we look at each individual employee’s potential. Solar is fully compliant with all requirements stemming from labour legislation and collective agreements in the countries in which we operate. We work to ensure safe working conditions regulation related to social relations and employee conditions. Our stand on the area has been defined in a number of policies described below. 10 COP report 2017 Labour Policies Actions and results Actions guiding our employees are described in an In 2017, we introduced a new and better platform to CASE employee handbook which is available on our intranet. support our performance development processes. Our The employee handbook is a compilation of policies, mission was to find a process that is intuitive, that procedures, working conditions and behavioural encourages dialogue and makes it easy to follow up on Meet Nikita: an intern living Solar’s values expectations. progress and agreed plans and target. As a result, we’ve Looking at the happy, free spirited and courageous young made it easier to link performance and learning, to set woman in a Solar sales office near Copenhagen, it is hard to Our Code of conduct states that Solar will comply with goals and assign learning programs from our training believe that she is the same woman we first met in March of this applicable laws and regulations and act in an ethical, facilities. year. She dropped by our office unannounced accompanied by sustainable and socially responsible manner in our her mentor. They sat there in the reception area waiting to find business activities. Respect for human rights is an To ensure that competence development is not only out if we would spend a few minutes with her so that she could integral part of Solar’s ethical framework. addressed once a year at the annual EPA, our talks are hand us her unsolicited application. And hoping that Solar would now held at a quarterly basis. The process has been find room for a ‘non-paid skilled intern’. designed in a way that requires continuous work Risks throughout the year and, in addition, links to our goals, Formerly a sales assistant, Nikita was looking for an internship An inevitable risk of running a business is workplace target and KPIs. with Solar to establish what her competences were in the accidents. When it comes to labour and employee administration field, and at the same time jumpstart her work conditions, safety at work is our top priority beyond In the employee performance appraisals, we will life after a challenging time in her life, including struggles with compare. We have taken a number of measures to keep continue focus on performance, competence anxiety and depression. our safety at work at an acceptable level, including development, development potential, mobility and working closely together with satefy representatives, career plans. In addition, we run an internal The dark time in her life which she talks openly and honestly keeping our employees fully informed about safety management training programme that promotes about, is distant from her life now. measures in our group, etc. On a yearly basis, we carry management competences and tools, allowing our out Marsh reviews, auditing our four key central managers to grow. A 12 week programme with Solar quickly revealed that Nikita is warehouses to make sure that all requirements to safety good at administrative tasks, and on an ongoing basis, Solar, are met. A stick rate of 83% compared to 87% last year is an Nikita and her mentor evaluate the process. They have decided unsatisfactory result, which is triggering a number of to set up another internship after the summer holidays 2017, actions primarily within onboarding and recruiting as which both Solar and Nikita welcomes. KPIs our target remains at 90%. An indicator of our employees’ wellbeing is the stick The internship has resulted in a huge personal development for rate. Our ultimate aim is always to have more satisfied, When it comes to employee turnover, a 2017 result of Nikita. It has helped her to learn how to leave the insecurity loyal employees that actively want to remain with us. 9.5% compared to 7% last year is not a satisfactory behind and sometimes take a chance, be courageous, but also Therefore, we have set an ambitious target of a 90% result, however due to a number of organisational remember to stay true to herself. And to Solar, it has been stick rate. changes not unexpected. We are, however, still not amazing to be able to make a difference to someone in the local where we want to be. community and helping a young woman back on her feet after a The employee turnover refers to the percentage of challenging time. workers who leave our organisation and are replaced by Ending the year at 3.6% against 3.5% last year, our sick new employees. As a high employee turnover can be rate is on par with last year and the level is very You can read much more about Nikita’s meeting with Solar here. hurtful to a company’s bottom line, we aim for a satisfactory all throughout Solar. reduced employee turnover of 6%. While some absence due to illness is inevitable, it is evident that sick days delay work, create stressful situations for other workers, and represent a cost to our company. Therefore, we continuously monitor our employees’ sick rate. Our KPI for sick rate is 3%. 11 COP report 2017 Human rights Human rights Responsible supplier management CASE Observing the human rights is an indispensable part of KPIs driving business in Solar Group. That is why we For supplier management, KPIs define our goals for how committed ourselves to conducting business in fast to bring our suppliers onto our updated Code of Stronger together alignment with the UN Global Compact. We want to Conduct. The majority of Solar’s spend is covered by “In Solar, we have always worked very closely with our suppliers. ensure that we respect human rights in our operations suppliers who have signed our code of conduct. We Tying the knot between us even closer and pursuing common as well as through our business relations. consider our work with onboarding our suppliers to be goals via our Code of Conduct was a natural step for both of us. satisfactory. Responsible sourcing takes an effort from everyone in our value Policies chain, but to us and to our suppliers, it is a given,” says Thomas Our Code of Conduct indicates that human rights are an Clausen, sourcing responsible for the Solar Group. Thomas and integral part of Solar’s ethical framework. All of our Actions and results his team are implementing a new sourcing strategy for the Solar employees have signed our code of conduct that Solar is committed to ethical business practices and we Group. Part of the strategy is a systematic implementation of dictates that Solar will comply with applicable laws and hold our suppliers to the same high standards. It is Solar Solar’s updated Code of Conduct for all suppliers. regulations and act in an ethical, sustainable and socially Group policy to comply with all applicable laws and responsible manner in all of our business activities. regulations of the countries and regions in which we “It is important to us that our suppliers uphold high standards operate and to conduct our business activities in an for their way of doing business. We cannot do it all in one day. As a part of our standard due diligence processes, the honest and ethical manner. Therefore, we have initiated But we acknowledge the role that we play in our society. And Solar Group Code of Conduct declares that Solar Group a partnership with our suppliers, calling on them to sign we’re excited to make continuous progress towards a more expects its suppliers to uphold the policies of Solar our updated Code of Conduct. Our Code of Conduct sustainable future,” Thomas concludes. Group concerning compliance with all applicable law, declares that Solar Group expects its suppliers to uphold respect for human rights, environmental conservation the policies of Solar Group concerning compliance with You can read more about our work with supplier management and the safety of products and services. all applicable law, respect for human rights, here. environmental conservation and the safety of products and services. Risks The greatest risk for Solar Group within human rights lie As for supplier management, our key priorities for 2017 with our third party agreements. Through our suppliers’ are on track. signup to and compliance with the Solar Supplier Code of Conduct, the suppliers take full responsibility in their supply chain. 12 COP report 2017 Anti-corruption Anti-corruption Our zero tolerance policy Policies activity that is deemed illegal, unethical, or not correct. Corruption undermines growth and social and economic Any information exposed via the whistle-blower scheme development. As it is an obstacle to trade, undermining is received and handled by an independent authority. clean and fair business, corruption is strictly against our group values. We can only avoid damage to our company, In 2017, our focus was on reintroducing our Code of our employees and business partners if rules and Conduct and whistle-blower scheme to our employees. standards are respected. Consequently, misconduct Although everyone has read and signed the Code of must quickly be recognised, processed and remedied. Conduct and been introduced to the scheme, they may Our zero tolerance stand on anti-corruption and bribery not be on top of their minds. Therefore, we took the has been clearly expressed in our supplier code of opportunity to remind them of the materials and carried conduct and in the code of conduct governing our out an internal campaign inviting our employees to employees. revisit our Code of Conduct. We want to leave no doubt of what is acceptable behaviour in the Solar Group. Risks To ensure that possible breaches to our Code of Conduct Solar Group’s business activities are not centred in high are identified and called out, we rely on everybody’s risk areas when it comes to corruption and bribery. vigilance and willingness to draw attention to possible Nevertheless, our supplier code of conduct dictates zero serious regulatory violations on the basis of concrete tolerance behaviour in both areas. In addition, our evidence. We value this type of information from our employee Code of Conduct states that the ban on employees, but also from business partners, customers corruption applies to all individuals acting on Solar’s and other third parties. behalf. The Code of Conduct is introduced to all employees and available on our intranet. Following the reintroduction of our Code of Conduct, we pointed the internal spotlight on our whistle-blower KPIs scheme, explaining our employees in detail what the We have not defined actual KPIs for this area. scheme is about, and that we consider their relevant input very helpful. Actions and results Our whistle-blower scheme invites internal and external stakeholders to expose any kind of information or 13 COP report 2017 CASE New project will help children to learn 150 children live in the SOS Children’s Village in Hawassa, the capital of the Southern region of Ethiopia. They all share the same condition of life: they are no longer able to live with their parents. Their membership of the children’s village has given them a second chance at life, and together with SOS Children’s Villages, Solar Group has committed ourselves to a 3-year project providing them with solar energy and training so that they can study and prepare for an independent life. With more than 90 million inhabitants, Ethiopia is the second most populous country in the African continent. Electricity in Ethiopia is not very stable, and in an SOS Children’s Village in Hawassa, they resort to generators to produce the power necessary to run basic equipment. The current energy source is costly, and frequent outages make schooling very difficult, in terms of both administration, teachers’ preparation, and use of IT for students. It is not difficult to imagine how impossible it must feel to study in the evening when there is no sun light. 3 years of energy renovation and training Over the coming three years, Solar Group together with Engineers without Borders and SOS Children’s Villages will be implementing solar energy in Hawassa to provide a much cheaper and stable energy source. This will make it a lot easier to conduct lessons requiring electronic devices and thus improve the children’s learning opportunities. With a possibility of connecting the solar energy to the local grid, the energy will benefit not only the SOS Children’s Village, but also the local community. “In 2015-2016, we implemented solar cell panels in an SOS Children’s Village in Zanzibar. In my opinion, our most important contribution was the training and know-how which we provided to the locals to make sure that they could maintain and develop the systems in the future. And we are applying the same principles to our involvement in Ethiopia: Donating systems and man power is one thing. But even more importantly, we will be donating our know-how to ensure that our expertise stays in the village, also after the project ends,” explains Tore Haakonson, senior vice president and CSR responsible in Solar Group. Read much more about our involvement in Ethiopia here. Read more about CSR in Solar on www.solar.eu http://www.linkedin.com/company/solar-as Solar A/S Industrivej Vest 43 DK-6600 Vejen Tel. +45 79 30 00 00 CVR no. 15908416
