CSR REPORT 2017 DEVELOPING SUSTAINABLE AND INNOVATIVE CLEANING SOLUTIONS Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 2 CONTENTS Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Letter from the CEO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 About Nilfisk . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Innovation at Nilfisk supports CSR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Nilfisk approach to CSR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Conscious part of society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 Conscious towards climate and environment . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Conscious customer relationships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 Conscious employer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 About the report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36 Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 3 INTRODUCTION This report provides an introduction to the work Nilfisk is doing on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). The CSR report covers the financial year from January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017. The report contains our Statutory Statement for Social Responsibility cf. section 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. The report is simultaneously our Communication on Progress report to the UN Global Compact (UNGC). Welcome! Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 4 LETTER FROM THE CEO At Nilfisk, we want CSR to be an integral part of our work, everyAt Nilfisk, we are driven by our mission statement, which guides us where, every day. It is embedded in our Business Code of Conduct in our decisions and priorities: (CoC) as well as in our approach to the communities we are a part of. We enable sustainable cleaning worldwide to improve quality of life! Nilfisk is constantly striving to grow a profitable business, but we will never cut corners on doing what is right. We want to be – and we want to work for – a company that our customers, investors, On a personal note, I feel highly motivated by this! Our updated employees, and other stakeholders trust. In short, a company that approach to CSR involves four focus areas: society, environment behaves with integrity. and climate, our customers, and our employees. These are the focus areas where we – as a company – have the opportunity to Nilfisk has been a signatory to the UNGC since 2010 and we make the biggest impact. continue to support the UN Guiding Principles in our efforts to constantly develop our business and products. The decision to work with clear and prioritized focus areas marks the beginning of a new approach to CSR at Nilfisk. I have high expectaIn 2017, Nilfisk began work on an updated CSR strategy. We tions for this approach, and I look forward to implementing it. wanted to set a clear direction and make specific strategic choices in our CSR-related efforts going forward. At Nilfisk, we will continue to develop a truly customer-focused organization devoted to building the future of cleaning. And That’s why I am particularly proud to see this year’s report on our we will continue our strong focus on innovation, which allows progress within CSR. And I am proud to see how committed our us to develop productive and sustainable products. This will give employees across Nilfisk are to their work, and to helping make our customers the ability to make their environments clean and Nilfisk a socially responsible company. healthy, while at the same time increasing their productivity and improving their bottom line. Hans Henrik Lund, CEO Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 5 ABOUT NILFISK Nilfisk was founded in 1906 with an early vision of developing, Nilfisk sales entity producing and selling cleaning equipment of the highest quality Nilfisk dealer worldwide. We carry a strong heritage with us of more than 100 Nilfisk production site years of cleaning expertise, with 5800 people working at development centers and production facilities in 10 countries and sales companies in 45 countries around the world. Since the development of the first vacuum cleaner more than a hundred years ago (1910), Nilfisk has responded to the changing needs of markets and customers, supplying innovative cleaning products and solutions to businesses and homes around the world. Today, we have an extensive and competitive product portfolio with strong brands. Nilfisk and Viper are our global brands, complemented by a number of regional and local brands. The innovation embedded in our products and brands helps Nilfisk maintain its position as one of the world’s leading suppliers of professional cleaning equipment. About Nilfisk Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 6 Nilfisk is an active participant in external bodies Through the external bodies and industry organizations in which Nilfisk is not only a member, but also the chair of many external At Nilfisk, we work actively with defining objective standards for we are represented we seek to: bodies in which we are members. We chair several groups within cleaning and cleaning equipment within the industry. We want to The International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) and The bring transparency to our customers regarding cleaning efficiency • Define and implement safety and performance standards European Committee for Electrotechnical Standardization (CENEwhile continuously raising the industry’s standards. With our con• Improve the effectiveness of products LEC) on safety aspects as well as groups that address the material tinuous focus on customer driven innovation, we need objective • Minimize the environmental impact of products efficiency aspects of eco-design. At EUnited, the European Cleanstandards to evaluate and measure the progress of cleaning, • Create better cleaning solutions for enhanced health and ing Machines Association, Nilfisk chairs the Environmental Comenvironmentally as well as technologically. Only this way can we improve the lives of people every day mittee that covers subjects such as restricted substances (REACH, know for sure whether we have made real improvements to our RoHS, etc.) as well as take-back directives (WEEE, Packaging). Addiproducts, whereby offering better products to our customers. tionally, Nilfisk leads the effort to raise the industry And to Nilfisk, better products means products that deliver more standard with certifications and associated labels that address efficient cleaning while using fewer resources. product efficiency and sustainability. In order to drive this development, Nilfisk will continue to be well represented in all major relevant external bodies and participate actively in industry-related activities, boards, and committees in order to push for universal industry standards. Michael Gamtofte, Vice President, Global Product Compliance and IPR says: The list of memberships is extensive. Here are just a few of them: “As long as we do not have clear The European Cleaning Machines Association is an industry association for and objective definitions for products the European manufacturers of professional cleaning equipment. function and impact, it is difficult for users to compare the quality of products within the industry. In order for Nilfisk to benefit from The International Electrotechnical Commission is the leading global organization for being a frontrunner on innovation, we need consensus-based global standards for electronic products, systems and services. to enable customers to effectively compare products so they can select the ones The European Committee for Electrotechnical Standardization is responsible for offering the best Value of Clean1 .” standardization in the Electrotechnical engineering field. Verband Deutscher Maschinen und Anlagenbau is the largest network organization of European mechanical engineering companies. The association represents the common economic, technical and scientific interests of the cleaning industry. 1 Value of Clean is described further in the chapter: Innovation at Nilfisk supports CSR About Nilfisk Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 7 Nilfisk’s business model supports Our products and services are offered in more than 100 countries value creation and sustainable cleaning and helps improve the sustainability performance of our customers There is a universal need for cleaning and a clean environment is and partners, by: valuable everywhere to everyone. To support a clean environment, we offer an extensive and industry leading product portfolio with • Improving human health significant aftermarket support. • Helping protect the environment • Improving our customers’ bottom line Industry leading products offering with significant aftermarket support About Nilfisk Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 8 In order to secure the best and most sustainable cleaning solutions Our products and services are offered to our customers through for our customers, Nilfisk has identified ten focus customer sega business model built on a conscious use of resources with strong ments. Our sales, marketing and product development efforts are focus on creating and capturing value for our owners, for the society, all focused on developing and delivering the best possible offering for our customers, for our employees and ultimately for Nilfisk. and support for customers within these segments. The segments are: Our business model describes Nilfisk’s approach 1. Contract Cleaners 6. Building & Construction to creating and capturing value: 2. Retail 7. Agriculture 3. Healthcare 8. Education 4. Pharma 9. Iron & Metal 5. Automotive 10. Food & Beverages Nilfisk develops cleaning solutions which enable sustainable cleaning worldwide to improve quality of life. Resources Value Creation Capital provided by investors Improved cleaning and thus enhanced quality of life for people Insight from customers and the latest research technology Dividends to shareholders A well-trained and diverse staff Tax Contribution Facilities for development Job creation and productivity Innovation Better solutions for the benefit of both people and the environment About Nilfisk Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 9 Nilfisk minimizes risks throughout the value chain significant adverse impact could arise and how we can minimize CSR governance within Nilfisk At Nilfisk we are committed to ensuring that all parts of the value the risk of occurrence. Further, we continuously evaluate how we The NLT has the overall responsibility for setting the strategic chain, and not just the part that takes place within our own facilcan minimize the impact if an event does occur and how we can direction of CSR in the Nilfisk Group. The daily operation and ities, are taken into consideration when evaluating the potential enable effective remediation. The CSR department at Nilfisk is coordination of our CSR activities is coordinated by the CSR risks posed by our business activities. constantly monitoring risks and if significant new risks arise, they department under Global Products & Services. are analyzed and reported through the governance structure to the Consequently, the risk assessment within Nilfisk covers the entire Nilfisk Leadership Team (NLT). The risk analysis forms the basis for value chain, which means that we continuously evaluate where the materiality analysis comprising issues Nilfisk needs to address2. Raw material extraction Mining of scarce minerals, extraction of crude oil for production of plastic and/or climate effect from crude oil, biodiversity, spills, human rights, labor rights, corruption, and Transport Dealers conflict minerals. Particle pollution, Human rights, CO2 emission, corruption, labor Suppliers (production) traffic safety rights, work safety Human rights, labor rights, and facilitation and energy usage. equality, corruption, energy payments. Nilfisk End users usage, water usages, CO2 Human rights, Energy usage, water emission, waste, dangerous labor rights, equality, usage and detergent substances and safety. resource usage, pollution, customer pollution, waste, safety and health. CO2 emission, corruption and work safety. 2 see chapter Nilfisk approach to CSR, where the materiality analysis is further described Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 10 INNOVATION AT NILFISK SUPPORTS CSR In Nilfisk we continuously monitor new technologies and trends, We believe that the combination of these focus areas will positively At Nilfisk, we believe that future connected autonomous machines and evaluate and validate them through customer insights. Our impact how we deliver on the three parameters of CSR, – People, based on the best cleaning performance technologies will support product development is structured around the themes we believe Planet, and Profit. They will help us to deliver sustainable cleaning our efforts in ensuring: will bring the highest benefit to our customers’ businesses: solutions with a high focus on health and safety and at the same time create and capture new market opportunities. • Lower Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) for our customers3 • Cleaning efficiency – hereby expanding machine • Higher Value of Clean for our customers leadership position We estimate that up to 10% of Nilfisk`s revenue will come from • Better working environment for those who conduct the cleaning • Autonomous solutions autonomous cleaning solutions within 5-7 years. Furthermore, we • Reduced consumption through increased efficiency • Connected solutions – Applying data for digital services estimate that 40% of the total market for professional cleaning can be addressed by the use of advanced technology. We want to seize the many new opportunities technology offers to meet our customers’ needs and bring value to their operations. Torben Lund Andersen, Senior Vice President, Connected Autonomous Solutions at Nilfisk says: “At Nilfisk we have started a journey to be a leader in intelligent cleaning. We believe connected and autonomous solutions will increase the Value of Clean significantly. One example is smart buildings with multiple sensor points, providing data that can be analyzed to better plan and predict the need for cleaning.” 3 For elaboration on TCO please see section on Total Cost of Ownership Innovation at Nilfisk supports CSR Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 11 Our first autonomous machine, Liberty A50, is an example of a One of the cornerstones in our development of innovative and product where we have combined innovation with our approach sustainable solutions is partnerships. Nilfisk has established to CSR: multiple shared value partnerships with robotics companies Robotics – Improving the quality and a leading university. of life through technology Torben Lund Andersen, Senior Vice President, Connected In Nilfisk we firmly believe that the future Autonomous Solutions, says: of our industry will be centered around The Nilfisk Liberty A50 autonomous machines. To be on the forefront “As a global company with a strong history of this development, we have established – an autonomous floorcare machine that in cleaning, we have partnered up with leading partnerships with different robotics companies sets new standards in the market with the robotics companies and continue to welcome to find new and innovative solutions in the latest sensor and 3D camera technology – is skilled technical and commercial specialists field of autonomous cleaning. We believe that Nilfisk’s first step into the autonomous era of in autonomy, data, and software development. innovation is the way to ensure our ability to cleaning. The use of groundbreaking sensor We are in the midst of defining the deliver productive and sustainable cleaning to technologies makes the solution stand out future of cleaning.” our customers, so that we can improve quality in the cleaning industry. of life, while save time, save money, and reducing waste. Charalambos Freed, Technical Director and Head of Standardization and Government Relations says: “This solution is one of the best products of its kind. It is at the absolute high end of the Aalborg University – Using the best and range when it comes to cleaning efficiency and the brightest to work with innovation uses less water than most other machines on Working with Aalborg University helps to the market. The machine also performs very well ensure our long-term advantage in connected when it comes to safety standards. The unique and autonomous solutions by linking us with combination of detection systems delivers some of the best and brightest young people cleaning at an unprecedented safety level.” to work on our connected autonomy program. This collaboration will play an important role in our efforts to deliver productive and sustainable solutions to our customers. Innovation at Nilfisk supports CSR Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 12 The Value of Clean Delivering the right level of cleaning will have measurable value for customers. The value of clean can best be illustrated through the following examples4. It is estimated that a clean working environment can: • Reduce the probability of catching a cold and influenza by 80% • Reduce the area of surfaces contaminated with viruses by 62% • Reduce absenteeism by 46% Further, it is estimated that unplanned absences can cause a 54 % decrease in productivity/output and a 39% drop in sales/customer service, and having an unsanitary work environment can increase employee sick days (7.7 sick days per employee per year costs 225.8 billion USD per year). But the benefits will go beyond health as cleanliness is ranked as the most important element in deciding where to shop on a list of qualities that included lighting, tempe­ rature, quietness/music, and special events. Cleaning has measurable value for our customers and innovation is a key component in adapting to the customers’ changing needs as well as improving the quality of life through cleaning technology. 4 Data on Value of Clean from: The Worldwide Cleaning Industry Association. https://www.issa.com/member-benefits/value-of-clean.html#.Wl4KusLru8A Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 13 NILFISK APPROACH TO CSR New global megatrends radically influence present day business For Nilfisk, CSR includes risk management as part of strategy, life. To ensure long-term success, a focus on profit and legal comorgani­zation and daily management procedures, whereby minipliance is no longer enough. Today, companies are held accountmizing any negative social and environmental impact. We see able for their impact on social and environmental issues such as value in this not only ethically, but also in terms of harvesting the climate change, human rights, child labor, the environment, and business opportunities arising from global, social and environ­ labor standards at suppliers in third world countries. This adds mental challenges. new risks and complexities – but also new opportunities. During 2017, we have developed a new CSR strategy and in the Ann-Katrine Friis, Head of CSR says: coming years, we will be implementing the strategy to reap the benefits both for Nilfisk, our customers and for the society in “I see great potential for Nilfisk in a world general. with growing demand for sustainable and innovative solutions. They offer a shared value bonus for the company, our customers, and the communities we are part of.” Nilfisk approach to CSR Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 14 Nilfisk and UN Sustainable Development Goals Our products are used to keep hospitals, and increases poverty within communities and countries around In 2015, 193 countries agreed on a global agenda to tackle schools, office buildings, and production the world. Nilfisk has made it an integrated part of its business to humanity’s biggest challenges, from climate change to poverty sites clean, as well as many other locadevelop professional cleaning solutions with the aim of making the and good health and well-being for all at all ages. The result is the tions. Accordingly, we have made SDG world a cleaner place, whereby supporting good health. 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which create a platform number 3 – “Good Health and Well-Befor businesses to contribute their core services to solving the ing” – one of the global goals that we As a truly global company developing, world’s challenges. directly support. Additionally, ensuring producing and distributing products healthy lives and promoting well-being for everyone at all ages fits worldwide, we can also directly contribAt Nilfisk we proactively contribute to 2 of the 17 world goals. with the second part of our mission statement: ‘improve quality of ute to SDG number 12, the UN’s goal of life’. “Responsible Consumption and Production – ensure sustainable consumption Health is a fundamental human right and a key indicator of susand production patterns”. Working tainable development. Poor health threatens the right of children actively with responsible consumption is directly reflected in the to education, limits economic opportunities for men and women, first part of our mission statement: ‘We enable sustainable cleaning worldwide’. Identifying the parts of the value chain where interventions and active decisions have the greatest potential to improve the environmental and social impact of the system as a whole is a crucial first step. The two SDGs form the strategic long-term focus for Nilfisk’s approach to CSR. Nilfisk approach to CSR Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 15 Materiality analysis Through internal and external stakeholder analyses, and subsequent An essential part of the development of the CSR strategy in 2017 value chain and risk analysis, a perspective on key priorities or topics has been to define the focus areas of our CSR related efforts going was identified. These were evaluated against the parameters set by forward. the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Arriving at the focus areas has been a multi-step process and will Based on the materiality analysis, four strategic pillars for the CSR also be an ongoing activity, as we continuously refine our efforts work within Nilfisk were defined. towards integrating sustainability into our business strategy. Materiality analysis – zoom of most important issues Very important 20 Child labor Customer health and safety Effluents and waste Forced or compulsory labor Anti corruption Non-discrimination Anti-competitive behavior Customer privacy Emmisions Materials Stakeholder concern Human rights assessment Energy Diversity and equal opportunity 15 Marketing and labeling Water Supplier Supplier Good governance Ethics and integrity social environmental assessment assessment Environmental compliance Local communities Economic performance Biodiversity Occupational health and safety Indirect economic Socioeconomic impact compliance Training and education 10 10 15 20 Important Very important Important to Nilfisk Nilfisk approach to CSR Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 16 Nilfisk’s focus areas within CSR Under the heading of the 2 SDGs, “Good Health and Well-Being” and “Responsible Consumption and Production”, we have decided Building the future of cleaning to focus on four areas for the period until 2020: UN Sustainable Development Goals • Conscious part of society • Conscious towards climate and environment • Conscious customer relationships • Conscious employer The enhanced focus on areas where we as a company have the opportunity to make the greatest impact on society, the environConscious Conscious towards ment and climate, and the well-being of our employees as well as customer climate and customers and suppliers is a shift in our CSR efforts. relationships environment Customer health and safety Materials & Recycling In order to support the execution of the CSR strategy, we have Marketing and labeling Energy & Water developed policies, targets and action plans to guide our implemen­ Customer privacy Emissions Total cost of ownership Supplier environmental tation efforts over the coming years. In early 2018, the policies will management be consolidated in an updated Business CoC, including training in various languages. Conscious Conscious part employer of society Labor conditions Good Governance Diversity and lnclusion Anti-corruption Competence development Local Communities Occupational health and safety  Supplier social management Customers · People · Performance · Professionalism · Quality We enable sustainable cleaning worldwide to improve quality of life Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 17 CONSCIOUS PART OF SOCIETY We acknowledge our role in society, as an employer, business Joseph Simon, Global Compliance Officer, says: partner and tax-paying corporation. Our long-term approach and sustainable profit level provide the foundation for continuing to “Integrating anti-corruption actions throughout be a responsible part of society in the future. Nilfisk is less about knowing the details of global anti-corruption laws, and more about Good Governance how we act as employees. If we all ask ourselves To Nilfisk, good governance entails having policies and procedures in place to ensure accuracy, consistency and responsiveness to key if we always act with integrity – honesty, stakeholders. It facilitates productive and efficient work practices fairness, accountability – and if we are confident to guide, develop and monitor people’s performance, to capture, that our suppliers act with integrity, and we interpret, and report accurate and relevant data, and to manage honestly can answer ‘yes’ to those questions, the risks inherent to the company’s operations. We strive to be then we’re complying with the laws.” transparent and to communicate openly and honestly with our stakeholders. No employee may directly or indirectly offer, give or accept money or anything else of value to any person in order to obtain an In 2018, we plan to update our current Business CoC to include improper business advantage. This is stated in the anti-corruption new policies and establish a new annual self-assessment system section of our Business CoC, and is further emphasized by Hans based on the Business CoC, signed by all country managers. Henrik Lund, CEO of Nilfisk: Anti-corruption “We want to be a company that behaves with Integrity is at the heart of the way we do business. Corruption integrity. This means that we do not stop with creates unfair competition, damages innovation, and undermines just following the law. Instead, we want to make reputations. As a company, we do not engage in and are actively integrity an integral part of our work, every day, opposed to bribery, as an individual group of companies, and as a participant in various global organizations. everywhere. Of course, all of us should strive to constantly grow profitable business, but we should never cut corners on doing what is right. And if doing what is right means giving up a business opportunity, so be it.” Conscious part of society Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 18 We are currently working on implementing a new third-party due Nilfisk’s Business CoC. Reports are made to a system operated by an Local Communities diligence system, and we are in the process of performing risk independent supplier, ensuring confidentiality and, if the reporter Nilfisk believes that being actively involved in local communities assessment and updating and enhancing anti-corruption rules, wishes, anonymity. Reports are investigated in accordance with their will continue to be a vital part of creating a positive working envitraining, guidance and tools. complexity and severity, and are reviewed with Nilfisk’s Complironment for our employees. In 2017 more than 20 local projects ance Committee, consisting of officers and directors, and the NLT. have been carried out in the different communities around the Whistleblower system world in which Nilfisk is represented. Our whistleblower system enables employees as well as external In October 2017, due to the separation of the companies, Nilfisk and parties to report allegations of corruption and other activities that NKT each established its own WB system operated by the Danish As stories from our Nilfisk sites in the US, South Africa, Australia may violate laws and/or key internal rules and procedures, e.g. company, Got Ethics. The whistleblower system operates as it has and other locations demonstrate, there are many ways to become in the past, allowing for anonymous reports and reporting by both involved in local communities. Currently, the point of emphasis is to employees and external parties. make contributions to local projects that improve the communities. In the future, we will strive to work towards partnering in projects that are more strategically related to the core business of Nilfisk and can show that the company lives up to its mission statement South Africa – through our involvement in projects throughout the world. Improving the quality of life The Christel House project in Cape Town is a school that educates children from underprivAustralia – Blacktown Girls High School, ileged backgrounds. Nilfisk donates cleaning Sydney and the Beacon Program equipment to the Christel House creating a Nilfisk is involved in this community because healthier environment for the approximately USA – Employees volunteering we want to focus on the competence devel1,000 students. The company focuses on proopment and education of people both inside In Minneapolis, Minnesota, Nilfisk has viding better conditions for learning through and outside of Nilfisk. We believe that by involved itself in several local initiatives over the use of our products. educating children from disadvantaged the past 12 months with the purpose of being Moreover, this statement from Christel House backgrounds, we create an environment in more present in our local community. One of shows that our initiative lives up to the standwhich the participants are better equipped the initiatives makes our employees eligible ard Nilfisk requires: to become a part of the workforce, either for eight hours of volunteer work with pay, “This donation saves Christel House SA at Nilfisk or somewhere else. That is why we which more than 30 people have taken thousands of Rand (local currency) every provide the Beacon Program with five paradvantage of. We can see from an employee year. Our cleaning staff uses these products ticipants from Nilfisk leadership, who teach engagement survey that our employees are on a daily basis to clean, disinfect and approximately 200 girls per year about the happy to be involved in these projects and sanitize areas”. professional community. that it increases their motivation. Conscious part of society Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 19 Results for 2017 Supplier social management (Human Rights) Focus area Goals Actions 2017 Results With Nilfisk’s operations being predominantly assembly based, we Good governance CSR strategy updated • Internal assessment CSR strategy updated, approved are focused on ensuring that our extensive network of suppliers • Risk analysis by Nilfisk Leadership Team and conform to Nilfisk standards and observe the UNGC principles. Policy: All • Material analysis development communicated of focus areas • SDG focus An initiative to heighten awareness and ensure compliance with the ten principles of the UNGC principles was taken by Global Anti-corruption Whistleblower system updated • Former NKT whistleblower Whistleblower system updated, Procurement in 2015. The initiative ensures proactive interaction system analyzed implemented and made available with suppliers and assists them with learning and adopting the Policy: Anti-corruption • New Nilfisk approach developed for relevant internal and external UNGC principles, if not already fully implemented. Our current stakeholders focus is with our supply base in China where we perform UNGC audits. Local communities Initial mapping of local initiatives • Local initiatives initially mapped Initial overview on local initiatives in Nilfisk sites Policy: Human and Labor rights More than 80% of Nilfisk suppliers with a direct spend above 50,000 EUR of mutual business have declared compliance with Supplier social management 80% of suppliers (yearly procure• Requiring existing suppliers Achieved (87 %) the 10 principles of the UNGC. ment above EUR 50,000) signed to sign the UNGC Principles in Policy: Human and Labor rights UNGC Principles renegotiations • Requiring new suppliers to sign We are currently working on implementing an updated supplier the UNGC Principles due diligence system and are in the process of performing risk assessment and updating and enhancing human and labor rights rules, training, guidance and tools. Objectives going forward The new supplier self-assessment and audit system has the Focus area Goals Planned Action benefits of increasing transparency and of being easier to operate. Good governance Update Business CoC • Update Business CoC based on new policies • Establish a global training of the CoC Policy: All • Establish a new annual self-assessment system based on the Business CoC, submitted by all country managers Anti-corruption New third party due diligence • Updating anti-corruption policy system regarding anti-corruption • Developing Supplier behavior requirements Policy: Anti-corruption implemented • Performing risk assessment of value chain and suppliers • Developing internal training, guidance and tools on anti-corruption Local communities Develop synergy among local • Internal survey on local initiatives from all sites initiatives Policy: Human rights Supplier social management New third party due diligence • Updating human rights policy and labor rights rules system regarding supplier social • Developing Supplier behavior requirements Policy: Human and Labor rights management implemented • Performing risk assessment of value chain and suppliers • Developing training, guidance and tools on anti-corruption Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 20 CONSCIOUS TOWARDS CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENT This year we have been working on defining materiality and risk analysis within the environmental and climate aspects of our business. Furthermore, we have upgraded our Environmental Management System (EMS) to ISO 14001:2015 standard creating a new baseline to be able to measure our future results and improvements in our work with environmental and climate issues. Protection of the environment is an important consideration in the business decisions we make and Nilfisk is committed to minimizing waste and pollution. Identifying and controlling the impact that our activities have on environmental and climate aspects is defined through our ISO 14001 certified EMS. Conscious towards climate and environment Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 21 Materials and recycling The process of converting waste materials (e.g. plastic granulate recovery) into new materials and objects is an important part of Taking back products our work with environment and climate. It is an alternative to “conventional” waste disposal that can save material and help In Germany, Nilfisk runs an initiative that focuses on optimizing the use lower greenhouse gas emissions. Recycling can prevent the waste of our products. The system lets our customers lease machines that are of potentially useful materials and reduce the consumption of new ultimately refurbished and sold or re-rented. The result is a pattern that raw materials, thereby reducing energy usage, air pollution from ensures our machines are used to the fullest extent of their capabilities. incineration, and water pollution from landfills. In addition to improving efficiency, the initiative provides an opportunity At Nilfisk we have several initiatives in place regarding materials to sell products to a wider range of customers because of the lower price. and recycling. Our plastic specialists work to find alternative and This initiative makes our cleaning more sustainable and improves the more sustainable solutions, such as Fiber Composite Granules quality of life by selling to more customers and reducing the waste of (FCG) consisting of a wood-fiber reinforced polymer matrix. FCG material. contains a high amount of renewable fibrous material, giving it several noticeable advantages such as: • Reduced carbon emissions compared to conventional polymers • Excellent tensile and flexural strength properties • Reduced cooling time in injection-molding applications • The material works very well both with and without Rent concract Monthly invoice End of added coloring signed by customer to customer rent contract (automatic) One of our specialists, R&D engineer Frederik Johansen says: “There are still technical challenges associated with using bio composite materials New machine Configuring of in our product, but we continue to explore order or existing rent machine and Return of machine the opportunities.” refurbished contract in SAP to GMZ machine (rent start and end dates) Recycling enables us to be more sustainable and at the same time improves our bottom line, as illustrated by the example: Operator training Machine is Delivery and commissioning refurbished and to customer by sales rep. re-rent or sold Conscious towards climate and environment Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 22 Energy and water As an example, the annual savings on power has been 741,000 Water is another critical resource we strive to use as efficiently Cleaning machines naturally consume energy, water, and in certain kWh since LED lights were installed in our warehouse buildings in as possible in our operations. In our test center for high pressure product areas also use detergents. Designing equipment which can Denmark in January 2015. A new project launched in 2017 analyzes washers in Hadsund, Denmark, the significant amount of water clean to the same high standard, but use fewer resources is a key temperature fluctuations and creates heat savings in our wareused inspired us to implement a water recycling system. It has focus area, as it is the area where we believe our environmental houses by setting up more quick ports. The report on total investallowed us to save an average of 29,602 m3 water per year since efforts can have the highest impact. Our goal is to deliver the same ment and savings will be prepared in 2018. 2013. cleaning standard, while simultaneously reducing the operating cost for our customers and using fewer resources. We also measure the electricity we consume, and the trend is Inspired by the experience from Hadsund, Denmark, we have positive. decided to implement a water recovery system in other develop• We strive to limit the resources required to use our products ment sites, starting with Brooklyn Park, Minnesota, USA. by increasing the cleaning efficiency. • We work to reduce resource consumption in production, These are not the only facilities where we focus on saving water. administration and transportation. We have been able to cut water consumption in our largest sites • We constantly explore new technology in order to increase around the world since 2012. cleaning efficiency, so we can minimize the climate footprint of our business and products. • We support reasonable regulations that protect the climate by encouraging high global standards that generate increased innovation and a level playing field for all companies in our market. Energy consumption [kWh/kEUR revenue] Water consumption [Litres/kEUR revenue] 30 250 25 200 20 150 15 100 10 50 5 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Graph based on figures from our 23 largest production and sales sites Graph based on figures from our 23 largest production and sales sites Conscious towards climate and environment Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 23 Emissions Results for 2017 As a global company, we have the responsibility to reduce our emissions and look into reducing our footprint on the ground, Focus area Goals Actions 2017 Results water and air. We acknowledge that emissions pose a major threat General Upgrade EMS system to ISO 14001 • Implemented new 2015 EMS system certified to ISO 14001 to the environment. During 2018, we will conduct a mapping of 2015 standard standard elements 2015 standard • Updated environmental aspect the emissions created by Nilfisk to redefine focus areas. and impact assessment We have established some initiatives regarding the packing and Materials and recycling Establish baseline on waste (in kg) • Established system for data 2,488,311 kg of waste generated shipping of some of our products that enable us to reduce CO2. As from the 11 highest impact product gathering across 11 sites (measured in kg of an example we redesigned the packaging for one of our profesPolicy: Climate and Environment development, production and • Gathered data from 11 sites each type of waste per site) with distribution sites within the scope 86.2% or 2,144,025 kg currently sional vacuum cleaners, the GD930. Due to new packaging techof the global EMS system being recycled niques, we are able to save the following on this specific vacuum cleaner: Energy and water Establish baseline on Power • Power consumption defined 12,185,970 kWh of power consumption (in kWh) from the 11 • Data gathered from 11 sites consumed across 11 sites • 9% on utilized space (measured in m²) Policy: Climate and Environment highest impact product develop(buildings and product development, production and distribution ment, production, distribution • 11% on the number of vehicles sites within the scope of the global activities) • 11% CO2 emission EMS system Supplier environmental management Establish baseline on Potable water • Water consumption defined 84,783,821 liters of potable water We are in the process of creating a new supplier CoC where enviconsumption (in liters) from the 11 • Data gathered from 11 sites consumed across 11 sites highest impact product develop(buildings, and product developronment and climate will be a major part. A risk assessment of our ment, production and distribution ment, production, distribution suppliers, a self-assessment, and audit system will be implemented sites within the scope of the global activities) during 2018. EMS system Emissions Initial screening on emissions in • Internal discussions on emissions Emissions assessment indicates the Nilfisk • Risk assessment on emissions highest impact areas within the Policy: Climate and Environment value chain to be: Building electric usage Fuel usage related to inbound & outbound part/product transportation Sales & servicing of Products Supplier environmental 80% of suppliers (yearly procure• Requiring existing suppliers to Achieved (87 %) management ment above EUR 50,000) signed sign the UNGC Principles in UNGC Principles renegotiations Policy: Climate and Environment • Requiring new suppliers to sign the UNGC Principles Conscious towards climate and environment Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 24 Objectives going forward Focus area Goals Planned Action General • ISO 14001 scope & certification expanded to all • Implement ISO 14001 certification at more sites sales/service, product development, production • Increase frequency of reporting in environmental and distribution sites. impact areas • More actionable environmental performance measurement Materials and recycling • Measurement on waste (in kg) from all own sites • Gathered data from highest impact sales, production, established distribution and product development sites on waste Policy: Climate and Environment • Global definition of waste fractions Energy and water • Power consumption in kWh in all own sites • Data on power consumption gathered from all sites • KPI on power consumption established • Data gathered on water consumption from all sites Policy: Climate and Environment • Potable water consumption in liters in all own • Liters of consumed fuel for transportation of goods premises (buildings and production) measured by our own trucks measured • KPI on water consumption established • CO2 emission from fuel calculated • Baseline on CO2 emission from fuel consumption by own trucks established Emissions • Baseline on emissions in Nilfisk established • Define emissions in Nilfisk • Gather data on emissions Policy: Climate and Environment Supplier environmental • New third party due diligence system regarding • Updating environmental and climate policy management supplier environmental management implemented • Developing Supplier CoC. • Performing risk assessment of value chain and Policy: Climate and Environment suppliers • Developing training, guidance and tools on environment and climate Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 25 CONSCIOUS CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS Nilfisk strives to meet our customers’ quality expectations through Regulations that aim to prevent risks to human health and the By using the CE mark on our products, we as a manufacturer state a zero-defect, peopleand customer-focused culture that is essenenvironment by restricting the use of certain chemical substances that the product is in compliance with all relevant EU Directives. In tial to our continued growth and success. To develop and control are an important topic at Nilfisk. We comply with these regulations, the accompanying Declaration of Conformity (DoC) one can idenour product quality, Nilfisk has implemented an ISO 9001 certified and as early as 2013 implemented a policy prohibiting the use of tify which directives and standards are applied to a given product. Quality Management System. certain substances known to be part of upcoming restrictions. Similar regulatory frameworks are in place in other regions e.g. the US, Canada, Australia etc. Customer health and safety Marketing and labeling It is Nilfisk’s policy to comply with all applicable standards, regulaWe always communicate openly and honestly with our customers, REACH is an EU regulation restricting the use of certain chemicals. tory and legal requirements directed at Nilfisk and our products. and we make sure that our products have correct and complete Since 2013, Nilfisk has prohibited the use of Substances of Very In particular, within safety Nilfisk is proactive and participates instructions so that our customers can handle our machines in a High Concern (SVHC) in our products and we are continuously in numerous working groups within EU and the USA to further safe manner. working to replace these substances as the candidate list expands. improve safety requirements for our products. Nilfisk’s policy is to comply with all applicable standards, regulatory Customer privacy Naja Svendsen, Head of Regulatory says: requirements and legal requirements that are relevant for us and In order to protect individuals’ data privacy rights, including the for our products. rights of its customers, Nilfisk is mapping and reviewing its global “Being a responsible manufacturer means we IT systems containing employee and third party personal data, in need to ensure compliance and be certain our Various regulatory frameworks cover Nilfisk products. Within order to ensure compliance with the EU General Data Protection EU the regulatory framework is defined by EU Directives that list Regulation (GDPR), which takes effect on May 25, 2018. products are safe. This is something we take essential requirements and harmonized standards that give prevery seriously at Nilfisk, which is why we also sumptions of conformity to essential requirements. Areas of apply third-party testing in order to get an regulations include, but are not limited to: independent verdict.” • Electrical Safety • Electro Magnetic Compatibility (EMC) • Restriction of Hazardous Substances • Radio Spectrum matters • Noise Emission (Acoustic) • Eco design • Equipment for intended use in potentially explosive atmospheres Conscious customer relationships Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 26 By using the CE mark on our products, we as a manufacturer state Total Cost of Ownership that the products are in compliance with all relevant EU Directives. Nilfisk places a high value on delivering sustainable cleaning In the accompanying Declaration of Conformity (DoC) it can be solutions to our customers. For us, this means ensuring effectiveidentified which directives and standards apply to a given product. ness and productivity and reducing the TCO. Similar regulatory frameworks are in place in other regions, e.g., the USA, Canada and Australia. We develop cleaning products that work efficiently while using less energy, less water, and less detergent. This reduces the cost for REACH is an EU regulation, restricting the use of certain chemicals. our customers while simultaneously improving our environmental Since 2013, Nilfisk has prohibited the use of Substances of Very performance. High Concern (SVHC) in our products and we are continuously working to replace these substances as the candidate list expands. Customer privacy Deep cleaning Green cleaning In order to protect individuals’ data privacy rights, including the Maximised cleaning effort for all kinds of Default eco-cleaning mode with rights of its customers, Nilfisk is mapping and reviewing its global high-traffic or heavily soiled areas – from low-flow water and regular brush IT systems containing employee and third party personal data, in vinyl to concrete floors. pressure is ideal for green, order to ensure compliance with the EU General Data Protection detergent-free cleaning. Regulation (GDPR), which takes effect on May 25, 2018. Flexibility With one touch of a button, the operator may at will vary the performance of the machine to suit any degree of grime. 60 seconds burst of power Temporarily increased detergent strength, solution flow and brush pressure for a one-minute extra deep scrubbing. Perfect for difficult patches and surfaces. Low-flow water Intelligent Eco Solution mode Low-flow detergent reduces water consumption Eco Dosage System precisely matches by as much as 70 percent. Ecoflex detergent intensity to the level of dirt on the floor. Nilfisk Ecoflex effectively eliminates the need to clean a floor several times in order to remove extra dirty patches. Large surfaces No pre-mixing Detergent and water are are cleaned without spending time changing mixed at brush deck. No more water or refilling tanks solution pre-mixing and no more water and detergent waste. And no solution tank to empty or clean. Conscious customer relationships Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 27 Results for 2017 Focus area Goals Actions 2017 Results Customer health and safety Compliance with all legal • On-going legal screening Compliant with legal requirements requirements • On-going product and regarding customer health and Policy: Human and Labor Rights organizational development safety • Establish cross-functional team Marketing and labelling Compliance with all legal • On-going legal screening Compliant with legal requirements requirements • On-going product and regarding marketing and labelling Policy: Human and Labor rights organizational development Customer data privacy Compliance with all legal • On-going legal screening Compliant with legal requirements requirements • On-going product and regarding customer data privacy Policy: Human and Labor rights organizational development Total Cost of Ownership Initial screening on internal • Define TCO projects Initial overview of TCO projects TCO projects established • Gather initial data from sites in Nilfisk Policy: Climate and Environment Objectives going forward Focus area Goals Planned Action Customer health and safety Baseline on chosen KPI established • Choose KPI areas in customer health and safety • Gather data on KPIs Policy: Human Rights Marketing and labelling Baseline on chosen KPI established • Choose KPI areas in marketing and labelling • Gather data on KPIs Policy: Human rights Customer data privacy Compliance with the GDPR • Gather documentation about IT systems required by the GDPR • Identify actions needed to ensure that systems and data processing Policy: Human Rights are compliant • Dialogue with all sites and relevant third-party service providers, as well as with GDPR compliance consultants Total cost of ownership Structure for product screening • Define TCO structure of TCO established • Gather TCO data from chosen products on e.g. water usage, Policy: Climate and Environment energy usage, and detergent usage Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 28 CONSCIOUS EMPLOYER As a global company founded in a Nordic culture, we have an Nilfisk follows applicable wage rules, work hours, overtime and established acknowledgement by the global community of our benefits laws in the countries where we operate, and always respect for individual rights, also in places where these rights respects relevant international labor standards. Nilfisk respects its traditionally are not prioritized. We consider it important that all employees’ right to form, join, or not to join a labor union, seek our employees are assured good and fair conditions and we are representation, bargain or not bargain collectively in accordance committed to setting an example in the countries where we with local laws and without fear of reprisal, intimidation, or operate. harass­ment. Labor conditions We do not allow or condone the hiring of child labor. Persons We want to continuously develop Nilfisk as a positive, healthy between the age of 15 and 18 are allowed to work if permitted by and innovative workplace that can create sustainable value for local laws and if their compulsory schooling has been completed. customers, co-workers and suppliers. Young persons must not undertake dangerous work that may jeopardize their physical or mental health, nor may they work at Jacob Blom, Executive Vice President, Group HR at Nilfisk says: night. “We believe that engaged people create Our labor rights commitments are an integral part of our general a better customer experience and business principles. Each individual employee of Nilfisk has the responsibility to work in a way that corresponds with Nilfisk core better business results.” values. Nilfisk adheres to the rights as described in the UNGC Principles Managers of Nilfisk regions and countries are responsible for on Business and Human Rights as well as the International Labor assuring an open climate where any potential dilemmas can be Organization’s (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and discussed and issues are handled with due care. Rights at Work, the Children’s Rights and business Principles, and the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development We encourage our employees to address or report internal or (OECD) guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Furthermore, external issues in line with internal reporting procedures. These we also live up to the requirements for employee protection as assume reporting to immediate supervisor, but we provide for described in the UK Modern Slavery Act. other reporting options, such as our whistle-blower hotline. Conscious employer Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 29 Diversity and inclusion Diversity is a strength that will help us create a work environment that leads to better solutions for our customers and better business results for Nilfisk. Additionally, it is a key element of developing and growing in accordance with our business strategy and our mission statement. Accordingly, we embrace workforce diversity. In Nilfisk equal opportunities apply for any employee or applicant for employment and we believe that this mindset contributes to an environment where employees are motivated to be involved. Employee engagement is high at Nilfisk 88% of our workforce took time to fill out our engagement survey, in which all employees are invited to share their views anonymously. In addition, employees take an active part in follow-up meetings in which results are turned into concrete actions. Employee participation in this survey provides valuable feedback and insights about the experience of working at Nilfisk. 2017 Employee Engagement Survey 4,685 88% 71 Engagement 45 Countries Respondents response rate index Jacob Blom, Executive Vice President, Group HR at Nilfisk says: “We all get the opportunity to state our opinion about our work, collaboration in our teams, alignment, and a lot of other topics. The survey is a great tool to find out if there is alignment – and we use it to have a focused dialogue.” Conscious employer Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 30 At Nilfisk, diversity and inclusion are closely linked. Diversity aims We will focus our attention on developing diverse and inclusive to recognize, respect and value people’s varied abilities to contribtalent practices in recruitment, promotion, development of individute and realize their full potential by promoting an inclusive culture uals as well as teams and leaders across the global organization. for all people. One of the initiatives already in place to support a more inclusive environment is our regular performance appraisals At Nilfisk board level, the target is 17% female members, which between employees and their immediate manager. These appraisals correlates to one out of six members. The target was achieved in assist employees with developing their skills and mindsets on an 2017. ongoing basis to improve their job performance. Nilfisk top management consist of 16 persons of which 1 is female. In October 2017, Nilfisk issued a Diversity policy. The policy aims By top management we mean CEO, Executive Vice Presidents and to promote equal opportunity for both genders to attain senior Senior Vice Presidents and assumed roles. positions. In Nilfisk, we believe that all genders have equal job opportunities. Nilfisk is taking actions to address possible imbalances caused by the historical, marked preponderance of men in the sector in the areas of our operations. Nilfisk gender distribution Nilfisk gender distribution – top management 12% 28% 72% 88% Female Male Female Male Conscious employer Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 31 In order to promote equal opportunity for all genders to attain Diversity is, however, much more than gender distribution and senior positions, Nilfisk will: we are thus looking at other relevant parameters like nationality and age. • Impose demands that recruitment firms and headhunters, whenever feasible, include all genders in the field of Within Nilfisk’s top management we have representation of candidates for senior positions five different nationalities, and a fairly wide distribution of age. • Annually monitor the development in diversity, including gender distribution, at the Group’s most senior levels of management and the succession plans for these positions • Increase the focus placed on career plans at the annual performance appraisals held with employees who are potential managers • Re-enforce that responsibility for executing the components of the action plan lies with the HR functions of Nilfisk and Nilfisk Leadership Nilfisk top management nationality distribution Nilfisk top management age distribution 13% 19% 6% 37% 6% 69% 13% 6% 12% 19% Turkish US American 40-44 55-59 German Danish 45-49 60-65 French 50-54 Conscious employer Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 32 Competence development Nis Gjendal, Vice President, Global Operations Projects & Business At Nilfisk, our employees are highly valued and training, coaching Intelligence, says: and feedback represents prime opportunities to expand the knowledge base of our employees. “Expand has taught me that making small changes is what actually We run annual performance appraisal conversations between starts changing behaviors. If you simplify employee and manager at a global level across the entire workthings, and repeat them, it will start to force. This helps create a corporate culture that promotes personal success, along with collaboration. Furthermore, our performance actually make an impact.” reviews offer an excellent opportunity to discuss additional training and continuing education requirements. Leadership development is a continued focus at Nilfisk. In 2017, we have launched two new initiatives. Global people manager In September 2017, we completed our leadership development training webinars are linked to our Nilfisk Performance Processes program named Expand. The objective of the program was to to build competences within key areas like engagement and build leadership capabilities to deliver on our company strategy. performance appraisals. These are supplemented by a leadership The program was targeted at our Top 150 leaders across the global toolbox available to all leaders globally, building on the Expand organization. One of the additional benefits of the program has leadership program. been to help leaders to extend their networks within the global organization, across functions, geography and levels. In addition, we are running a Sales Academy for all representatives across the global organization, approximately 900 employees in We have asked some of the participants to give an example of how total. The program was started in 2016 and is expected to be they have changed their behavior as an outcome of Expand leadercompleted in 2018. ship development program: Britt Mandrup, Global Online Director, says: “I looked at my day-to-day behavior and tried to optimize even further when it comes to looking at customers’ needs and how we best support the strategy for Nilfisk.” Conscious employer Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 33 Occupational health and safety Employees are encouraged and committed to continuously idenThe skills, expertise and dedication of our employees are our greattifying and mitigating hazards to prevent work-related injuries. est assets. They create value for our customers. Our employees Working in accordance with our safety management systems, constantly strive to achieve the highest possible industry standards we are improving our processes and developing a culture of safe for the benefit of both our customers and the environment. That behaviors with the ambition of achieving zero accidents. means it is imperative that we provide safe and healthy workplaces for our employees worldwide. Looking forward, we will improve our Environment Health and Safety (EHS) even more. We believe establishing a safe and healthy workplace is a continuous process, illustrated by an example from one of our production sites in Hungary. Szigetszentmiklos, Hungary: Teaching our employees about health and safety In Szigetszentmiklos, our EHS department launched an EHS day, in which all of our factory workers parti­cipated. The initiative consisted of trials, tests, lectures, exhibits, etc. all related to EHS topics. The topics included waste management, a forklift handling competition, an accident simulation, industrial hygiene, a fire-fighting exercise, and many more. The EHS day was designed to raise awareness about a number of topics as well as teach our employees how to be more sustainable and safe. It reflects how our company aims to become more sustainable through the behavior of our employees while also increasing knowledge about safety in connection with the workplace. Conscious employer Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 34 Results for 2017 Focus area Goals Actions 2017 Results Labor conditions Employee engagement survey • Design survey Survey launched, (4,685 employees conducted • Gather data (88%) participated) Policy: Human and Labor rights • Analyze data • Communicate data Diversity and inclusion Policy on diversity and inclusion • Internal process on policy New policy on diversity and updated development including a inclusion Policy: Human and Labor rights series of stakeholders • Policy developed Target to increase members of • Target developed Target achieved the underrepresented gender • 17% of the underrepresented in Nilfisk’s Board of Directors gender in Nilfisk’s Board of established Directors Competence development Leadership development program • Program developed Top 150 leaders participated (Expand) conducted • Program communicated Policy: Human and Labor rights • Program conducted and evaluated Global people manager training • Program developed All people managers trained webinars for all people managers • Program communicated launched • Program conducted and evaluated Global Sales Academy for all • Program communicated 300 sales representatives sales representatives conducted • Program conducted and participated (300 to participate in 2017) evaluated Occupational health and safety Less than 5.5 accidents per 1 million • Improved focus and 8.8 accidents per 1 million working working hours (short-term goal). performance on all sites hours (target not achieved) Policy: Human and Labor rights The long-term goal is zero accidents Conscious employer Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 35 Objectives going forward Focus area Goals Planned Action Labor conditions Business CoC updated, incl. • Update Business CoC based on new policies labor conditions • Establish global training of the Business CoC incl. labor conditions Policy: Labor rights • Establish a new annual self-assessment system based on the Business CoC, signed by all country managers Labor rights rules updated • Internal process on policy development including a series of stakeholders • Rules developed Diversity and inclusion Development of diverse and • Initialize internal processes with all HR departments inclusive culture in Nilfisk • Develop initial structure on new talent practice Policy: Diversity and Inclusion Business CoC updated incl. diversity • Update Business CoC based on new policies and inclusion • Establish a global training of the Business CoC incl. diversity and inclusion • Establish Competence development Global Sales Academy for 300 • Communicate program sales representatives conducted • Conduct and evaluate program Policy: Labor right Occupational health and safety Less than 5.5 accidents per 1 million • Update definition of accidents working hours (short-term goal). • Gather data on accidents from all sites Policy: Labor rights The long-term goal is zero accidents • Develop best practice • Communicate and train sites on best practice Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 36 ABOUT THE REPORT GRI content index – disclosures Our Materiality Analysis is inspired by the principles and guidelines provided by the GRI, and the elements of the Nilfisk CSR strategy is structured according to the GRI framework as seen below. About the report Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 37 GRI reference Description Page 102-14 GRI: Statement from senior decision-maker 4 } Nilfisk: Letter from CEO 102-18 GRI: Governance structure 9 Nilfisk: CSR governance 102-15 GRI: Key impacts, risks and opportunities 9 Nilfisk: Minimizing risks throughout the Nilfisk value chain 102-9 GRI: Supply chain 9 Nilfisk: Nilfisk value chain 102-40 GRI: List of stakeholder groups 15 and 18 Nilfisk: Materiality analysis + Local communities 205-2 GRI: Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 17 Nilfisk: Anti-corruption 102-17 GRI: Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 18 Nilfisk: Whistleblower system 413-1 GRI: Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 18 Nilfisk: Local Communities 412-1 GRI: Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 19 Nilfisk: Supplier social management 301-3 GRI: Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 21 Nilfisk: Materials & recycling 304-2 GRI: Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 22 Nilfisk: Energy & water 416-1 GRI: Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 25 Nilfisk: Customer health and safety 417-1 GRI: Requirements for product and service information and labeling 25 Nilfisk: Marketing and labeling 418 GRI: Customer Privacy 26 Nilfisk: Customer Privacy 405 GRI: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 29 Nilfisk: Diversity and inclusion 405-1 GRI: Diversity of governance bodies and employees 30 Nilfisk: Diversity and inclusion 404-2 GRI: Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 32 Nilfisk: Competence development 403 GRI: Occupational health and safety 33 Nilfisk: Occupational health and safety About the report Nilfisk CSR Report 2017 | 38 UN Global Compact Reporting period Organizational scope We are actively working within the main areas of the UNGC, The reporting period for the CSR report is been aligned with The report covers all the sites in the Nilfisk group. If this is which we joined in 2010. Nilfisk’s financial reporting and follows the calendar year not applicable, then it will be stated in the relevant chapters. January 1, 2017 December 31, 2017. Reporting Principles Contact Nilfisk’s work with CSR is inspired by UNGC and GRI. Data handling Questions to the CSR report can be addressed to: All data has been gathered by the CSR department from Head of CSR, Ann-Katrine S. Friis The report contains our Statutory Statement for Social Responsibility functional responsible or directly from our global sites. Data are ann-katrine.storgaard.friis@nilfisk.com cf. section 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. stored in specific IT systems in each functional department. Data phone +45 20785936 The report is simultaneously our Communication on Progress (COP) has been requested based on standardized definitions across the report to the UNGC. organization. UN Global Compact Page Human Rights 18, 19 and 25 1 Support and respect the protection of internationally-proclaimed human rights 18,19, 25 and 26 2 Make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses Labor 3 Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 19 and 28 4 Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor 19 and 28 5 Effective abolition of child labor 19 and 28 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 19 and 29 Environment 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 20 to 24 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 20 to 24 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 20 to 24 Anti-Corruption 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 17 Nilfisk A/S Kornmarksvej 1 · DK-2605 Brøndby · Denmark Tel.: +45 43 23 81 00 · Fax: +45 43 43 77 00 mail.com@nilfisk.com · www.nilfisk.com
