Outotec Sustainability Report 2017 Refining data for sustainability Contents YEAR 2017 DATA 3 CEO’s message 37 Data collection 5 This is Outotec 38 Environmental data 6 Our strategy 43 Social data 7 Sustainability highlights in 2017 8 Value creation and our impacts GRI 48 About this report OUR AGENDA 49 GRI, Global Compact, and SDG content index 11 Risks and opportunities due to climate change 14 Most significant topics ASSURANCE 16 Sustainability Agenda 2020 56 Independent Assurance Report Outotec Sustainability Report 2017 18 Annual targets 20 Refining data for sustainability CONTACTS 21 Engaging with stakeholders 58 Contacts OUR PERFORMANCE 25 Safety – our number one priority 26 Sustainable offering 28 Responsible business practices 31 Building a sustainable supplier base 33 Driving employee engagement Cases 35 Future smelting is digital 35 Reduction of SO2 emissions verified by satellite data 36 Improved fault detection through a virtual plant 36 Hacking for sustainability 2 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 YEAR 2017 | CEO’S MESSAGE Confident and excited about the future Our customers clearly have a more positive market outlook than a year ago. Recovery started in the second half of 2016 and continued throughout 2017. As demand for metals grows, new greenfield investments will start taking place, in addition to brownfield projects on existing sites. For example, the electric car market and renewable energy generation and storage increase the demand for lithium, nickel and cobalt as well as copper. The need for aluminum grows and the zinc market is active. Stainless steel use supports the production of ferrochrome. CUSTOMERS SEEK RESOURCE EFFICIENCY I met dozens of our customers during the year. The availability and cost of energy, water as a critical resource and digitalization are crucial for them. Elimination of harmful substances and cutting emissions are also high on the agenda. Customers strive to extract all valuable minerals from mined ores. The same applies to materials already extracted. This is sustainability in action: getting the best possible result with the smallest environmental impact. The feedback Outotec receives is consistent; customers highly appreciate OutoNEW STRATEGY SHOWS business is strongly complemented by an intechnology. We provide solutions that suptec’s leading technologies and expertise in DIRECTION FOR 2018–2020 creasing share of services, which brings staport water management as well as circuminerals and metals processing. The more Outotec aims to provide customers with bility to our business. lar economy. demanding the mineral, the more likely that leading technologies, superior customer We have ambitious profitability and growth we are involved, lithium being one example service and excellent execution. Our new targets for delivering value to investors, who REFINING DATA FUELS DIGITALIZATION of many. Where we need to improve is in cusstrategy builds on our mission, ‘Sustainahave shown patience during the recent diffiAs digitalization advances, the significance of tomer dialogue, in which a more proactive apble use of Earth’s natural resources’. Our cult years. Global megatrends provide busicollecting and analyzing data becomes more proach is sought. It is up to us to take initiabusiness focuses on the entire value chain, ness opportunities, as Outotec has solutions and more evident. Virtual models are increastive in going through processes together and from ore to metals, throughout the customfor improving process efficiency and helps ingly developed and applied to process optimisuggesting improvements for customers. ers’ plant life cycle. The equipment and plant customers to choose the best, sustainable zation and fault detection. The Outotec virtual 3 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 YEAR 2017 | CEO’S MESSAGE plant is a model that can be used to simulate We paid special attention on clarity of roles INSPIRING AND FRUITFUL the behavior of a real plant. The main goals and on communicating our strategy to all emCOLLABORATION of simulation-based digital products are inployees in cross-functional workshops. We Outotec achieved the EcoVadis Gold certificacreased productivity and availability, reduced completed a global leadership program for tion for its corporate responsibility practices energy consumption and sufficient product 100 leaders in 2017. In addition, local leaderin August 2017. The company ranked in the quality. ship programs were developed in each martop 5% suppliers in its field. The Gold certifiDigitalization of smelting processes imket area. Sales leadership, value selling and cation indicates a strong commitment to reproves recovery while enhancing sustainabilservices trainings were also developed to sponsible sourcing practices. At the beginning ity and safety. When high risk manual tasks enhance our competences in the customer of 2018, Outotec was ranked 5th in the Global are eliminated in a smelter and decisions are interface. 100 Index of the most sustainable companies based on reliable data, process stability imOn the other hand, we have not yet in the world. Being included in the Index for proves and emissions decrease. reached our diversity goals. Those goals insix consecutive years is a great recognition to In November, the Junction 2017, Europe’s clude, for example, increasing the share of our work. biggest hackathon took place in Espoo, Finwomen in management positions. In safety, These acknowledgements and the land. It gave young developers, designers and we have an ambitious ultimate target of zero feedback from our personnel, investors, entrepreneurs a chance to show their innovaaccidents. The key indicator, lost time injury customers and partners tell us that we tion skills. Outotec was one of the partners of rate, improved slightly in 2017. are moving in the right direction. Thank the event, with two challenges: a sustainabiliyou so much for the inspiring and fruitful ty challenge and a service challenge. UN’S GOALS INTEGRATED INTO collaboration. Together, we continue The benefits of digitalization are highlightOUR SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA developing resource-efficient solutions for ed in the case stories of this report. We have defined our most significant imthe sustainable use of natural resources. pacts with regard to the UN Sustainable GREAT LEAP TAKEN IN Development Goals and integrated the SDGs Markku Teräsvasara EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT into our Sustainability Agenda. The five most President and CEO We want to offer our own employees an inimportant SDGs to Outotec’s operations and spiring work environment. Our 2017 employsustainability work are: Good health and ee survey showed 18 %-points improvement well-being; Climate action; Decent work and of the engagement index from 2016 and we economic growth; Responsible consumption are well on track towards our long-term tarand production; Quality education. gets. Based on the results, senior leadership Outotec is committed to supporting and has succeeded in communicating a motivatimplementing the principles of the UN Globing future vision. People are proud to work al Compact concerning human rights, workfor the company and they feel that their job is ing life, environmental affairs, and anti-corchallenging and interesting. The link between ruption. Likewise, we respect The Universal one’s own work and Outotec’s objectives is Declaration of Human Rights. In 2017 Outotec clearer, as are roles and responsibilities. carried out a human rights assessment. We Good results have been reached through did not find any significant risks or negative collaboration. People provided extremely valimpacts of our business. uable input for the whole strategy process. 4 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 YEAR 2017 5th most sustainable company This is Outotec on the Global 100 list In line with our mission targeting the erations, improve their resource efficiency, or rated in the Mid Cap category in 2017. The its subsidiaries. There were no major changes sustainable use of Earth’s natural reduce their emissions, energy consumption company’s market capitalization at the end of in Outotec’s company structure, the owneror fresh water use. We can deliver an entire 2017 was EUR 1,300 million. Outotec’s total ship, or supply chain during 2017. resources, we develop and deliver process or plant, or a single piece of equipcapitalization was EUR 470 million, of which Read about Outotec’s financial perforresource-efficient technology and service ment, with related engineering, sourcing, EUR 320 million was funded by equity and mance, legal entities and shareholders in our commissioning, training and life-cycle serEUR 150 million by a hybrid bond. The parent Financial Statements 2017 at solutions for processing minerals and vices. New mining or industrial plant investcompany Outotec Oyj has 100% ownership of www.outotec.com/investors. metals, for water treatment, and for ments involving also Outotec’s technologies producing energy from biomass and wastes. may be subject to stakeholder questions and SALES EUR 1,139 MILLION, BY REGION PERSONNEL 4,146, BY REGION public debate in the target countries. These questions are mainly targeted to Outotec’s Outotec’s unique position at the forefront of the customers. mineral processing and metallurgical industry We sell products and services to over 80 is founded on a century of scientific knowledge countries through our market area network. and operational experience, which have resultEurope, Middle East and North Africa (EMEA) ed in a wide range of applications, particularis our largest market area in terms of sales ly for processing virtually all types of ores and and personnel. minerals. The innovative research done at our Outotec, headquartered in Espoo, Finland, EMEA 49% EMEA 68% in-house R&D centers and our continuous operates globally with offices in 36 countries. Americas 34% Americas 18% development work realized together with our Major operations based on the number of APAC 17% APAC 14% customers have made us the leading developer employees are located in Finland, Germany, of technology in our field. Australia, South Africa, Chile, Sweden and Key figures 2017 2016 2015 Outotec’s product portfolio includes hunBrazil. Local customer centers provide full Sales, EUR million 1,139 1,058 1,201 dreds of various plant concepts, processes, support for our customers’ businesses – both Adjusted operating profit*, EUR million 32 -23 56 and pieces of equipment that are marketed in the everyday running of their operations under the Outotec brand. In addition, Outotec and when they make new investments. In R&D expenses, EUR million 56 55 61 has a variety of service products related to the addition, we use sales agents in countries Priority applications 38 57 93 maintenance and upgrade of the equipment where we do not have established presence. Number of employees 4,146 4,192 4,859 and plants delivered by Outotec. None of OuOur two reporting segments – Minerals Employee engagement index, % 60 42 56 totec products or services are banned in any Processing; and Metals, Energy & Water – Wages and salaries, EUR million 326 329 353 markets. are dedicated to the creation of sustainable Our customers are large global mining technology solutions and life-cycle services Lost time injury rate (LTIR) per 1 million working hours 1.7 1.8 2.8 companies, small and medium-sized mining, for our customers. As of April 2017, a new Share of environmental goods and services in order intake, % 88 90 90 metallurgical and energy companies in deServices organization was established to GHG emissions avoided by using Outotec technologies, veloped countries as well as local mining and focus on developing our service offering and thousand tonnes of CO2e 6,218 5,870 5,469 metallurgical companies in emerging regions. competences as well as delivering services Total GHG emissions, tonnes of CO2e per EUR 1 million sales 24 27** 30** Customers are investing either in new profor our customers. cessing plants or modernizing their existing Outotec has been listed on the NASDAQ Total energy consumption, TJ 160 166 165 plants to increase the profitability of their opHelsinki since 2006, and the company was *) excluding restructuring and acquisition-related costs and purchase prize allocation amortizations **) restated figure 5 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 YEAR 2017 Our strategy Outotec’s strategy is to serve customers The key in our climate change strategy, with leading technologies, superior made in 2016, is harnessing our technology for the transition to a low-carbon industry. We customer service and excellent execution. have complemented the estimated impacts of megatrends with the opportunities and risks In line with our mission targeting the susdefined in connection with our climate change tainable use of Earth’s natural resources strategy work. Outotec is committed to protecting the enviOur short-term priority is to improve our ronment in all its activities. We strive to serve profitability to achieve economic sustainability. our customers using our wide range of leadWe also work to grow our service business to ing minerals and metals processing technolenhance our ability to create value over the ogies and life-cycle services. By 2020, we also cycles. aim to achieve superior customer service and excellent execution. TO BE ABLE TO REACH OUR 2020 VISION, Our commitment to sustainability binds us WE ARE WORKING ON FIVE DEVELOPMENT to take a holistic view of our customers’ busiAREAS: ness. As countries start implementing the Paris climate agreement, we expect carbon 1) Customer focus emission controls to start playing an increasTo deliver the best customer experience ing role in addition to existing stringent rewe will develop our account management, strictions on emissions of harmful substancsales and leadership competences and es to air or water. improve responsiveness. Megatrends such as urbanization, resource efficiency and sustainability, coupled with dig2) Service business 3) Product competitiveness 5) Our people italization bring opportunities for Outotec. Services bring us a steady revenue flow, We work to improve the cost competiSince we are an expertise-based compaWhile safety has long been a top priority for long-term customer relationships and tiveness of our products by further difny, people are our most valuable asset. In our industry, environmental performance and sustained margins. We will increase ferentiation through digitalization and recent years, we have unfortunately seen social license to operate are also increasinglocal presence and focus on our existing improvements in energy and environa dip in employee engagement. We are ly at the forefront of our customers’ minds, not customer relationships and installed mental performance. By redesigning working to create an environment for our least because of tightening regulation. We also base to maximize customers’ return products, by changing components withpeople to develop, succeed and find joy see many unused business opportunities and on investment. We aim to increase out compromising on quality, and by in their work. Leadership development is some threats in China, the country producing productivity by digitalization. Our Services searching for lower cost supply alternaone focus area in this work. over half of the world’s metals and owning an organization, established in April 2017, tives we aim to reduce sourcing costs. increasing share of the world’s mining assets. is dedicated to developing our service Read also: Volatility and the cyclical nature of our busioffering and creating the growth. 4) Project excellence • Long-term financial targets, p. 16. ness is expected to continue, which drives us We work to improve the quality of our proto further grow our service business. ject deliveries and bring flexibility to the cost base. 6 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Q4 YEAR 2017 Sustainability highlights in 2017 Q2 Q1 Mar 29 Resource efficiency to the forefront Outotec’s sustainability report 2016 Q3 Nov 1 O’People employee engagement survey run published Nov 21 31st anniversary meeting of the Chinese-Finnish Joint Working Group for Non-Ferrous Metals Apr 1 New Services organization started Aug 3 Outotec appoints Gustav Kildén Industry was held in Shenzhen, its operations Senior Vice President, Strategic China Jan 18 Outotec retained its position in the Customers and Business Global 100 list of most sustainable Development at Outotec Nov 24 Outotec participated in Junction companies 2017, Europe’s biggest hackathon Aug 9 Outotec achieves EcoVadis Gold Jan 20 Outotec receives the Silver certification for its corporate Class distinction for its excellent responsibility practices and ranks in Dec 31 Our safety performance was sustainability performance and is the top 5% of suppliers in its field improved – the measured lost-time included in 2017 in the Sustainability injury rate was 1.7 (2016: 1.8) Yearbook by RobecoSAM Aug 14 Outotec appoints Tomas Hakala President of Services business Jan 26 The Ethiopian State Minister with her delegation visited Outotec to discuss renewable energy solutions Sep 18 Outotec updates its long-term financial targets Jan 30 Outotec and the Committee of Industry, Energy and Subsoil use of the Kyrgyz Republic agree on Sep 21 This is Outotec 2020 – new strategy the cooperation of sustainable use launched of natural resources of the Kyrgyz Republic Sep 21 Outotec’s Capital Markets Day held in Outotec House 7 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 YEAR 2017 Value creation and our impacts The key resources for Outotec’s value creased by 8% and service sales by 6% from Read also: The remaining spend was distributed among 38 creation are deep know-how of processing 2016. The sales growth and our fixed cost sav• Risks and opportunities due to climate countries. ings improved our profitability. However, the change, p. 11 Where Outotec has long-term service connatural resources, technology patents, result of Metals, Energy & Water remained • Outotec Financial Statements 2017 tracts with customers, maintenance and serresearch and development, as well as negative. Therefore, we initiated new measvice personnel are normally hired locally and we ures – such as the outsourcing of some engiINDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS (GRI 203-2) train them for their specific tasks after the plant Outotec brand. In addition, long customer neering activities – to enhance flexibility and Large mines and processing plant investments has been built. and supplier relationships are essential ensure the future profitability of the segment. – built with Outotec technology – consideraOften Outotec technologies help to imresources for the company. At the end of 2017, Outotec’s market capbly boost the development of the host country prove the environmental conditions of the italization was EUR 1,300 million (2016: EUR and its economy. They may create hundreds communities surrounding customers’ plants, 914 million). The total wealth created by Ouor thousands of new jobs, while also leading which improves the living conditions of peoFINANCIAL IMPACT totec in 2017 was EUR 347 million (EUR 344 to the establishment of new industrial plants ple, contributes to a healthier population and Outotec’s approach to economic sustainabilimillion). and growth of businesses along the value boosts agriculture and small businesses. One ty is demonstrated by our long-term financial As Outotec’s key asset is employees, the chain from natural resource extraction to finexample of measuring the environmental imtargets involving profitability and continuous most significant economic value distributed is ished products. In such greenfield plant depacts is described in our case about the regrowth. We strive for transparency in our opwages and salaries, which amounted to EUR liveries by Outotec, the indirect economic imduction of sulfur dioxide emissions verified by erations, and we base our decisions on sound 326 million in 2017 (EUR 329 million). pacts are considered significant. Outotec has satellite data, p. 35. business reasons and commercial rationale. Long customer relationships and 3,000 dibeen active in developing the resource based We have also calculated the financial impact Our approach is also reflected in four of our rect suppliers are also essential resources for industries in many developing countries, such of the annual emissions avoided by Outotec’s material themes: as Mongolia, Kazakhstan, and Zambia, to customers, in total 6.2 million tonnes CO2e, usmention a few. ing seven Outotec technologies. The CO2 Euro• Sustainable offering Wages and As the majority of Outotec’s manufacturing pean Emission Allowances Commodity Price • Responsible business practices salaries, EUR Number of is sourced from external suppliers, we play an [www.markets.businessinsider.com/commod• Sustainable supply chain Region million employees important role in supporting local businesses. ities/historical-prices/CO2-emissionsrechte/ • Engaging with stakeholders EMEA 199 2,813 This generates employment and wealth in local EURO/1.1.2017_31.12.2017] (Dec 31, 2017) was Americas 59 758 communities. In large projects, as many as sevEUR 5.76/tonne CO2. By using this price, the valDIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED eral hundred local engineers and other specialue of the emissions avoided was approximately APAC 68 575 AND DISTRIBUTED (GRI 201-1) ists, contractors and service providers work for EUR 36 million. Using similar calculating methThe market environment improved in 2017, us. A single large project can consist of over 10 od, the financial impact of our own emissions and the year was clearly more positive for OuOutotec, since some 90% of our manufacturmillion working hours at customer’s site. Most was EUR 159,000, and that of our supply chain totec than 2016. Our order intake increased ing (based on monetary value) is sourced from of this work is done by local suppliers or subEUR 2.9 million. by 20% from 2016 and we saw an accelerated external suppliers. contractors. growth towards the end of the year. In terms Due to negative result in 2016, Outotec In 2017, Outotec’s largest projects under R&D activities generate jobs and of sales and profitability, our two business did neither pay dividends to shareholders nor implementation in terms of number of contracenhance skills segments were in different phases. The sales contributions to charities in 2017. In future, tors were in the United Arab Emirates, Brazil, Outotec also contributes to local communiof the Minerals Processing segment and serOutotec aims to maintain its leadership in Peru and Bahrain. In terms of money, the largties through university cooperation and subvices developed favorably throughout the year, sustainable technologies and grow its service est shares – each amounting to EUR 10–50 milcontracting R&D work, which generates local whereas the sales of the Metals, Energy & business to enhance its ability to create value lion – were spent in Australia, Brazil, Canada, jobs and enhances skills and knowledge deWater segment decreased. Group sales inover the cycles. Chile, China, Mexico, the USA and South Africa. velopment. Ongoing research and develop8 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 VALUE CREATION AND IMPACTS OF OUR BUSINESS Customers • Sustainable products and services • Long-term support and partnership Intellectual • Outotec brand and reputation • Social license to operate AND CODE OF COND • IPRs, 763 patent families UES UCT VAL • Tacit knowledge Planet Earth • 2 R&D centers, 1 Dewatering technology center • Emissions avoided 6.2 million tonnes of CO2e, valued at EUR 36 million • Increased resource efficiency Operational • Operations in 36 countries Business activities Y Employees TEG • 2 manufacturing units, 8 assembly or RA service workshops, 1 ceramic plate • R&D, raw material testing, product • Wages and salaries EUR 326 million ST S AND OPPORTUNITIE production unit, several warehouses management, EUR 56 million • Wealth and professional growth • Sales EUR 1,139 million O AND RES URCE ALLOC • Safe workplace, LTIR 1.7 RISK Natural • Marketing • Respecting human rights • ISO 14001 global certification for environmental • Engineering S management ATI • Materials used Steel 3,624 t; Wood packaging 186 t • Sourcing EUR 462 million Suppliers • Manufacturing • Long-term partnerships ON • Energy consumption: 160 TJ • Economic sustainability, EUR 462 million • Water withdrawal: 54,100 m³ • Delivery spent on suppliers • Installation and commissioning • Responsible business practices Human • Life-cycle support for customers • 4,146 employees Academic community • Outotec culture • Subcontracted R&D work EUR 8 million • 2,410 contractors • Thesis opportunities and internships for students Social Local communities G OV E RN A N CE • Long customer relationships • Employment and wealth • 3,000 suppliers • EUR 287 million spent on local businesses • Relationships with the academic community • Current income taxes EUR 5 million • Community investments 0 ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED Investors and financiers • Market capitalization EUR 1,300 million Financial • Capitalization EUR 470 million, of which Sales EUR 1,139 million ./. Operating costs EUR 792 million • Compliance and transparency EUR 320 million funded by equity and = Value generated EUR 347 million • Net finance expenses EUR 7 million • Interest on hybrid bond EUR 11 million EUR 150 million by a hybrid bond 0 retained in the company • Dividends 0 9 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 YEAR 2017 ment activities run together with our external authorities in every country where we operate. Country Corporate income tax, % Country Corporate income tax, % partners received EUR 2.5 million in public Outotec engages in large projects, howevfunding. We additionally subcontracted work er there may be only one project ongoing in a Australia 30 Namibia 32 packages out to universities and mainly small country. Due to the confidential nature of the Austria 25 Netherlands 20–25 and medium sized enterprises for more than information and the varying quantities of proBahrain 0 New Caledonia 30 twice this sum, over EUR 7.7 million. We also jects worldwide we cannot disclose country Brazil 34 Norway 24 cooperate with local universities to enhance specific financial information. Also, the desthe skills and knowledge of students and detinations of our sales typically do not correBulgaria 10 Peru 29.5 cision-makers and train future plant operaspond with the places in which the work and Canada 25.8 Philippines 30 tors and service personnel. sales activities are performed, value creatChile 25.5 Poland 19 ed, and where the income must be reported China 25 Qatar 10 Non-discriminatory tax policy and taxes paid. Providing country-specific tax Finland 20 Russia 20 As a globally operating company, Outotec eninformation would not give a comprehensive gages in a variety of tax laws, regulations, picture of the fairness of the tax distribution in Germany 29.2 Saudi Arabia 20 practices and interpretations. The internationOutotec’s case. Ghana 25 Serbia 15 al tax environment is challenging to navigate, Greece 29 South Africa 28 however we are committed to being a responIndia 30.9 Spain 25 sible, compliant tax payer in each country where we operate. We pursue transparency RELATED POLICIES: Indonesia 25 Sri Lanka 28 and fairness in our tax practices, and do not • Outotec Corporate Governance Policy Iran 25 Sweden 22 engage in aggressive tax planning. Our tax • Code of Conduct Kazakhstan 20 Turkey 20 management has a proactive approach. • Outotec Risk Management Policies Mexico 30 United Arab In 2017, Outotec paid a total of EUR 2.5 • Supplier Policy Mongolia 10–25 Emirates 0 million (2016: 6.4 million) in corporate income • Supply Policy United Kingdom 19 taxes. The following table lists the corporate • Tax Policy Morocco 10–31 income tax rates for Outotec in the countries Mozambique 32 United States 38 where we were subject to corporate income Zambia 35 taxation in 2017. In Finland, Outotec paid EUR 1.6 million (EUR 2.3 million) in income taxes, Corporate income tax rates by country in 2017 and in other countries EUR 0.9 million (EUR 4.1 million). Outotec’s effective tax rate was 87% (11%). The US tax reform had a one-time negative effect of EUR 6 million to the tax rate in 2017. Without this one-time item, our effective tax rate would have been 45%. Also, Outotec pays, collects and remits other taxes and tax-like payments, such as value added and sales taxes, payroll taxes and capital taxes. Our total tax contribution varies depending on the geographical distribution of sales, which in turn is affected by our product mix and locations of customer projects. We have transparent communication with the tax 10 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR AGENDA Risks and opportunities due to climate change Three billion new middle-class consumers our carbon footprint and enlargen our positive management businesses to balance the cycliwill need vital resources such as metals impact, our handprint, to enable our customcality of the mining industry. Our service sales ers reduce their carbon footprint. Policies rein 2017 was EUR 475 million and our target is and water in the coming decades. This lating especially to greenhouse gas emissions to grow it annually by over 10%. makes it essential to optimize resource in different parts of the world are still evolving and we are following these changes, interactRead also: usage. Greater production capacity and ing with policy-makers as well as acting upon • Value creation and our impacts, p. 9 more resource-efficient, sustainable them in business development. • Our offering, p. 26 technologies will be needed to fulfill the • Environmental data, p. 38 FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS AND OTHER needs and on the other hand to tackle RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES DUE TO climate change related challenges. We feel CLIMATE CHANGE (GRI 201-2) To mitigate the risks posed by climate change, that technology can change everything. Outotec spent EUR 56 million in R&D and product development to improve the resource Our management annually evaluates the globefficiency and competitiveness of its products. al megatrends that impact Outotec’s business, Our vast knowledge of mineralogy and our examining related risks and opportunities to comprehensive R&D facilities enable Outotec create the basis for strategic planning. Susto develop process solutions for low-grade and tainability-related risks and opportunities are complex ores. In 2017, some 79% (2016: 66%) addressed in Outotec’s routine risk manageof our R&D projects were related to initiatives ment processes. The megatrends identified targeting improved metals recovery, energy in our 2017 strategy review as impacting Ousaving, waste minimization, emission reductotec’s business most are: Urbanization, Retion and/or safety improvement. source efficiency, Sustainability, Digitalization, In line with our strategy, we develop new and Volatility. Overall, these global megatrends business concepts, modular products, and are appear to bring Outotec more opportunities increasing the use of target country suppliers than threats. and best-cost-country sourcing to increase The key in our climate change strategy, our cost-competitiveness. We are also continumade in 2016, is harnessing our technology ously investing in ICT systems and applications for the transition to a low-carbon industry. We to utilize the opportunities of digitalization. In have complemented the estimated impacts of 2017, our investments amounted to EUR 21 megatrends with the opportunities and risks million, consisting mainly of IT programs and defined in connection with our climate change intellectual property rights. Our plan is also strategy work. In 2017, we also studied the to strongly develop our service business and adoption of Science Based Targets to reduce expanding our waste-to-energy and water 11 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR AGENDA MEGATREND RISKS FOR OUTOTEC OPPORTUNITIES FOR OUTOTEC URBANIZATION Our cost structure may be too high for some emerging counOur technologies enable efficient ore processing and higher Growing demand for minerals and metals to satisfy the tries. If we fail to keep our portfolio competitive, we may lose yields, thanks to advanced process control. market share. needs of the new middle class requires greater processing As the concept of circular economy gains ground, we can sell capacity and more resource efficient methods. Consumers’ changing behavior to replace metals with biomore solutions for the production of metals from end-of-life based materials and plastics. secondary materials, such as electronic waste, metallic scrap, battery paste or scrap and mining and metallurgy related wastes still containing valuable materials. Requirements for the efficient use of biomass and waste provide opportunities for our waste-to-energy solutions. RESOURCE EFFICIENCY Ore grades are declining and ores are becoming more comOur customers will need to replace inefficient processes with Valuable metals and minerals must be more effectively replex and more difficult to process. If we fail to develop new new energyand water-efficient solutions. Our technologies technologies or keep our portfolio competitive, we may lose are energy efficient, recycle process water, decrease water covered, and tailings and waste must be better recycled and market share. loss, and lead to significant reductions in fresh water conprocessed to enhance the efficient use of resources. sumption. Energy shortages and Climate Change mitigation related increased energy costs can reduce our customers’ competitiveCarbon taxes favor our energy efficient technologies. ness and risk their ability to operate. Demand for closed water cycles provides business opportuniAvailability of water varies, often there is scarcity and someties for our water know-how. times floods. Our technologies are benchmarks for many production efficiency standards and fulfill even stricter future standards. SUSTAINABILITY Possible failure of Paris agreement, and lack of global reguOutotec’s inclusion in the Global 100 Index of most sustainable To maintain their social license to operate, our customers lation. Tighter regulation can cause customers to lose their companies confirm our image as a leader in sustainable solucompetitiveness and cease to operate, carbon leakage. tions, which helps customers to gain social acceptance and fiare paying more attention to environmental, health, safety nancing for their projects. and social responsibility with regard to their employees and The metals industry emits SO2, which has significant envilocal communities. ronmental impacts. Fine particulate matter emissions to air, International climate agreements and future air pollution limand heavy metals in hazardous dusts and fumes cause health its direct towards the use of clean technologies: compared to problems. Eco-toxic substances from metallurgical operations peers, our solutions emit less and go below the most stringent can impact air quality, water, and soils. If customers do not environmental regulations. gain social acceptance, they may be forced to close down their operations. In emission trading, reductions can generate positive cash flow for our customers which they can use for new investments or Customers’ sites are often in remote locations with vulnerable services. habitats, flora and fauna infrastructures and biodiversity. Our tailings and water management solutions enable mining companies to solve their environmental challenges. We also offer waste-to-energy solutions that significantly reduce landfill while producing clean energy. 12 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR AGENDA MEGATREND RISKS FOR OUTOTEC OPPORTUNITIES FOR OUTOTEC DIGITALIZATION Digitalization is seen to play a major role in mitigating cliDigitalization and the integration of customers’ processes ofThe world is increasingly driven by connectivity, data, and mate change. If more agile players are entering the market, fer new possibilities to create value using our unique process software. Cloud computing, combining big data sets, adespecially in high-value digital solutions, we may lose market technologies. New cost-efficient and interactive partnership vanced analytics methods, new ways of interactions with share in our traditional areas. models with customers will become possible, supporting permachines, user experience requirements drawn from conformance-based earnings. sumer applications and autonomous systems will become more commonplace in our business. Closer engagement with our customers, and the provision of timely data over entire product life-cycles can open up opportunities for innovating new products, systems and services. Advanced ICT systems offer business benefits and cost efficiency for Outotec. Through our worldwide network of experts, advanced master data management and ICT infrastructure, we ensure data quality and consistency across all business applications. VOLATILITY Customers’ operations require sufficient amounts of water, 81% of our business comes from the cyclical mining and metVolatile investment activity rates, the speed of global GDP fossil fuels, power and mineral resources. Any changes relatals industry. Business opportunities will increase substantially growth, metal consumption rates, and the balance or imed to the availability or the price of these commodities can inin an uptrend. balance between supply and demand, capacity utilization crease customers’ operating costs, which may lead to the clorates and metal prices all greatly influence our business. sure of some operations, or postpone or cancel investments. Changes in the global economy may boost our businesses in some parts of the world, and increase the demand for certain During downtrends, customers tend to minimize their investtechnologies or services including upgrades and modernization. ments in new processing capacity. The lack of large customer projects can significantly reduce our sales and thereby our We operate globally, and offer solutions for virtually all types of yearly or quarterly financial results. minerals and metals, which reduces our dependence on any single commodity or geographical market. Our long-term serA volatile macroeconomy also hampers resource planning due vice contracts, as well as modernizations prolonging the lifeto unpredictability. time of older equipment, counteract the highly cyclical mining and metals industry. 13 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR AGENDA Most significant topics Based on stakeholder dialogue, and considering the economic, environmental, and social impacts of our operations, we 3 2 Level of concern to stakeholders have defined nine sustainability topics that we see as important for Outotec in relation 5 to risk management or value creation. Five of these nine topics are defined as most 8 4 significant for Outotec and stakeholders. 7 6 Outotec conducted a wide-ranging review of 9 material sustainability topics in 2014. Potential topics were first identified together with an external partner, based on a previous materiality assessment run in 2011, as well as management interviews, a review of sustainability trends impacting the industry, and Current or potential impact on Outotec stakeholder feedback. We next mapped all of the relevant economic, environmental and social impacts that can influence stakeholders’ perceptions of Outotec. totec’s involvement with the impacts to comThe first five of these nine most material topOur Sustainability Working Group priply with the GRI Standards reporting frameics were chosen as the most significant isoritized the identified significant topics in a work. Outotec’s Executive Board validated the sues for Outotec’s business and are reviewed workshop, which were then validated by the changes (GRI 102-46). in more detail in this report (GRI 102-47). Leaders’ Forum, where about 100 of Outotec’s The most material non-financial topics for leaders shared their views on the topics. The Based on the materiality assessment, the Outotec are also discussed in the Non-finanresults of the materiality assessment were topics that matter most for Outotec are: cial report published in the Financial Statealso reviewed and verified by Outotec’s Sus1 Safety ments 2017 (www.outotec.com/investors) tainability Advisory Council, representing our 2 Sustainable offering for customers key stakeholders. Finally, the Executive Board 3 Responsible business practices Read also: validated the results of the materiality as4 Sustainable supply chain • About this report, p. 48 sessment in 2015. 5 Development of our people In 2017, the core team of our Sustainabil6 Equal opportunities and diversity ity Working Group reviewed the material top7 Stakeholder dialogue ics against GRI Standards. The list of material 8 Community involvement topics was complemented by impacts and Ou9 Minimizing our own environmental impact 14 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR AGENDA Outotec’s material topic Boundaries Current or potential key impacts Outotec’s involvement with the impacts 1 Safety • Outotec’s employees • Occupational health, safety and security • Outotec may cause or contribute to the impacts, or is • Outotec’s premises and project sites • Working environment directly inked to them (e.g. unsafe act or condition) • Contractors working under Outotec’s direct supervision • Injuries and lost working time • Occupational diseases • Customer satisfaction 2 Sustainable offering • Outotec’s employees • Occupational safety • Outotec causes the impacts, contributes to the impacts, for customers • Customers’ employees and operations • Product safety or is linked to the impacts through its suppliers or • Outotec’s suppliers • Operation of customers’ plants customers using the products and services • Contractors working under Outotec’s direct supervision • Resource efficiency • Customers’ surrounding environment • Social acceptance • Climate change • Customer satisfaction • Climate change • Biodiversity • Financial performance 3 Responsible business • Outotec’s employees • Relationships with business partners • Outotec causes the impacts or is directly or indirectly practices • Suppliers and contractors • Legal compliance linked to the impacts • Outotec’s sales representatives and agents • Reputation and stakeholder value • Financial performance 4 Sustainable supply chain • Suppliers • Reputation • Outotec is indirectly linked to the impacts • Contractors working under Outotec’s direct supervision • Quality • Human rights • Compliance and ethical business practices • Local employment and businesses • Climate change 5 Development of our • Outotec’s employees • Employee motivation and competences • Outotec causes or contributes to the impacts people • Outotec’s operations at project sites • Talent retention • Contractors working under Outotec’s direct supervision • Customer satisfaction • Safety performance • Financial performance 6 Equal opportunities and • Outotec’s employees • Company culture • Outotec causes the impacts diversity • Employee relations • Gender equality • Reputation 7 Stakeholder dialogue • Outotec’s key stakeholders • Commitment to the company • Outotec is directly or indirectly linked to the impacts • Stakeholder involvement • Reputation • Shareholder value 8 Community involvement • Outotec’s employees • Wealth • Outotec causes the impacts or is directly or indirectly • Outotec’s largest manufacturing units, • Support for science, research and education linked to the impacts R&D centers and project sites • Social acceptance • Local communities • Reputation 9 Minimizing our own • Outotec’s employees and premises • Climate change • Outotec causes the impacts environmental impact • Biodiversity 15 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR AGENDA Sustainability Agenda 2020 Our Sustainability Agenda is built on is seldom achieved by any company. Outotec’s connection with our business operations. We 2020 in our employee survey. This target was management believes that this level of comcooperate with universities on R&D (SDG 4), approved by the Board of Directors in 2017. the five most material topics to our mitment to a safe working environment is a and drive technological upgrades and innovaWith equal opportunities as one of our stakeholders and Outotec’s business. We necessity in the challenging project circumtions that will improve resource efficiency in material topics, we aim to increase women’s stances in which our employees, customers production (SDG 8). opportunities for leadership to promote genmeasure our performance with regard to and suppliers work. In the area of responsible business pracder equality (SDG 5). 2020 targets set for each topic. We have Our technologies and R&D have a centices, we aim to develop strong common valdefined our most significant impacts with tral role in our operations, since they repreues and a robust Code of Conduct, as well LONG-TERM FINANCIAL TARGETS sent the key means of improving the resource as a solid governance structure. An integral In addition to our Sustainability Agenda, regard to the UN Sustainable Development efficiency of our customers’ operations. For part of this goal is to ensure that our Code Outotec aims to achieve continuous profitable Goals (SDGs) integrated into our agenda. this reason, developing sustainable offering of Conduct is also implemented in accordgrowth. Outotec’s Board of Directors set the for our customers is also at the core of our ance with our values. We have zero tolerance following long-term financial targets for the Our Sustainability Agenda and goals for 2020 sustainability work. Our second long-term for corruption. We continuously train our own company in September 2017: are unchanged, with the timeframe aligned goal relates to providing customers with even employees on anti-corruption topics and rewith Outotec’s strategy 2020. Five of the nine more sustainable technologies and services, quire compliance from our business partners • Sales growth faster than the market most material topics remain as the building to help them reduce the pollution and con(SDG 16). Outotec implements non-discrimi• Annual average service sales growth blocks of our Sustainability Agenda: safety, tamination of air, water and soil (SDG 3) and natory company policies and practices globally over 10% our offering, business practices, supply chain, their ecological footprint. The baseline year (SDG 10). • Profitability (adjusted EBIT) 10% and our people. Our annual targets for the for our long-term technology-related targets Because the majority of Outotec’s manuof sales by 2020 most material topics are linked to our 2020 is 2012. facturing is outsourced, sustainability along • Gearing at maximum 50% goals. We continue to integrate the most releIn line with the goals set by the UN General our supply chain is highly important to us. vant SDGs into our Sustainability Agenda and Assembly, we upgrade our customer’s operaIn 2016, having reached the long-term goal our annual targets, based on an internal evaltions to make them more sustainable (SDG 9), for our supply chain, we defined a new longuation and approved by the Executive Board. while also improving energy efficiency (SDG 7). term goal for our supply chain on supply We have analyzed Outotec’s impacts on Through our technologies, we support actions chain development and auditing. By requirSDGs in an internal workshop, with eleven to combat climate change every day (SDG 13). ing sustainable practices along our supply SDGs identified as most relevant overall, and We also increase the efficiency of water use by chain, we also promote the wider adoption two SDGs where we have indirect impact. Our reducing the amounts of fresh water needed of sustainable management practices, thus commitment and impact analysis of the SDGs in our processes, and by increasingly recycling enabling our clients to use natural resources was approved by the Executive Board. and safely re-using water, thus decreasing the efficiently (SDG 12). amounts of wastewater (SDG 6). With our soluOutotec’s business is dependent on our DEVELOPMENT WORK DRIVEN BY 2020 tions for renewable energy, we help to make people. We want to make Outotec the most GOALS cities more sustainable by enhancing sustainadesirable place to work in our industry, and to Safety is the most material topic in our mable urbanization (SDG 11). In addition, we have keep great talent with us. As an enabling and teriality analysis. Zero accidents was set as identified an indirect impact of our partnerships engaging culture is a key differentiating factor the ultimate high-level target for our developwith our customers, suppliers, and other busifor Outotec, we aim to achieve 10% improvement work, though this very ambitious target ness partners (SDG 17) towards two SDGs in ment in the employee engagement index by 16 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR AGENDA TARGETS FOR 2020 RELATED SDG SAFETY: Zero accidents SUSTAINABLE OFFERING: Share of Environmental Goods and Services in order intake permanently over 90% Customers generate 20% less CO2 when using Outotec’s metals-related technologies compared to annual baselines 50% reduction in fresh water intake per tonne of ore in nonferrous metal concentrators compared to 2012 Double the energy produced through our waste-to-energy solutions compared to 2013 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES: Strong common values and Code of Conduct; solid governance structure SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN: 100% of our key suppliers audited regularly with supplier development actions drawn up according to audit findings DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PEOPLE: Employee engagement index 70% in the employee survey FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE: Continuous profitable growth 17 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR AGENDA Annual targets Our annual sustainability targets are aligned with our material topics, and defined to support our Sustainability Agenda 2020. We have also integrated the UN Sustainable Development Goals into our annual targets. Not achieved Partly achieved Achieved GRI indicator & relevant Target for 2017 Performance in 2017 Target for 2018 SDG 1. Safety • New lost-time incident management system implemented Harmonized principles for global incident • 5% reduction in lost time injury rate (LTIR) GRI 403-2 globally in major locations. management defined; system specification done. GRI 416-1 Implementation pending for 2018. • Reviewed and simplified harmonized product compliance management procedures in use globally. Simplified and harmonized procedures are released and implementation for part of Outotec functions has been completed. The remaining will be completed during 2018. 2. Sustainable offering • Environmental goods and services (EGS) to account for over EGS accounted for 88% of order intake. • EGS to account for over 90% of order intake. OWN 90% of order intake. • 20% reduction in CO2 emissions to be achieved through the • 20% reduction in CO2 emissions to be achieved through the 22% reduction in CO2 emissions achieved through use of Outotec’s metals-related technologies, compared to use of Outotec’s metals-related technologies, compared to the use of Outotec’s metals-related technologies. industry averages. industry averages. • Successful commercialization of new water treatment • The piloting of the water treatment solution to be completed Several laboratory scale pilots and four piloting tests solutions and receiving at least two new orders based on this and our offering expanded to encompass the entire water were carried out for customers and the offering has been technology. management of a mine site. The safety benefits of our dry expanded. Safety benefits were emphasized. stacking alternative to be emphasized. • Waste-to-energy plants delivered by Outotec reduce the use of fossil fuels to exceed our annual targets from two previous • Reductions in the use of fossil fuels by Outotec’s renewable Plants ordered in 2015 were under design and years combined energy solutions amounting to 12 MWe and/or by steam construction in 2017, but not yet in operation. boilers amounting to 60 MWth. 3. Responsible business practices • Working conditions to be assessed at Outotec’s main manuWorking conditions self-assessment was carried • Global working conditions guidelines concerning blue-collar GRI 205-2 facturing and service sites. out at our main manufacturing and service sites. employees to be created and implemented. • Code of Conduct training for blue-collar employees. 38% of blue-collar employees attended • 80% of Outotec’s employees trained on Code of Conduct Code of Conduct training. 18 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI indicator & relevant Target for 2017 Performance in 2017 Target for 2018 SDG 4. Sustainable supply chain • Audits to be run globally to cover 10% of key suppliers where 21% of key suppliers, where a purchase order has • Auditing 25% of key suppliers globally. GRI 204-1 a purchase order has been placed recently, for product been placed recently, audited for product quality, with GRI 414-1 quality, with supplier development actions planned supplier development actions planned (or implemented) (or implemented) according to the audit findings. according to the audit findings. • All key suppliers not certified under ISO 14000 and/or All key suppliers not certified under ISO 14000 ISO 18000 to be audited on health, safety, environmental and/ or ISO 18000 were audited on health, safety, environand social aspects. mental and social aspects. 5. Development of our people • Index improvements of 6% in employee engagement Employee engagement improved by 18%-points. • Index improvements of 4 %-points in employee engagement OWN compared to Pulse survey results from 2016. compared to employee survey results in 2017. Performance enablement criteria changed and the • Index improvement of 4% in performance enablement, results are not comparable to 2016 results. compared to Pulse survey results from 2016. 6. Equal opportunities and diversity • 2% increase in the number of female leaders in senior The number of female leaders in senior leadership • 2% increase in the number of female leaders in senior GRI 405-1 leadership positions compared to 2016. position did not increase. leadership positions compared to 2016. 7. Community involvement • One new community project started. New Sustainability Master Class launched with • No target for 2018. GRI 413-1 University of Helsinki 8. Stakeholder dialogue • Continue with existing feedback surveys to measure our Customer feedback surveys were successfully • No target for 2018. GRI 102-43 performance per customer relationship, and initiate a new continued and established as a continuous process. GRI 102-44 transactional feedback survey for field service. 9. Minimize our own environmental impact • ISO 50001 energy management systems, including energy ISO 50001 was certified in all locations in Finland. • Maintain the same lower level of CO2 emissions from flights GRI 302-4 saving concepts, to be implemented in all locations in Finland. per EUR 1 million sales as recorded in 2016. GRI 305-5 A new energy consumption reporting tool was • A new harmonized quarterly global energy consumption implemented in 2017 and is currently in use covering Outotec reporting concept to be created and implemented. locations globally. • Maintain the same lower level of CO2 emissions from flights The emissions from flights per EUR 1 million sales per EUR 1 million sales as recorded in 2016. remained at the same level as recorded in 2016. 19 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR AGENDA Refining data for sustainability Digitalization keeps advancing, faster in ing scenarios that happen rarely in real life. Expert and advisory systems also play a For instance, exceptional situations in which part in well-being at work, which depends on some industries and with more caution in the process is disrupted can pose unforeseen more than just the physical environment. Digitalization gives others. The primary drivers for adopting risks, for which simulated training scenariHaving facts and knowledge-based advice new meaning to digital technology and solutions tend os can help prepare. A stable process that is to support decision-making reduces the psyunder the operator’s control is naturally less chological load of process control personnel. human factor to be economic ones, mainly to do with risky,” Kari Saloheimo, Director, Digitalization Well-applied digitalization can also help the increasing productivity through process says. working community to promote a culture of The virtual world is also applied to the opsharing and cooperation. efficiency. However, digitalization is also a timization of plant operations. A virtual plant pre-determined schedules, equipment can major contributor to sustainability. that simulates the operations of an actual EFFICIENCY GOES UP, monitor their wear and tear to determine Perhaps the most important corporate replant can be used to detect problems or malEMISSIONS GO DOWN when they need to be replaced. Comparing sponsibility impact digitalization has in the functions as well as to increase productivity Improving efficiency is, of course, on everythe condition of the part to historical data mining and metallurgical industry has to and availability, reduce energy consumption one’s agenda. Better resource efficiency gives an indication of its remaining lifetime. do with work safety. There is still a large and ensure product quality. means – in Outotec’s world – more metal This means that maintenance intervals can amount of manual labor involved in ore profrom the same amount of ore, using the be extended and breakdowns still avoided. cessing, and some tasks can be hazardous. MACHINES WORK WHERE PEOPLE CAN’T same amount of energy, water and chemiAnd if a machine can indicate that trouble is Working in close proximity to molten metal Well-being at work is not only about safety. cals. Consequently, a smaller amount of valon the way, the necessary maintenance perhas its risks. Digital systems and smart senDay-to-day working conditions have a major uable metal ends up in the tailings area or sonnel can be alerted and parts delivered sors can render, for example, manual samimpact as well. The location of a mine is deslag pile. So, resource efficiency is good for before the situation is critical. pling unnecessary. termined by the location of the deposit. This business, but it’s also good for the environ”Our customers’ strategic targets often is not always an optimal environment for peoment. DIGITALIZATION GIVES include keeping accident rates at the lowest ple. One new mine and concentration plant for “When humans drive processes, they A COMPETITIVE EDGE possible level. Removing people from dangerwhich Outotec supplies equipment and systend to be more cautious than machines. One of the key goals in Outotec’s strategy is ous places is one way of avoiding accidents. tems is located at an altitude of more than 4 Digital technology allows plants to operate to grow its service business. This is yet anComputers can do the measuring and monikilometers, in a place that is very difficult to closer to their optimal parameters, which other opportunity to put digital technology to toring, and the human element comes in when reach. minimizes the use of energy and chemicals good use. it is time to draw conclusions from the data “People who are not accustomed to such per production ton. This translates to re“Digitalization enables us to engage in provided by machines,” says Jari Moilanen, heights cannot work there for long periods of duced emissions,” says Jari Moilanen. “The constant dialogue with our customers. It alOutotec’s Automation Director. time, and it is the customer’s wish that the sustainability of mining operations is curlows us to apply the expertise of the entire mine and its concentration plant are operatrently a hot topic, especially in China, where company by giving our maintenance personLEARNING BY SIMULATION ed with minimum personnel. This means we the government gives significant financial nel easy access to digital data. It speeds up Another way to increase work safety and avoid need to strongly support the operation from support to so-called ‘Green mines’ that are our ability to deliver spare parts. All in all, accidents is simulation training. The opera less hostile and more accessible work enviable to improve their material, energy and digitalization gives us a considerable competators can safely practice and learn their job ronment. A host of digital solutions are needwater efficiency.” itive edge compared to smaller, local service in a virtual environment where the simulator ed to track what the measuring equipment on The efficiency of maintenance opercompanies,” Olli Nastamo, Senior Vice Presigenerates the response to the operator’s acthe mountain show and to simulate scenarios ations can also be improved with digital dent, Operational Excellence says. tions, instead of the live process. for both running the process and managing technology. Instead of replacing parts and “Virtual training is well suited for practicequipment maintenance,” says Jari Moilanen. components according to calendar-based, 20 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR AGENDA Engaging with stakeholders WHAT ABOUT THE JOBS? Stakeholder dialogue was identified as of Outotec’s globally harmonized QualiTo collect open feedback from our stakeDigitalization often evokes a concern about one of the nine most material topics in our ty, Environment, Health and Safety Manageholders we have published a form on our disappearing jobs. When machines replace ment System. (GRI 102-42). In a review of key website [www.outotec.com/contacts/ us, what is left for us to do? According to Olli materiality analysis. We aim to enhance stakeholders conducted during 2016 by the contact-information/feedback/] through Nastamo, there is no need to worry. transparency by maintaining continuous Sustainability Working Group and the QEHS which feedback can be submitted anony”It is Outotec’s view, as well as that of team, the academic community was added as mously. Through this public feedback chandialogue with our key stakeholders. leading consultancies in the industry, that a key stakeholder group due to frequent businel there were no concerns raised in 2017. work will change but not disappear. People Outotec defined its key stakeholders in conness-related engagement. The Sustainability will be needed also in the future, but their nection with the materiality analysis review Working Group has not identified any stakeLISTENING TO CUSTOMERS tasks will involve fewer hazards and less reconducted in 2014. Approximately 120 Outotec holder groups that Outotec would not engage Customer satisfaction is high on our agenda. petitive, manual work. The changing roles call leaders shared their views on the relevant topwith. We build up our understanding of our customfor new skills, and this is something the minics and stakeholders, and the results were verTo measure our success in engaging with ers’ needs and challenges by systematically ing industry has now realized. The industry ified by Outotec’s Sustainability Advisory Counstakeholders we have set targets related to collecting feedback. We have also invested cooperates with educational institutes and recil. The material topics and stakeholders are customer surveys, employee engagement and in internal feedback channels and feedback search facilities as well as with mining comreviewed at approximately 2-3 years intervals local community engagement initiatives. management to improve our products, servicpanies’ stakeholders to find ways to update by the Corporate Responsibility function and Outotec’s Sustainability Advisory Counes and operations. the know-how of workers,” Olli Nastamo says. the Sustainability Working Group. cil, established at the end of 2014 to advise The key parameters used by Outotec to Outotec also participates in a mining inThe Executive Board reviews the effectivethe company regarding sustainability trends, measure global customer satisfaction are our dustry cluster to tackle this issue. The comness of our stakeholder engagement and gives strategies and reporting, has given input on Net Promoter Score and Customer Satispany is currently determining the best ways briefings to the Board of Directors. In addition, how our stakeholders view the economic, sofaction ratings. We started our global survey it can contribute – for instance by offering its Chief Compliance Officer reports the issues cial and environmental impacts of our deciprogram in 2015, and in 2017 we integrated digital solutions or its own networks for eduraised through grievance mechanisms to the sions. The six Council members representour feedback surveys to our CRM to enable cational and research use. Board of Directors. (GRI 103-3) ed customers, investors, suppliers, NGOs and managing the feedback with other customIn the end, the best way to safeguard jobs We have defined the following groups as academia. In 2017, we decided to continue er activities. The key drivers behind customer is to ensure the continuity of the business. our key stakeholders (GRI 102-40): our stakeholder dialogue through our regurecommendation and overall satisfaction have Competitiveness in today’s world requires that lar engagement tools and methods, and the not significantly changed from 2016, the main the benefits and opportunities offered by dig• Customers Sustainability Advisory Council ceased to condrivers being technologies, product qualiitalization are seized. Sustainable operations • Employees vene; see page 24 for more details on our enty and Outotec expertise while improvement are increasingly required by governments • The academic community gagement tools. areas are found within response and delivery and investors. By operating profitably, com• Investors and financiers We have asked our employees for feedtimes. Our focus on service development is petitively and sustainably, Outotec can contin• Suppliers back about the report, future themes and topsomething our customers clearly appreciate. ue to employ personnel, pay taxes and there• NGOs and media ics of interest in sustainability communicaIn our feedback survey, we request cusby contribute to society. tions, using our internal social media. We have tomers to comment on the most important We also consider our planet and future also discussed our sustainability reporting factors behind the scores they give. This focus generations as stakeholders when evaluating with some investors and sustainability focused on open comments helps us to tune in to cuswhether Outotec’s offering and operations are portfolio managers and received feedback from tomers’ true feelings and hear their voices. future-proof. them. Other forms of stakeholder engagement These comments form the basis for actions In 2017, a Global Procedure for stakewere not undertaken specifically as part of the designed to achieve improvements from inholder engagement was launched as part report preparation process. (GRI 102-43) dividual accounts to the global level. We are 21 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR AGENDA analyzing the comments for improvements, in the engagement index, which improved Plan in 2014, and kept their shares until May In addition to our quarterly investor briefand have started several development initia18 %-points. 2017, received free shares. Outotec offered ings and annual financial statement briefings, tives based on the analyses. In 2017, we colWe continued to hold the CEO’s quarterly beneficiaries one free share (gross, with cash the CEO’s mid-quarter Q&A sessions continlected more than 3,000 customer comments internal briefings. Employees may ask quespayments for taxes deducted) for each two ued to be an important channel for maintainto analyze for actions, and our ambition is to tions during these briefings, and they can also shares bought with the 2014 savings. ing dialogue. These audio casts aim to furcontinue to expand the sample going forward. watch a video recording afterwards. To supther clarify information that has already been Outotec is continuously cooperating with port the strategy cascade, we introduced a Enhancing feedback culture made public. In addition, we met frequently its customers, especially in technology and new monthly strategy chat concept, a live vidA new portal for internal feedback collectinvestors and analysts in one-on-one discusprocess development. In joint R&D or delivery eo broadcast with selected top management ing was launched in late 2016 and deployed in sions, at industry seminars and road shows. projects, both Outotec and its customers are representatives. Audience has possibility to 2017 to enable internal feedback to be subIn order to serve the capital market efable to improve their competences and reask questions and comment the strategic mitted and processed smoothly. Feedback ficiently, to ensure equal access to compaquirements, e.g. to increasing resource effithemes in these facilitated discussions. can range from improvement requests and ny-related information, and to comply with ciency or digital competences (remote access, Our global intranet serves as a platform ideas from business and application to facilidisclosure requirements, all our audio casts process control & optimization). for day-to-day information sharing. To comties, well-being and products, and to reportare recorded and available for on-demand One such project in 2017 was Critical Eleplement this platform, our Outotec News ed non-conformities related to quality in proviewing at www.outotec.com/company/invesments pilot case in the Pori Research Center, Channel for video communications and the ject and service delivery. The deployment was tors/reports-and-presentations/. In 2017, we where piloting demonstrated that the connew Office365 collaboration tools play ever done in stages and it included also training also started streaming our quarterly investor version of Critical Elements’ spodumene reincreasing role in internal collaboration. sessions for the different parts of the organbriefings live in Facebook. sources into lithium carbonate battery quality The new internal social media tool Yammer ization. In 2017, total of 244 feedback entries using the thermal leaching process was easily was quickly adopted for discussion and diawere received through the portal. Nearly half COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT achievable. Read more at. logue. By the end of 2017, over 3,800 employof the entries were related to quality of prodCommunity involvement is one of the materiwww.cecorp.ca/en/critical-elements-sucees were sharing their opinions in Yammer, uct and service deliveries. The portal will be al topics at Outotec. As a buyer of goods and cessfully-completes-pilot-plant-work-lithiin over 470 discussion groups which demonfurther developed as a part of the continuous services, Outotec generates employment and um-carbonate-conversion/ strates that the new tool was quickly and improvement process. contributes to socio-economic development in widely adopted. local communities. Our cooperation with uniENGAGING WITH EMPLOYEES Two Outotec Round Table events were REGULAR DIALOGUE WITH INVESTORS versities and subcontracting R&D work packThe new strategy “This is Outotec 2020” was held during 2017, bringing together some 20 Outotec’s approach to investor relations and ages generate local jobs and enhance skills launched in September and presented first personnel representatives and top managecommunicating with the financial markets is and knowledge development. in townhall meetings to all employees. In ment. The topics discussed included our new based on Finnish law, EU directives, and our Our reporting on community involvement addition to the main events organized and strategy, rewarding (performance developown policies on corporate governance and covers the cooperation with the academbroadcasted in the headquarters, the main loment dialogue and compensation policy), disclosure, as well as stock exchange rules ic community, voluntary work of our employcations organized their own events. Furthertravel safety, GDPR and data privacy issues as and regulations. ees, as well as local initiatives of our largest more, the most prominent strategic themes well as employee engagement survey results. At the end of 2017, Outotec had 25,478 manufacturing units, R&D centers and project were discussed in events organized in all lo(29,686) shareholders. Shares held in 11 sites (GRI 103-1). The key impacts of comcations where trained colleagues and top Employees as owners nominee registers accounted for 35% of all munity involvement are related to wealth, somanagement facilitated the discussion. The Many Outotec employees are also shareholdOutotec shares, while private Finnish invescial acceptance of the company’s operations, feedback from employees was positive. ers through the employee share savings plan, tors held 14%. Fourteen sell-side analysts Outotec’s reputation as well as supporting The bi-annual employee engagement surwhich was launched in 2013. The Plan rewards and one credit analyst conducted research science, research and education. vey was conducted in November 2017. 82% of employees for their long-term commitment to focusing on Outotec. Our target for 2017 was to start one the employees gave their feedback in the surthe company. Approximately 20% of employees The annual Capital Markets Day event was new community project. This was achieved vey. After many challenging years in employee participated in this program in 2017. held on September 21 at Outotec House in through our involvement in the Sustainability relations, the survey marked an upward curve 1,223 employees who participated in the Espoo, Finland. Master Class program at the University of 22 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR AGENDA Helsinki in Finland as described below. million euros yearly. These projects are carer dialogue and data collection of both “hard In 2017, 24% of our operations ran small ried out together with industrial actors and data” from environmental measurements and local community engagement programs Cooperation with the academic community academic partners. This allows us to develop “soft data” i.e. feedback, questions and con(GRI 413-1) mostly based on voluntary work. Partnerships and networks with universities our technologies in close interaction with our cerns from the locals. The application period Such activities had to be reduced due to the and research institutions are an important customers, thus achieving a greater impact for the next Master Class was open in Novemweak financial performance of the company. part of Outotec’s everyday business. In 2017, on real environmental problems. ber and the program continues in 2018. Outotec did not make any social or environOutotec cooperated with more than 30 univerBesides project-related research coOutotec has also established sustainability mental impact assessments in 2017. sities and research institutions worldwide. operation, Outotec has permanent type of prize to encourage university students to apply In Finland, Outotec’s closest research partnerships with many universities or other their ideas to create practical innovations. In Engaging with the media partners in 2017 were Aalto University, VTT educational institutes. These partnerships Central South University in China Outotec has We interact with media representatives both Technical Research Centre of Finland Ltd, involve contributing to educational steerawarded the ten best projects promoting suslocally and globally to publicize our sustainaLappeenranta University of Technology, Uniing committees, guest lecturing, software tainable design since 2013. In 2016 a decision bility work. Our CEO’s quarterly briefings proversity of Oulu, the Geological Survey of Finlicensing, hosting student groups, and colwas made to continue this cooperation biannuvide basic information about Outotec’s perland and the University of Helsinki. In Gerlaborating on Bachelor’s, Master’s and PhD ally for at least four more years. formance. We also organize interviews where many, where Outotec also has an in-house theses. journalists can discuss our goals, new prodresearch center, we have had good collaboOutotec also participates in the technical Working with NGOs and local communities ucts and newsworthy events with our manration with technical universities in Aachen, secretariat of the EU’s Operational EnvironOutotec aims to support local projects that agement representatives. We publish case Erlangen, Darmstadt, Karlsruhe, Hamburg mental Footprint Sectoral Rules (OEFSR), pibenefit communities where our major cusstories on our website for the media, and and Freiberg. The scope of these partnerloting for copper. tomers operate. These community projects aim to organize press trips to Outotec’s R&D ships varies, but they are primarily related Outotec had the Presidency of the Europeare based on local needs, and defined through centers or reference plants at customers’ to process technology, resource efficiency, an Sustainable Phosphorus Platform (ESPP) dialogue with local communities. We strive sites, in order to show concrete examples of digitalization and IoT development, circular in 2017. Read more about our representation to realize community projects in collaboraour work to journalists. economy, hybrid materials and water issues. in industry associations and commitment to tion with our customers, using joint financing. Our experts additionally meet trade press Outotec is a core partner in the European external initiatives on www.outotec.com/ We also aim to integrate voluntary work into representatives at exhibitions and conferences, Institute of Innovation and Technology’s (EIT) sustainability. community projects – both during and outside and share the latest product news with them. Raw materials Knowledge and Innovation working hours. All community projects must Community. This platform aims to make raw One example of educational cooperation in bring measurable benefits to the local commaterials into a major strength for Europe by 2017 is the Sustainability Master Class, which munity (GRI 103-2). boosting competitiveness and the attractivewas jointly run by the University of Helsinki Outotec has continued to support the BalRELATED POLICIES: ness of the raw materials sector. Outotec parand Outotec to fuel innovation by activating an tic Sea Action Group’s initiatives for the re• Global Procedure for ticipates in nearly 20 related projects, aiming interdisciplinary group of 45 young researchhabilitation of the Baltic Sea, and additionally Stakeholder Engagement to create new business by upscaling technolers and professionals. In the four-month prosponsored the Millennium Technology Prize. • HR policies ogies, while also generating new educational gram the participants were divided into six We also see the Sustainability Awards we give • Disclosure Policy programs and strengthening Europe’s infragroups which focused on the real business to students in South Africa, China and Aus• Social media guidelines structural network. The volume of these prochallenges set by Outotec. The co-creation tralia as a means of engaging with local com• Donation Policy jects in total is ca. one million euros yearly. work was mentored by business and technolmunities. • Code of Conduct Also, Outotec participates in further EU ogy experts. In the final pitch in April the first Charitable financial donations were frozen • Supplier Policy Horizon 2020 projects in the fields of Indusprize went to MineLoop, an online tool for refor 2017, after Outotec’s Board of Directors trial Leadership, Societal Challenges and Exal-time continuous communication between proposed to the Annual General Meeting of cellent Science. We have 9 Horizon projects the mining companies and local communities. shareholders in April that there would be no ongoing, with an overall volume of nearly two The application enables effective stakeholdbudget for such donations for 2017. 23 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR AGENDA STAKEHOLDER EXPECTATIONS AND FEEDBACK (GRI 102-44) Expectations Our engagement tools Expectations Our engagement tools CUSTOMERS INVESTORS AND FINANCIERS • Creating value for customers • Regular meetings held as part of Outotec’s Account • Return on investment • Quarterly briefings • Sustainable and safe products and services Management, Sell and Deliver processes • Long-term economic perspective • CEO’s mid-quarter Q&A sessions • Social license to operate • Customer satisfaction surveys • Compliance and transparency • Capital Markets Day • Joint R&D projects • Roadshows, one-on-one meetings, industry • Training, user meetings, workshops seminars • Seminars, conferences, trade shows • Annual General Meeting • Excursions to Outotec sites EMPLOYEES • Annual surveys • Safe working environment • Regular briefings and info sessions NGOS AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES • Company values and a culture that enables • Global intranet, collaboration tools and social professional development media • Transparency and proactivity • Joint social programs with customers • Long-term economic perspective • Performance development dialogues • Engagement and local presence • Support for local initiatives • Compliance and transparency • Outotec Round Table • Social responsibility and respect • Joint seminars and events • Fair and competitive compensation • Employee surveys • Active use of social media • Proper communication and feedback channels • Compliance helpline and feedback channels MEDIA • Young Professionals network • Transparency and access • Quarterly media briefings and interviews SUPPLIERS • Interesting stories • Success stories and blog postings on website • Fair treatment • Contacts through Outotec’s Deliver process • Walk the talk • Active use of social media • Long-term partnership • Supplier Policy • Excursions to Outotec sites • Economic sustainability • Code of Conduct • Supplier assessments and audits • Joint continuous improvement of processes • Outotec Supplier Days ACADEMIC COMMUNITY • Relevant technological and scientific challenges for • Joint programs research • Seminars, lectures, visits • Feedback and encouragement from industry • Thesis opportunities for students • Operational data • Internships • Partnerships • Networking 24 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR PERFORMANCE Safety – our number one priority Zero harm is the ultimate target for supervision traveled in countries with high main locations. It includes procedures, work ing the management of environmental issues, medical and 28 persons in countries with high instructions and form templates to be used safety, systematic practices, and cleanliness. Outotec’s work on occupational health and security risks (GRI 403-3). All employees have throughout our global business processes. Key Outotec’s specialists also follow our cussafety, as well as product safety. Our lostthe right to refuse work that would be exelements in our QEHS management system tomers’ own safety regulations when worktime injury rate improved in 2017 and our posed to hazard or incident. include: ing on site. The greatest safety risks arise in A new Global QEHS Steering Group was • compliance with legislation countries where awareness of safe working target is to further improve it in 2018. established in 2017 to make coherent deci• identifying and minimizing health practices is low, and occupational safety culSafety has been spotlighted as the most masions on QEHS topics, prioritize, strengthen and safety risks ture is underdeveloped. In such countries, terial theme for Outotec, partly as a result of the connection to business, and steer the de• preventing incidents our employees are instructed to additionally deeper stakeholder dialogue, and partly bevelopment work. It convened three times in • recording and investigating incidents follow Outotec’s own safety principles. cause our top management saw a need to im2017. The Global QEHS Steering Group con• personnel training Outotec has a good track record of QEHS prove our safety performance and culture. ducts management reviews once or twice a • continuous improvement of our QEHS performance in large customer projects, and According to Outotec’s QEHS Policy, the year to ensure the effectiveness of Outotec’s performance the company has received several safety-resafety of employees and products is the priQEHS system. lated awards from customers. ority in Outotec’s operations. Zero harm is Our local health and safety committees In 2017, we internally audited safety practicEmployees working on site operations are the ultimate target for Outotec’s development monitor actions, collect feedback, and discuss es at our permanent units and main site activtrained regularly in health and safety matwork on occupational health and safety as health and safety issues in their respective ities. Site activities continued to have very good ters, the use of protective equipment, hazard well as product safety. Outotec’s management locations or projects. Our entire workforce safety performance. Improvement work focused identification, risk assessment and required remains committed to continuously enhance (100%) is duly represented in these commiton field activities in the service business and our control actions. In 2017, we introduced a new safety performance throughout the company’s tees (GRI 403-1). own manufacturing and R&D units. eLearning course about travel safety. It is recoperations. We enable all employees and subOur health and safety reporting covers External audits were successfully conommended to all employees and mandatory contractors working under our responsibility all Outotec employees and any third parties’ ducted by TÜV Rheinland Cert GmbH at our for all employees who travel for business. to work safely, by providing the necessary proemployees who work under Outotec’s direct locations in Finland (Espoo, Turula, Pori, Outotec has a medical and security serviccedures, instructions, training and personal supervision at premises and project sites Turku), in China (Suzhou), in India (Bangalore, es agreement with the global service providprotective equipment. under Outotec’s control. It also encompassKolkata), in Sweden (Skellefteå), in Australia er International SOS. This 24/7 service covers Occupational health and safety related es Outotec products and services, with re(Dandenong, French Forrest) and in Germaall Outotec employees and service providers risks are considerable in the minerals and gard to compliance issues and incidents over ny (Oberursel), as well as at our construction for emergencies occurring during business metals processing industries. Outotec has not their entire lifetime. In 2017, 2,410 contracsites in Brazil. The relevant documentation on trips. Through the related Medical Alerts and identified any major risk of specific occupators were working for Outotec in projects, and all of our certified locations was also audited. Travel Security Online service our employees tional diseases. For Outotec, the main health these persons are included in our safety perThe certificates can be found on www.outocan find information about endemic diseases and safety risks occur on project sites, manformance reporting. tec.com/company/about-outotec/qehs/qeand other health, safety and security issues, ufacturing units, and defective use of Outotec We primarily measure our safety perforhs-management-system-certificates/. as well as country-specific risk ratings. Betechnologies. Increasingly Outotec’s employmance through the lost-time injury rate (LTIR, fore any trip, travelers should check risk levees work in countries where risks have latenumber of injuries per 1 million work hours), SAFETY IN FIELD OPERATIONS els and find out what actions may be needed ly increased. When traveling in developing while also collecting data on near misses and The safety of our employees and contractors to reduce security and health risks countries, there is a risk of incidence related hazards. Our LTIR in 2017 was 1.7 (2016: 1.8) is an important aspect of Outotec’s field operlocal traffic, local diseases and local develop(GRI 403-2). See also Social data, p. 43. ations at customers’ sites. Our project manRELATED POLICIES: ing safety culture on site. In 2017, 684 OutoOutotec’s certified, globally harmonized agers are responsible for the site activities • Code of Conduct tec employees or persons working under our QEHS management system covers all our of Outotec and our sub-contractors, includ• QEHS Policy 25 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR PERFORMANCE Sustainable offering for customers Our contribution towards overcoming lished new business unit specific sub-boards 3. Implementation and commercialization ers is at the core of our sustainability work. to the Corporate Product Board in 2017. of our water recycling concepts. In 2017, Our solutions utilize primary resources the world’s environmental challenges is The most significant environmental imwe carried out several laboratory scale piefficiently, reduce energy and water conmade through our products and services, pact of our business activities materializes lots and four piloting tests for our customsumption, and produce less waste to landfill which enable our customers to run through our products and services that iners on new water treatment and recycling and emissions – while also cutting operating directly reduce various emissions, includsolution, and we have expanded our offercosts. We additionally offer solutions for proenvironmentally sound, profitable and ing the global carbon dioxide emissions. We ing accordingly. The aim is to commercialcessing secondary resources and turning side socially acceptable businesses. measure this positive impact to combat cliize these new solutions in 2018. streams into saleable products. Equipment mate change, our handprint, by the emissions 4. Reduction in the use of fossil fuels upgrades, plant modernization projects, and Outotec’s key strength as a technology leadavoided by the metallurgical industry through resulting from Outotec waste-to-enerour long-term operation and maintenance er in the minerals and metals processing inthe use of seven Outotec technologies. gy plants, with targets of 60 MWe and services all ensure that customers’ plants will dustry is the capability to deliver technologies steam boilers that equal 60 MWth. Due to run smoothly, safely, and efficiently, with miniand products that are resource-efficient. Our OUR TARGETS AND ACHIEVEMENTS the changes in the business environment, mum environmental impact at all times. product portfolio covers hundreds of various We follow our performance with four indicathe ordered new plants in design and conOutotec’s products and services – if defecplant concepts, processes, pieces of equiptors each having 2020 as well as annual tarstruction phase were not put in operation tively manufactured, installed or used – have ment and services. In line with our Technology gets. To achieve these targets, we continuousin 2017, but we expect them to start operthe potential to cause health and safety probPolicy, we continuously develop our offering ly work to reduce the negative environmental ations in 2018 (GRI 302-4). lems for our employees, contractors, and cusaccording to the principles of sustainable deimpacts of our technologies through R&D and tomers as well as indirectly harm the environvelopment. Our business process Manage and product development. IMPACTS OF OUR PRODUCTS ment and local communities surrounding our Develop Products and Technologies takes into 2017 targets and achievements: AND SERVICES customers’ plants. Indirectly, Outotec’s prodaccount all the activities related to product Although the processing of minerals and metucts and services also have an impact on cliand technology development from idea man1. The share of Environmental Goods and als have negative environmental impacts, mate change. agement and product development to producServices (OECD criteria) in our order intake through advanced technology the negative imTo mitigate these risks, we offer training tization as well as technical and commercial was 88% (2016: 90%). Our target is to keep pacts can be managed. For this reason, R&D and other services to our customers to help product management. the percentage permanently above 90%. has a central role in Outotec’s business. Dethem maintain safe and environmentally sound A corporate level Product Board oversees 2. Customers generate 20% less CO2 veloping sustainable offering for our customoperation. Furthermore, we train and audit our and steers Outotec’s approach in product and emissions when using seven Outotec suppliers to ensure good product quality. technology development and the related intechnologies compared to industry avernovation ecosystem. The Corporate Product ages and annual baselines. These techEfforts to mitigate the environmental Board consists of the Executive Board memnologies include our ferrochrome process; impacts of our products and services 2017 2016 2015 bers, Chief Technology Officer (CTO, acting copper flash smelting; alumina calcinaas the chairman), and business unit repretion; ceramic filters; the co-generation R&D expenditure, EUR million 56 55 61 sentatives. Corporate Product Board decides, of electricity in the ferrochrome process; R&D expenditure, % of sales 5 5 5 among other things, the sustainability meascoated titania anodes; and TankCell 300 Number of new patent applications filed 38 57 93 ures and development targets of Outotec’s flotation cells. Emission reductions are products. To ensure that our offering is being directly proportional to energy savings. In New national or regional patents granted 672 630 531 developed in line with our mission ‘sustaina2017, Outotec’s customers generated 6.2 Number of patent families 763 786 824 ble use of Earth’s natural resources’ we estabmillion tonnes less of CO2 equivalent, repProportion of EGS in order intake, % 88 90 90 resenting 22% reduction (GRI 305-5). 26 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR PERFORMANCE Our handprint – our positive overall effect to combat climate change – is considerably bigger than our ecological footprint. Outotec has a Product Compliance Manincluding Outotec Process Water Recycling Product safety agement process in place to make sure that our Plant concept, Thickened Tailings Plant conSafety issues form an integral part of our opproducts and services reliably meet all applicept and Dry Tailings Plant. We continued deerational manuals for industrial processes. cable safety standards during all phases of the veloping modular plant concepts. We have Equipment and services delivered by Outoproduct life-cycle. We follow negative impacts also focused on the development of monitortec fulfill safety-related industrial standards and incidents through our QEHS management ing, controlling and optimization capabilities such as: and product compliance management systems, for complex industrial processes, together with as well as through customer feedback collectdigital platform development, through several • ISO 12100 and IEC 62061 for the safety of ed after each major delivery and in customer programs run in collaboration with various machinery surveys. The majority of our offices already use research partners. From a sustainability per• All safety-related industrial standards apharmonized product compliance management spective, the concept of the redefined plant of plicable where they are utilized procedures. In 2017, we reviewed and simplified the future enables a far more efficient use of • Procedures for detecting hazards such as our product compliance management proceresources by optimizing the underlying process explosion, fire, and lightning, and related dures, and started implementing the new prowith new tools, e.g. machine learning. We have IEC 61882 HAZOP studies cedures globally. The work will continue in 2018. launched several training packages based on • SIL Allocation Assessments (mandatory at Compliance with legal requirements is the simulation of the processes involved. Outotec) prime concern in Outotec’s product compli• The SafExpert risk assessment tool, which ance management work. We maintain an exCustomer health and safety (GRI 416-2) ensures that equipment designed by Outtensive database of product compliance proOutotec has not identified any significant negotec fulfills all relevant safety standards. cedures and documents used during business ative impacts of its products on employees’ or processes, including the development, sales suppliers’ health and safety or local commuOutotec manuals cover the entire life-cyand delivery of our products and services. nities. No fines were imposed in relation to cles of the products delivered, in line with the We provide relevant information to our non-compliance with laws and regulations or IEC 82079-1 standard. This means they concustomers about the impacts of our prodvoluntary codes regarding the use of Outotec tain information on transport, installation, opucts and services, including their energy conproducts in 2016. eration, maintenance and decommissioning. sumption, emissions, metal recovery rates, Outotec’s customers can give feedback In addition, we offer our customers mainteand water usage, as well as safety informaabout our products and services in regular nance services as part of a wider package. tion provided according to industry standards. customer surveys and through an external We also routinely provide safety training for In technology development, we focus on feedback channel and Compliance Helpline our customers as part of our product training increasing resource efficiency – aiming to reon our website. In 2017, no issues were raised services duce energy and water consumption, emisregarding Outotec products and services sions, effluents and waste. In 2017, 79% of through external feedback channels. RELATED POLICIES: our R&D projects were related to initiatives However, the possibility remains that in• Technology Policy targeting sustainability improvements. formation on indirect negative impacts occur• Intellectual Property Rights Policy ring after the completion of any project delivProgress on product development ery may not have been disclosed to Outotec by In 2017, we launched three new products for customers or local communities. sustainable tailings and water management 27 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR PERFORMANCE Responsible business practices In line with our core value, ‘committed national laws and regulations. We are comnon-compliance cases and actions taken itive behavior, anti-trust cases or monopoly mitted to working against corruption in all quarterly to the Audit and Risk Committee of practices (2016: no cases) (GRI 206-1). to sustainability’, we aim to incorporate its forms. We similarly expect our suppliers, the Board of Directors. There are no indesocial, economic, and environmental contractors and business partners to follow pendent mechanisms for advice and concerns BOARD OF DIRECTORS sustainability into all aspects of our the same principles and to fully comply with about ethics in use. A knowledgeable and engaged Board of Direcall applicable anti-corruption laws. We have Outotec’s target is that employees partictors is a significant resource that can help to operations. We foster good governance and not identified any non-compliance with laws ipate in e-learning on the Code of Conduct, or reach our shortand long-term goals, and creethical business practices through thick and/or regulations or voluntary codes, neither attend the related classroom training on a regate sustainable increase in the shareholder has the company paid any fines in the social, ular basis. During 2013-2017, 57% of employvalue. The work, duties, composition, commitand thin, valuing integrity in all contexts, economic or environmental area in 2017 (GRI ees have completed Code of Conduct training. tees, and remuneration of the Board of Direcand striving to protect Outotec’s good 419-1, 307-1, 416-2). In 2017, the focus was on training blue-collar tors are described in our Corporate Governreputation. Read about product compliance in Our workers, and as a result, 38% of blue-collar ance Statement 2017 [www.outotec.com/cg]. offering, p. 26. Our approaches to equal opworkers participated in the Code of Conduct There is no correlation between the comOutotec’s governance is based on the principortunities and labor practices are described class-room trainings. In 2018, we will launch a pensation for Board members and Outotec’s ples of good governance and transparency, as in Driving employee engagement, p. 33. new training based on the revised Code of Consocial or environmental performance. well as our own group-wide policies and globduct to all Outotec employees. The Board of Directors’ diversity principles ally harmonized business processes. We folCODE OF CONDUCT Outotec also requires its new sales agents are also detailed in Corporate Governance low the Finnish Corporate Governance Code Outotec’s values (www.outotec.com/company/ and representatives as well as existing ones Statement 2017. Based on these principles, issued by the Securities Market Association about-outotec/values/) and Code of Conduct: upon contract renewal to commit to Outotec’s the Board members must have the necesfor listed companies. Our management sys(www.outotec.com/company/about-outotec/ principles. The company also conducts comsary knowledge and experience regarding tem documentation is compatible with and code-of-conduct/) define our common way of pliance checks on new customers and project the business, social, and cultural conditions audited against such standards as ISO 9001 working (GRI 102-16). Working according to related third parties. All projects of a certain in the most significant markets to Outotec’s for Quality Management, ISO 14001 for EnviOutotec values is important in all operations size or complexity are subject to a specific business; while they must also constitute ronmental Management, and OHSAS 18001 to avoid corruption and bribery related risks. risk assessment which includes various coma fair and balanced combination of profesfor Safety Management. In addition, the locaOur Code of Conduct sets out the principles pliance and ethics queries and escalations sional experience, skills, gender, nationality, tions in Finland and Germany are certified to of business conduct and gives guidance on for the identified risks. They may involve more knowledge, and variety of opinions and backISO 50001 for Energy Management. Our perethics, compliance with laws and regulations, detailed investigations internally or through a grounds considering Outotec’s current and formance is followed-up regularly through insolid governance and management of susthird party, and may result in Outotec declinfuture needs. ternal and external audits (GRI 103-3). tainability and risks. The Code is approved by ing to bid for certain projects. In addition, unOutotec’s long-term objective is to have a Outotec’s corporate governance the Board of Directors, and all employees are known and potential risk customers, supplifair and balanced representation of both genis described in more detail in our Corexpected to follow it. ers or agents are regularly being assessed for ders in the Board. When preparing for nomporate Governance Statement 2017 Our SVP – Legal, Contract Management compliance risks using a dedicated external inations to the Board of Directors, Outotec’s [www.outotec.com/cg]. Our reporting covers and Corporate Responsibility, who is a memtool with escalation paths. Nomination Board aims to ensure that these Outotec’s premises and employees, our prodber of the Executive Board, has the overOutotec did not have to pay any fines or diversity principles are followed, that the Board ucts and services, our contractors, and our all accountability for corporate responsibility fulfil any non-monetary sanctions for nonfunctions well as a whole, and that the compesuppliers’ operations (GRI 103-1). including mechanisms to seek advice about compliance with anti-corruption laws in 2017 tence profile of the Board of Directors supports Outotec endorses ethical business pracand report on behavior. The Chief Compli(GRI 419-1). Furthermore, Outotec was not Outotec’s existing and future businesses and is tices and complies with national and interance Officer reports unethical behavior and subject to any legal actions for anti-competconsistent with our strategic goals. 28 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR PERFORMANCE COMPLIANCE HELPLINE worth at least one million euros (GRI 205-1). Apmitment to the United Nations Guiding Princiformal grievance mechanisms within Outotec FOR RAISING CONCERNS propriate follow-up actions are defined based ples on Business and Human Rights. Outotec (GRI 406-1). These incidents were reviewed Outotec’s compliance helpline on the comon these findings. The assessments are project joined the United Nations Global Compact Inlocally, in cooperation with global Human Repany website is available for anyone to raise specific, for this reason the number and peritiative in December 2010 and is committed to sources function and/or the Chief Compliconcerns related to corruption, human centage of operations could not be reported. its principles, as well as the principles of the ance Officer. Remediation action plans were rights or any unethical behavior. All conNo significant risks related to corruption were Universal Declaration of Human Rights. These implemented and results reviewed through cerns raised are treated confidentially, and identified and escalated from the project risk commitments are re-iterated in Outotec’s Code our routine management review processes. there is a clear no-retaliation policy. More seassessment. of Conduct and substantiated in the HR policies, These incidents are no longer subject to action. vere compliance cases may be submitted to In 2017, two company-wide sales process QEHS Policy and Supplier Policy. Outotec has not identified, through formal Outotec’s Compliance Board, whose memaudits were conducted: key controls in orderIn line with our target, a working condigrievance mechanisms or in its risk assessbers are the Chief Compliance Officer, the to-cash processes in the Shared Service Center tions self-assessment was conducted in our ments, any significant negative impacts of its General Counsel, the Chief Financial Officer and selected projects; and bank account and main service and manufacturing sites to asoperations, products or suppliers regarding and the Head of Human Resources. The Chief internet banking access rights. In addition, spesess local working conditions and labor prachealth and safety (GRI 416-2), or local comCompliance Officer reports compliance cases cific audits were conducted in Canada, USA and tices. As a result, no major human rights munities (GRI 413-2). During 2017 no issues and actions taken quarterly to the Audit and Germany, as well as follow-up audits for China risks were identified. There will be targeted emerged concerning the rights of indigenous Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. and Morocco. actions based on the findings, e.g. increasing people. In 2017, there were two confirmed inciOutotec’s internal and external audit proawareness on grievance mechanisms and dents of corruption, concerning collusion and cesses take into account any corruption suscode of conduct. Further, global guidelines MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY facilitation payments. These cases were repicions and fraudulent acts that may occur. for working conditions of blue-collar workers The Code of Conduct, Supplier Policy, HR polviewed by management in co-operation with We train our employees in connection with will be created and implemented to ensure a icies, Donation Policy, as well as QEHS Policy global Human Resources and Legal functions audit activities at our market area operations harmonized approach in different Outotec lodefine the basic requirements for Outotec’s and the Chief Compliance Officer. Agreed rein anti-corruption policies and procedures cations. environmental, social and economic sustainmedial actions were implemented, including for preventing misconduct and crimes. VirtuWe have also identified and mapped our ability. We continuously train our employees the termination of one employment contract al training, processes and guidelines on anhuman rights impacts in our own operations and suppliers on these principles. (GRI 205-3). ti-corruption are also available to all employin 2017, based on the self-assessment and Outotec’s Executive Board reviews and apees (GRI 205-2). interviewing representatives of Outotec key proves our Sustainability Agenda (GRI 102-18). RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL AUDIT In product management, we use a gated functions. Potential risks and human rights The Executive Board additionally approves our Outotec’s strategic and operational risks are process, in which the first phase of product impacts in our business relate to project site sustainability strategy, targets and reporting. described at www.outotec.com/investors, and development includes criteria related to risks work in high-risk countries, and there may be The Board of Directors approves our statethe company’s risk management policies, reand especially opportunities to mitigate cliunidentified human rights risks or impacts in ment on non-financial information covering sponsibilities and processes are set out in mate change, i.e. energy savings, emissions the supply chain. There were no incidents filed environment, social and employees, anti-corour Corporate Governance Statement 2017 on reduction, water savings, waste minimization, through formal grievance mechanisms relatruption and human rights. Our SVP – Legal, pages 9-10. improved metals recovery and safety improveed to our suppliers’ human rights impacts (GRI Contract Management and Corporate ReOur risk management is based on our Enment (GRI 102-11). 414-2), impacts on society or labor practices. sponsibility, who is a member of the Executive terprise Risk Management Policy. EnvironmenFor more information on supplier audits, see Board, has overall accountability for corporate tal, social and economic sustainability related RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS Building a sustainable supplier base, p. 31. responsibility. risks are covered in the project risk assessment Outotec respects the internationally proclaimed In 2017, four (2016: two) reported inciResponsibility for the sustainability of our tool, which is used to assess all new projects human rights in line with the company’s comdents of discrimination were filed through products and services lies with a corporate 29 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR PERFORMANCE level Product Board. It oversees and steers Sustainability-related personal targets Outotec’s approach in product and technology are included in the annual bonus plans of the development and the related innovation ecoExecutive Board members, QEHS managers, Board of system. The Corporate Product Board conand environmental and sustainability managDirectors sists of the Executive Board members, Chief ers. Inventors working with new, patentable Technology Officer (CTO, acting as the chairsolutions receive monetary rewards for their man), and business unit representatives. Corinventions. Furthermore, Outotec rewards all porate Product board decides, among other employees for making proposals that improve things, the sustainability measures and develthe sustainability of the company’s internal opment targets of Outotec’s products. processes. CEO Executive Sustainability is integrated into all releBoard vant organizational functions, such as QEHS, RELATED POLICIES: Supply, Human Resources & Communica• Code of Conduct tions, and Legal & Contract Management. We • Donation Policy have a Sustainability Working Group, whose • Supplier Policy core team coordinates sustainability work and • Enterprise Risk Management Policy Head of Legal Product Board meets frequently whenever needed. • Disclosure Policy & CM & CR CTO Outotec’s Sustainability Advisory Coun• QEHS Policy cil, which was established at the end of 2014 and was not part of our formal governance, ceased to convene during 2017. We have continued stakeholder dialogue through our regular engagement tools and mechanisms, see Sustainability Engaging with stakeholders, p. 21. Working Group Sustainability aspect People Supply chain Governance Strategy Head of Head of Human Head of and compliance Strategy Resources Supply Head of Legal & CCO QEHS Finance Investor Communications Head of Operational and tax Relations Head of Excellence CFO Head of IR Communications 30 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR PERFORMANCE Building a sustainable supplier base Our wide product range and a high number ations, manage corrective actions, ensure strategic development areas in 2017, our work Our main challenge is to the transparency of these actions, and comfocused on the supply base management with of different delivery locations make our improve cost efficiency without municate with us systematically on such isa target of having fewer suppliers and insupply chain development and management sues. creasing best-cost-country sourcing in China, compromising on product quality, challenging. Standardization, harmonization All our 221 key suppliers (2016: 100%) India, Eastern Europe and Mexico. safety and sustainability were committed to Outotec’s Supplier Policy Our total spend on customer-related and focusing on fewer suppliers are key in 2017. We define key suppliers as compapurchasing in 2017 was EUR 462 million drivers in establishing a sustainable nies that are categorized as important sup(486 million). screen are for example, one-time indirect pliers in financial, strategic and operationsuppliers, such as consultants. Some of these supplier base. al dimension, or in terms of product quality SUPPLY SPEND BY CATEGORY non-screened suppliers have, however, signed and delivery time. All of potential new direct our Supplier Policy. As 90% of Outotec’s manufacturing, based suppliers are assessed through our Supplier In 2017, a student in the Lappeenranta on monetary value, is sourced from external Assessment and Approval Process before getUniversity of Technology made his Master’s suppliers, sustainable supply chain and supting supplier status. Thesis about socially sustainable supplier seplier selection is important for Outotec. Our Our reporting covers our suppliers’ operlection in minerals processing. He studied Global Supply function manages our supplier ations, contractors working under Outotec’s Outotec’s current status of supplier selection base and global sourcing. Operational Supply supervision and our project sites. We measand the approval process for manufactured personnel are involved in day-to-day suppliure our performance by calculating the perspare parts in light of what social sustainabilMachinery 32% er management during the delivery phase of centage of new suppliers screened and key ity criteria are already in place and how they Basic metals and fabricated metal 28% customer projects. Our management approach suppliers audited using labor practices, enviSupporting and auxiliary transport could be further developed. The study showed is validated in the Executive Board reviews as ronmental and human rights criteria. activities 11% that social sustainability is viewed as having well as in internal and external audits. Electrical and optical equipment 11% an important role in our supplier selection Outotec has two main policies serving as OUR SUPPLIERS Rubber and plastic 7% and approval process. It was evident that Outhe basis for collaboration with suppliers. Our Our manufacturing facilities are relatively Other 11% totec already utilizes related elements in its Supply Policy steers supply activities throughsmall. They all have local quality, health and current process. However, Outotec could imout the company, defines ways to enhance safety systems in place, and they duly manage, SELECTING NEW SUPPLIERS prove the identification of different social risks supply quality, and provides guidelines for sort and process their wastes. The majority of Outotec screened 89 (164) suppliers, equaling also in the pre-classification phase. everyone involved in supply-related activities. our direct suppliers are either manufacturing 11%, using environmental (GRI 308-1), human A parallel Supplier Policy imposes strict workshops or component/equipment manurights, and labor practices (GRI 414-1, 414-2) AUDITING APPROVED SUPPLIERS requirements on Outotec’s suppliers, by facturers. The rest are logistics, engineering criteria. Screening is a spot check on certain Outotec audits key suppliers on quality, health clearly setting out our principles on ethical and construction companies, and other service topics, and we select the companies from the and safety as well as human rights related isconduct, compliance with laws and reguproviders. In addition, thousands of our direct high and medium risk category to be screened. sues regularly. Supplier development actions lations, respecting human rights, environsuppliers’ own suppliers form part of Outotec’s All the screened companies qualified as new are drawn up according to audit findings. Our mental impacts, health and safety, labor, supply chain. suppliers, as none of the companies were target for 2020 is to audit all key suppliers intellectual property and improper benefits. Outotec had approximately 3,000 (2016: identified as having significant potential negregularly over a period of two years in highSuppliers are expected to ensure compli3,300) active direct suppliers in 2017. As prodative human rights, social or environmental risk countries and every three years in other ance with Outotec policy, identify any deviuct competitiveness was one of Outotec’s impacts. Suppliers that we do not normally countries. 31 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR PERFORMANCE We audited 46, equaling 21%, of our key SPENDING ON LOCAL SUPPLIERS or compulsory labor (GRI 409-1) have been of the supply chain emission factors, defined suppliers during 2017. In our supplier audits, Outotec’s supply chains often combine globidentified in Outotec’s own manufacturing by the UK Department for Environment, Food none of the audited suppliers were identified al project deliveries and purchases from lounits. and Rural Affairs (DEFRA). New calculations as having potential negative environmental cal suppliers. Our most significant operaThe main sustainability-related risks are based on Outotec’s spending and carried impacts (GRI 308-2) and 6 suppliers, equaltions, based on the number of employees, are in the supply chain, identified in our interout using a scope 3 screening tool developed ing 13% of the audited suppliers, as having in Finland, Germany, Australia, South Africa, nal workshop consisting of our global supply by GHG Protocol and Quantis. The emissions potential negative health and safety impacts. Chile, Sweden and Brazil. We report ‘local team, include bribery and kickbacks, occupawere recalculated for years 2015 and 2016 acHowever, none of those were considered sigsupply’ as the percentage of our supply spend tional safety, protecting information and recording to the new methodology to guarantee nificant (GRI 414-2) and improvement measin these countries of the total procurement porting misconduct. Forced or compulsory lacomparability over the years. To be able to use ures were agreed with these suppliers. No respend of Outotec. The calculation method bor has not been identified as a potential risk the scope 3 screening tool, Outotec’s spend lationships have been terminated as a result was changed in 2017 to fulfil the reporting rein Outotec supply chain (GRI 409-1). on supply was converted from EUR into USD. of our supplier audits. However, some suppliquirements. In our large delivery projects, we We have identified three countries in our In 2017, the EUR to USD annual average exers have been temporarily rejected in China. prefer to use suppliers in the target country. supply chain, namely China, India and Mexico, change rate was 1.129 (1.107 in 2016 and 1.110 Normally we buy steel structures and detail with potential risks regarding child labor (GRI in 2015, source: http://x-rates.com. WORKING TOGETHER engineering, for example, in the target coun408-1), hazardous work, or rights to exercise The carbon footprint of our supply chain, WITH OUR SUPPLIERS try. The amount of such supply in the country freedom of association or collective bargainat 508,400 (2016: 516,470, 2015: 559,850) Outotec’s Supplier Account Managers work of the project site can be significant. This, in ing (GRI 407-1). In 2017, 5% of our suppliers tonnes of CO2 equivalent), was considerably with our most important global or local supturn, creates local employment and benefits were based in China, 3% in India, and 3% in larger than the footprint of Outotec’s own oppliers. They facilitate collaboration between local businesses. Mexico. To mitigate these risks, our dedicated erations, which amounted to 27,202 tonnes of Outotec and the suppliers across and above Our spending on suppliers that are local supply personnel in each of our market area CO2e. The biggest sources of CO2e emissions individual projects. This procedure enhances to our major operations in 2017 amounted to offices assess suppliers according to our apin Outotec’s supply chain were basic metals visibility, alignment and the management of EUR 287 million, equivalent to 62% of our toproval process and make observations during and fabricated metal, representing 43% of supplier-related risks, while also improving tal supply spend (GRI 204-1). The remaining audits and other visits. However, the human the total. In 2017, the carbon footprint of our overall collaboration between Outotec and supply spend was distributed among 47 counrights risks and impacts of suppliers may not supply chain decreased by 1.6%. individual suppliers. tries. be fully identified. The main challenge for our supply chain The largest shares by country – each With regard to environmental issues, maGRIEVANCE MECHANISMS management concerns the need to improve amounting to EUR 10–50 million – were terial toxicity and chemicals were ranked as Outotec’s compliance helpline and an external cost efficiency without compromising on prodspent in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Switzerthe greatest risks (GRI 308-2, 414-2). If not feedback channel on the company website are uct quality, safety and sustainability. The alland, Chile, China, Mexico, the USA and South appropriately manufactured, used, or mainavailable for anyone to raise concerns related location of more business to fewer suppliers Africa. The remaining spend was distributed tained, Outotec’s products have the potential to corruption, human rights or any unethical enables better management and development among 38 countries. to harm the environment. To mitigate product behavior in Outotec’s business activities. In partnerships, in turn enhancing delivery excelOur largest suppliers in terms of spend in quality related risks, we provide training to 2017, no issues were raised through these lence and cost competitiveness. 2017 and in alphabetical order were Airmech our suppliers and audit them. View historical grievance mechanisms regarding our suppliDuring 2017 we reviewed our Supplier Company W.L.L., Siempelkamp Giesserei supply data. ers or supply practices. Policy and a revision will be published and GmbH and Swiss Tower Mills Minerals Ltd. taken into use in 2018. We took our project The carbon footprint of our supply chain RELATED POLICIES: risk assessment process and tool into use ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL NEGATIVE (GRI 308-2) • Supplier Policy and trained 133 persons to use it. The risk asIMPACTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN The sustainability of our supply chain also has • Supply Policy sessments have provided our management According to our human rights self-assessan impact on climate change. The methodolwith important information about major risks ment made in 2017, no notable risks related ogy of calculating supply chain emissions was and planned mitigation actions. to the use of child labor (GRI 408-1) or forced changed in 2017 due to the discontinuation 32 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR PERFORMANCE Driving employee engagement After several years of restructuring, driving Outotec aims to employ the best people ed of face-to-face modules, benchmarking Over 160 service people were certified in in the industry to serve customers with leadgroup work, 360° feedback, and coaching. a multi-level training program designed to employee engagement continues to be ing technology, superior customer service and In addition, local leadership programs allow people to develop their technical skills the key theme for developing our people. excellent execution. The main risk related to were developed in each market area, and and apply them in on-the-job situations. This Investments in leadership development, low employee engagement is losing talent and most of Outotec managers and leaders had License to Service program will continue in competences. Another risk related to employan opportunity to join a development program 2018. cultural activities and supporting ees is losing competitiveness, if Outotec is not already in 2017; some programs still continSeveral groups were involved in mentorprofessional growth are paying off; employee able to develop competences as fast as peers. ue in 2018. Progress made in leadership pering programs in the areas of engineering and We mitigate employee retention risks through formance is followed-up using Outotec’s new contract management. Career path model for engagement index improved by 18 %-units fair and competitive compensation, culture leadership index, and targeted support is prometallurgists was further developed based on from 2016. and leadership development programs, sucvided accordingly. Outotec job families and piloted in Finland. cession planning, internal job rotation and talOur key leadership process, Performance A Value Selling training program was deCompetent and engaged employees are key ent management as well as various programs Development Dialogue, was renewed and veloped to enhance our sales force’s competo Outotec’s success. For this reason, peoto support professional growth. trained to all managers. Special focus was on tences in customer interfaces. Through this ple development is one of the most material HR Handbook, Competence Development driving culture of continuous dialogue and dehighly interactive and role-play-based traintopics for the company. Our people was also Policy, and Compensation Policy are the key velopment discussions. In 2017, 99% (95%) of ing we are striving to build, communicate, and defined as one of the five development areas policies which define the principles on human employees conducted regular performance coach value propositions that can be offered in Outotec’s strategy in 2017. The impacts of resources management aiming to enhance reviews (GRI 404-3). The performance reviews to customers based on their identified needs this topic reach out to Outotec’s employees employee engagement. Outotec treats people of blue-collar workers have not been regisand values. and premises, Outotec’s operations at project in an equal and fair manner and follows the tered in the data system and not included in Depending on local resources, we prosites as well as contractors working under principle of equal opportunities. The effecthe percentage. vide transition assistance to support employour supervision. tiveness of the management approach is reees who have been terminated or are retiring. Several rounds of restructuring during viewed regularly in the Executive Board meetContinuous support for professional growth These may include training, counceling or the past few years have dropped the employings and in the Human Capital Committee of In addition to leadership programs, several severance pay. ee engagement at Outotec. The market situthe Board of Directors. global competence development programs Most of Outotec employees were invitation picked up in 2017 in our Minerals Prowere launched and delivered in 2017. Both ed to, and also attended, Performance Decessing business, but the situation remained PROGRAMS FOR UPGRADING EMPLOYEE technical and business competences were velopment Dialogue trainings. In addition, challenging in our Metals, Energy & Water SKILLS (GRI 404-2) developed, and tools supporting professional cross-functional strategy workshops targetbusiness. Various measures have been taken All our employees are in the scope of talent growth and career development were develed for all employees were delivered in all our after the previous employee engagement surmanagement, and development and succesoped and promoted. market areas. Approximately 89% of employvey, and together with improved market sension planning are key components of managMore than 90% of all employees, i.e. a ees completed cyber security training in 2017. timent and work situation, these measures er responsibilities. We have also paid special total of 3,800 people (2016: 2,391), participatView full training data https://viz.tools. started to show results in 2017. In the recent attention to role clarity and communicating ed in vocational and code of conduct training investis.com/outotec-csr/dct/live/index. survey conducted in November, the employee our strategy to all employees in cross-funcactivities during 2017. Our global trainings html#training132/health-and-safety-trainengagement index improved significantly to tional workshops. focused on our technologies, and legal and ing-employees-and-contractors-number133 60% (2016: 42%). Our 2020 target is to achieve compliance issues. In addition, 6,678 per70% employee engagement. The employee Strong focus on leadership development sons, including both employees and contracPROMOTING EQUAL OPPORTUNITY turnover rate, 13%, also improved significantA global leadership program for 100 leaders tors working under our supervision, received AND DIVERSITY ly from 2016. was completed in 2017. The program consisthealth and safety training. As an international company with a glob33 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR PERFORMANCE al presence, Outotec values diversity at the opment, and we aim to promote new tools to RELATED POLICIES: workplace. We treat people in an equal and support this target. • Code of Conduct fair manner regardless of their ethnic origin, We have put a lot of emphasis on imple• HR Handbook nationality, religion, political views, gender, menting global policies and processes and • Competence Development Policy sexual orientation, disability, family status or clarifying roles and responsibilities to ensure • Recruitment and Onboarding Policy age. We follow the principle of equal opporsmooth operations and the equal treatment of • Compensation Policy tunities. our employees in global mobility cases, for in• Global Mobility Policy We continuously monitor diversity and stance. To align HR practices globally and drive • Job Description and Job Title Policy equality within Outotec. Our reporting related our One Outotec culture, a new HR Handbook • Grading Policy to equal opportunity and diversity covers Outwas launched for the HR community. otec’s employees. The principles on diversity of the Board of Incidents of discrimination and corrective Directors are presented in Outotec Corporate actions taken (GRI 406-1) Governance Statement 2017 on We monitor the number of filed, addressed www.outotec.com/cg and resolved grievances about labor practicAs a company operating in a male-domes. Outotec’s compliance helpline and other inated industry, gender equality is an imporfeedback channels are available for all emtant topic for Outotec. We already have a relployees and external stakeholders for raising atively good representation of females in the concerns. In 2017, four (2016: two) reported Executive Board, 22%, compared to 19% of all incidents of discrimination were filed through Outotec employees. Our target for 2017 was to formal grievance mechanisms within Outotec increase the share of women in senior leader(GRI 406-1). These incidents were reviewed ship positions by 2% from 2016. Unfortunately, locally, in cooperation with global Human Rethis target was not reached in 2017. sources function and/or the Chief Compliance However, we made progress in increasOfficer. Remediation action plans were iming diversity among our senior leaders, as plemented and results reviewed through our the share of non-Finn leaders increased by routine management review processes. These 11%-units in 2017. incidents are no longer subject to action. To enhance equal opportunities, all open View full diversity data https://viz.tools. positions are published internally to enable investis.com/outotec-csr/dct/live/index. all Outotec employees to apply for positions html#diversity107/executive-board-memthrough a fully transparent recruitment probers-by-age108 cess. Employees also have an opportunity to promote their career in the employee profile and let our organization know about their expertise. We encourage our employees to take an active role in their own career devel34 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR PERFORMANCE CASE: Future CASE: Reduction of SO2 emissions smelting is digital verified by satellite data the emissions of individual smelters,” says Digitalization has made its way to smelting FEWER RISKS AND Outotec’s sulfuric acid solutions help companies Johanna Tamminen, Research Professor, Head of GREATER SUSTAINABILITY improve their sustainability by eliminating sulfur processes, increasing efficiency through Smelters continue to have many manual tasks dioxide emissions into the air. Outotec sulfuric acid Earth Observation Research Unit, Finnish Meteorplants recover the sulfur dioxide gas created in the ological Institute (FMI). ”We have done so with two stable processes and automated tasks. The operated by humans. People drive cranes and pyro-metallurgical process and convert it into sulcopper smelters that have invested in an Outotec tap the molten metal and slag by opening the tap use of automation in smelters has increased furic acid via an absorption process. sulfuric acid plant, and the results have been very hole. The skills and expertise of humans doing the Sulfur dioxide emissions can be detected and anaclear. Sulfur dioxide emissions have decreased manual tasks greatly affect the performance of significantly in the last years, but humans these tasks. lyzed with satellite technology. The satellites that considerably after the implementation of the sulfuric acid plants – despite increased metal procontinue to play a part in manual roles Automating processes means fewer risks for are best suited for this measure sunlight scattered duction.” humans, who often work close to hot and molten from the ground and atmosphere. Gases in the atand predictive work, with digitalization materials at smelters. Robots can do measuring mosphere absorb some of the sun’s radiation, with One smelter in Tsumeb, Namibia, invested in a each gas absorbing a different part of the specsulfuric acid plant that was completed in 2015. It improving safety. Outotec is increasing work that has previously been assigned to humans trum. This allows scientists to identify them using is easy to see the impact of the plant by comparand provides consistent results. automation in smelting processes. their individual “fingerprints” when the scattered ing satellite data from 2014 with that from 2016. Outotec plans to automate processes at the light returns to the satellite. Emissions have been reduced as much as 80%. smelter entirely by 2020, with humans still carryDigital solutions have already proven themselves Another smelter, in Serbia, has produced simiing out predictive and crisis maintenance but leavhighly valuable for Outotec. The stability and eflar results. Sulfur dioxide emissions have been ing dangerous work to machines. EMISSION TRACKING VERIFIES ficiency of processes improve recovery, decrease reduced drastically by the introduction of a new “Digitalization and automation are strategicalIMPRESSIVE RESULTS energy consumptions, and as a consequence, creFlash Smelting line. ly very important to Outotec. They are among the The origin of sulfur dioxide emissions is often easate a smaller environmental footprint. most important trends in the industry, and we recier to pinpoint than that of, for example, nitrogen Digitalized smelting also provides significant ognize a clear customer need for digital smelting dioxide, which is produced by both traffic and inpotential for optimizing processes and responding COMPUTATIONAL COMPARISON HELPS technologies,” says Mikael Jåfs, Director, R&D – dustrial operations. to customer needs. Outotec offers advanced auSmelting. “As the global economy improves, more “We can measure sulfur dioxide levels through DEVELOP THE METHODOLOGY tomated solutions with automated control based and more companies have come to realize that avthis technology from areas that are geographiThe scientists at the FMI also compare the reon thermodynamic models that outperform even erage performance is not enough. Digital solutions cally or politically hard to reach, and even track sults from the satellite data analyses with valthe most experienced operators in efficiency. Ouprovide a significant competitive edge.” totec’s digital control solutions can also help optimize production rates through valuable data. Digitalizing the use of data is also crucial for analyzing processes over time and providing predictive maintenance for avoiding problems and shutdowns. Outotec’s technologies can capture and safely process over 99% of the total sulfur dioxide produced at the smelter, resulting in less than 1% leaking into the atmosphere. A more efficient process also results in less energy used per production ton, thus reducing emissions. Outotec’s Fully Automated Smelter initiative seeks to reduce these fugitive emissions even further through digitalization. Iolanda Ialongo, Finnish Meteorological Institute Satellite images clearly show that sulfur dioxide emissions of the Tsumeb smelter remarkably decreased after the acid plant delivered by Outotec started its operations. 35 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR PERFORMANCE ues based on the operating parameters provided by the Wood Mackenzie Copper Smelter CASE: Hacking for database for Outotec. “The computational figures and the satsustainability ellite data give similar results and follow Europe’s largest hackathon, Junction the same curves, showing that the measuring methodology is sound. When changes 2017, took place in Espoo in November, occur in, for example, production volume or with 1,500 young developers, designers, the ratio of sulfur and copper in the ore, we and entrepreneurs showcasing their see similar changes reflected in the reported values and the satellite data. This point of sustainability innovation skills in 48-hour comparison allows us to further develop the challenges. Outotec worked as a partner in analytic process and our own calculations,” Tamminen says. the event. A new advanced satellite that can measOutotec had two challenges for participants: susure sulfur dioxide emissions was deployed in tainability and service challenges, with educathe fall of 2017, allowing for even more accution and innovation at the core. A total of 13 teams rate measurements in the future. chose these challenges. The end result by the winning team sustainUp was a gamified learning application. The purpose of the application was to guide consumers in making more sustainable choices by presenting different products’ life-cycles and potential social and environmental issues. CASE: Improved fault detection and The first runner-up, Outotec edge, created a know-how management application platform for energy efficiency through a virtual plant service engineers, while the second runner-up Eco-mpere provided a tool to measure and compare products’ ecological footprints. Digital advances and new technologies performing as planned with, for example, stored ensure that the equipment serves its purpose and The event was a great success, and Outotec parameters such as maximum and minimum delivers the intended results every day, month and signify new solutions for process found all 13 teams’ demos to be useful. With exload and air flow emulating a real plant. year. Optimization and maintenance complement perts coming together and hacking new innovaAccording to Senior R&D Engineer Steffen the technology,” says Steffen Haus. optimization. Virtual models for process Haus, the goal with the virtual plant is to improve While the virtual plant still remains a thing tions, Outotec gathered concrete ideas and solutions for the future. “Our expectations towards optimization and fault detection are overall equipment effectiveness as well as four of the future for now, simulation models are alteams’ submitted demos, meeting young talents areas that are being measured: energy efficiency, ready being used in some of Outotec’s digital becoming more widespread, and Outotec’s raw material utilization efficiency, utility efficiency products for certain processes, with development and making Outotec known in the hacking community were all met. We gained new ideas and simulation systems modelling actual plants’ and environmental footprint of the plant. Informaconstantly taking place. insights about hacking methods, data analyttion on, for example, emissions can be utilized for processes may one day lead to full plant ics, machine learning, AI, and gamification,” says reducing energy use, while simulation technoloTuuli Somma, Lead UX designer and Outotec’s gy allows for efficient and better product developsimulations. ment tied closely together with customer needs. coordinator for the event. To read more about the Outotec challenges, visit the Junction website. “Simulation technology is also a means of qualOutotec seeks to improve overall performance https://hackjunction.com. ity control and product quality improvement. We energy efficiency with a virtual plant, which simcan monitor the performance of equipment over ulates an actual plant’s behavior, providing valutime and detect potential for further development. able insights into running plants in today’s digital This is an important part of our offering – we do environment. The virtual plant provides a model not only provide machinery and leave our customfor identifying potential issues, detecting malers to deal with it to their best abilities. We want to functions and checking whether the equipment is 36 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA Data collection ECONOMIC DATA Performance data on environmental asto subsidiaries regarding the environmental mon health and safety targets in all Outotec The financial data in this report is based on pects has been collected from our major indicators were made. operations. Data about employees traveling data collected through our enterprise rebusiness units for electricity use, heating, • Environmental data, p. 38 in high-risk countries was collected from the source planning and management reporting owned or leased company cars, flight emisTravel Tracker system used as part of our systems. The figures used in Outotec’s consions, water use, paper use, recycled waste, SOCIAL DATA Global ISOS service. solidated Financial Statements 2017 have and landfill waste. In 2017, Outotec purchased Data on our employees was collected applying Supply chain data is collected using the been prepared according to the International a new database for industrial data, according a global master data system based on SAP Global Supplier Database and from the SIEFinancial Reporting Standard. In addition, to which the baseline for some of our environHuman Capital Management. The system inVO spend management software. The calcusome data has been collected manually from mental targets had changed. For this reason, cludes accurate data on Outotec employees lations are based on Outotec’s spending and Microsoft Excel spreadsheets. we recalculated some environmental indicaglobally, covering all business units and procarried out using the Scope 3 screening tool tors for 2015, because there were significant viding basic information on all employees. developed by Quantis and GHG Protocol Our approach to economic responsibility and changes in the general validity of the data. Data on performance development dialogues (www.quantis-suite.com/Scope-3-Evaluator/). impacts are described in: The report also includes information on (PDD) is compiled from the PDD tool based on The methodology was changed in 2017 due to • Value creation and our impacts, p. 8 the combustion of fuels in company-owned Success Factor system. the discontinuation of the UK Department for • Long-term financial targets, p. 16 combustion sources (scope 1 emissions), and Our Learning Management System proEnvironment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA). • Risks and opportunities due to figures on hazardous wastes, which were vides information on Outotec’s own globThe supply chain’s emissions were recalcuclimate change, p. 11 mainly generated in our research centers, al training programs and e-learning modlated for years 2015 and 2016 according to the • Responsible business practices, p. 28 manufacturing workshops, and ceramic plate ules concerning vocational training and Code new methodology to guarantee comparability • Sustainable supply chain, p. 31 production plant. The environmental data was of Conduct training. The System was reover the years. • Engaging with stakeholders, p. 21 compiled on location-specific data sheets in a newed in 2016, which has improved the covTo collect data on human rights and comdatabase and it was readily available for Ouerage and quality of our training data as of pliance, a questionnaire in the form of Microsoft Our economic performance in 2017 totec’s largest business units. Our smallest 2017. However, it is not possible to categorize Excel sheets was sent to the persons responsiis described in: offices with typically fewer than 10 persons training hours by gender, region or employble for human resources in each location. • Financial Statements 2017 were not able to report environmental data, ment category in the current system. Local • Social data, p. 43 • Value creation and our impacts, p. 8 because they are located in large office premtraining data is collected with Microsoft Exises together with other companies. They pay cel sheets from HR personnel in the market Our procurement practices are described in: a monthly lump sum to office space providers, area offices. The training of blue-collar work• Value creation and our impacts, p. 8 and therefore it is not possible to determine ers normally takes place in classroom and • Building a sustainable supplier base, p. 31 their specific electricity, heat, or water conthose hours are not reported in the Learning sumption. Management System. ENVIRONMENTAL DATA Our principle in collecting the environmenTraining hours on health and safety Environmental data has been collected tal data is operational control, and leased asare compiled from the health and safety through our health and safety reporting syssets are included in the reported figures. reporting system and they cover both Outotec tem. Each location’s data is compiled on MiEnvironmental data from Outotec’s proemployees and contractors working under our crosoft Excel spreadsheets and fed into a SAP ject site operations was excluded from the direct supervision on project sites. BO database. The data is then analyzed and data collection. All the local subsidiaries from Outotec’s global health and safety reportcombined into a single file to facilitate calcuwhich the data was collected are fully owned ing system is used for data collection and to lations. by Outotec, and for this reason, no allocations map out and monitor progress towards com37 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA Environmental data In line with our strong focus on resource materials, and we record our consumption all of our locations in 2018. Steel consumption has increased due to of electricity, heating and water. Our reportOur waste management system provides the increase in equipment deliveries from our efficiency, we strive to operate with ing of environmental data covers Outotec’s for the collection, sorting, storage and disposown manufacturing plants. We manufacture minimum inputs of energy and materials, premises and employees, as well as contracal of waste on our own premises. Outotec emhigh-tech ceramics in Turku, Finland, for use and to closely monitor our consumption of tors working under our supervision at project ployees are instructed to separate different in Outotec ceramic filters. Steel is the most sites. types of waste for sorted collection. Where important non-renewable material used in electricity, heating and water. Our management’s commitment to the hazardous wastes such as radioactive, flamour products. The use of renewable materials continuous improvement of our environmable, explosive, toxic, corrosive or bio-hazin our products is limited to the use of wood, Outotec continuously measures and monitors mental performance is reflected in both ardous materials need to be handled, specialpaper and cardboards as packaging materiits own environmental performance and aims ambitious target setting and results. We ized contractors are commissioned to dispose als. Our paper use declined due to increased to reduce its impacts related to, for example, evaluate the environmental aspects of our of these materials safely and in line with local digitalization. CO2 emissions from flights and energy conoffices, research centers and manufacturing legal requirements and customers’ requireOutotec’s Finnish workshops in Lappeensumption. The bulk of Outotec’s operations workshops, and set annual targets based on ments at construction sites. ranta, Turula and Turku report the amount involve engineering and business managethis evaluation. Outotec operates according of packaging they use annually to Finnish ment in offices located in 36 countries. Only a to globally harmonized business processes. Materials used (GRI 301-1) Packaging Recycling Ltd (RINKI). Data from few of them require an environmental permit, The company is globally certified to ISO 9001 The materials used globally by Outotec operother locations is reported and consolidated and the risks related to these operations are (quality), ISO 14001 (environment) and OHSAS ations, excluding the materials used by our on annual basis. managed by certified environmental manage18001 (safety) standards. In addition, the loequipment suppliers and construction site ment systems. cations in Finland and Germany are certified operations, are: Energy consumption within Our operations include research centers to ISO 50001 (energy). Our performance is folthe organization (GRI 302-1) in Finland and Germany; a Dewatering Techlowed-up regularly through internal and exFigures for our total global electricity and fuel nology Center, two manufacturing workternal audits. consumption from non-renewable sources shops and a ceramic plate production plant Environmental criteria are taken into acMaterials used, are shown in the table below. We did not ditonnes 2017 2016 2015 in Finland; assembly shops in Brazil, Canada, count whenever we select new office premrectly consume any renewable fuels, or sell China, and the USA; spare parts and service ises. Outotec’s two largest offices, in Espoo, Paper 41 50 70 any electricity, heating, cooling or steam in workshops in Qatar, United Arab Emirates, Finland, and Oberursel, Germany, fulfill Steel 3,624 2,097 5,600 2017. However, we purchased 8,290 MWh Mozambique and South Africa; and several LEED® Gold requirements. Leadership in Enelectricity based on renewable hydropower Ceramics 49 31 109 warehouses. None of these sites are in or adergy and Environmental Design (LEED) is a in Finland and Germany. This corresponds to jacent to protected areas or areas of high bioglobally recognized green building certificaCardboard 17 18 13 47% of our electricity consumption and 19% packaging diversity value (GRI 304-1). tion program. of total energy consumption. Figures for enApproximately 90% of Outotec’s manufacAt our research centers, we record monthly Plastic packaging 3 3 1 ergy consumption are collected globally from turing is outsourced. Outotec did not make our consumption of electricity and natural gas Wood packaging 186 239 211 our operations based on the energy-relatany acquisitions or divestments in 2017. and other fuels used for test purposes. We also ed invoicing in each location. The conversion Renewable 245 307 294 Sustainability, pollution prevention and have local or unit-specific targets for the enerfactors between energy units are taken from materials sound environmental management are regy efficiency of other operations in Finland and Statistics Finland (www.stat.fi/tup/khkinv/khquired in all of our operations. We strive to Germany and we are going to establish local Non-renewable 3,676 2,131 5,710 kaasut_polttoaineluokitus.html). materials operate with minimum inputs of energy and energy efficiency and environmental targets for 38 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA Reduction of energy The consumption figures include difEnergy consumption, TJ 2017 2016 2015 consumption (GRI 302-4) ferent types of fuels, purchased electricity, Direct energy consumption: 50.4 47.8 48.5 Our target for 2017 was to implement a new and district heating. The conversion facPropane gas 11.4 10.5 11.2 Energy Management System based on ISO tors between energy units were taken from 50001 in five locations in Finland. This target Statistics Finland (www.stat.fi/tup/khkinv/ Light fuel oil and gasoline 24.2 21.2 13.6 embedding the aim to reduce our primary enkhkaasut_polttoaineluokitus.html). Coal, coke, semi coke 0.03 0.1 0.4 ergy consumption was reached and the FinnIn 2017, we defined energy targets for Natural gas 14.8 15.9 23.5 ish location were certified by TÜV Rheinland the second time in Germany: 2% reduction in Cert GmbH in 2017. The same system was electricity use and 1-2% reduction in gas conIndirect energy consumption: 109.4 117.6 116.0 implemented in four locations in Germany in sumption by the end of 2019. 70% of the reElectricity (incl. cooling)* 62.9 71.4 73.7 2016. In Finland, we renewed our official enduction targets were already met in the first District heating 45.4 45.2 40.8 ergy saving agreement, adding new shortyear, e.g. through lowering of compressed air term (4% savings until 2020) and long-term levels, replacement of blowers, and new lightSteam 1.0 1.0 1.5 (7.5% savings until 2025) targets. The agreeing concepts. Based on the good results we Total energy consumption 159.8 165.5 164.5 ment is organized by Motiva, a 100% stateare reconsidering the targets for electricity owned agency, and sets year 2015 as the new consumption. *) Converted to TJ from 17,478 MWh base year. These principles will be enlarged globally to other Outotec locations in the comEnergy intensity (GRI 302-3) ing years, and a full certification will be conOur energy intensity calculations include fuel, sidered case-by-case. electricity, heating, cooling and steam consumed within Outotec. Energy consumption in Energy, TJ/EUR 1 million sales 2017 2016 2015 Finnish units, TJ 2017 2016 2015 Energy intensity 0.14 0.16 0.14 Pori research center and Turula works Energy consumption 35.7 38.3 33.4 The denominator for the energy intensity calEnergy saved due to efficiency improvements, culations is our annual sales: TJ compared to base year -2.3 -4.9 base year Denominator 2017 2016 2015 Lappeenranta works Sales, EUR million 1,139 1,059 1,201 Energy consumption 17.2 18.8 18.0 Energy saved due to efficiency improvements, TJ compared to base year 0.8 -0.8 base year Turku works Energy consumption 11.3 13.2 13.0 Energy saved due to efficiency improvements, TJ compared to base year 1.7 -0.2 base year Total Energy consumption 64.2 70.3 64.4 Saving compared to 2015, % 0.3 -9 base year 39 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA Water withdrawal (GRI 303-1) Statistics Finland (www.stat.fi/tup/ In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, we Other indirect GHG emissions We purchase water locally from municipal wakhkinv/khkaasut_polttoaineluokitus.html). used a Corporate Accounting and Reporting (Scope 3) (GRI 305-3) ter suppliers, and channel wastewater into For the company cars, the CO2e emissions are Standard to calculate Scope 1 and Scope 2 For Scope 3 GHG emissions, we include air municipal waste water systems. The water volcalculated based on the reports of the leasing emissions. The emissions are indicated in CO2 travelling, train journeys and commuting. The umes are calculated mostly based on invoices, companies in Finland (annual kilometers, CO2 equivalents, which also cover other greentwo first ones are received from our globally except for certain locations in Africa that use emissions/km/car type). For other locations, house gases. The country specific emission centralized travel agency that covers all mawater from drill wells. Because our workshops the CO2e emissions were calculated by using factors were retrieved from RE_DISS for the jor locations. According to our Travel Policy are mainly assembly shops, no process water the reported kilometers and average CO2e European countries (www.aib-net.org/docthe preferred travel agency is to be used for is discharged. Our research center in Pori uses emissions. However, to avoid double counting, uments/103816/176792/AIB_2016_Residuall travel purchases, and no purchases from measured amounts of river water for cooling for those locations who had reported the gasal_Mix_Results.pdf/6b49295b-ad99-a189local travel agencies are allowed. Thus, we purposes in test facilities. After use, this water oline consumption separately, the kilome579e-877449778f62), for the other countries have estimated that the coverage of the travel is channeled back to the river. Outotec stores ter-based emissions were eliminated from from GaBi databases (www.gabi-software. agency report is higher than 98% but no exno rainwater; neither do we use wastewater the calculation. The GHG emission calculacom/international/databases/gabi-databastrapolation was made to cover the unknown from other organizations. tions only relate to CO2, as we do not release es/) or for those not found in these, we used share. The commuting related emissions are emissions of other greenhouse gases. The the Protocol’s calculation tool ‘GHG emissions estimated based on average numbers realgas included in the calculations is CO2 from from purchased electricity’. In calculations for ized in Espoo and extrapolated to cover the all Water consumption, fossil fuel sources, excluding bio-based CO2 Finland and Germany we used market based employees. m3/year 2017 2016 2015 emissions. and ‘Residual mix CO2e emission’ factors (www.aib-net.org/documents/103816/176792/ Scope 3 GHG Municipal emissions, water 48,556 65,138 61,348 Direct GHG emisAIB_2016_Residual_Mix_Results.pdsions, tonnes of tonnes of CO2e 2017 2016 2015 f/6b49295b-ad99-a189-579e-877449778f62). Surface CO2e 2017 2016 2015 In terms of consolidation, the figures include Air transactions 13,542 13,498 19,846 water 5,521 4,186 2,628 Scope 1 operations in which Outotec has full finanRail transactions 71 48 57 Ground emissions (own cial control, i.e. our own operations and officwater 23 fuel combustion, Commuting 1,420 1,406 1,859 es, with site operations at customers’ premcompany cars) 4,287 3,910 4,431 Total water ises excluded. Because the change of the Total Scope 3 consumption 54,100 69,324 63,976 Company car source of the country specific emission facemissions 15,033 14,952 21,762 emissions in Finland, g CO2e/ tors caused more than 10% change on the The municipal water consumption has reresults, Scope 2 emissions were recalculated km 110 119 121 duced mostly due to water savings in the Ausfor years 2015 and 2016 with the new emisWe report the carbon footprint of our supply tralian locations (Cairns, Sydney, Melbourne) sion factors. chain separately, and it amounted in 2017 to and our Espoo headquarters. Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) In 2017, Outotec purchased 8,290 MWh 508,400 (2016: 516,470) tonnes of CO2e. The (G4-EN16) of CO2-free electricity from renewable energy largest source of CO2e emissions was the catDirect GHG emissions sources in Finland and Germany, equaling egory of basic metals and fabricated metals, (Scope 1) (GRI 305-1) Indirect GHG 47% of our electricity consumption and 19% representing 43% (53%) of the total. The calScope 1 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions emissions, of total energy consumption. We are graduculations are based on Outotec’s spending tonnes of CO2e 2017 2016 2015 are calculated based on the consumption of ally moving to renewable energy in our major and carried out using the Scope 3 screening non-renewable fuels in our locations globalScope 2 locations in Germany and Finland, excluding tool developed by Quantis and GHG Protocol ly, plus the carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions the Pori research center. (https://quantis-suite.com/Scope-3-Evalu(purchased emissions released by company cars, excludelectricity, Market-based Scope 2 emissions deator/). We changed the methodology in 2017 ing vehicles used in site operations at cusdistrict heating creased by 17%, mainly due to the increased due to the discontinuation of the UK Departtomers’ plants. The conversion factors for the and steam) 7,883 9,458* 10,046* share of renewable energy, but also due to rement for Environment, Food and Rural Affuel specific CO2e emissions are taken from duced electricity consumption. The base year fairs (DEFRA) method. Because of the large *) restated figures is 2015. influence of the calculation method change on 40 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA our supply chain’s emissions, we recalculated Outotec strives to use responsible air carWe report only VOC emissions, as nitrogen materialized mainly through the value chain year 2015 and 2016 emissions riers and hotels. Lufthansa and Finnair, for inand sulfur oxides as well as other air emisimpact. stance, use relatively new fleets, which genersions are not relevant in our operations. We Our customers’ industrial sites, to which ally produce lower emissions. In agreements estimate the VOCs based on the paint conOutotec products and technologies are beSupply chain 2017 2016 2015 with hotels, Outotec prefers hotels with fasumption in our manufacturing, assembly and ing delivered to, can be located in vulnerable GHG emissions, vorable social responsibility policies. service operations. The VOC emissions have areas, or otherwise potentially have a heavy tonnes of CO2e 508,400 516,470* 559,853* been relative steady during the years. We have impact on biodiversity due to the nature of *) restated figures Total GHG emisused 300 g VOCs per one liter paint as the activities. In cooperation with customers, we sions, tonnes of emission factor in our calculations. design the processes in such a way, that they CO2e 2017 2016 2015 have minimal effluents to water and emisTotal GHG SIGNIFICANT IMPACTS OF sions to the atmosphere, and ultimately reemissions 27,202 28,320* 36,239* ACTIVITIES, PRODUCTS, AND SERVICES quire less raw materials to be mined. OutoCO2 EMISSIONS BY SUPPLY CATEGORY *) restated figure ON BIODIVERSITY (GRI 304-2) tec’s technological know-how in this regard is We have included information on our impacts mainly based on closed water loops, nutrient GHG emissions intensity (GRI 305-4) on biodiversity in this report due to increased cycling, raw material efficiency, tailings manstakeholder interest in companies’ role. By agement and emissions management sysTonnes of CO2e/ describing our role and impacts we can better tems. These have a positive impact on conEUR 1 million meet the information needs of investors, cusserving natural habitats, reducing land use sales 2017 2016 2015 tomers and local communities. impacts, preventing pollution and reducing Scope 1+2 10.7 12.6* 12.1* In metallurgical industry, emissions and groundwater consumption. Basic metals and fabricated metals 43% eco-toxic substances can cause negative Machinery 24% Relative total environmental impacts. If not appropriateImpact valuation Electrical and optical equipment 9% GHG emissions 23.9 26.7* 30.2* Rubber and plastic 7% ly manufactured, used, or maintained, OutoBy selling advanced technologies Outotec reRelative flight tec’s products also have the potential to harm duces the global carbon dioxide emissions Supporting transport activities 5% emissions 11.9 12.7 16.5 Other non-metallic mineral 4% the biodiversity surrounding our customers’ through its customers’ industrial processes. Others 8% *) restated figure plants. We measure this positive impact to combat Outotec’s direct impacts on biodiversity climate change, our handprint, by the emisOur relative flight emissions per one milcould be traced to the manufacturing sites for sions avoided by the metallurgical industry Our travel-related emissions remained lion euro sales decreased by 7% from 2016. equipment/part manufacture and five assemthrough use of seven Outotec technologies. approximately the same as in 2016. Due to inThe overall positive impact of Outotec’s bly and service workshops globally. HowevIn 2017, Outotec’s customers generatcreased business activities in 2017, the travbusiness travel can be best illustrated by er, these workshops are located in industrial ed 6.2 (2016: 5.9) million tonnes less of CO2e, eled kilometers increased slightly. However, comparing our total annual GHG emissions in parks (zoned for industrial use), in which the representing 22% reduction. Outotec continthe related emissions remained nearly un2017, which were 27,202 (2016: 28,320) tonnes environmental permitting takes into considuously works to reduce the negative environchanged because our personnel increasingCO2e, with the emissions avoided by using eration biodiversity impacts and endangered mental impacts of its technologies through ly traveled in economy class on long-haul seven of our key technologies, which amountspecies already in the planning phase. R&D and product development. flights. The CO2e emissions for flight and rail ed to 6,218,000 (5,870,000) tonnes of CO2e. In case Outotec is opening new sites, all travel are reported directly by our travel agent new locations are built with tight control over Carlson Wagonlit Travel. Nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides, their environmental impacts and it is checked and other significant air emissions (GRI 305-7) Emissions We use teleconferences and Skype for whether the construction requires an environavoided, tonnes Business for internal meetings. Video confermental permit. In case the construction can of CO2e 2017 2016 2015 encing systems are also available in our maVolatile organic have an impact on biodiversity, the environcompounds GHG emissions jor locations. After the Office365 collaboration (VOCs), tonnes 2017 2016 2015 mental impact assessment will be carried out avoided through and information sharing tools were taken into (impacts on flora, fauna, endangered species, the use of use in 2015, traveling to internal meetings VOC emissions water management, pollution or habitat conseven Outotec from paint shops 8.8 8.9 8.8 technologies 6,218,000 5,870,000 6,600,000 has reduced. version). However, the impact to biodiversity is 41 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA In early 2017, Outotec purchased a new Total weight of waste by type and disposal Read also: database for industrial data, according to method (GRI 306-2) • Initiatives to mitigate the environmental which the baseline had changed, and we conimpacts of our products and services, in Waste, tonnes 2017 2016 2015 sequently recalculated the figures for 2015. Offering, p. 26 The CO2 European Emission AllowWaste recycled 599 766 1,013 • Grievances and non-compliance with enances Commodity Price [http://marLandfill waste vironmental laws and regulations, in Rekets.businessinsider.com/commodities/ and incinerated sponsible business practices, p. 28 historical-prices/co2-emissionsrechte/ waste 609 597 1,484 euro/1.1.2017_31.12.2017] (Dec 31, 2017) was Hazardous waste 41 42 261* RELATED POLICIES: EUR 5.76 per tonne CO2. By using this price, • QEHS Policy Total waste 1,249 1,405 2,758 the negative influence of our Scope1+2+3 • Travel Policy emissions and the emissions generated in Paper recycled 83 97 120 our supply chain can be valuated as follows: *) A large amount of hazardous waste was removed Scope 1-3 EUR –0.16 million and Supply chain from a workshop acquired in Mozambique. EUR –2.9 million. On the other hand, the value of the emissions avoided would be approximately EUR 36 million in 2017 estimated by Waste handling is not centrally managed using the same approach. at Outotec. We have instructed our locations to sort waste according to local regulations and the guidelines provided by facility owners. Waste amounts declined significantly because EMISSIONS AVOIDED of lower sales volumes and the reduced numBY TECHNOLOGY, TONNES OF CO2e ber of employees. 3,000 SIGNIFICANT SPILLS (GRI 306-3) 2,500 No significant spills were reported in Outotec 2,000 operations and project sites in 2017. 1,500 A small amount of hazardous waste is 1,000 produced in the final surface treatment of fil500 ter presses in our Lappeenranta works. In 0 addition, oily waste from lubricants used in 2015 2016 2017 the Turula works is classified as hazardous. Co-generation In addition, our research centers produce Coated titanium anodes small amounts of different kinds of hazardous TankCell 300 chemicals. These hazardous wastes are sent Ceramic filters to local hazardous waste treatment facilities. Alumina calcination Copper flash smelting Ferrochrome process 42 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA Social data Our commitment to the United Nations’ EMPLOYEES BY CATEGORY Employees by employment contract and gender 2017 2016 2015 Global Compact’s principles on human permanent 3,176 3,243 3,719 rights, environment, labor, and antiMale temporary 175 165 247 corruption, and our recognition of the Male all 3,351 3,408 3,966 UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and permanent 745 735 815 Human Rights demonstrate our desire to Female temporary 50 49 78 further advance social responsibility in our Senior management 6% Female all 795 784 893 Middle management 25% business. Specialists 52% permanent 3,921 3,978 4,534 All employees Blue-collar workers 17% EMPLOYEES (GRI 102-8) temporary 225 214 324 Outotec had 4,146 (2016: 4,192) employees at Total number of employees at 4,146 4,192 4,859 year end 2017, which was 46 employees fewer year end than the previous year-end. Temporary perEmployees on average 4,149 4,340 4,855 sonnel accounts for about five percent of the n = 4,146, coverage 100% total payroll. Some of the temporary employAverage age ees are self-employed, typically retired Outoof employees, tec experts who work shorter periods in our years 2017 2016 2015 customer projects. During annual vacation 42.0 42.0 41.3 seasons, we hire students as trainees. Employees by region 2017 2016 2015 In addition to employees, Outotec had 302 permanent 2,662 (330) full-time equivalent contracted persons View historical employee data working under our supervision in project exEMEA temporary 151 https://viz.tools.investis.com/outotec-csr/dct/ ecution and services. These contractors are EMEA all 2,813 2,824 3,159 live/index.html#employee-data60/employnot reported in the employee data. ees-by-employment-type61 permanent 723 Americas temporary 35 Americas all 758 801 1,012 permanent 536 APAC temporary 39 APAC all 575 577 688 n = 4,146, coverage 100% 43 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER (GRI 401-1) Compensation (GRI 102-38) 94 (142) key employees were part of the The total compensation paid out to employees company’s share-based incentive program in by Outotec in 2017 amounted to EUR 326 mil2017. In addition, 795 (933) employees equalNew employee hires 2017 2017 2016 2016 2015 2015 lion (2016: 329). Outotec’s compensation poliing 20% (22%) of eligible personnel participat# % # % # % cy is described on www.outotec.com/cg. ed in our employee share savings plan. This plan was not offered to employees in Mozamby gender Compensation 2017 2016 2015 bique, Morocco, Qatar and Saudi Arabia due Female 123 3 101 2 169 4 to legal restrictions. In May 2017, Outotec paid Wages and out a total of 126,445 (233,160) shares and Male 599 13 545 13 783 16 salaries paid, EUR million 326 329 353 cash payments to cover estimated taxes to by age group 1,222 (1,417) employees who participated in <30 227 5 279 7 324 7 Ratio of the employee share savings plan in 2014. annual total 31-50 392 9 306 7 524 11 compensation Outotec runs several pension plans in of CEO to mean various countries. These plans are mainly >51 63 2 61 1 104 2 compensation of classiﬁed as legally deﬁned contribution penemployees 8.7 7.9* 10.3 by region sion plans. Other post-employment beneﬁts EMEA 401 9 295 7 N/A N/A Percentage include medical arrangements for retired increase in employees in Germany. Americas 200 5 292 7 N/A N/A annual total compensation APAC 81 2 59 1 N/A N/A ratio, % 10 -23 N/A Collective bargaining agreements (GRI 102-41) Total 682 16 646 15 952 20 Change in annual total 60% of our employees are covered by collective compensation of bargaining agreements. This information was CEO, % 14.5 -20.2* -2.9 collected with a separate questionnaire sent out Employee turnover rate 2017 2017 2016 2016 2015 2015 to all our locations. Binding collective agreeChange in # % # % # % annual mean ments are followed in each country where they compensation of are applicable to Outotec employees. by gender employees, % 0.2 4.2 -2.9 Female 96 2 164 4 147 3 n = 4,146, coverage 100 % Coverage by collective bargaining Male 439 11 815 19 651 13 *) In 2016, Outotec’s CEO changed and the compensation agreements by region, % by age group covered three different CEOs, one of them acting. CEO’s EMEA 78 compensation does not include severance payment, <30 92 2 207 5 169 3 compensation for unused vacation, salary for notice peAmericas 37 31-50 311 8 540 13 456 9 riod or relocation costs due to the change of CEO. APAC 0 >51 131 3 232 5 173 4 Total 60 by region The ratio of annual total compensation of CEO EMEA 312 8 456 11 N/A N/A to mean compensation of employees was n = 4,146 8.7 (2016: 7.9), which was 10% higher than in Americas 162 4 371 9 N/A N/A 2016. The annual total compensation ratio is APAC 61 1 152 4 N/A N/A calculated for all employees globally. CounTotal turnover rate 535 13 979 23 798 16 try-specific information was not available in the master data system. The calculation included the mean base salary. 44 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA Benefits provided to full-time employees OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Lost-time injury rate (GRI 401-2) The lost-time injury rate per 1 million work (per 1 million hours, including employees and contractors, work hours) 2017 2016 2015 Benefits by region, % improved to 1.7 in 2017 (2016: 1.8). 1.7* 1.8 2.8 P = permanent, TEMP = temporary EMEA Americas APAC Total The lost day rate was higher in 2017 because there were a couple of long lost-time *) n = 6,556, including employees and contractors P TEMP P TEMP P TEMP P TEMP cases. Life insurance 71 45 100 63 0 0 66 38 Health care 80 59 100 63 36 2 77 48 Injury rates and types, occupational diseases, lost days, Disability/invalidity coverage 92 59 100 77 96 2 94 50 absenteeism, and work-related fatalities (GRI 403-2) Parental leave 98 94 100 77 96 2 98 73 Retirement provision 88 45 100 51 95 79 91 53 Injury rates and types by gender, Employees 2017 2016 2015 Stock ownership 94 0 100 0 60 0 90 0 Female Male All employees n= 2,650 150 723 35 553 48 3,926 233 Non-fatal injuries 7 12 19 23 41 Coverage 100 100 100 100 96 84 99 96 Fatal injuries 0 0 0 0 0 Lost-time injury rate (per 1 million work hours) 4.7 1.9 2.4 1.8 2.8 Occupational diseases 0 4 4 1 0 https://viz.tools.investis.com/outotec-csr/dct/ legislation, and therefore differ significantly. live/index.html#compensation-data-06/wagIn Finland, the notice periods range from two Occupational disease rate (per 1 million work hours) 0.0 0.6 0.5 0.1 0.0 es-salaries-0105 weeks to six months, and in other countries, Lost days because of accidents or disease 188 323 511 304 524 the notice periods range from two weeks to Lost day rate (per 1 million work hours) 126 51 65 24 36 Minimum notice periods for significant one year. operational changes (GRI 402-1) Absentee rate, % 1.2 1.1 1.1 1.3 1.3 The provisions for consultation and negotiaWorkers representation in formal joint tions with employees are included in the colmanagement-worker health and safety lective bargaining agreements in some of the committees (GRI 403-1) countries where Outotec has operations. In Outotec has a QEHS responsible person in Injury rates and types by gender, Contractors 2017 2016 2015 Finland, the collective bargaining agreements each location with more than 10 employees. include provisions for consultation and neThe entire workforce (100%) is represented Female Male gotiations lasting from two to six weeks; in in formal joint management-worker health Non-fatal injuries 0 4 2 3 Australia four weeks, in Sweden four weeks, and safety committees that help to monitor Fatal injuries 0 0 0 0 in Chile 30 days, and in Brazil 12 weeks. The and provide advice on occupational health and minimum notice periods that must be obsafety programs. Units that have less than Lost-time injury rate (per 1 million work hours) 0 0.9 0.6 0.6 served in advance of significant operation10 people are represented in the health and Occupational diseases 0 0 0 0 al changes depend on locations and national safety committees of the closest larger units. Occupational disease rate (per 1 million work hours) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Lost days because of accidents or disease 0 108 26 38 Lost day rate (per 1 million work hours) 0.0 24.3 7.8 8.2 Absentee rate, % 1.1 1.1 1.3 1.2 n = 2,410 contractors working under our control on project sites 45 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA There are cultural differences and variation TRAINING We have significantly increased the health and Percentage of employees receiving regular in the categorization between lost time injuAverage hours of training (GRI 404-1) safety training for both employees and conperformance reviews (GRI 404-3) ries and total recordable injuries in certain Our reporting of vocational and Code of Contractors in 2017. In 2017, the training on cyber countries, for this reason we started reporting duct training hours covers Outotec’s employsecurity was mandatory for all employees and 89% of the personnel participated in it. Performance reviews, % both LTIR and TRIR. ees. The health and safety training hours cover employees and contractors working unby gender Injury rates by region, der our supervision on project sites. Only the Vocational and Employees LTIR TRIR Female 99 training provided by Outotec is included in this Code of Conduct training 2017 2016 2015 Male 99 EMEA 1.7 2.7 report. Data on training pursued by individual Americas 0.4 3.1 Outotec employees externally is not reported Vocational training and instruction by employee category as data is not stored into our systems. Number of Senior management 100 APAC 2.0 6.2 Our learning management system includemployees 3,800 2,391 2,444 Employees total 1.4 3.2 ing vocational and Code of Conduct training Middle management 100 Hours 61,036 12,612 31,788 does not provide information of the trainTraining on Code of Conduct* Specialists 100 ing hours by gender and employee category. Injury rates by region, Number of Blue-collar workers N/A* Contractors LTIR TRIR It collects the information on Outotec’s own employees 655 1,223 954 global training programs and e-learning modn = 3,290 *) Performance reviews of blue-collar EMEA 0.2 0.4 Hours 811 673 1,431 workers have not been registered in the data system, ules. Local training data is reported by HR Total training and they are not included in the above numbers. Americas 0.4 0.7 persons in the market area offices. hours 61,847 16,135 39,513 Training hours on health and safety are APAC 0.6 1.2 compiled from the health and safety reportNumber of Contractors total 0.3 0.6 employees 4,146 4,192 4,859 ing system. Vocational and Code of Conduct training hours Health and safety topics covered in formal Health and safety per employee 15 4 8 agreements with trade unions (GRI 403-4) training 2017 2016 2015 Health and safety topics are not covered in for*) Human rights issues were covered in Code of ConNumber of 6,678 6,450 7,279 duct e-learning and classroom trainings. mal agreements with trade unions, because employees and they are duly addressed by statutory regulacontractors tions and laws that Outotec complies with. View historical training data Hours 108,997 92,600 87,388 https://viz.tools.investis.com/outotec-csr/dct/ View historical health and safety data Average hours of 16 9 8 live/index.html#training132/health-and-safehealth and safety https://viz.tools.investis.com/outotec-csr/dct/ training per person ty-training-employees-and-contractors-numlive/index.html#health-and-safety148/lostber133 time-injury-rate-emp-contracor 46 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY SHARE OF WOMEN BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY, % Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of (GRI 405-1) women to men (GRI 405-2) Employees by Ratio of basic salary age group, % 2017 2016 2015 100 of women to men by employee category Male Female Executive Board 80 < 30 years 0 0 0 60 Senior management 1 0.77 31-50 years 44 25 31 40 Middle management 1 0.82 > 51 years 56 75 69 20 Specialists 1 0.80 Senior management Blue-collar workers 1 N/A 0 < 30 years 0 0 0 Board of Directors 29% The ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 31-50 years 55 56 59 Executive Board 22% women to men could not be fully reported, as > 51 years 45 44 41 Senior management 13% data was not available by significant locations Middle management 13% Middle management of operations and about blue-collar workers. Specialists 28% < 30 years 1 1 3 Blue collar workers 3% All employees 19% View historical diversity data 31-50 years 65 66 64 https://viz.tools.investis.com/outotec-csr/ > 51 years 34 33 33 dct/live/index.html#diversity107/execuSpecialists The share of men in the mining and metaltive-board-members-by-age108 lurgical industry has traditionally been high, < 30 years 13 20 22 which partly explains the current low share of 31-50 years 67 62 59 women. > 51 years 19 18 19 We have not identified any minority or vulBlue-collar workers nerable groups amongst our employees. < 30 years 20 28 30 Proportion of senior management hired 31-50 years 65 54 54 from the local community (GRI 202-2) > 51 years 15 19 16 When Outotec starts a new operation in a new Board of Directors country, an expatriate employee is typically < 30 years 0 0 0 assigned to integrate the new operation into Outotec. Our goal is nevertheless that sen31-50 years 0 25 0 ior management should be hired locally. In > 51 years 100 75 100 2017, 60% (2016: 50%) of our market areas n = 4,146, coverage 100% had local leaders. 47 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI About this report Our reporting covers the key areas of Sustainable Development Goals. The GRI inReport coverage (GRI 102-45) changes in the general validity of the data, dex also shows the indicators used by Outotec We report on our global operations including is that the data is recalculated for previous economic, social and environmental to evaluate the progress in these areas. Outotec’s premises and employees in full, and years, if the changes have led to discrepanresponsibility and corresponds to the GRI partly include information on our contraccies of more than 10% (GRI 102-48). Standards: Core option. We also describe Applying reporting principles tors working under our supervision on project In 2017, Outotec purchased a new data(GRI 102-46) sites, our products and services, the use of base for industrial data, according to which our progress in addressing the UN Global Outotec’s business is based on the company Outotec’s technologies by customers, and our the baseline for some of our environmenCompact principles, as well as the UN mission, ‘sustainable use of Earth’s natural resupply chain. tal targets had changed. For this reason, we sources’, which drives us to work towards overThere have been no changes in 2017 in the recalculated some environmental indicaSustainable Development Goals. coming the world’s environmental challenges reporting scope. The information compiled for tors for 2015, because there were significant Outotec reports its performance on economic, and provides the wider context for our sustainthe report is collected from our local offices, changes in the general validity of the data. environmental and social sustainability annuability work. We have also defined our approach and some local environmental impacts are Another restatement was made in the calally in accordance with the Global Reporting to global and local social and economic objecdescribed in addition to global data. culation of supply chain emissions for years Initiative (GRI). The GRI report for the calentives and committed ourselves to the relevant We continuously aim to improve our inter2016 and 2015 due to discontinuation of the dar year 2017 is prepared in accordance with UN Sustainable Development Goals. nal processes as well as the completeness of supply chain emission factors used previousGRI Standards: Core option. The General DisWe have taken the feedback from our key data disclosure through developing our data ly and change of methodology in 2017. The closures as specified in the GRI Standards are stakeholders, employees, customers, supplicollection systems and more accurate excategories of the supply spend were changed presented in a wider scope than required by ers, investors and academic community, into planation of omissions when the data is not to match with the categories of supply chain the Core option. Topic-specific Standards are account when defining the material topics and available. We also aim to describe both posiemissions. reported with respect to the material topics report content and tried to meet their expective and negative aspects of our performance. for Outotec. Some information relating to detations. In the online report, we have increased the Assurance (GRI 102-56) velopments from January to March 2018 has use of graphics to show trends in our perforThis report has been verified by an independalso been included in the report. A compariMaterial topics and their boundaries mance and increase clarity. We have also inent third-party assurance provider selected by son of the contents of the report and the GRI (GRI 102-47) cluded the data from all the previous reports the Sustainability Working Group. The scope, Standards is given in the GRI and Global ComThe material topics identified as most relin the tables and graphs to improve compaconclusions, observations and recommenpact index. evant to Outotec and our stakeholders by a rability. dations are presented in the assurance reThe report is published in English lanmateriality assessment conducted in 2014 port. A member of Outotec’s Executive Board guage at www.outotec.com. continue to form the basis for our sustainaStakeholders has commissioned the assurance, and the Outotec has reported its sustainability perbility management and reporting. In 2017, the As part of the materiality assessment, we Executive Board has approved the report. formance annually since 2010. The previous reSustainability Working Group reviewed the identified our customers, employees, suppliport for 2016 was published in March 2017. list of material aspects and aspect boundaers, investors and financiers, the media, NGOs ries reported in 2016 in accordance with the and local communities as the main users of Global Compact and UN Sustainable GRI G4 guidelines, and revised it to comply this report. In a review of key stakeholders Development Goals reporting with the GRI Standards. The topic boundaries conducted during 2016, the academic commuThis report describes how Outotec has prowere reviewed and some adjustments made. nity was added as a key stakeholder group. gressed on the ten principles of the UN In this report, we focus on the five most mateGlobal Compact initiative regarding human rial topics for Outotec and present them in the Restatements (GRI 102-48) rights, labor rights, environment principles order of significance. Our policy for restatements in case of signifand anti-corruption principles, and the UN icant changes in our company structure, or 48 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI GRI, GLOBAL COMPACT, AND SDG CONTENT INDEX Based on our own assessment, Outotec has Global self-declared this report to be prepared in GRI Compact Standard Description Related page Omissions principle SDG accordance with the GRI Standards: Core 101 Foundation option. Compliance has additionally been 102 GENERAL DISCLOSURES Organizational profile checked by a third party, Ecobio Ltd. 102-1 Name of the organization This is Outotec, p. 5 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services This is Outotec, p. 5 In this table, we have applied General Disclo102-3 Location of headquarters This is Outotec, p. 5 sures, Management Approach and topic spe102-4 Location of operations This is Outotec, p. 5 cific GRI Standards and Disclosures published 102-5 Ownership and legal form This is Outotec, p. 5 in 2016. Indicators in General Disclosures and 102-6 Markets served This is Outotec, p. 5 Management Approach comply with the Euro102-7 Scale of the organization This is Outotec, p. 5 pean Directive on non-financial and diversity Value creation and our impact, p. 8 Financial Statements 2017 reporting. The table also indicates our pro102-8 Information on employees and other workers Social data, p. 43 Share of part-time employees not 6 gress on the United Nations’ Global Compact reported due to lacking data in principles and Sustainable Development some countries. Goals. 102-9 Supply chain Building a sustainable supplier base, p. 31 102-10 Significant changes to the organization This is Outotec, p. 5 and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle of approach Responsible business practices, p. 28 102-12 External initiatives www.outotec.com/sustainability 102-13 Memberships of associations www.outotec.com/sustainability Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO’s message, p. 3 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Risks and opportunities due to climate change, p. 11 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Responsible business practices, p. 28, 29 10 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Responsible business practices, p. 29 Governance 102-18 Governance structure Responsible business practices, p. 28 102-19 Delegating authority Corporate Governance Statement 2017 (www.outotec.com/cg) 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its Corporate Governance Statement 2017 committees (www.outotec.com/cg) 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Corporate Governance Statement 2017 (www.outotec.com/cg) 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Corporate Governance Statement 2017 (www.outotec.com/cg) 49 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI Global GRI Compact Standard Description Related page Omissions principle SDG 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in Responsible business practices, p. 29 sustainability reporting 102-35 Remuneration policies Corporate Governance Statement 2017 (www.outotec.com/cg) 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Social data, p. 44 Country-specific information not reported as it was not available in the master data system. 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio Social data, p. 44 Country-specific information not reported as it was not available in the master data system. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Engaging with stakeholders, p. 21 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Social data, p. 44 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Engaging with stakeholders, p. 21 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Engaging with stakeholders, p. 22 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Engaging with stakeholders, p. 24 17 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated Financial Statements 2017, p. 63 financial statements (www.outotec.com/investors) 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries About this report, p. 48 102-47 List of material topics Most significant topics, p. 14 102-48 Restatements of information About this report, p. 48 102-49 Changes in reporting About this report, p. 48 102-50 Reporting period About this report, p. 48 102-51 Date of most recent report About this report, p. 48 102-52 Reporting cycle About this report, p. 48 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Contacts, p. 58 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance About this report, p. 48 with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI, Global Compact, and SDG content index, p. 49 102-56 External assurance External assurance, p. 56 MATERIAL TOPICS 1. Safety Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Safety, p. 25 103-2 The management approach and its components Safety, p. 25 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Safety, p. 25 Topic-specific disclosures Occupational health and safety 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint Safety, p. 25 management–worker health and safety committees 50 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI Global GRI Compact Standard Description Related page Omissions principle SDG 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Safety, p. 25 3 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of Social data, p. 45 work-related fatalities 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases Safety, p. 25 related to their occupation 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements Safety, p. 25 1 with trade unions Customer health and safety 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and Our offering, p. 26 safety impacts of products and services 2. Sustainable offering Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Our offering, p. 26 103-2 The management approach and its components Our offering, p. 26 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our offering, p. 26 Topic-specific disclosures Energy 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Environmental data, p. 39 8, 9 13 Our offering, p. 26 Emissions 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Environmental data, p. 41 Our offering, p. 26 OWN Environmental Goods and Services in order intake Our offering, p. 26 9 OWN CO2 emissions avoided through the use of Outotec’s Environmental data, p. 41 13 metals-related technologies Our offering, p. 26 OWN Percentage of reduction of fresh water/tonne of ore Our offering, p. 26 6 by non-ferrous metals concentrators using Outotec technology OWN Increase of energy produced using Outotec Our offering, p. 26 7 waste-to-energy solutions 3. Responsible business practices Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Responsible business practices, p. 28 103-2 The management approach and its components Responsible business practices, p. 28 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Responsible business practices, p. 28 Topic-specific disclosures Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Value creation and our impact, p. 8 Country-specific tax information not fully reported as it would not give a comprehensive picture of the fairness of the tax distribution. 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Risks and opportunities due to climate 7 due to climate change change, p. 11 51 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI Global GRI Compact Standard Description Related page Omissions principle SDG Indirect economic impacts 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Value creation and our impact, p. 8 Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Responsible business practices, p. 28 Number and percentage of oper10 ations not reported because we assess projects only. 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption Responsible business practices, p. 29 Anti-corruption communication 10 8 policies and procedures not separately reported, it’s part of Code of Conduct trainings. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Responsible business practices, p. 29 10 Anti-competitive behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, Responsible business practices, p. 28 and monopoly practices Environmental compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws Responsible business practices, p. 28 and regulations Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Driving employee engagement, p. 34 6 Responsible business practices, p. 29 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom Building a sustainable supplier base, p. 32 3 of association and collective bargaining may be at risk Socio-economic compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social Responsible business practices, p. 29 8 and economic area 4. Sustainable supply chain Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Building a sustainable supplier base, p. 31 103-2 The management approach and its components Building a sustainable supplier base, p. 31 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Building a sustainable supplier base, p. 31 Topic-specific disclosures 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Building a sustainable supplier base, p. 26 12 Supplier environmental assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened Building a sustainable supplier base, p. 31 8 using environmental criteria 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and Building a sustainable supplier base, p. 32 8 actions taken 52 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI Global GRI Compact Standard Description Related page Omissions principle SDG Child labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents Building a sustainable supplier base, p. 32 5 of child labor Forced or compulsory labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents Building a sustainable supplier base, p. 32 4 of forced or compulsory labor Supplier social assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Building a sustainable supplier base, p. 32 2 12 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions Building a sustainable supplier base, p. 32 2 taken 5. Development of our people Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Driving employee engagement, p. 33 103-2 The management approach and its components Driving employee engagement, p. 33 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Driving employee engagement, p. 33 Topic-specific disclosures Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Social data, p. 46 Vocational training by gender and 6 employee category as well as training of blue-collar workers missing due to lacking data in the systems. 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Social data, p. 46 6 and career development reviews 402-4 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition Driving employee engagement, p. 33 1 assistance programs OWN Employee engagement index Driving employee engagement, p. 33 4 6. Equal opportunities and diversity Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Driving employee engagement, p. 34 103-2 The management approach and its components Driving employee engagement, p. 34 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Driving employee engagement, p. 34 Topic-specific disclosures Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Social data, p. 44 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Social data, p. 45 provided to temporary or part-time employees Labor/management relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Social data, p. 44 3 53 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI Global GRI Compact Standard Description Related page Omissions principle SDG Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Social data, p. 47 5 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to Social data, p. 47 Data was not available by signifimen cant locations and about bluecollar workers 7. Community involvement Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Responsible business practices, p. 28 103-2 The management approach and its components Responsible business practices, p. 28 Engaging with stakeholders, p. 28 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Responsible business practices, p. 28 Topic-specific disclosures Local communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact Responsible business practices, p. 29 Impact assessments and devel1 11 assessments, and development programs opment programs not conducted. Regarding project sites, these are normally done by our customers. 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative Responsible business practices, p. 29 1 impacts on local communities 8. Stakeholder dialogue Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Engaging with stakeholders, p. 21 103-2 The management approach and its components Engaging with stakeholders, p. 21 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Engaging with stakeholders, p. 21 Topic-specific disclosures 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Engaging with stakeholders, p. 22 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Engaging with stakeholders, p. 24 9. Minimize our own environmental impact Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental data, p. 38 103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental data, p. 38 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental data, p. 38 Topic-specific disclosures Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Environmental data, p. 38 7, 8 54 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI Global GRI Compact Standard Description Related page Omissions principle SDG Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Environmental data, p. 38 7, 8 302-3 Energy intensity Environmental data, p. 39 8 Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Environmental data, p. 40 7, 8 Biodiversity 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjaEnvironmental data, p. 41 cent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services Environmental data, p. 41 13 on biodiversity Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environmental data, p. 40 7, 8 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environmental data, p. 40 7, 8 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environmental data, p. 40 7, 8 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Environmental data, p. 41 8 305-7 Nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides, and other significant air Environmental data, p. 41 Only VOCs are reported as the 8 emissions other emissions are not relevant in our operations. Effluents and waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Environmental data, p. 42 8 306-3 Significant spills Environmental data, p. 42 8 55 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ASSURANCE Independent Assurance Report – Outotec Sustainability Report 2017 TO THE MANAGEMENT OF OUTOTEC OYJ The Sustainability Information assured • Interviewing employees responsible for • In general, the report is comprehensive, Insinööritoimisto Ecobio Oy (hereafter Ecobio) covered the Standard Disclosures in accorddata collection and reporting at Outotec’s well-structured and claims are reported has been commissioned by Outotec Oyj ance with the core level option, including the group level. in a clear and reasonable fashion. (hereafter Outotec) to perform a limited third reported Environmental and Social Perfor• Evaluating procedures for gathering, • Outotec presents a good understanding of party assurance engagement regarding the mance Indicators. In addition, the level of the analyzing, and aggregating quantitative sustainable development conditions and content of Outotec’s Sustainability Report consistency of the Economic Performance data for the Sustainability Report 2017 the reported strategy and performance refor 2017. Indicators reported was checked against the as well as performing cross-checks on late to the understanding of these condiGRI Standards. a sample basis concerning the reported tions. OUTOTEC’S RESPONSIBILITY Ecobio disclaims any liability or responsisustainability data. • The materiality assessment is compreOutotec was responsible for the collection, bility for any third party decision based upon • Checking the internal guidelines of the hensive taking into account different dipreparation and presentation of the inforthis assurance report. data collection. mensions of sustainability. The process mation in the Sustainability Report (hereaf• Checking the sufficiency of the documenfor defining the report content could ter Sustainability Information) according to METHODOLOGY tation of the data gathering process. though be described more in detail. GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Ecobio based the assurance process on the • Checking the consistency of the Sustain• All relevant topics are covered in the reStandards) set up by the Global Reporting following guidelines and standards: the GRI ability Report 2017 compared to the GRI port and a shift to a more focused content Initiative (GRI). Ecobio, as an independ-ent Sustainability Reporting Standards, the InSustainability Reporting Standards. has been made during previous years. assuror was not involved in the data gathternational Standard on Assurance EngageHowever, attention should be paid that if ering and preparation of the Sustainabilments (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) Assurance EnCONCLUSIONS omissions are made they are clearly statity Information, apart from the Independgagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Based on the work described in this report, ed in the GRI content index. ent Assurance. The Management of Outotec Historical Financial Information and Outotec’s nothing has come to our attention that would • For upcoming years, it is recommended has approved the information provided in the internal reporting guidelines. The assurance cause us to believe that the information preto further elaborate on the magnitude of Sustainability Report. process was performed utilizing Ecobio’s insented in Outotec’s Sustainability Report 2017 Outotec’s impact on specific phenomenon, ternally developed GRI assurance tool, coveris not fairly stated, in all material respects, or which would improve the readers’ underPRACTITIONER’S RESPONSIBILITY ing the principles, standard disclosures and that it would not comply with the Reporting standing of Outotec’s performance in the Ecobio’s responsibility was to present a conindicators of the GRI Standards. The Standard Criteria stated before. broader context of sustainability. clusion on the Sustainability Information subDisclosures were assessed based on a sam• Stakeholder dialogue is active and relject to the assurance performed by Ecobio. pling plan composed by Ecobio. OBSERVATIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS evant topics are well identified. We recThe scope of work included assurance of Concerning limited assurance engageBased on our limited assurance engagement ommend keeping an active dialogue with completeness and correctness of informament the evidence-gathering procedures are we provide the following observations and stakeholders to maintain a high level on tion presented by Outotec in the Sustainabilmore limited than for a reasonable assurance recommendations related to GRI Sustainabilinclusivity in future reporting periods and ity Report 2017. The assurance engagement engagement, and therefore less assurance ity Reporting principles. These observations to ensure that also future reports rewas limited to the non-financial performance is obtained. This assurance engagement was and recommendations do not affect the consponds to stakeholder expectations and data disclosed in the Sustainability Report for conducted from January 2018 to March 2018. clusions presented earlier. interests. the reporting period of January 1st 2017 to The assurance process included: December 31st 2017. 56 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ASSURANCE • Outotec has made further progress on As an independent consultancy, Ecobio including the whole value chain within has no financial dependencies on Outotec the reporting boundary, which is consistbeyond the scope of this engagement. Ecobio ent with the work done during previous has conducted this assurance independently, reporting periods. This could still be enand there has been no conflict of interest. hanced to even more comprehensively cover impacts outside the organization, as most of the impacts are identified to happen there. This would improve the comHelsinki, 20th of March 2018 pleteness of the report. Insinööritoimisto Ecobio Oy • The documentation of the work processes and the internal guidelines for data gathering have been significantly improved over time. It is recommended for further development to continue with the impleTaru Halla mentation of the guidelines in the organManaging Director (M.Sc.) ization. It is important that the organization is aware of exiting internal guidelines to achieve a robust and consistent reporting procedure. PRACTITIONER’S INDEPENDENCE AND Thomas Andersson QUALIFICATIONS Senior Consultant (M.Sc.) Ecobio is an independent consulting company that specializes in environmental, health and safety management with over 25 years of history. Ecobio provides corporate sustainability and environmental consultancy services, combined with training, modelling, research and planning, for companies in the infrastructure, industry and service sectors. Ecobio’s assurers are skilled and experienced within non-financial assurance and have good knowledge of industry related sustainability issues. 57 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CONTACT INFORMATION Tea Maasalo Director Corporate Responsibility tea.maasalo@outotec.com Eila Paatela Vice President Corporate Communications eila.paatela@outotec.com Saija Kinanen Communications Manager saija.kinanen@outotec.com www.facebook.com/Outotec www.linkedin.com/company/outotec www.twitter.com/outotec www.youtube.com/user/OutotecOyj Outotec Oyj PO Box 1000 FI-02231 Espoo Finland Tel. +358 20 529 211 Outotec provides leading technologies and services for the sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources. As the global leader in minerals and metals processing technology, we have developed many breakthrough technologies over the decades for our customers in metals and mining industry. We also provide innovative solutions for industrial water treatment, the utilization of alternative energy sources and the chemical industry. Outotec shares are listed on NASDAQ Helsinki. www.outotec.com Copyright © 2017 Outotec Oyj. All rights reserved.
