Sheer Sheer Driving Pleasure Driving Pleasure 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. BMW BRILLIANCE AUTOMOTIVE LTD. 2 INTRODUCTION I CEO Preface CEO Preface I INTRODUCTION 3 CEO PREFACE “At BMW Brilliance, sustainability is inherited in the company’s At BMW Brilliance, sustainability is inherited in the DNA and is one of the cornerstones of our corporate strategy.” company’s DNA and is one of the cornerstones of our corporate strategy. It underpins our values and shapes our commitment to innovation and continued excellence as a provider of premium vehicles and plant, expanded our Research and Development 2018 will mark BMW Brilliance’s 15th anniversary as mobility services. Centre, and launched our High Voltage Battery Centre. a joint venture and provide an occasion to celebrate These facilities have adopted Industry 4.0 technologies the 40th anniversary of China’s ongoing reform and 2017 has been a remarkable year for China and and eco-efficient systems that enhance our capability opening-up policy. The support we have enjoyed BMW Brilliance. The 19 Congress reinforced China’s th and flexibility to respond to China’s growing needs for from central and local governments, as well as our ambitions and recognised that the nation has entered sustainability over the whole automotive ecosystem. shareholders – BMW Group and Brilliance Group, will into a new era where economic, political, cultural, This year we received the National Green Plant Award ensure the success of our ongoing contributions to social, and ecological development will be pursued and our Tiexi plant was designated as a National AAAA local development and the Made in China 2025 holistically. The economy has also continued to shift Tourist Attraction, as recognition of our commitment strategy. And for this we are extremely grateful. It will from one focused on high-speed growth to one to sustainable development, innovation, and local be an exciting year and one that we at BMW Brilliance more vested in high-quality development. China’s 13 th economic growth. look forward to sharing with you. Five-Year plan calls for intensified implementation of the Made in China 2025 strategy. This includes The electrification of vehicles continued as a global promoting the development of intelligent, green trend while China maintained its position as the services to further increase the competitive advantage world’s leader in new energy vehicle sales. BMW of Chinese manufacturing industries. Brilliance has contributed to this market by expanding its new energy vehicle fleet as well as our charging Dr. Johann Wieland In response, BMW Brilliance has refined its infrastructure and electromobility services for our Dr. Johann Wieland sustainability strategy to streamline our efforts for a customers. President and CEO sustainable automotive value chain and to ensure our BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. President and CEO leadership in the transformation of China’s automotive These accomplishments would not have been BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. industry. The strategy displays our ongoing support possible without the hard work and dedication of our for China’s National Plan for a Beautiful China. It also employees, our business partners, and the support reflects our commitment as a participant of the United from communities where we work and live. In 2017, we Nations Global Compact and to the realisation of the were honoured to win China’s Best Employer Award. 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. We worked with our suppliers to drive sustainability throughout our value chain, and to identify win-win We have also deepened our commitments to invest solutions that help achieve our sustainability goals. We in China and contribute to the shared success we also worked with BMW China to shift our Corporate enjoy with our partners. This has included intensifying Social Responsibility (CSR) efforts from charitable local research and development efforts to enhance donations to strategic CSR. This will guide the future our engineering competencies in China. In 2017, we implementation of our community activities and create completed the northern extension of our Dadong shared value for the society and our business. 4 INTRODUCTION I Message from the Mayor of Shenyang Message from the Mayor of Shenyang I INTRODUCTION 5 MESSAGE FROM THE MAYOR OF SHENYANG “BMW Brilliance has become a driving force in the As a world-leading premium automotive brand, BMW transformation of Shenyang’s development, innovation, and Brilliance has achieved significant success over the automotive competitiveness.” last fifteen years. Through excellent collaboration with the city of Shenyang, BMW Brilliance has realised several milestones, having built the first Research and Development Centre outside of Germany for BMW Group, developed one of the largest automotive production bases in the world, and reached an annual output valued at over RMB 100 billion. During this successful journey, BMW Brilliance has become a driving force in the transformation of Shenyang’s development, innovation, and automotive competitiveness. These achievements are the best examples to illustrate the connection between Made in China 2025 and Germany’s Industry 4.0. Looking forward, I hope that BMW Brilliance will actively seize the opportunities that exist with our city’s current revitalisation and take this opportunity to deepen their localisation strategy to reach greater success. The Shenyang Municipal Government will continue Mayor Jiang visits Dadong plant. to support BMW Brilliance to strengthen the supply Jiang Youwei of all factors in production, provide industry support, optimise direct services, and ease business operation The Mayor of Shenyang challenges and obstacles. We will create a harmonious environment to boost economic growth with shared interests and long-term value. Mayor Jiang’s on-site meeting with Dr. Wieland. 6 INTRODUCTION I Contents Contents I INTRODUCTION 7 CONTENTS 1 2 SUSTAINABILITY PRODUCT INTRODUCTION MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY CEO preface 2 1.1 Strategy and management 24 2.1 Strategy and management 46 Message from the Mayor of Shenyang 4 1.2 Stakeholder engagement 29 2.2 Efficient mobility 50 Our point of view 8 1.3 A culture of compliance 34 2.3 Product safety 53 Highlights 2017 10 2.4 Customer satisfaction 56 An overview of BMW Brilliance 12 3 4 5 ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPLIER PROTECTION MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEES 3.1 Strategy and management 64 4.1 Strategy and management 76 5.1 Strategy and management 86 3.2 Energy consumption and emissions 65 4.2 Implementing our approach 78 5.2 Being an attractive employer 87 3.3 Waste management 68 5.3 Occupational health and safety 95 3.4 Reducing water consumption 70 5.4 Training and development 98 6 7 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPENDIX 6.1 Strategy and management 108 7.1 About this report 120 6.2 Our initiatives 111 7.2 GRI content index 121 8 INTRODUCTION I Our point of view Our point of view I INTRODUCTION 9 OUR POINT OF VIEW Wang Jun David Shangguan Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Finance Human Resources Daniel Schaefer Sean Green Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Technology and Manufacturing Sales and Marketing 2017 has brought a set of significant Our sustainability efforts contribute to our Sustainability is a key element of our brand. Our employees are the most important success advancements at BMW Brilliance in the financial performance through effective risk We consider and incorporate sustainability factor for our business and are essential to our application of Industry 4.0 and our production management and improvements in manufacturing into everything we do, from product design to sustainability achievements. Guided by our localisation efforts. The extension of Dadong and resource efficiency. We contribute to the production, and from customer relationship Human Resources Strategy, we are pleased to plant, a facility filled with advanced technology, economy as the largest taxpayer in Shenyang management to aftersales services. We then have retained our position as one of China’s top has set a new benchmark as a forerunner for by having paid over RMB 24 billion in taxes communicate this through our dealer network, employers, receiving multiple awards this year the Chinese automotive industry in terms of in 2017 to the local and central government who provide an interface with our customers for our achievements as an Excellent Employer state-of-the-art manufacturing quality and and increased investments in our supplier and and reiterate our commitments to providing and Extraordinary Employer. Through our focus efficiency, having reduced overall energy dealership networks. In the long-term, we are premium and sustainable products and services, on local employee development, we also saw consumption by 30%. Our R&D Centre expanded committed to realising the financial potential tailored for the Chinese market. To provide an increase in the percentage of local Chinese our engineering and technology capabilities to of creating a digital environment, to leverage convenience to our growing customer base of employees in management positions grow intensify our innovation potential and localisation innovative technologies that promote internal new energy vehicle owners, we are building a to 85%. These outcomes are a result of our strategy. Through these advancements, BMW connectivity, optimise production quality, and complete sustainable mobility ecosystem, with career planning initiatives and our emphasis Brilliance has reached the Top 10 for China increase efficiency. over 65,000 charging pillars to date. on providing equal opportunities for all our Intelligent Manufacturing Scientific Progress. employees so that they may grow personally and professionally at BMW Brilliance. 10 INTRODUCTION I Highlights 2017 Highlights 2017 I INTRODUCTION 11 HIGHLIGHTS 2017 January March May July September November • All-new BMW 1 Series Sedan • One millionth car rolled off • BMW Brilliance Tiexi plant • New Research and • Received inaugural National • BMW Sustainability and CSR rolled off the production line the production line at Dadong recognised as National AAAA Development Centre opened Green Plant Award Forum held plant Tourist Attraction • Management team of the • Xi’an Decentralised • Shanghai-Shenyang freight • Framework Agreement on BMW Group global production • National launch of ZINORO • BMW Brilliance opened new Distribution Area opened train launch to support inbound Construction and Lease of system visited Shenyang 60H Dadong plant northern extension transportation BMW Brilliance Training Centre • 2017 BMW China Culture was signed for a centralised • One millionth N20 engine Journey kicked off • BMW Brilliance awarded training centre produced by the China Automobile Customer Satisfaction Index • BMW Group management circle for purchasing and • BMW China and BMW supplier network visited Brilliance held NEXT Experience Shenyang event to introduce the Strategy NUMBER ONE > NEXT and • Recognised for Excellence group’s new core values 5 Star awarded by Chinese Association for Quality and European Foundation for Quality Management February April June August October December • Cross-functional research and • ZINORO Shenyang showroom • All-new BMW 5 Series Li was • Tiexi logistics first Automatic • Human Resources Shared • Electro Magnetic Compatibility development teams of BMW opened officially launched Guided Vehicle in operation Services Centre launched Laboratory opened entities in China jointly visited • World premiere of the all-new • BMW JOY Home launched • High Voltage Battery Centre in • Received multiple awards as China Automotive Technology BMW 5 Series Li at the 2017 “Joyful Sports” Shenyang opened best employer, with special and Research Centre Shanghai International Auto recognition from Zhaopin.com • BMW Brilliance “DIGITAL.me” • Celebration of new record of Show as the “No. 1 Best Employer in concept presented at BMW IT daily volume at Tiexi plant China” • BMW Brilliance won the 2017 Fair in Munich National May 1st Labour Award • Listed in China’s 10 Advancements in Intelligent Manufacturing Science and Technology 12 INTRODUCTION I An overview of BMW Brilliance An overview of BMW Brilliance I INTRODUCTION 13 AN OVERVIEW OF BMW BRILLIANCE BMW Brilliance was founded in 2003 as a joint We are inspired by the potential of doing business in Beijing Shenyang venture between the BMW Group and Brilliance a sustainable manner and guided by our aspiration • BMW Training Centre • Headquarters China Automotive Holdings Ltd. to be the leading sustainable provider of premium • Dealer Development • Finance individual mobility across the entire value chain of • Government Affairs • Human Resources Our business operations include production, research China’s automotive industry. • Public Relations • Production and development, sales, aftersales services, and • Regional Distribution Centre • Regional Distribution Centre purchasing of BMW and ZINORO automobiles • Regional Office • The Academy of BMW Group China in China. BMW Brilliance has a state-of-the-art • Sales/Marketing/Aftersales production base in Shenyang, Liaoning Province – an • The Academy of BMW Group China industrial heartland of China. Xi’an • BMW Training Centre Our Operations: As of December 31st, 2017 2 1 598 Complete vehicle Powertrain plant in Authorised dealer plants in Dadong Tiexi outlets nationwide and Tiexi 5 4 15 Chengdu BMW parts BMW training centres Training bases • Regional Distribution Centre distribution centres • Regional Office 12 Foshan Hangzhou • Regional Distribution Centre • Regional Office Training spots Guangzhou Shanghai • BMW Training Centre • BMW Training Centre • Regional Office • Regional Distribution Centre • Regional Office 14 INTRODUCTION I An overview of BMW Brilliance An overview of BMW Brilliance I INTRODUCTION 15 OUR PRODUCTS 2017 396,888 VEHICLES PRODUCED 2016 BMW 1 Series | Sedan BMW 2 Series | Tourer 305,845 2017 16,686 EMPLOYEES 2016 16,286 BMW 3 Series | Long Wheelbase BMW 5 Series | Long Wheelbase and Standard Wheelbase *Including plug-in hybrid model 2017 AVERAGE FLEET CO2 EMISSIONS 146.9 g/km 2016 159.2 g/km 2017 PUBLIC BMW X1 | Long Wheelbase BMW X3 | (Start of production 2018) 65,708 CHARGING PILLARS *Including plug-in hybrid model 2016 1,718 CORPORATE 2017 AVERAGE FUEL CONSUMPTION 6.17 l/100 km 2016 ZINORO 60H 6.69 l/100 km *Plug-in hybrid model BMW 3-Cylinder Engine BMW 4-Cylinder Engine 16 INTRODUCTION I An overview of BMW Brilliance An overview of BMW Brilliance I INTRODUCTION 17 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Change from Change from previous previous 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 year % 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 year % BMW Brilliance activities Suppliers Purchasing volume in China Automobiles produced (units) 214,978 287,780 288,055 305,845 396,888 29.8% 17.9 23.9 23.5 23.9 26.7 11.7% (in billion CNY) Automobiles delivered (units) 206,729 278,637 287,448 310,041 386,566 24.7% Employees Number of authorised dealer outlets 420 460 515 558 598 7.2% nationwide Workforce at year-end 13,024 15,257 16,573 16,286 16,686 2.5% Number of dealers with 5S 30 35 39 42 42 0% certification Attrition rate (% of workforce) 6.8% 6.8% 3.8% 3.3% 4.5% 37.0% Percentage of women in total Product Responsibility 11.9% 12.3% 11.8% 12.9% 12.8% –0.8% workforce (in %) Average fleet CO2 emissions (in g/km) 174 168.0 165.4 159.2 146.9 –7.7% Average days of further training per 3.2 3.4 2.2 1.7 2.1 23.5% employee Corporate average fuel consumption 7.30 7.06 6.95 6.69 6.17 –7.8% Accident frequency rate 0.92 0.82 1.06 0.54 0.43 –20.4% (in l/100 km) Environmental Protection Corporate Social Responsibility Energy consumption per unit Number of employees and customers 2.06 1.67 1.66 2.05 1.83 –10.7% produced (in MWh) who participated in “Warm-Heart” 50,000 65,000 80,000 84,700 86,700 2.4% activities* CO2 emissions per unit produced (in t) 1.10 0.97 0.88 1.13 0.70 –38.0% Number of people benefiting from 70,000 91,000 100,400 136,600 157,600 15.4% Water consumption per unit produced “Warm-Heart” activities* 2.72 2.18 2.18 2.58 2.68 3.9% (in m3) * Warm Heart initiatives include activities organised by BMW entities in China under the Warm Heart banner as well as activities carried out separately Process wastewater per unit produced by BMW Warm Heart Customer Clubs. These figures are cumulative. Beneficiaries are calculated as number of times people have benefitted from 0.50 0.47 0.46 0.46 0.39 –15.2% activities. (in m3) Waste for disposal per unit produced 4.41 5.67 9.17 6.42 7.43 15.7% (in kg) Volatile organic compounds (VOC) per 3.52 0.48 0.45 0.40 0.54 35.0% unit produced (in kg) 18 INTRODUCTION I An overview of BMW Brilliance An overview of BMW Brilliance I INTRODUCTION 19 OUR VALUE CHAIN RESEARCH LOGISTICS SALES DISPOSAL AND DEVELOPMENT SUPPLY CHAIN PRODUCTION AND TRANSPORT AND UTILISATION AND RECYCLING of products and services of vehicles and services MAIN ACTIVITIES Development of innovative, Cooperation with suppliers to Manufacturing of cars by a Securing customer-oriented Offering a range of premium Recovery and dismantling fascinating cars and services: create: highly qualified and diverse transport logistics in the network products and services for of vehicles for: workforce: of: individual mobility through: • Local concept • Modules/systems • Reuse • Engine construction • Suppliers • Coordination of a nation• Series development • Components • Recycling and disposal wide dealership/repair shop • Bodywork • Plants of vehicle components • Production planning • Parts network and materials • Paintwork • Dealerships through the • Raw materials • Implementation of a seamless combination • Assembly coordinated and target-groupof various modes of • Quality control oriented marketing mix transport • Provision of financial services AREAS OF ACTION (INTEGRATION OF SUSTAINABILITY) • Environmentally friendly • Implementation of Improving resource efficiency • Increase in the share of Promotion of sustainable • Expansion and management product design environmental and social (energy, water, waste): modes of transport with low mobility behaviour patterns of a network for vehicle standards in the supply emissions based on: recovery and recycling • Development of more • Reduction in environmentally chain efficient and alternative damaging wastewater and • Optimisation of capacity • Connected Drive • Research on recycling drivetrains • Promotion of transparency emissions utilisation of transport modes and second life use of • Mobility services in the area and resource efficiency in components (e.g. batteries) • Planning and development • Use of recycling materials of electromobility the supply chain of new mobility services • Promotion of lifelong • Car-sharing products • Purchase of raw materials • Connected Drive, digital learning and the from environmentally and • Mobility assistance services networking development of key skills socially friendly sources • Dealers with 5S certification among employees • Life cycle engineering • Purchase of renewable raw • Creation of a working materials and materials with environment that fosters sustainable characteristics long-term health and high (e.g. secondary aluminum) performance 01 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 1.1 / Strategy and management 1.2 / Stakeholder engagement 1.3 / A culture of compliance 22 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT I Our sustainability drivers Our sustainability drivers I SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 23 OUR SUSTAINABILITY DRIVERS With the opening of the High Voltage How will the High Voltage Battery Battery Centre in Shenyang in 2017, what Centre enable better new energy vehicle opportunities does this bring for BMW performance and boost sustainability? Brilliance as the first premium automotive joint venture to establish high voltage As a leader of developing China’s premium segment battery production? for new energy vehicles and speeding up the industry transformation towards electrification, the High The opening of the High Voltage Battery Centre Voltage Battery Centre is an essential part of our supports our position in leading the development strategy. Enhanced in-house competence of both and production of new energy vehicle technology in product and production means that we can provide China and utilises our engineering competence as an the best possible new energy vehicle solutions for integral part of the product value stream. Combining our customers with regards to performance, quality, research and development, production, and testing reliability, and sustainability. With the local production in one comprehensive battery centre (the first for of batteries, we can adapt quickly and stay ahead of the the BMW Group outside of Germany) allows us to competition. We are well prepared with our increasing Dr. Stefan Kasperowski integrate the newest technological developments and competence in battery technology and the integration respond quickly to market demands. Localised battery of electrification in our cars, and we will build batteries Plant Director, production ensures that BMW Brilliance can continue with more capacity to push the market further and Powertrain Plant to lead the development of technologies to meet the satisfy future customer demands. requirements of the China market and enables us to accelerate our new energy vehicle business in China What are the advantages of localising “Enhanced in-house with more locally produced products. powertrain production, and how does it boost intelligent manufacturing and competence of both product innovation? and production means that Since the opening of the Powertrain plant in Shenyang we can provide the best in 2012, we have witnessed the development and possible new energy vehicle growth of our engine production in China. The last six years have been a success for localising our solutions for our customers sophisticated engine technology, with continuous with regards to performance, knowledge transfer and build-up of competence within BMW Brilliance Automotive. Our ambition to lead in quality, reliability, and quality and performance and to stay at the forefront sustainability.” of innovation means that we utilise the latest state-ofthe-art technology and intelligent production systems to manufacture our premium application engines. In line with our commitment to continue expanding our business in China, the successful innovation and adoption of new technologies for powertrain production reflects our approach of working in China, High Voltage Battery (HVB) Centre. for China . This achievement has been made possible through the great commitment of our shareholders and the relentless contribution of our employees. 24 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT I Strategy and management Strategy and management I SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 25 1.1 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT OUR SUSTAINABILITY Our aspiration is to be the leading sustainable provider of premium individual mobility across the STRATEGY Chinese automotive industry’s value chain. We In 2017, the development of our new sustainability emphasise our desire to enhance the quality of strategy ushers us into a new era of our sustainable life for our Chinese customers and stakeholders Our goal to be the No.1 in the premium automobile A holistic approach towards sustainability requires development journey – one that raises our level of through sustainable mobility solutions, to align segment in China requires staying ahead of trends future-oriented thinking and understanding the ambition, ensures clarity, and improved coordination, our business to help address the world’s most that influence, disrupt, and empower the industry. In value of sustainability. In the past, our sustainability both within BMW Brilliance, and across our entire important social and environmental issues, and China, one of the most influential trends has been approach was guided by a collection of robust value chain. to spur innovation through the utilisation of e.g. the adoption of Industry 4.0 and digitalisation. The processes, initiatives, and targets, developed to Industry 4.0 technologies > Figure 01. convergence of these trends are revolutionizing meet the needs of our business for a sustainable Our sustainability strategy is comprised of three core business, society, and industry disrupting business automotive manufacturer. In 2017, we embarked on elements: models and creating new ones. This transformation, a journey to elevate our vision to a new level, and • Aspiration, Goals & Approach – Our north stars outlined in the Made in China 2025 action plan, to align our focus by developing cross-departmental is inspiring Chinese automakers to embrace goals and strategies, guided by a new aspiration and • Principles – The values and beliefs to underpin automation, increase capacity, resource optimisation, set of sustainability targets. and lead our actions, defined in alignment with key and create agile manufacturing platforms. national and international frameworks • Framework – Priority focus areas where we will set At BMW Brilliance, we believe that sustainability is targets, take action and monitor results, supported by essential for our ability to maintain our competitive a set of enablers positioning, and our economic success. Our sustainability aspiration F. 01 Aspiration To be the leading sustainable provider of premium individual mobility across the entire value chain of China’s automotive industry. Goals To achieve our aspiration, BMW Brilliance will develop and provide innovative and sustainable mobility solutions to address the evolving needs of our customers. We strive to improve the quality of life of all our stakeholders, both through our products and services, and through the way we work. 2017 BMW Brilliance sustainability strategy workshop. Approach We will do this by: • Leveraging the strength of BMW Group. • Continuously focusing on smart, green technological innovation. • Engaging and collaborating with business partners, industry associations, academia, government, and civil society. • Prioritising the sustainability issues that are most material to our business in the long run. 26 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT I Strategy and management Strategy and management I SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 27 This aspiration is a reflection of our inherent corporate Our principles incorporate our current and desired Leveraging our aspiration and our 3Ps, and in span the breadth of our value chain: Product & Services, values, developed in alignment with the principles of contribution to society. Aligned with internationally reference to the issues identified as most relevant to Production & Value Creation, Employees & Society. BMW Group, and the statements made from the 13th recognised frameworks such as with the Sustainable our stakeholders > Chapter 1.2 and international and Below these three pillars, we developed eight focus Five-Year plan of China. Previously a tacit philosophy, the Development Goals, China’s National Plan on Chinese policies. We invited thought leaders from areas to guide our decision making and day-to-day codification of an aspiration statement serves as a north Implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable across our divisions at BMW Brilliance and BMW actions, determined by their ability to attribute to growth star that will motivate and harmonise our stakeholders Development, and China’s 13 Five-Year plan, our th Group to develop a framework to guide our actions and and create positive impact. Moreover, we took into and outline our principles for the promotion of economic 3 Principles (3Ps) are People, Planet and Prosperity investments for the future. careful consideration the 'enablers' that empower our development, environmental conservation and the and they connect our business with the challenges of sustainable business operations and contribute to the protection of people and society. today > Figure 02. As a result, three main pillars were established which achievement of our sustainability targets > Figure 03. Our Aspiration: Our sustainability principles F. 02 1 Target picture “To be the leading sustainable People are at the heart of everything we do provider of premium 3 Pillars • We develop innovative products and services that meet the individual mobility across the 8 Focus areas People evolving needs of our customers and society as a whole. entire value chain of China’s People 4 Enablers • We care for and enable our customers, partners, and employees automotive industry.” to become respected and thriving members of the BMW le Plan Brilliance ecosystem. op Pe Planet et Strategy framework F. 03 People Planet Environmental stewardship is key to long-term success Prosperity • We embrace innovation in the pursuit of minimising the environmental impacts of our business processes, products, Target BBA Sustainability ro Prosperity People Planet speri P ty picture and services. Aspiration, Goals and Approach • We commit to making a substantial contribution to a smarter and greener automotive industry in China. Products & Services Production & Value Creation Employees & Society Prosperity Planet Talent growth and Value derived from sustainable mobility 1 Emission reduction affecting climate and air quality 7 well-being • We pursue strong and long-term business growth through Prosperity 2 Sustainable products 5 “Smart & Green” resource activities that are scalable and deliver significant value. Focus and services efficiency Community and social areas development through • We seek to achieve mutual benefit for ourselves and our 8 Customers’ health and creating shared value stakeholders as we work towards a more sustainable future. 3 6 Sustainable supply chain safety 4 Production and R&D localisation to support workforce growth and upskilling New technologies Adopt Industry 4.0 technologies, digitalisation, etc. Motivate and engage management, employees, customers, and Enablers Sustainability mindset partners. Sustainability governance Employ lean and effective sustainability management. Comply to regulatory requirements, prepare for and help shape future Compliance & beyond regulatory change. 28 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT I Strategy and management Stakeholder engagement I SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 29 This sustainability framework will be used to guide our management, enrich our initiatives, and align our framework to incorporate the results of a materiality analysis. This year, we illustrate how our existing 1.2 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT efforts for greater traceability, scalability, and long-term efforts map to our defined focus areas. performance. In 2018, we will revisit our sustainability Ensuring sustainable performance as a leading employees, suppliers, and dealers, as well as Emission reduction affecting climate and air quality automotive company requires constant engagement policymakers and authorities, academic institutions, with different stakeholders to establish mutual trust, students, and local communities. We engage with Improve our corporate average fuel efficiency, support the development of new energy vehicles, contribute to understanding and awareness about the relevant stakeholders along our value chain in and focus on green manufacturing. sustainability issues, and receive feedback about the most appropriate format, including dialogue, our own actions. We therefore engage in ongoing presentations, surveys, and training initiatives. The Sustainable products and services dialogues with a variety of stakeholders, allowing us topics and engagement format are customised for N to identify trends, build communication and trust, and specific stakeholder groups and we do our best to EW Enhance the portfolio of new energy vehicles within a new energy vehicle ecosystem. deepen partnerships. address any concerns and questions in a timely and transparent way. Customers' health and safety We align our stakeholder engagement efforts with our business strategy, generating value for both our Build products with safe materials and safety systems, and provide services such as driver training. key stakeholders and for BMW Brilliance. Our main stakeholder groups are our shareholders, customers, Production and R&D localisation to support workforce growth and upskilling Expand production capacity, enhance local research and development capabilities. Smart & Green resource efficiency Integrate systems to utilise renewable energies, improve energy and water efficiency in production. Enhance material reuse and recycling. Sustainable supply chain Expand the Supplier Risk Management (SRM) programme to safeguard a sustainable supply chain. Talent growth and well-being Focus on employee development and health, through our Competency Model for career development and our Health Management 2020 programme. Community and social development through creating shared value Support our communities through the BMW Warm Heart Fund, BMW JOY Homes programme, BMW China Culture Journey, and the BMW Children’s Traffic Safety Education (CTSE) programme. The progression and development of our sustainability stakeholders > Chapter 1.2, and our commitment to Chairman Qi Yumin, Brilliance Group, accompanies a government delegation at Dadong plant. strategy relies on frequent engagement with our a culture of compliance > Chapter 1.3. 30 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT I Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement I SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 31 Academic Institutions Policy Decision-Makers Employees Dealers SA Fostering research in the Chinese Regular and open communication Our employees are our greatest LE Our dealers bring our brand, our automotive industry and collaborating with policymakers provides us with the asset. Our goal is to maximise message, and our world-class products with academic institutions is integral to opportunity to contribute to government individual potential and reinforce to the automotive market in China. That is the long-term sustainability of BMW Brilliance’s initiatives and advocate for industry the company’s culture through open communication, why we work closely with our dealers to better understand business. In 2017, we focused on reinforcing our sustainability. Important topics of discussion creating a work environment that positively contributes their needs and the needs of our customers. To support, partnerships with local universities by “Developing include emission standards, the advancement to self-growth and career progression. In 2017, we held we provide on-site coaching through our BMW China Future Talent”. Our programmes, ProMotion China of new energy vehicles and supporting Associate Meetings at Dadong, Tiexi, and Powertrain Training Academy, which is available for all new and Ph.D. and our Campus Ambassador Summer infrastructure, and the promotion of plants to reflect on our collective achievements. existing dealerships. Dealer trainings are designed to Camp, provide doctoral and undergraduate innovation. This continuous dialogue has Employees also contribute their feedback through an build competencies and to introduce new technologies, to students with the opportunity to receive training, allowed us to establish relationships of mutual employee survey every other year, as well as through enhance customer interactions and to ensure the highest career guidance, and career planning, and trust between the BMW Group and Brilliance our Associate Representative Congress and Union quality customer experience > Chapter 2.4. to learn from our employees about BMW’s Group, and the Chinese government. Representatives Congress, held annually > Chapter 5. culture of innovation and future development > Chapter 5.4. Future Talent Shareholders Local Communities As part of the BMW Group's global Close collaboration with our We invest in our local communities strategy to develop young people shareholders enables us to as part of our long-term commitment and attract the talent of tomorrow, seamlessly integrate sustainability to Corporate Social Responsibility BMW Brilliance has developed a series of specialised BMW into our corporate strategy, activities, and operations. and in building a prosperous China. This is achieved by BRILLIANCE and localised programmes, traineeships, and vocational Representatives of our shareholders – the BMW Group providing both direct and indirect contributions to the education opportunities to build the skill sets needed and Brilliance Group – form our Board of Directors and are local community and economy, creating a more cohesive for the future. Through these activities, such as the New Vocational Education Programme (NVEP), we build up STAKEHOLDERS in regular contact with our Board of Management. Through close collaboration that is based on mutual trust and and strong society > Chapter 6. the technical competencies of the next generation of the win-win approaches, shareholders have empowered our automotive workforce 99% of NVEP graduates have investment projects to succeed, making BMW Brilliance a gone on to join BMW Brilliance > Chapter 5.4. benchmark of the Chinese automotive industry. Customers We are building connections between our brand and customers to guide our efforts towards a Suppliers sustainable future for the Chinese automotive Regulatory Authorities Communist Party of We are in continuous dialogue with industry. We use channels such as our Customer China our suppliers. In addition to projectInteraction Centre to gather feedback, to explore new We work with local authorities to stay informed and remain current in an This year, we were honoured to hold based communication, we host a series opportunities, and meet the needs of our customers. evolving regulatory environment. This year, we reached the BMW Brilliance CPC Conference together with of BMW Brilliance Supplier Events that provide a platform In 2017, our Tiexi plant was approved as a National a new milestone of professional cooperation with the Chinese and German management and Party member to build upon relationships that contribute to economic AAAA tourist attraction, providing guests with the Shenyang State Tax Bureau who visited Tiexi plant to representatives. More than 200 people attended and development, growth, and sustainable innovation along opportunity to learn about our manufacturing processes, discuss tax services and provide an on-site tax policy engaged in the dialogue on the importance of the the supply chain. In 2017, we held a quality training for the as well as the sustainability features integrated within our introduction to employees. We also worked on building a partnership between CPC and BMW Brilliance. Speakers all-new BMW 5 Series parts suppliers at Dadong plant, production > Chapter 2.4. harmonious relationship with the Shenyang Traffic Police encouraged Party members to act as role models in their and a G08 supplier workshop in Shenyang > Chapter 4.2. Bureau, who conducted traffic safety training to promote daily work and contribute to BMW Brilliance’s sustainable on-road safety awareness for our employees. development. 32 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT I Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement I SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 33 UNDERSTANDING OUR Our materiality analysis identified ten priority important not only for our own activities, but also for the sustainability issues that are highly relevant to BMW activities of our suppliers and dealers. Our localisation MATERIAL ISSUES Brilliance and our stakeholders > Figure 05. This and supplier risk management strategies help us to BMW Brilliance’s sustainability strategy and We engaged internal and external stakeholders in a Sustainability Report shares information about how we improve the sustainability impacts in our supply chain, management approach have been built on an comprehensive materiality analysis in 2015 and used manage each of these priority issues, as they relate to while our talent attraction and retention and employee understanding of the key sustainability issues that the results as a basis for defining and prioritising focus our own operations, our business relationships and our development activities articulate the value that we see are material to our business and our stakeholders. areas for our Sustainability Report > Figure 04. growth. For example, addressing energy consumption, in our workforce. occupational health and safety, and corruption is BMW Brilliance matrix of relevant sustainability issues F. 04 Highly relevant sustainability issues identified F. 05 High Occupational Product safety health and safety Product safety Occupational Corruption and Air pollution, Energy Energy Air pollution, Corruption and health and safety anti-competitive emissions, and consumption consumption emissions, anti-competitive and climate behaviour behaviour climate change change Local economic development Waste Aftersales Product Relevance for stakeholders and water services portfolio and pollution Human rights R&D Water consumption Medium Product portfolio Aftersales Talent attraction Employee Public policy and research and services and retention development development Charity and Employee/ Material Life Talent attraction corporate management consumption balance and retention citizenship relations Forced Diversity Employee labour and equal development opportunities In 2018, we will conduct a refresh of our materiality corresponding adjustments to our focus areas, while analysis to sharpen our sustainability strategy. We updating any changes to our strategic approach and will share our updated materiality matrix in the investments. Relations Marketing Child labour Customer data Working Mobility Public policy with local and product and young protection and conditions infrastructure BMW Brilliance 2018 Sustainability Report with any communities communication workers risk privacy Land use and biodiversity Low Low Medium High Relevance for BMW Brilliance 34 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT I A culture of compliance A culture of compliance I SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 35 1.3 A CULTURE OF COMPLIANCE BMW Brilliance compliance management system F. 06 Board of Directors BMW Brilliance At BMW Brilliance, we uphold a strong culture of Risk Management, Corporate Audit, and Human compliance that acts as the foundation for putting our Resources, supported by the Compliance Committee values into practice. We prioritise ethical behaviour at Office which is responsible for managing daily the highest level and protect the human rights of all compliance matters across the organisation, with Board of Management BMW Brilliance individuals involved in our operations. Our compliance local compliance teams in Shenyang and Beijing. efforts are wide-ranging, with a focus on meeting The office’s work is strengthened by the Compliance requirements on fair competition and anti-monopoly Operations Network, which includes all department BMW Brilliance Compliance Committee regulations and preventing corruption and fraud. heads, plant directors, and heads of the regional sales Compliance Decisions and Steering office > Figure 06. To assure compliance, we have developed policies and mechanisms based on all applicable laws and BMW Brilliance Committee Office regulations that are reinforced by a comprehensive compliance management system and management structure. We implement and monitor initiatives Department of Legal Affairs & Compliance systematically, providing the necessary measures, training, and remediation efforts to ensure that compliance issues are understood, and policies are enforced across BMW Brilliance. Senior Manager Compliance Legal Monitoring and Training and Risk Assessment, MANAGING COMPLIANCE Compliance Approval Communications Processes, and Case Handling Through our compliance management system, we actively address anti-monopoly and fair competition BMW Brilliance Compliance Operations Network requirements, implement anti-corruption and antifraud policies, and take measures to prevent bribery, data theft, and any anti-competitive practices in our company. • The BMW Brilliance Compliance Committee reports to the Board of Management and the Audit and Compliance Our system is reinforced by our compliance Committee/the Board of Directors based on the Articles of Association of BMW Brilliance and the BMW Brilliance management structure, chaired by our CEO who Compliance Committee Working Procedures. monitors the overall effectiveness of the compliance management system. The BMW Brilliance • The “Compliance Operations Network” consists of the Compliance Responsibles, who are defined by fixed criteria. Compliance Committee consists of representatives The criteria include: reporting level I, regional setting, separate legal entity or specific compliance risk. from Legal Affairs and Compliance, Controlling and 36 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT I A culture of compliance A culture of compliance I SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 37 COMPLIANCE TRAINING AND For all our employees, we are proud to have redesigned RESPONDING TO INQUIRIES is managed by the Compliance team within BMW COMMUNICATIONS the compliance intranet webpage and our e-learning Brilliance and concerns can be raised anonymously. We have mechanisms in place to address compliance platform to be more user-friendly and interactive. This We acknowledge, investigate as appropriate, All employees at BMW Brilliance are required to follow inquiries. Employees, suppliers and business partners includes new features that help track the completion and document all concerns. Where concerns are the Legal Compliance Code on employee behaviour can raise concerns through line managers, project of online training. investigated and substantiated, we take appropriate pertaining to anti-monopoly law, anti-fraud, and antileads, or Human Resources personnel. Processes remedial actions, advise the reporter promptly, and corruption. To fortify the Code, we conduct compliance for the community to raise concerns are available At Tiexi, Dadong and Powertrain plants, the Plant document the outcomes. BMW Brilliance does not risk assessments, initiate mitigation processes, at the plant level. Concerns can also be raised Directors emphasise the importance of compliance, tolerate any form of retaliation against anyone who implement comprehensive training programs, and through our confidential compliance advisory and communication and the accessibility of grievance raises a concern or participates in an investigation. provide a whistle-blowing mechanism to alert the notification hotline, SpeakUP. The SpeakUP Line mechanisms at BMW Brilliance during the regular BMW Brilliance management in any instances of non“Associate Days”, where all employees gather twice a compliant behaviour. year. Animated films are shown on the plants’ common area LED screens that cover compliance issues such To maintain a high level of compliance, we believe as confidentiality, data privacy, anti-bribery, anti-fraud, in awareness-building, open communication, and a clear signal from management. Our Compliance and conflict of interest scenarios. On the plants’ Data Privacy and PRC Cyber Security Law E-pillars, short articles on major compliance areas Committee and General Counsel regularly send are displayed with corresponding visual stories to letters on important policies and announcements and Data privacy has become a significant concern Along with data privacy, cybersecurity emphasise the correct behaviour. provide information on how to conduct compliance across all industries as the emergence of measures have also been taken at BMW risk assessments and actively mitigate specific technical innovations and digitalisation create Brilliance. With the announcement of the PRC compliance scenarios. new risks for companies and for customers. Cyber Security Law, we tasked a dedicated At BMW Brilliance, we are making significant project team to review and assess the status We require mandatory online training modules for all investments in protecting customer, partner, of BMW Brilliance under the newly released non-production employees. These trainings cover the and employee data. In 2017, we developed law. This included the review and assessment Legal Compliance Code and focus on anti-corruption initiatives to raise awareness and to strengthen of all IT infrastructure, security policies, and IT policies as well as information security and data our privacy data protection systems and systems. privacy. Specialised training is given to managers who culture. This includes optimising process are newly promoted into a leadership function, while controls in projects and assessing privacy To prepare for the future, mitigation procedures additional departments are provided with training risks of the legacy informational technology were developed in collaboration with the IT based on their exposure to potential non-compliance (IT) system. We held a workshop initiated by department and an external party, which will risks. our Compliance Committee Office and Data support the implementation and training of all Privacy Protection Officer network (DPPOs) to related departments. Interactive compliance communication via E-pillars. strengthen communication and cooperation between DPPOs and Legal and Compliance functions at BMW Brilliance and across BMW Our sales divisions in Beijing and regional offices Group entities in China. receive regular legal and compliance team training on anti-monopoly legal requirements specific to the automotive industry. In 2017, our Sales management also attended an internal half-day compliance conference on how to actively counter corruption risks. Externally, we are implementing measures for our business relations with external partners that cover compliance clauses in purchase orders and event invitation letters. As an automotive manufacturer, we often employ standard vehicle provision forms with Internal training on anti-corruption compliance. compliance clauses, which we use when we provide our products to external parties, conferences, and events. 38 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT I A culture of compliance A culture of compliance I SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 39 RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS GOVERNANCE Legal Compliance Code Human rights issues are managed by the relevant We are committed to respecting the human rights of Objective: The Legal Compliance Code explains the central importance of lawful conduct to business functions of BMW Brilliance. The Human all individuals impacted by our operations. The BMW BMW Brilliance and provides an overview of the legal areas relevant to our business. Resources Department is responsible for assuring Brilliance Joint Venture Equity Contract includes a human rights within our operations. The Purchasing requirement to establish policies and procedures at Issues addressed: Issues covered which are relevant to human rights include data protection, and Supplier Quality Management Department takes BMW Brilliance to avoid human rights infringements health and safety, and non-discrimination. the necessary steps to ensure the suppliers respect and to address adverse human rights impacts that human rights. might involve our company. We expect all employees and business partners to respect human rights in their We base our respect for human rights on internationally General Terms and Conditions for the Purchase of Goods and Services and daily actions. agreed principles, including the principles set out in the the BMW Group’s International Terms and Conditions for the Purchase of International Bill of Human Rights and the International Production Materials and Automotive Components Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. The following important Objective: Our terms and conditions of procurement govern the right and obligations of the governance documents and policies embed human parties involved. rights into our business practices: Issues addressed: Environmental criteria as well as recognised human rights and labour standards are included. BMW Brilliance Joint Venture Contract Objective: This is a founding document of BMW Brilliance as a joint venture between BMW and HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE VALUE CHAIN Brilliance Automotive, setting out the key principles of business conduct. Employees can submit information about possible Risks for human rights infringements are particularly Issues addressed: Our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and the respect of human rights violations within the company via the high in complex supply chains with extensive division the International Labour Organization’s labour law is explicitly stated therein. BMW Brilliance SpeakUP Line, anonymously and of labour, as is the case in the automotive industry. We confidentially. As part of our efforts to prevent human require our direct suppliers to meet the same social rights violations, we provide employee information and and environmental standards that are applied at BMW training, particularly on the SpeakUP programme. We Brilliance. Compliance with internationally recognised Associate Handbook also conduct risk analyses and human rights impact human rights standards, as well as with labour and assessments, and we maintain internal monitoring and social standards, is part of our General Terms and Objective: The objective of the Associate Handbook, which includes our Ethics and Code of reporting structures. Our cooperation with business Conditions for all purchases and is included in all Conduct as well as our Business Principles, is to detail and communicate to all employees their partners and our dialogue with stakeholders also allow supplier contracts. rights and responsibilities, as well as our corporate values. us to identify and address risks quickly. We continuously review our corporate policies and Issues addressed: All human rights issues relevant to human resources, such as noninitiatives regarding their effectiveness in avoiding discrimination, remuneration, working hours, and other terms of employment are reviewed in the human rights infringements in our supply chain. Handbook. Additionally, the supplier risk management process that is applied throughout the BMW Group network enables us to identify and analyse potential sustainability and human rights risks throughout our supply chain. In our regular supplier review, we consider issues such as occupational health and safety, child labour risks, and environmental impacts > Chapter 4. 40 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT I A culture of compliance A culture of compliance I SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 41 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT: FORECAST 2018 In 2018, we will unveil our renewed materiality We will also continue to implement our analysis that will align our approach with Global department classroom training programme on Reporting Initiative Standards. The results will anti-monopoly law and anti-bribery policies. help us to refine our strategy and action plans Our communication campaigns will include and will guide our way for our initiatives. interactive formats, and a compliance video competition is planned. We will continue developing and implementing our new strategic framework, including the Communication of compliance messages to definition of specific targets, key performance third parties including dealers and suppliers indicators, and action plans associated with will be increased. To enhance due diligence the focus areas and enablers that we have procedures before onboarding new suppliers prioritised. We have planned activities to further and to improve ongoing performance integrate sustainability into our business, e.g. monitoring, the Compliance function has Artemis project supply chain Environment, joined the Purchasing teams in redefining Health and Safety (EHS) risk mapping and and optimising process and approval flows. A Aerial of new Dadong plant. transparency; strengthening green logistics comprehensive dialogue started in 2017 will and multimodal transportation; NEV high continue in 2018, incorporating both teams’ voltage battery life-cycle blueprint, etc. expertise into an IT system designed to support purchasing and business departments Our compliance system is always responding in identifying compliance risks and initiating to emerging issues. With regards to data appropriate mitigation measures. privacy, our priority is the execution of the newly released government policy and regulations. To enhance cybersecurity, we will work to ensure compliance with the Cyber Security Law. We will continue our training efforts to ensure our employees are fully aware of our compliance requirements. Our mandatory online training modules on the Legal Compliance Code, focusing on anti-corruption policies, information Aerial of Tiexi plant. Aerial of Powertrain plant. security, and data privacy will be reintroduced in 2018 for all non-production employees. 02 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 2.1 / Strategy and management 2.2 / Efficient mobility 2.3 / Product safety 2.4 / Customer satisfaction 44 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY I Our sustainability drivers Our sustainability drivers I PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 45 OUR SUSTAINABILITY DRIVERS How is the R&D Centre enabling BMW What are the opportunities in the Brilliance to offer innovative products sustainable development of new energy and mobility services, particularly as vehicles for BMW Brilliance – from customers and the automotive industry are production and recycling of high voltage focusing on self-driving technology and batteries to the construction of a new digitalisation? energy vehicle ecosystem? BMW Brilliance R&D is an increasingly important hub Developing new energy vehicles for BMW Brilliance is when it comes to development of electric drivetrains, not just an opportunity – it is a necessity. BMW Group for both hybrid and battery vehicles. These new energy and BMW Brilliance are motivated by ever-increasing vehicles are key elements enabling sustainable and requirements to reduce CO2 and to deliver zerogreen individual mobility now and in the future. China emission or near-zero-emission vehicles. We have is the most aggressively developing market for highbeen outstanding in achieving these targets through tech battery supply, and we are an active participant. our Efficient Dynamics Strategy. Patrick Mueller We are also enhancing our testing facilities to bring In the future, BMW Brilliance will play an increasingly electric drivetrains to market. BMW Brilliance is using important role for the BMW Group, as a substantial Vice President, the BMW drivetrain technology, which is available, portion of the zero-emission vehicle credits are Research and Development affordable, and leading-edge in functional aspects, generated through BMW Brilliance products. and we have the engineers to maximise the benefits of this technology. Highly autonomous driving technology Recycling of batteries has always been at the core of How does the Research and Development requirements that we need to adopt, and we must and further digitalisation of our vehicles is driven by development for the BMW Group and BMW Brilliance, (R&D) Centre support BMW Brilliance’s continue to develop life cycle measures that keep our our BMW Group partners in Beijing and Shenyang. If as the batteries are too valuable to simply dispose of. localised development strategy? vehicles competitive. we can set up a 5G environment around Tiexi, BMW We have taken a leading role in the “second life” aspect Brilliance R&D could become a major testing centre of of battery usage, and we are also working heavily on As the new head of the Research and Development An even bigger challenge is the increasing amount of autonomous driving technology. recycling valuable raw materials. Rather than building Centre, one of my major tasks is to further expand work which BMW Brilliance R&D is performing in the large, heavy batteries, we are working on lightweight, the R&D work which is performed in Shenyang for early stages of our vehicle projects. We will cover all highly efficient and safe batteries with outstanding BMW Brilliance. In the past years, we have maintained aspects of development for China-specific vehicles. energy density – the smaller the batteries, the less we sustainable growth in our workforce, facilities, and With our new testing facilities and our highly skilled, must recycle. total area, further fulfilling our commitment to localised motivated, and thorough workforce, we have the development in Shenyang. resources in place to take on these challenges. Meanwhile, the new energy vehicle ecosystem is developing, and the number of charging stations In 2018, we will continue to invest in highly skilled is rising constantly. The support of the Chinese government for new energy vehicles will speed up engineers to help us meet the challenges of a growing “China is the most the availability of a convenient and reliable charging Chinese market. In the future we will not only develop and build for our Chinese customers but will also aggressively developing network. extend our activities in cooperation with our partners market for high-tech battery in Munich, Beijing, and Shanghai to include vehicles for export to our worldwide markets. supply, and we are an active Electro Magnetic Compatibility (EMC) laboratory. participant.” With BMW Brilliance’s rapid rate of growth, we have more vehicles in our portfolio, putting more demands on our R&D function. There are also new regulatory 46 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY I Strategy and management Strategy and management I PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 47 2.1 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT For all our models, we conduct rigorous material and product safety checks, and utilise advanced safety Research and Development Centre at Tiexi plant to further optimise our manufacturing processes and features. We invest in upgrading customer interactions, our vehicles, while creating an innovation hub. The provide training for customers on vehicle use, and R&D Centre’s key areas of innovation include new continue to develop innovations in our aftersales energy vehicle powertrains, module and component services based on customer feedback. For our dealer development, China-specific body and trim solutions, network, we are fostering the growth of sustainable and electronic and digital connectivity, as well as initiatives which result in competitive advantages testing and analysis. and cost reductions, we provide the latest digital technology to enhance the customer experience and As market demand grows for new energy vehicles, we provide on-site training to stimulate demand of new are invested in technologies and infrastructure that energy vehicles. will meet the needs of our customers. With our High Voltage Battery Centre (HVB) at Powertrain plant, we produce more powerful and longer-lasting electric EXPANDING OUR BUSINESS IN batteries with greater durability and maximum driving range to suit the diverse lifestyles of our customers. CHINA The HVB Centre makes BMW Brilliance the first Since BMW Brilliance’s inception in 2003, our Chinese premium automobile manufacturer to launch expansion has been rapid as we established local its own battery assembly line. The all-new BMW research and development, procurement, and 530Le iPerformance plug-in electric hybrid is the first production. We are committed to introducing the latest vehicle in our product fleet to incorporate this new products and technologies into the Chinese market. battery technology, marking a new era for our new energy vehicles. In 2017, we officially launched the all-new BMW New Dadong plant. 1 Series Sedan, marking a shift from introducing products to China to also developing products for The automotive industry is dramatically changing, customers and in line with Chinese regulations, which China, with a model built with best-in-class technology. triggered by a fundamental shift in individual mobility is essential for our long-term business strategy. We also launched the all-new BMW 5 Series Li, which behaviour and an acceleration of new technologies underwent a global testing process and an upgrade of from electrified powertrains and end-to-end In production, BMW Brilliance is guided by the premium technological equipment specifically for the digitalisation, all within a rapidly changing regulatory European Foundation for Quality Management Chinese market. Our launch of the ZINORO 60H, the environment. (EFQM) “Excellence Model”, regarded as a holistic second model of the ZINORO brand, represents BMW and structured quality management framework Brilliance’s commitment to our localisation strategy In China, the market is young, sophisticated and to achieve sustainable success and excellence in and our determination to lead the new energy vehicle dynamic. For BMW Brilliance, a localised joint venture manufacturing. The EFQM model provides a unique market. As a symbol of the future, this year we held the striving to meet the needs of Chinese consumers, opportunity to sustain high levels of performance and world debut of the all-new BMW 530Le iPerformance, we must strike a perfect balance of cuttingexceed the expectations of all stakeholders. BMW one of the most intelligent and advanced premium Battery pack assembly production. edge technology, customer-centric services, and Brilliance uses the EFQM “Excellence Model” to new energy vehicles ever produced in China. Sales outstanding product performance. align our management approach, to set competency as a result of our expanding, locally-produced vehicle and performance targets, and to ensure business models accounted for 68.7% of the total sales of the In 2017, we began preparing for the BMW 1 Series At BMW Brilliance, we respond to market demands by decisions incorporate the needs of all stakeholders. BMW brand in mainland China. Sedan export project. Having gained strong support offering a wide range of models from traditional internal and approval from the government, we initiated a combustion engines to new energy vehicles. In 2017, With the expansion of the new energy vehicle market, At production, our localisation efforts are reaching cross-departmental working group to complete the we further extended our product line-up and brought we have continued to increase our contribution to fruition. In 2017, we increased our production process and IT system that lays the foundation for our new vehicle models to the Chinese market, designed electromobility by providing premium new energy capabilities with an extension of Dadong plant official launch. The accomplishment of this project to meet our customers’ increasingly individualised and vehicles with the newest generation of electric vehicle which is now BMW’s most modern, innovative, will connect our world class vehicles to international diversified needs. Our engineers work closely with charging infrastructure and complementary services and sustainable car factory. We expanded our markets – bridging BMW Brilliance to the world. the BMW Group’s R&D team to develop products to create a customer-oriented new energy ecosystem and components specifically for the needs of Chinese in China. 48 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY I Strategy and management Strategy and management I PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 49 BUILDING FOR GREEN Integrated Process Management (IPM) system for quality management that leverages big data to trace Tech Day PRODUCTION the progress of battery cells and processes, including Our first Tech Day was held in 2017 to raise employee The Tiexi plant is a role model for sustainable information as detailed as tightening torque. Automatic awareness of how technology is integrated into automobile manufacturing. The plant’s construction laser welding gives high accuracy and stable weld production and linked to sustainable development. maximises natural ventilation and utilises underground quality, adding strength and reliability, which enhances We used information booths, speeches, and water for temperature adjustments to conserve energy, battery function and safety. workshops to share about strategy and technical and the building has an intelligent management details. system with extensive monitoring to automatically analyse and adjust energy use. At both Dadong and Tiexi plants, we have developed production lines that are highly flexible and capable of producing traditional combustion engine vehicles DIGITAL.me, Innovation and and new energy vehicles on the same assembly Digitalisation event line. This avoids redundant investment in plants and DIGITAL.me was developed to share the digital production equipment and makes our production culture at BMW Brilliance and present the latest system extremely flexible, so that BMW Brilliance can innovation cases to the BMW world. In the event, react quickly and appropriately to customer demand. Laser welding the battery cell system. eight prototypes developed by Tiexi plant's Innovation Management Council were highlighted. Furthermore, we are collaborating with local network DIGITALISATION AT BMW providers and the local government to explore 5G BRILLIANCE technologies. The emergence of a 5G network creates new opportunities for BMW Brilliance to utilise With the current trend of digitalisation and the real-time connections and big data analysis. This transformation of the automotive industry, innovation can be translated into smarter buildings to optimise Mobility Strategy – Empower Yourself is essential. At BMW Brilliance, we create an energy, emissions, and material use; to enhance In 2017, we launched four digital programmes that environment for innovation, where digitalisation in the accessibility and reach of our mobility services; connect and empower our employees. Designed by production, the use of smart data analytics, smart to enable machine-to-machine communication; to the IT Innovation Lab, we unveiled the “BBA Mini logistics, and innovative automation are enhancing connect our employees; and to improve our logistics Programme” – an app for employees to read BBA the flexibility and quality of production processes. We monitoring and traceability. intranet news and search production reports, the use digital technology to provide more convenient and “Personal Cloud” – an exclusive library of information efficient services for our employees in their day-to-day Meanwhile, we are transforming our company culture for employees, the “Joy Event App” – an app to work, increasing the efficiency of employee interaction to increase open-mindedness towards digitalisation create and participate in events with ease, and “Xiao and building a friendly, proactive, and innovative and Industry 4.0 technologies. We invested in building Bao”, BMW Brilliance’s new digital assistant. corporate culture. the technical competence of our employees by raising awareness through interactive events and programmes. At our new HVB Centre, innovative production processes and state-of-the-art robotics are applied We spur the imaginations of everyone at BMW More detailed information about our focus areas can to our double-module battery production. The Brilliance by encouraging our employees to submit be found in the following subchapters: application of advanced and Industry 4.0 technologies their ideas on our innovation platform, and the most means the HVB Centre sets new standards to promising suggestions are selected and developed Efficient mobility > Chapter 2.2 produce high voltage batteries in China. We use an in our IT Innovation Lab. At BMW Brilliance, our Product safety > Chapter 2.3 employees are the key element in our digitalisation Customer satisfaction > Chapter 2.4 strategy, and we leverage the opportunities of digital programmes to empower, enable, and connect our employees for the future. 50 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY I Efficient mobility Efficient mobility I PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 51 2.2 EFFICIENT MOBILITY Indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 3) of BMW Brilliance automobiles (in t) F. 07 Change from previous 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 year % Climate change and the effects of air quality in our Having reached 6.17 (6.69 in 2016) litres per 100 Total emissions 9,392,718 9,285,353 9,558,817 11,606,790 21.4% communities and our cities present an ongoing kilometres in 2017, 7.8% less than in 2016, we remain challenge for the automotive industry. To address the top-ranked joint venture in China for our corporate Upstream chain 1 1,989,978 1,989,117 2,099,198 2,675,910 27.5% these challenges, we are continuously reducing the average fuel consumption achievement rate and CO2 emissions from our vehicle fleet and aim to be we expect to continue making significant strides in Utilisation phase 2 7,244,557 7,138,095 7,292,407 8,735,582 19.8% the leader in taking a holistic approach to premium contributing to China’s commitments on fuel efficiency Disposal 3 158,183 158,141 167,212 195,298 16.8% electromobility. and emissions targets. 1 Emissions from the upstream chain are calculated based on the carbon footprint of representative vehicles from the product lines. We focus on taking approaches that reduce our impacts 2 The fleet emissions are extrapolated from the average fleet emissions of BMW Brilliance products sold in a given year. The calculation was based on on the environment and are committed through the 7.8% an average mileage of 150,000 kilometres. innovation and development of our product portfolio 3 Emissions from disposal processes are calculated based on the carbon footprint of representative vehicles from the product lines. to increase the efficiency of our traditional combustion engines and expand our range of new energy vehicles, Reduction in corporate average In order to decrease the indirect CO2 emissions of our commutes and city driving in all-electric mode, with a to further reduce corporate average fuel consumption fuel consumption compared vehicles in the future, we will reinforce our efforts to 60-kilometre electric range. and emissions across our product portfolio. promote new energy vehicles, further increase the to 2016. efficiency of fuel consumption and of our transport We also announced the world debut of the all-new logistics > Chapter 3.2 and continue to collaborate BMW 530Le iPerformance, showcasing BMW REDUCING FUEL CONSUMPTION with our suppliers to reduce CO2 emissions along the Brilliance as a pioneer in the field of new energy value chain > Chapter 4. vehicles and as an innovator of sustainable mobility. Fuel efficiency and environmental impacts are important LOWERING CO2 EMISSIONS factors that we consider from the design stage. We Indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 3) are caused by the closely analyse and test the materials, production OFFERING SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY technologies, and drivetrain types on performance, use and disposal of our products, in our supply chain, THE GROWTH OF SERVICES efficiency, and reuse. in transport logistics, and by employees commuting to ELECTROMOBILITY and from work. In 2017, our total indirect CO2 emissions By the end of 2017, BMW’s public charging network increased by 21.4% compared to 2016, primarily due Electromobility is an essential element and strategic had expanded to 92 cities in China, with over 65,000 We reduce the energy requirements of our vehicles by to the growth of our sales volume. Despite the fact that pillar of the Strategy NUMBER ONE > NEXT. As part of charging pillars available. For our customers, the utilising the BMW Group’s Efficient Dynamics Strategy we have made considerable progress in improving the BMW Group’s global production, BMW Brilliance will ChargeNow™ card provides access to the charging and by including innovations such as lightweight average fuel economy across our fleet with CO2 contribute to the commitment set by the BMW Group, pillars, and BMW Connected Drive gives drivers design, efficient engines and gearboxes, and optimised emissions decreasing to 146.9 grams per kilometre to offer 25 electrified models to our customers by 2025. updated information about charging stations in their aerodynamics. We are increasing the new energy from 159.2 in 2016, our emissions generated at the immediate vicinity. We also maintain a ChargeNow™ vehicles offerings in our product portfolio to contribute utilisation phase increased by 19.8% > Figure 07. At the end of 2017, China’s overall new energy vehicle WeChat account as another platform for our customers to our fulfilment of China’s corporate average fuel This was a disproportional increase when compared production and sales volume had maintained its global to receive real-time information about charging pillar consumption target for passenger vehicles, set at 5.0 to a 29.8% growth in production and displays our lead for three consecutive years, with over 1.8 million locations, charging services, and related events. litres per 100 kilometres by 2020, and to meet the significant fuel economy improvements. new energy vehicles accumulatively sold, representing requirements set by China’s new dual-credit scheme, more than 50% of the global market share of new the “Management Regulations for Corporate Average energy vehicles. Fuel Consumption (CAFC) and New Energy Vehicle (NEV) Credits” which will be enforced from April 2018. As a pioneer in shaping electromobility in China, our These regulations are a positive step forward in ZINORO brand, designed and produced in China for reducing fuel consumption in the Chinese automotive the Chinese market, launched the second model – market and will motivate vehicle manufacturers to the all-new ZINORO 60H, a plug-in hybrid model accelerate deployment in the new energy vehicle that combines zero-emission driving in the city with market, extend driving ranges, increase battery density, a longer range for distance travel. Customers driving and reduce costs. the ZINORO 60H can easily complete their daily Assembly shop at Tiexi plant. National launch of the ZINORO 60H. 52 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY I Efficient mobility Product safety I PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 53 To reinforce our public charging network, our ChargeNow™ programme includes strategic parking space in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Hangzhou or Chengdu, a special charging 2.3 PRODUCT SAFETY partnerships with local providers to extend public card package provides access to semi-public access to charging pillars and intelligent charging charging stations in their residential compounds. We systems. All public ChargeNow™ charging pillars can also contribute to the Sino-German electric vehicle be used by customers of other brands with vehicles charging project, which brings together government Our approach on product safety follows that of the China’s vehicle fuel consumption regulations. The conforming to the China GB standard by purchasing a officials, automotive companies, and scientific BMW Group. We protect our customers and other fuel consumption for all our vehicle models can be charging card from our local partners. institutes to conduct research on topics related to the road users from injury by creating networks of active referenced on the Ministry of Industry and Information charging of new energy vehicles. and passive vehicle safety systems. Technology website. As one of the key aspects of BMW Group’s vision Road safety and the use of hazard-free materials We monitor customer feedback on our products and for future mobility and part of the ACES approach are crucial from both social and environmental pay close attention to any feedback on the topic of (Automated, Connected, Electrified and Shared), perspectives. BMW Brilliance has adopted an safety. If necessary, the responsible authorities are ReachNow launched its car sharing service in integrated approach to product safety in line with informed without delay and measures to secure Chengdu in partnership with leading car sharing the global safety standards of the BMW Group. This customer safety are initiated. We have established provider EVCARD. The business launched with 100 includes advanced safety systems, the avoidance of implementation processes and organisations for this fully electric BMW i3 available to pick up and drop off potentially harmful materials and emissions inside our purpose. at over 1,000 stations across the city. The debut of car vehicles, adequate product information, and safety sharing in Asia, also marks the launch of BMW Group's training for drivers. Keeping our customers and other official mobility brand ReachNow into the Chinese Our customers with private parking spaces can market, aiming to offer new and innovative individual road users safe is an integral part of our product SAFETY SYSTEMS AND responsibility. also receive private charging wall boxes, including mobility solutions to Chinese customers. TRAINING installation services. Our certified installers provide For example, during the product development phase, Our vehicles are designed to keep passengers and free standard installation in 100 cities across the we are exploring the most advanced safety features, other road users safe. They include active safety country. For customers who do not have their own materials and technologies that guarantee product systems that help prevent accidents as well as safety. At production, we use optical checking enabled passive safety systems which seek to mitigate the by 3D cameras that detect abnormal trends in welding consequences should an accident occur. Active safety and foil application, verify and optimise welding quality, includes perfect chassis tuning, optimal traction, and and flag potential quality defects during production. effective brakes. Electronic chassis control systems During utilisation, we inform our customers about any as well as a range of driver assistance systems also potential risks and hazards related to our products, contribute towards accident prevention. as well as the environmental performance and proper use of our products and services. We report on the Should an accident occur, all BMW Group vehicles fuel consumption of our vehicles in accordance with and ZINORO models have energy-absorbing crumple zones, safe passenger cells, restraint systems, airbags, and many other passive safety features that protect the lives and health of drivers. Moreover, the vehicle front has various devices installed to protect pedestrians. For example, the BMW X1, the first premium SAV designed for the Chinese market, is equipped with a number of active safety features, such as seatbelt alert for front passengers, electronic stability control, and adaptive headlights. These features put the BMW X1 at the top of the compact SUV category, having been awarded a five-star rating for the crash test and the 2016 Safety Car Award from China Automotive 3D camera optical check of laser welding. Technology and Research Centre (CATARC). 54 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY I Product safety Product safety I PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 55 Beyond our vehicle safety features, we provide PROTECTING INTERIOR AIR QUALITY In the same year, we also passed the 2017 China BMW customers with complete road safety training, Compulsory Certification (CCC) external audit with We identify potential health effects caused by designed for a range of different skill levels and driving zero findings. The audit includes an inspection of substances found in our external environment. In abilities. Led by our expert team of 31 instructors, production processes, materials, and equipment, response to the growing challenge of air pollution who are certified in Germany and BMW-qualified, as well as a conformity check of all series products. in urban areas, all BMW vehicles are equipped more than 7,600 participants took part in our training Generally, BMW Brilliance’s product standard with a passenger compartment filter as standard. This courses and events across eight cities in 2017. These requirements are higher than China’s mandatory highly efficient air filter almost completely removes localised and tailored training courses test drivers requirements for product emissions, fuel consumption, particles such as dust, pollen, and pollutants from under a variety of conditions and offer a safe, superior the use of environmentally sound materials, and incoming air. and complete BMW driving experience. recyclability and reusability throughout a product’s Non-hazardous material analysis. life cycle. ACHIEVING PRODUCT AND At our High Voltage Battery Centre, we obtained ISO/ MANAGING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM TS16949 Letter of Conformance (LOC) issued by To ensure a comprehensive and consistent approach CERTIFICATION the IATF (International Automobile Task Force). This certification provides confidence in the application towards prohibited and restricted substances and In 2017, external auditors from China Quality Certification of new high voltage battery technology and materials, BMW Brilliance and the BMW Group work Centre (CQC) conducted an ISO 9001:2008 audit recognises our management process and approach, closely to define clear business procedures that at Dadong plant, Tiexi plant and Powertrain plant on quality management system knowledge, working secure the safe control of hazardous substances. our operations, quality, purchasing, and research and environment, and target setting. In the future, BMW development. With our advanced quality management Brilliance plans to expand the audit to cover the entire We are aligned with the BMW Group in monitoring system, we successfully achieved the certification, Powertrain plant and has already started preparation. vehicles and components to ensure compliance demonstrating that the BMW Brilliance quality with EU end-of-life vehicles (ELV) directives and we management system is working effectively. include this in international purchase contracts to ensure supply chain cooperation. We comply with USING SAFE MATERIALS the Management Requirements for Automotive Hazardous Substances and Recyclability and In the early development phase, we evaluate the Recoverability Rate issued by MIIT (2015-38), which potential materials to be used in a product in order recommends limits for recyclability and recoverability to determine the risk potential and eliminate any of parts. This has come into effect since January 2016 problematic materials from the outset. This for new models, and will be compulsory from January ensures that all policies and regulations in terms 2018 for existing models. We require compliance with of product safety and protection of human health the same guidelines throughout our supply chain. and the environment are met in each phase of the vehicle life cycle (from development to utilisation, With customer demand for new energy vehicles through to recycling and disposal). As part of our growing in China and globally, further research will production process, we fully document all chemical identify any effects of hazardous materials associated substances used. These substances first undergo with the parts that comprise high voltage batteries. Our a safety inspection and are then approved for a current efforts are to provide optimal battery usage specific application through our central recording and explore opportunities to increase the recyclability system, which provides detailed specifications and of used batteries by working with the government tips on handling these products as well as on storage, to support the policymaking process and working transport, and first aid. with our suppliers to identify where continuous improvements can be made. HVB Centre obtains the ISO/TS16949 Letter of Conformance. 56 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY I Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction I PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 57 2.4 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION COLLECTING CUSTOMER FEEDBACK SUPPORTING DEALER We solicit customer feedback via text message after IMPROVEMENT each interaction with one of our dealers, so we can proactively respond to any negative feedback with a We monitor our dealers’ performance in sales and call to the customer to get more detailed information. aftersales services with our Joy Index. We conduct Customer demand is constantly evolving and in this Customer inquiries, suggestions, and comments surveys to collect information about customer technological age, customers can see, interact with, are then sent to the relevant departments or dealers satisfaction and feedback, which we analyse monthly and experience products and brands in new ways. for follow-up. We assess customer feedback and and then share with our dealers. The information We aim to maintain high customer satisfaction with resolution rates on a monthly basis, to be able to act on serves as a basis to better align services with customer high-performance vehicles, sustainable designs, and common issues and improve response and resolution needs and expectations and allows us to jointly track premium customer services. times. To date, 185 BMW dealers are involved in this improvements over time. To help our dealers offer new process and the results show a positive impact on premium customer service, we encourage ongoing We strengthen our customer engagement through customer satisfaction. exchanges among dealers, and the best dealer action open communication, collecting feedback, protecting plans or service tips are shared on an online dealer customer data, and through investing in our aftersales In 2017, over 83,000 aftersales customers participated platform. teams to deliver the best possible services that are in interviews conducted by our Customer Interaction reflective of BMW Brilliance’s core values. Centre. Overall, satisfaction was high, with a customer We prepare our dealers to better serve their customers recommendation rate of 93.7%, increasing from with an on-site coaching programme, with the aim We use a 360-degree customer view tool to make 86.7% in 2016. of creating a consistent premium experience for all proactive, needs-based suggestions to our customers IMPROVING CUSTOMER and to harmonise customer communication across customers and prospects who visit our dealerships. The goal is to make the customer experience more INTERACTION different departments and communication channels. personal, emotional, and inspiring. We provide onThe tool analyses customer data and informs our To optimise our customer interaction and support, site training for all our new dealerships and carry dealers regularly about the current situation and needs we integrate our multiple communication channels out individualised coaching for dealerships with low of each customer. In response, we send each of our to provide increasingly individualised information to customer feedback scores. Dealers identified for customers the information they require, such as a our customers and offer benefits through our local improvement will receive training from the BMW China service reminder, information about insurance renewal commercial partnerships. Training Academy. or end of warranty, sales promotions, or a birthday greeting. We also use the 360-degree customer view The BMW Customer Interaction Centre is at the core To better serve our customers, we conduct a customer tool in our Customer Interaction Centre, increasing of our communication with customers. Our agents survey to collect feedback on dealership experiences. the efficiency of our communication and resulting in call current and prospective customers to gather In 2017, the survey concluded that customers prefer higher customer satisfaction. In 2017, we launched information about their satisfaction with our dealers’ more interactive experiences or more convenient and the BMW Online Chat on our official website and sales and aftersales services. We also receive over digital options. In response, our aftersales team now further personalised customer communication in our 59,000 inbound calls per month, which are mostly encourages our sales consultants to customise their online newsletters. customer inquiries. A self-service function allows Customer data security is a top priority, and our Data approach and deliver information based on individual customers to receive information efficiently and Privacy Protection Office provides technical security to needs. We also extended our dealership network provides the option to receive information as a text protect customer data and its usage. BMW Brilliance to provide more customer touch points, including message. implemented a standardised process which adheres the expansion of digital services to further increase to the customer data privacy protection process of the customer convenience. In the future we will provide Our Direct Communication Circle defines which BMW Group. Our dealers apply the same processes upgraded interactive technology devices in more content and campaigns are of interest to each to ensure our customers’ personal information is showrooms, to harness digitalisation as a tool for customer group. The relevant information is then kept safe. We continuously improve our systems and connecting with customers. included in individualised online newsletters that are processes in line with developments in customer sent to eight million customers, users, and prospects data protection requirements, and we offer various each month. channels for customers to change their opt-in status based on their preferences. BMW chat service. 58 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY I Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction I PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 59 FOSTERING SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR “Expanded our new energy DEALERSHIPS vehicle dealership network to We apply the 5S dealer certification programme of PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY: FORECAST 2018 the BMW Group to promote sustainability among our 234 locations in 75 cities.” dealers. The 5S programme incorporates the concept of sustainability along with the traditional 4S (sales, services, survey, and spare parts) concept and requires For the electrification of our product fleet, we have dealers to reach a relevant sustainability standard which expanded our new energy vehicle dealership network includes their contributions to the local economy and to 234 locations in 75 cities. To ensure these dealers employment, their commitment to community welfare, In 2018, we will celebrate the roll-off of our We will work closely with the local government can provide the best possible service to customers and the validity of their measures for resource use and our two millionth locally produced vehicle, and local service providers to foster the and prospects, we conduct on-site training. We also carbon emission reduction at their operations. As of three short years after reaching 1 million in development and application of a 5G network train sales advisors, area managers, and call centre 2017, we had 42 5S dealerships in the BMW China 2015. We will also launch the BMW 530Le at our plants, to expand smart manufacturing agents to complement the service at our dealerships. network. Moreover, 16 dealers were successfully iPerformance, reflecting our investment processes, to explore new technologies that To stimulate demand and further expand the share of recertified according to the 5S certification model, and success in the premium new energy optimise production and non-production new energy vehicles in our fleet, we are implementing which requires renewal every two years. vehicle segment and the all-new BMW X3, operations and to enable machine-to-machine a strong marketing and public relations campaign. Through experiential events, potential customers becoming the sixth BMW model to be locally communication. get the opportunity to experience first-hand the produced, which will redefine the premium outstanding performance and driving dynamics of our mid-size SUV market. Product safety will remain our priority. We will new energy vehicles. work to improve our active and passive safety In line with the BMW Group’s strategy and as features, expand our range of driver assistance a global leader in innovative mobility, BMW systems and continue driver safety training. plans to expand our mobility service offerings In 2018, we are extending our training to in China, growing the car sharing offering and include more locations, so that our tailor-made investigating other business models to provide courses can be more readily available to both customers with more choices to meet their current and prospective BMW customers and mobility needs. With our growth in new energy improve overall road safety across China. vehicle production, we will set-up over 80,000 ChargeNow™ charging pillars covering over Our relationship with customers will be 100 cities to better support customer access intensified with the introduction of our new and to reinforce the new energy vehicle global Customer Board under the BMW ecosystem in China. Group that will support aftersales services. Dealership showrooms will also be upgraded New energy vehicle dealership. Energy saving architecture, utilising natural light. We will export the BMW 1 Series Sedan in with interactive technology devices, expanding 2018, marking a further milestone at BMW on current digitalisation pilots. Brilliance, as we bring our locally produced high-quality vehicles to the world. Our production capabilities will continue to expand. BMW Brilliance will lay the foundation for Phase II of our High Voltage Battery (HVB) Centre, fostering greater research and development capabilities in battery and new energy vehicle production technologies. 03 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 3.1 / Strategy and management 3.2 / Energy consumption and emissions 3.3 / Waste management 3.4 / Reducing water consumption 62 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION I Our sustainability drivers Our sustainability drivers I ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 63 OUR SUSTAINABILITY DRIVERS “Being recognised as a Green Plant reflects the progress of our overall green manufacturing strategy, which is embedded in our management system.” Management system (Quality management system, environmental management system, OSAHS, energy management system) Products (Eco design, efficiency, Energy and resource General emissions) input requirements PRODUCTION Performance Green Plant Project Core Team (Legitimacy (Water, electricity, natural gas, heating, material, equipment PROCESS (Indicators) regulations) and purchasing process) Environmental emissions (Waste gas, wastewater, solid waste) Why was BMW Brilliance selected to Our commitment to green manufacturing includes receive the Green Plant Award from the projects to improve our energy efficiency, increase the Infrastructure Ministry of Industry and Information amount of renewable energy that we use, and promote (Building & facilities, utilities, metering and lighting) Technology? the implementation of our energy management system based on ISO 50001 and our greenhouse gas At BMW Brilliance, we have put great efforts into emission reporting in line with ISO 14064. We utilise our green manufacturing implementation which has a Heat Recovery Centre to recover waste heat from received significant recognition. The National Green our foundry and we are installing solar panels that will How does this national recognition What other plans does BMW Brilliance Plant Award is a new initiative by the Ministry of provide renewable energy for our plants. reflect BMW Brilliance’s manufacturing have to promote green manufacturing in Industry and Information Technology that includes an strategy? China? assessment of seven areas – general requirements, infrastructure, management system, energy and Green Manufacturing System is an important pillar of BMW Brilliance has been invited to join the national resources, product, environmental emissions, and the government’s Made in China 2025 strategy, and Green Factory Promotion Alliance of China as a council comprehensive performance. We set a target to be in BMW Brilliance winning the National Green Plant member. We will also be involved in the development the first group of National Green Plants in China and Award is a strong endorsement from the Chinese and optimisation of assessment standards for Green were honoured to be selected in September 2017. government that we are putting into action its green Plants in the automotive industry and will support the manufacturing strategies. drive for green manufacturing in China. Being recognised as a Green Plant reflects the progress of our overall green manufacturing strategy, which is embedded in our management system. Operating as a National Green Plant is a long-term approach that supports BMW Brilliance’s strategy of furthering green manufacturing in China. 64 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION I Strategy and management Energy consumption and emissions I ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 65 3.1 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT 3.2 ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND EMISSIONS BMW Brilliance aims to be the most resource-efficient of BMW Brilliance, and meets quarterly to review Our total energy consumption increased by 17.8% in Since the introduction of new foundry technology in our premium mobility provider in China. We are working performance on environmental targets. 2017 compared with 2016, due to the addition of new Powertrain plant, our energy efficiency is beginning to to increase the energy and resource efficiency of our production technologies > Figure 08. Finding ways to improve due to use of a Heat Recovery Centre, which production processes and reduce our emissions. Through the BMW Group’s international environmental improve our energy efficiency with these technologies enables our foundry to recover waste heat for use in Through these measures, we minimise our impacts protection network, our experts exchange ideas with in place is a top priority. heating water and buildings. From 2017, this creates on the environment, contribute to China’s ambitious environmental specialists from other BMW Group plants. 1,716 MWh/a of energy savings. environmental goals, and reduce our costs, while The aim is to build the competence of local teams and incorporating industry best practices. employees and share best practices globally. We conduct annual internal and external audits of our environmental We are committed to reducing our environmental management system and always strive for improvement. Energy consumption at all plant locations (in MWh) F. 08 impacts to a minimum. We set targets at the earliest All our operating plant locations are certified in phase of product development and define concrete accordance with ISO 14001. In 2017, BMW Brilliance measures for their achievement. Using life-cycle was certified to the new ISO 14001:2015 standard. Change from previous engineering to achieve specific environmental 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017* year % targets, we develop products to be environmentally As government inspections of the industry have Total fuel consumption from 115,447 109,895 132,325 183,422 184,408 0.5% friendly over their total life span, and work to reduce increased, we are taking a proactive approach to non-renewable resources environmental impacts during both the production ensure compliance by continuing to stay in close and utilisation phases of our vehicles. communication with relevant authorities to better Total electricity consumption 165,396 216,674 202,558 295,867 393,565 33.0% understand and align with their expectations. Inputs The BMW Group target for 2020 is to reduce Groupfrom interactions with government officials at the plant Total heating consumption 162,627 153,660 143,539 144,130 156,295 8.4% wide resource consumption per vehicle produced by level are brought to top management at the BMW 45% compared to 2006, and BMW Brilliance makes Group and BMW Brilliance, and used to enhance a significant contribution to these goals by reducing current management systems and mechanisms. Total energy consumption 443,500 480,229 478,424 623,419 734,268 17.8% our energy consumption and water consumption. Our new plant in Dadong utilises advanced production * Includes energy consumption of new facilities and new production technologies. technologies along with wall insulation and intelligent OUR CORPORATE CULTURE lights to achieve 30% lower energy consumption, and We aim to incorporate environmental protection into the paint shop uses 60% less energy and water than our organisational culture. One way that we raise 10 years ago. awareness and motivate employees to help reduce our In 2017, we increased our use of power from renewable environmental impacts is by including environmental BMW Brilliance’s environmental management system is energy sources. Wind power purchased from the grid topics in information exchanges and competence based on BMW Group systems, international standards, accounted for 25% of our total electricity consumption building for the workforce. We also conduct annual and relevant environmental legislation in China. in 2017. We are also installing 17.1 MW capacity of environmental campaigns on specific topics for solar panels Phase I will be in operation in July 2018, 2017, the campaign topic was energy savings, with and Phase II will be complete by the end of 2018. The information on how to reduce energy consumption at power generated will be used by BMW Brilliance, with ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION the office and at home, and an Environment Protection any surplus channelled into the city’s energy grid. AND MANAGEMENT Star Award was awarded to one team in each plant for their achievements. Our energy consumption and carbon footprint for Our Board of Management appoints a representative production decreased in 2017, to 0.70 tonnes of CO2 to ensure the effective implementation of our overall We focus on reducing the environmental impact of our per unit > Figure 09. In the coming years, we plan to environmental management system. At the plant level, activities in three key areas: reduce this further by expanding our energy efficiency each plant director is responsible for environmental measures and using cleaner energy sources. management of our operations. In addition, the Energy consumption and emissions > Chapter 3.2 Solar panels installed at Gate 2, Tiexi plant. Environmental Sustainability Circle has the mandate to Waste management > Chapter 3.3 continuously improve the environmental performance Reducing water consumption > Chapter 3.4 66 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION I Energy consumption and emissions Energy consumption and emissions I ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 67 CO2 emissions per unit produced at all plant locations (in t/unit) F. 09 Distribution Network Decentralised Distribution Areas F. 10 Change from previous 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 year % CO2 emissions per unit produced 1.10 0.97 0.88 1.13 0.70 –38.0% Shenyang INCREASING TRANSPORT 26% Dalian EFFICIENCY Our logistics operations facilitate the safe and efficient Xi’an We have shifted 40 of our inbound transport of components from our suppliers to our suppliers from road freight to Shanghai manufacturing plants and of finished vehicles from Chengdu rail, including a special train from our plants to our dealerships. We rely on partnerships with our suppliers to reflect best practice and enhance Shanghai to Shenyang launched efficiency and transparency. in 2017 with 26% lower CO2 Vessel emissions than road transport. Train In 2017, our focus was on increasing the share of lowGuangzhou carbon modes of transport to reduce overall costs Truck and minimise our environmental impact. Our vision e-trucks, and rail freight. We have shifted 40 of our is to green our logistics and move beyond regulatory inbound suppliers from road freight to rail, including Decentralised Distribution Areas requirements. Our proactive measures to reduce CO2 a special train from Shanghai to Shenyang launched emissions for freight transportation both preand in 2017 with 26% lower CO2 emissions than road post-production has put us in an advantageous transport. During assembly, we are optimising the position for the future. With the recent promulgation of handling steps at the warehouse while also finding We have held several information sessions with logistics REDUCING VOC EMISSIONS providers and suppliers to discuss BMW Brilliance’s GB1589-2016 by the authorities, we are introducing ways to reuse equipment and materials through flexible logistics strategy and strengthen cooperation We are committed to reducing the VOCs (volatile standard-dimension trucks into our fleet, and also production lines. For the all-new BMW 5 Series Li we throughout the value chain. We also provide training organic compounds) from our production processes taking this as an opportunity to boost rail freight and changed to recyclable packaging instead of disposable, to suppliers on CO2 emissions monitoring and waste to mitigate any risks and impacts on society. Our VOC sea shipments while exploring new technologies that resulting in a 30% waste reduction in packaging and disposal regulations. We include “Environmental emissions increased from 0.40 kg of VOCs produced will optimise and automate our inbound and outbound cost savings. Within our plants we have integrated Protection and Zero Waste” as one of the fundamental per unit in 2016 to 0.54 kg of VOCs per unit in 2017, processes. forklift software to increase efficiency by using the principles for suppliers, motivating suppliers to make due to the start-up of production at Dadong plant, which shortest possible routes. This has drastically cut down their own environmentally friendly decisions. In 2017, required an optimisation period. With a relatively lower delivery time of materials. we introduced end-to-end transparency with our volume of vehicles produced in the ramp-up phase, our logistics providers to show customers the origin and per-unit VOC emissions were higher. For outbound logistics, we are increasing the use destination of parts. of rail and sea shipments to reduce road transport emissions, lowering our CO2 emissions from Over 16,000 of our employees use BMW Brilliance’s long-distance transport by 6% in 2017. We use shuttle buses to travel to and from work each day, vessels from the port of Dalian to deliver finished reducing the number of private vehicles on the roads vehicles to Shanghai and Guangzhou. We are also and the amount of CO2 emissions generated by utilising trains for transportation to Chengdu and employee commutes. Xi’an and launched a new dispatch area in Xi’an which Ceremony of the 1st Shanghai to Shenyang special train freight. utilises rail for pre-haul. We optimised new vehicle unloading and parking in Dadong and Tiexi so that For inbound logistics, we utilise and promote carboncars are immediately loaded according to the direction efficient means of transport as much as possible. of travel, reducing unnecessary moves and lowering With our suppliers we encourage clean energy fuels, our costs and emissions > Figure 10. Paint shop at new Dadong plant. 68 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION I Waste management Waste management I ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 69 3.3 WASTE MANAGEMENT ENSURING RESPONSIBLE on-site every two years. For non-hazardous waste, we conduct a document check every second year and onWASTE MANAGEMENT site audits every four years for all service providers with We select our waste management service providers physical operations. carefully, to ensure that our waste is processed correctly Managing waste is a priority at BMW Brilliance, In our production processes, we use recycled and that legal requirements are satisfied. All service In 2017, we carried out eight waste audits covering six and we address this through waste management packaging to reduce waste and minimise our impact providers are audited regularly in accordance with the waste management service suppliers. As a result of procedures designed to appropriately handle waste on the environment. The use of returnable packaging BMW Group’s waste management procedures. Only our increased production volume and implementation generation from production to transport. Our objective for local parts whenever possible has drastically suppliers that satisfy the audit criteria are permitted of new projects, our waste for disposal increased by is to minimise our overall waste footprint and make reduced our packaging waste. to perform waste management activities. Service 51.8% while our waste for disposal per unit produced lasting contributions to the BMW Group’s 2020 goal providers who handle hazardous waste are audited increased by 15.7% > Figure 11, > Figure 12. of reducing waste by 45% per vehicle, compared to 2006 levels. Total hazardous and non-hazardous waste at all plant locations (in t) F. 11 We use an adapted version of the BMW Group’s waste information system to record the waste we produce. The system allows us to optimise the handling of Change from waste especially in terms of reuse and recycling and previous 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 year % to assure compliance with Chinese legislation. We document individual waste flows and categorise Hazardous waste for recycling 1,940 4,060 3,999 5,024 6,799 35.3% waste as hazardous or non-hazardous, in accordance with the Waste Pollution Prevention and Control Law Hazardous waste for disposal 384 1,034 2,000 723 1,365 88.8% and the Hazardous Waste Catalogue of China. Cardboard waste sorting. Total hazardous waste 2,324 5,094 5,999 5,747 8,164 42.1% Non-hazardous waste for recycling 13,113 22,312 26,659 39,067 62,230 59.3% Non-hazardous waste for disposal 563 597 641 1,219 1,582 29.8% Total non-hazardous waste 13,676 22,909 27,300 40,286 63,812 58.4% Total waste for disposal 947 1,631 2,641 1,942 2,947 51.8% Total waste for recycling 15,052 26,374 30,658 44,091 69,029 56.6% Plastic waste sorting. Total waste 15,999 28,005 33,299 46,033 71,976 56.4% Waste for disposal per unit produced at all plant locations (in kg/unit) F. 12 Change from previous 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 year % Waste for disposal per unit produced 4.41 5.67 9.17 6.42 7.43 15.7% 70 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION I Reducing water consumption Reducing water consumption I ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 71 3.4 REDUCING WATER CONSUMPTION Process wastewater per unit produced at all plant locations (in m3/unit) F. 14 Change from previous 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 year % Most of our water use is for production processes, Activities to increase our water savings include cooling, and water consumed by our employees. We optimisation of cooling water in our machining work to continuously improve our water efficiency in workshop for engine production, which is expected to Process wastewater per unit produced 0.50 0.47 0.46 0.46 0.39 −15.2% all three areas. To reduce water consumption in our reduce water demand by 38%. At our Dadong plant, production processes, we have increased the reuse of we implemented a wastewater reclamation system water at our plants. that saves 85,000 m3 of wastewater annually. At Tiexi and Powertrain plants, we recycled 15,813 m3 of safe wastewater for use at our paint shop and 115,791 m3 for irrigation of our properties in 2017. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION: FORECAST 2018 In 2018, our solar power project will become new electric vehicle shuttle buses in the operational at Tiexi and Powertrain plants. Guangzhou Decentralised Dispatch Area and Recycled water station at new Dadong plant. Within the effective sun lighting period, it a hybrid plug-in shuttle bus in the Shenyang will contribute about 15 MW of our plants' Plant Dispatch Area, and we will launch new Our location in Shenyang, which faces water energy consumption. Surplus power will be Decentralised Dispatch Areas in Ningbo and scarcity challenges, makes responsible water use Treated wastewater for irrigation. channelled into Shenyang's local energy grid. Zhengzhou. fundamentally important for BMW Brilliance. In 2017, we continued to implement water-saving A management system monitors water consumption Our environmental protection campaign for We will continue to use and trial new methods initiatives for our production plants and offices. We levels and targets at each of our plants. Despite 2018 will focus on waste management. In that increase reuse and recyclability of are investigating whether the treated water from our continued efforts to limit our consumption, the addition, we will continue the audits of our materials while optimising our systems and our wastewater recycling system can be used for expansion of our facilities resulted in a 3.9% increase waste management service providers to performance. We are doing this by phasing cooling in the paint shop, to complement the water in water consumed per unit in 2017 compared to the ensure correct handling. We also plan to find out lead-acid batteries for lithium-ion batteries in the cooling tower. The BMW Group is developing previous year > Figure 13. However, we reduced the more potential suppliers for recycling services for our forklifts used in inbound logistics. a Water Roadmap 2020 to guide water consumption amount of process wastewater produced per unit to and increase the proportion of waste that is We are investing in vehicle packaging that reduction efforts for all its plants, including those 0.39 m3 > Figure 14. recycled. moves away from cardboard and we are under BMW Brilliance. leveraging emerging opportunities to digitalise In 2018, we will expand the shift from road and optimise the transportation of inbound freight to rail, and we will use digital tools materials. Water consumption per unit produced at all plant locations (in m3/unit) F. 13 to improve transport routes. We will adopt Change from previous 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 year % Water consumption per unit produced 2.72 2.18 2.18 2.58 2.68 3.9% 04 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 4.1 / Strategy and management 4.2 / Implementing our approach 74 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT I Our sustainability drivers Our sustainability drivers I SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 75 OUR SUSTAINABILITY DRIVERS How is BMW Brilliance working with Boysen on sustainability challenges and emerging issues like China’s Stage 6 emissions standard? BMW Brilliance is proactively addressing these challenges by working closely with Boysen’s local project organisations and teams. A strong partnership and regular, open communication are the key factors for success. Only through early and timely communication are both companies able to deploy and implement the right development and industrialisation tasks to ensure that all product and quality targets are met in Boysen production line. compliance with Chinese regulations. Ronny Rothen Once the first project sample parts are produced and How has sustainable development assembled on the vehicles, BMW Brilliance feedback in parts design resulted in enhanced Plant Manager, to us on product performance is critical to fine-tune performance and competitiveness Boysen Exhaust Systems (Shenyang) Ltd. our processes ensuring that parts are up to the highest at Boysen? quality standards, as required by the premium segment market. Through our strong relationship that we have Our work on developing parts with more sustainable At Boysen, what are the biggest How does Boysen approach built over the last decade with BMW Brilliance, we are performance has created decisive competitive sustainability issues and opportunities you sustainability? able to achieve complex projects such as meeting advantages for Boysen and our customers from see? China’s Stage 6 emission standard in a relatively short the combination of weight reduction, backpressure The compatibility of individual mobility and and demanding time frame. reduction, and profitability due to improved process As a specialist in exhaust technology, our most environmental protection is the core business of the technology. This means our systems are not only important sustainability issues are air pollution and Boysen Group. Therefore, all sustainability issues have resource-saving in production but also in operation, climate change. We develop and produce higha considerable influence on our daily work. consuming less fuel and producing less CO2 emissions. performance systems and components that reduce pollutants and noise emissions. Our sustainable We have a sustainable business model, as a foundation systems reduce emissions of NOx, carbon monoxide, company which has no shareholders with short-term and hydrocarbons, and provide soundproofing. We profit interests. The protection of the environment “Our work on developing also have high-performance systems in exhaust gas and the preservation of jobs are firmly anchored in parts with more sustainable purification, vibration control, and CO2 optimisation. our principles and our management culture, as well as in the entire organisation. Our commitment to performance has created In our operations, we also rigorously manage waste sustainable corporate governance is also reflected decisive competitive and effluents. Our principle is to avoid waste wherever in our use of state-of-the-art energy concepts at all possible and for what cannot be avoided, to recycle. production sites worldwide. advantages for Boysen.” We have reusable metal bin systems for our part suppliers and have eliminated washing from the Through the Boysen Foundation, we promote research Boysen Exhaust Systems Shenyang plant. production process. We maximise energy efficiency and science in the field of environmental technology at at our facility with state-of-the-art heat exchanger various excellent universities in Germany. systems and closed heating and cooling circuits. 76 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT I Strategy and management Strategy and management I SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 77 4.1 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT However, it is important to our business that the transition to localise suppliers is cost-effective and provides benefits for the environment and our communities. We are committed to identifying the best possible methods to alleviate any challenges and potential community impacts. BMW Brilliance’s supply chain network is both global SRM sustainability areas F. 15 and local and continues to grow at a significant pace. Our engagement with our suppliers is a major source The following subchapter describes the implementation of value creation and innovation for us. However, of our management approach > Chapter 4.2. Environment, Health, our supply chain also presents challenges from and Safety (EHS) a sustainability perspective, as it includes a vast network of suppliers and sub-suppliers. We recognise Purchasing volume in China the complexity of maintaining sustainability standards On-site visit to a supplier. (in billion CNY) F. 16 throughout our supplier network and the challenges that our suppliers experience. In response, our teams use processes and communication channels to effectively SUPPLIER RISK Aligning our sourcing closely with the BMW Group’s 11.7% and transparently collect data and supplier information MANAGEMENT global strategy has meant an increasing shift of value creation toward China, which today constitutes the 30 to improve our risk management and compliance AREAS 26.7 Group’s main sales market > Figure 16. Local sourcing 23.9 23.5 23.9 outcomes. In 2017, we made considerable progress in 25 provides numerous benefits for our business and for streamlining our supplier network management. society, including lowered currency risks, the ability 20 17.9 Social Sub-supplier to support the communities and regions in which we We also see opportunities to leverage our own 15 Responsibility Management operate, and a smaller transport footprint resulting in expertise to help suppliers improve their sustainability lower greenhouse gas emissions. 10 performance. We are convinced that working closely with suppliers on sustainability will be the key to 5 BMW Brilliance has an ongoing initiative to move achieving our own long-term goals, underscoring our At BMW Brilliance, our China-based Supplier Risk suppliers to Shenyang, which will reduce costs and position as a responsible mobility provider. Management process includes on-site assessments 0 CO2 emissions from transportation and logistics. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 by our own staff, who can terminate the relationship Sustainable supply chain management is embedded or impose a corrective action plan if necessary. New in our overall approach to supplier relationships. We projects to extend assessment to high-risk subprioritise close long-term partnerships with shared suppliers have shown positive results and will be objectives and targets to continuously improve used to inform and improve our existing supplier risk Developing our local network of suppliers product and production quality, ensure security of management processes. supply, and enable innovation. Integrating sustainability By year-end 2017, we worked with 359 suppliers based in mainland China, an increase of management into our supply chain helps to Many of our suppliers see the Supplier Risk 4% from 2016. minimise risks, maximise opportunities, and achieve Management process as not just a compliance our overall sustainability goals. In our engagement mechanism, but also as a way to become more Our suppliers are located across 17 Chinese provinces. The number of suppliers located in with suppliers, we discuss the challenges and competitive in a marketplace where sustainability Liaoning Province, where our plants are also located, has steadily increased in recent years, opportunities we face, and develop in-depth analyses is increasingly synonymous with quality. We up from 79 in 2016 to 84 in 2017. and solutions in a collaborative manner. encourage them in this process by strengthening our relationships further and helping them to improve. We The volume of parts purchased from local suppliers has stabilised at a high level since Our overall approach to Supplier Risk Management have various supplier initiatives that help us to build 2014. Our supplier selection process for China is shaped by several criteria and considerations. (SRM) incorporates sustainability. In addition to finance, supplier capacity, including a programme where BMW maintenance, and delivery, we have defined three Brilliance and Tier I suppliers conduct joint visits of We aim to source all major large automotive parts from within China, to significantly reduce specific sustainability areas > Figure 15. sub-suppliers. international shipping costs and related emissions. In most cases, we seek direct engagement with the manufacturers rather than involving contractors, brokers, wholesalers, or agents. 78 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT I Implementing our approach Implementing our approach I SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 79 4.2 IMPLEMENTING OUR APPROACH OUR APPROACH TO MINIMISING SUPPLIER RISK To promote greater corporate responsibility among our is in accordance with the ISO 14001 Environment suppliers, we developed a dedicated BMW Brilliance Management System and the ISO 45001 Occupational BMW Brilliance has a cross-functional team responsible OUR SUPPLIER Supplier Risk Management process. The framework Health and Safety Management Standards. for integrating sustainability into our supply chain. The SUSTAINABILITY CLAUSES three major departments involved – Parts Purchasing, Supplier Quality Management, and Logistics Quality BMW Brilliance’s supplier network connects to the Management – make up a “clover-leaf” team that Sustainability risk filter BMW Group’s supplier network. Harmonisation of STEP 1 continuously reviews our suppliers’ sustainability the contracts in the BMW Group and BMW Brilliance performance and channels support to suppliers when The BMW Group’s proprietary sustainability risk filter evaluates the environmental, social, and supplier networks, and the introduction of the same needed. governance risk potential of all new and existing suppliers. The filter takes into account locationhigh-quality BMW Group processes for all of our local specific and product-specific risks. In countries where certain social risks are particularly suppliers, were carried out in 2015. prevalent, such as child labour or forced labour, a dedicated assessment of these risks is carried out. Environmental risks such as potentially harmful emissions or process materials containing OUR SUPPLIER PRINCIPLES We adhere to the BMW Group’s International Terms and substances that can be hazardous to health are also considered. AND STANDARDS Conditions for the Purchase of Production Materials and Automotive Components, the UN Global Compact, We have guidelines, procedures, and policies designed and the International Labour Organization standards, Supplier self-assessment questionnaire to ensure that our employees are aware of local with their specific provisions regarding environmental STEP 2 environmental, health and safety, and labour laws, as well protection, social responsibility, and the protection BMW Brilliance uses the supplier self-assessment questionnaire method developed by Drive as legal requirements and international sustainability of human rights, including a ban on child labour and Sustainability (formerly the European Automotive Working Group on Supply Chain). We have also principles. With this knowledge, our employees can forced labour. introduced modular online assessments for additional requirements. Before we engage with new support our supply chain sustainability goals. An suppliers, we require that they make a clear commitment to specific social standards, such as example of this is the integration of sustainability criteria compliance with international human rights guidelines. The procurement process also requires into the BMW Brilliance Environment, Health, and information about sustainable use of materials and environmental management systems, which is Safety Purchasing Management Procedure. then evaluated as part of the purchasing decision. The BMW Group Supplier Sustainability Policy summarises the BMW Group’s core principles and Supplier on-site assessments standards for our suppliers in accordance with globally STEP 3 recognised principles. It includes a commitment to The last step of the Supplier Risk Management process is on-site assessment > Figure 17, environmental and social responsibility, as well as to > Figure 18. In 2017, all our suppliers underwent the BMW Group screening process, and 66 compliance with all internationally recognised human suppliers underwent our annual site assessments, extending our coverage rate from 88% in 2016 rights standards, and local labour and environmental to 97% in 2017. We reassessed all critical suppliers who were identified as high-risk during the laws. 2016 audit to ensure compliance with our sustainability standards. Supplier information day. At the end of 2017, we rolled out an intensive engagement initiative called the Artemis project, which has been used to select and assess 24 sub-suppliers identified as having potential environment, health, and safety risks. In addition, we conducted on-site assessments on environment, health, and safety issues at 35 suppliers in 2017, emphasising our expectations that our supplier networks must adhere to our highest standards. 80 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT I Implementing our approach Implementing our approach I SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 81 On-site assessment results: On-site assessment results: Impacts on labour F. 17 Impacts on the environment F. 18 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT: 300 250 230 300 250 250 FORECAST 2018 222 211 200 200 150 150 We will continue to roll out our Supplier Risk In the future, our focus will be on the 100 100 Management process to more suppliers so maturity of our supplier strategy as it relates 55 50 37 29 50 that we can identify supplier sustainability to relationship-building with suppliers, 16 risks and evaluate supplier performance, compliance, and risk management. We 0 0 implement countermeasures, and enable want to strengthen our due diligence but Beginning of 2017 End of 2017 Beginning of 2017 End of 2017 continuous improvement. We will expand the also move beyond compliance to be more Meeting BMW Brilliance requirements Not meeting BMW Brilliance requirements Artemis project to include more sub-suppliers proactive towards emerging risks within the and collect additional data that will better industry. This will require more detailed risk inform our process. We will also enhance our mapping and the use of the Artemis project communication with our suppliers through an to effectively identify risks with Tier I suppliers online survey to enable earlier identification of and sub-suppliers. We will create more robust Strengthening dialogue with our suppliers needs and risks. due diligence processes and management mechanisms, so that we are able to expand Every year, we hold a series of BMW Brilliance supplier events covering projects, change control, We will also improve supplier transparency our scope and maintain transparency. quality, and logistics that brings together suppliers and management for an open discussion. on environment, health, and safety risks by This form of engagement has been successful in building and deepening our relationships with sending consultants to do on-site checks, suppliers and business partners and in improving our common approach to key issues including enhancing the technical aspect of our Supplier sustainability. Risk Management. We also hold supplier training, such as the quality training event for the all-new BMW 5 Series parts suppliers held in Dadong in March 2017, and a G08 supplier workshop in November 2017 in Shenyang. 05 EMPLOYEES 5.1 / Strategy and management 5.2 / Being an attractive employer 5.3 / Occupational health and safety 5.4 / Training and development 84 EMPLOYEES I Our sustainability drivers Our sustainability drivers I EMPLOYEES 85 OUR SUSTAINABILITY DRIVERS What other digitalisation initiatives are in place that benefit employees? Many of our training and awareness initiatives are now online or shared on our facilities’ E-pillars, and we are creating apps and digital assistants that help streamline administrative tasks. HR SSC outlook Initialisation & Initialisation Preparation Human Resources Shared Services Centre • Business scope • Budget planning • Knowledge setup • IT preparation Transition & Build-up How will BMW Brilliance’s new How does the HR SSC fit into BMW Stablisation • Process adjustment Human Resources Shared Services Centre Brilliance’s overall human resources • Organisation re-engineering (HR SSC) benefit your employees? management approach? • Shared operational model setup • Transition Our new HR SSC serves more than 17,000 Delivering high-quality one-stop services to our employees located in eight cities and adopts employees is important. The better service that Optimisation Improvement & Optimisation innovative digitalisation to improve how our human Human Resources provides, the better our employees • Process optimisation resources management systems operate, and how will be engaged, setting the foundation for sustainable • Efficiency improvement our employees can access information and services. growth, employee support, and operational efficiency. • Effective measures – SLA, KPI They can now use a hotline, email, and a front desk in To maintain our position as an attractive employer, we • Digitalisation & automation five on-site service centres. In the first three months, will combine operational excellence and fresh thinking • Governance model around 13,500 cases were processed in total via all to offer our best service to employees – they are channels. essential to our success. Extension Extension & Consolidation • Service capacity leveraging On a day-to-day basis, the HR SSC benefits In the future, we will enable the HR SSC with data • Service cost optimisation by business integration employees by providing more convenient and efficient analysis and additional mobile solutions to support • Strengthening HR 3 Pillars human resources services, including 57 processes employees, particularly in production. such as onboarding, exit, staff data management, personnel file management, payroll and benefits, time Maturation Benchmarking management, and labour contract management. • Standardisation & scalability for efficiency • Consistent high quantity associate (Experience across locations) • Leading & sustaining technology 86 EMPLOYEES I Strategy and management Being an attractive employer I EMPLOYEES 87 5.1 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT 5.2 BEING AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER With the new BMW Group Strategy NUMBER ONE management system to address potential risks and The global economy is dramatically changing, > NEXT, the success of our human resources contribute to the long-term health and performance triggered by developments in emerging markets management and our ability to improve the operational of our workforce. and the accelerated rise of modern technologies efficiency of our company will become increasingly enabling digitalisation, automation, shared mobility, important. Sound investments in talent planning and To contribute to our employee’s well-being, we and connectivity. At BMW Brilliance, these trends digitalisation of our career planning programmes also implement various programmes and initiatives are transforming the composition of our workforce will help us to fulfil our vision of having the best following the motto “Stay active – We support you”. and shifting our human resources landscape. For employer brand in the industry and support our Activities include health and safety training, improving this reason, we are focused on providing the right long-term contribution to BMW Group development. workplace safety and ergonomics, thematic health combination of attractive benefits, remuneration, and We aim to unlock the potential of human resources and safety initiatives, and our Health Management training so that we attract and develop the right skills, management to add business value. We will boost and 2020 programme. experience, and high level of flexibility to remain agile sustain business growth by means of a competitive in an ever-evolving industry. advantage built on a corporate culture of high efficiency, teamwork, innovation, social responsibility, HUMAN RESOURCES In 2017, based on BMW Group’s Employer Value and sustainable development. We are establishing Proposition (EVP) we developed the theme of MANAGEMENT a lifelong learning environment with systematic and “Passion for Innovation” to drive our employer brand innovative development programmes and upgrading Human resources management at BMW Brilliance and to lead our employees and their work into the our human resources expertise, practices, systems, is overseen by our executive team. Our Senior future. This vision with our combined ambition gives and service quality. Vice President of Human Resources, who is also a us a new impetus to achieve our most aspired goals, member of the Board of Management and reports to strive towards being the most attractive employer in directly to the CEO, is responsible for the formulation the Chinese automotive industry. and implementation of BMW Brilliance’s Human Resources Strategy and regularly reports on our With guidance from BMW Group’s Human Resources progress towards strategic goals. strategy, we made significant progress in 2017 having been selected as the: No. 1 Best Employer Operationally, the Associate Handbook is one of the (Zhaopin.com), No. 1 Most Admired company in cornerstones of managing the employer-employee the Chinese auto industry (Universum), Excellent relationship. It communicates our employees’ rights Employer of China (51job.com), Annual Extraordinary and responsibilities, including the BMW Brilliance Employer (Liepin.com), and Best Employer at the Legal Compliance Code, and is binding for all China Employer Brand Festival (58.com). members of staff. NEXT Experience event. To ensure our future viability and to retain the best It is our goal to promote responsible behaviour and a talent, we emphasise the three main pillars of human work environment that fosters the long-term health resources. Our advancement to date stems from our competitive and performance of our employees. As a responsible benefits and remuneration packages, commitments to employer, occupational health and safety is of key Being an attractive employer > Chapter 5.2 providing open and clear management-to-employee importance to BMW Brilliance. We want to protect Occupational health and safety > Chapter 5.3 communication, and in the opportunities for crossour employees from any potential negative health and Training and development > Chapter 5.4 cultural experiences that cultivate a diverse set of skills. safety impacts related to their work environment. We Through these means we are able to differentiate therefore implement an integrated health and safety BMW Brilliance from other employers and attract a high calibre of talented professionals. 88 EMPLOYEES I Being an attractive employer Being an attractive employer I EMPLOYEES 89 MONITORING WORKFORCE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Women make up 13% of our total workforce and 30% of our management team. The total share of female GROWTH employees remained constant compared to 2016, To evaluate whether we are reaching our goal of being while women in management positions increased an attractive employer, we monitor key performance by 6%. This includes our first female plant director. We hold a female leadership seminar every year to indicators related to our position in the employer F. 19 market and to our internal employee figures. share experiences and encourage female employees to develop as leaders. Our continuous efforts to We recognise and appreciate the diversity of our develop local talent have contributed to a steady Change from workforce and place great value in new and varying increase of Chinese employees in management, who previous 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 year % perspectives from our employees with different now account for 85% of our management group. professional and personal backgrounds. We show All employees are employed in full-time contracts this through our Global Leadership Development > Figure 19. Workforce composition Programme and international vocational training that are designed to promote employee exchange, Total workforce at year-end 13,024 15,257 16,573 16,286 16,686 2.5% international experience, and an intercultural and ATTRITION RATES diverse workforce. In line with our business growth, the rate of new Share of female employees 11.9% 12.3% 11.8% 12.9% 12.8% –0.8% hires increased to 8% in 2017 from 2.2% in 2016. At the end of 2017, our total workforce reached 16,686 We initiate employee transfers among our different (excluding employees who have contracts with a thirdShare of male employees 88.1% 87.7% 88.2% 87.1% 87.2% 0.1% production plants to ensure that each plant has the party labour dispatch service provider). right workforce balance and skill sets on the ground. Share of female employees in These transfers help us attain higher levels of efficiency 26.7% 27.0% 28.4% 30.2% 6.3% management positions across our facilities. BMW Brilliance continues to succeed in retaining talent and creating high loyalty Share of employees in management Women make up within our workforce. To track this, we closely monitor positions 6.0% 5.9% 6.0% 6.7% 6.9% 3.0% 13% our monthly employee attrition rate. BMW Brilliance’s Share of Chinese employees within voluntary attrition rate was 3.2% in 2017, a slight 76.3% 78.1% 82.0% 85.0% 3.7% the management group of our total workforce and increase from 2.6% in 2016. The overall attrition rate 30% (voluntary and non-voluntary) increased from 3.3% in 2016 to 4.5% in 2017. Despite this increase, BMW Share of non-production employees 25.0% 27.3% 29.0% 29.1% 28.3% –2.7% Brilliance remains well below average attrition rates of our management team. within the market. Share of production employees 75.0% 72.7% 71.0% 70.9% 71.7% 1.1% Employees by employment contract Open-end Overall share 13.4% 14.4% 19.0% 37.7% 98.6% contracts Female employees 1,692 392 489 766 56.6% Male employees 334 1,992 2,609 5,529 111.9% Employees in 1,931 2,258 2,954 6,086 106.0% Shenyang Employees in Beijing 95 126 153 209 36.6% 90 EMPLOYEES I Being an attractive employer Being an attractive employer I EMPLOYEES 91 Change from Change from previous previous 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 year % 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 year % By region Fixed-term Female employees 1,550 1,725 1,605 1,362 –15.1% New employees in Shenyang 1,371 2,920 1,801 270 1,205 346.3% contracts New employees in Shenyang Male employees 11,681 12,464 11,583 9,027 –22.1% 11.0% 19.1% 10.9% 1.7% 7.2% 324.8% (percentage) Employees in 12,700 13,641 12,656 9,908 –21.7% New employees in Beijing 113 186 128 93 125 34.4% Shenyang New employees in Beijing Employees in Beijing 531 548 532 481 –9.6% 1.0% 1.2% 0.8% 0.6% 0.8% 24.9% (percentage) Employees by employment type By age Full-time Overall share 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 0% New employee hires, age <30 2,425 1,384 212 1,037 389.2% New employee hires, age <30 Female employees 1,883 2,117 2,101 2,129 1.3% 15.9% 8.4% 1.3% 6.2% 378.1% (percentage) Male employees 13,373 14,456 14,185 14,557 2.6% New employee hires, age 30-50 655 523 141 280 98.6% New employee hires, age 30-50 Part-time Female employees 1 0 0 0 0% 4.3% 3.2% 0.9% 1.7% 86.5% (percentage) Male employees 0 0 0 0 0% New employee hires, age >50 26 22 10 13 30.0% New employee hires, age >50 0.2% 0.1% 0.1% 0.08% –22.1% New hires (percentage) Total new employee hires 11.0% 23.3% 11.6% 2.2% 8.0% 262.3% 92 EMPLOYEES I Being an attractive employer Being an attractive employer I EMPLOYEES 93 REMUNERATION We reward our employees with total remuneration that Within our attractive remuneration packages, we is above average and aligned with the upper third of provide employees with a highly competitive benefits the respective labour market in China. We conduct an programme featuring a full range of insurance options, annual benchmark within the automotive industry to comprehensive medical coverage, and a pension Change from ensure our competitiveness as an attractive employer. savings plan that can be customised to best suit previous 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 year % In addition to a fixed base salary and overtime employees’ individual needs. We provide flexible work payments, our employees receive allowances and time models to meet the needs of our employees and a variable bonus that links total remuneration to demand in the labour market, with three core options: By gender performance. Female new employee hires 407 329 113 182 61.1% Female new employee hires 2.7% 2.0% 0.7% 1.1% 55.8% MODEL Standard work time for non-production employees 1 (percentage) These contracts entitle the employee to a 40-hour workweek, which complies Male new employee hires 2,699 1,600 250 1,148 359.2% with China’s labour laws. This work time model applies to approximately 5% of our employees. Male new employee hires (percentage) 17.7% 9.7% 1.5% 6.9% 358.7% MODEL Work time accounts for production employees Training and development Training days organised by the Human 2 Using work time accounts enables us to adapt to our annual production volume fluctuations, while guaranteeing stable payment for our production employees. 46,967 35,205 27,851 34,314 23.2% Resources department This work time model applies to approximately 73% of our employees. Training attendee satisfaction rate 93.0% 96.0% 97.0% 97.0% 0% MODEL Flexible work time for non-production employees Average training days* 3 Employees from a certain pay-grade level are entitled to flexible work time. For some specific roles such as drivers, flexible work time is assigned according to job and functional requirements. The flexible work time model applies to Employees in production 1.3 1.1 1.1 1.3 15.2% approximately 23% of our employees. Employees in non-production 9.7 4.7 3.2 4.4 36.6% Employees in management positions 6.7 3.1 3.2 3.4 7.0% To foster a good work-life balance, we provide statutory For all local employees at BMW Brilliance, we have annual leave as legally required and extensive vacation an Associate Car Programme that grants certain Employees in non-management leave in addition to national statutory holidays. discounts and periodic special rates for particular BMW 3.4 2.1 1.6 2.1 28.2% positions Personal leave such as maternity and paternity leave, Brilliance models. For convenient and economical sick leave, and compassionate leave are also available transportation for our employee’s daily commute, we * One training day corresponds to seven hours. to meet our employees’ needs. provide a shuttle bus service between our plants and public transport centres across Shenyang. 94 EMPLOYEES I Being an attractive employer Occupational health and safety I EMPLOYEES 95 EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION We also collected employee feedback in 2017 through several smaller surveys on topics such as 5.3 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY AND FEEDBACK the move to the new Powertrain plant and how well To ensure employee growth, BMW Brilliance relies on employees identify with the company strategy. More everyone within our employee community. We provide opportunities to give feedback are provided during Associate Conferences, when all employees of communication platforms for our entire workforce We establish accountability for health and safety IMPROVING WORKPLACE to contribute. Our collective voice is what drives our specific departments or plants come together for a performance through business planning, policies, day of dialogue with management. Managers and SAFETY AND ERGONOMICS corporate culture and our diversity is what enables the and management systems. BMW Brilliance complies company to innovate and recognise areas for workflow non-production staff are also encouraged to express with Chinese labour law, applicable health and safety Training is the key to preventing work-related accidents improvement and integration of innovative ideas and their needs and concerns during open-door meetings. laws, and relevant regulations that prohibit forced, and illness. We provide health and safety training to concepts. We use weekly one-on-one meetings between line compulsory, and child labour. We are committed to all new employees, refresher training to longstanding managers and their employees to ensure sufficient the observance of fair working conditions and human employees, and special safety training to high-risk groups. We use platforms at a company level such as our communication in reporting lines, and there are rights, as they are set out in the ten principles of the “Executive Dialogue” and at the division level such as business groups that hold weekly meetings to promote United Nations Global Compact and the Declaration our “BBT Forum” to create opportunities that build communication. Finally, we launched the Human on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work by rapport between management and our employees. Resources Shared Services Centre hotline in 2017 for the International Labour Organization. Any violation Through these events, all of our employees at BMW employees to ask questions and get feedback. of the Legal Compliance Code is filed with the Brilliance have the chance to inquire and speak directly Human Resources Department and the Compliance with management to understand the company’s At BMW Brilliance, a Labour Union was established Committee. Both our internal and shareholder audit strategic direction and objectives. in 2007 as a mechanism for social dialogue. Today, teams conduct annual audits to ensure full compliance the Labour Union represents all local employees, and with internal and external rules and regulations. Another way we engage our employees is by regularly its aim is to protect employees’ rights and interests collecting their feedback. Every other year, BMW through mediation. The Labour Union and the Board Our integrated safety management system was of Management meet annually and decide together Safety training. Brilliance carries out an employee survey. The 2017 designed in accordance with international standards survey showed: which topics to address in areas such as health and such as OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 and bestsafety or compensation, and the results are presented practice guidelines of the BMW Group, as well as to employees at the annual Employee Representatives 25,102 relevant Chinese legislation. Our safety management Congress and Union Representatives Congress. systems, which include policies, procedures, and work 89% instructions, are certified as good practice. The system of employees are is implemented by the Health, Safety, Security, Mobility The total number of man-times and Food Service Department of BMW Brilliance. satisfied with their jobs, and provided of health and safety training. 91% In 2017, we reduced the accident frequency rate from of employees 0.54 to 0.43 through continous improvements of our work environment and safety conditions > Figure 20. are satisfied working at BMW Brilliance. Occupational health and safety F. 20 Change from previous 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 year % Dr. Wieland and Mr. Han sign Collective Contract on Labour Remuneration. Accident frequency rate* 0.92 0.82 1.06 0.54 0.43 –20.4% Absentee rate 0.97% 0.98% 0.93% 0.99% 0.99% 0% Total number of injuries with lost time 0 17 29 17 15 –11.8% (excluding minor first-aid level injuries) Employee survey 2017. * The accident frequency rate is calculated as the number of accidents with one day lost time or more, multiplied by one million hours worked, divided by total working hours of the time period statistics (e.g. one month). 96 EMPLOYEES I Occupational health and safety Occupational health and safety I EMPLOYEES 97 We regularly implement and continuously improve IMPLEMENTING HEALTH AND marriage, child psychology, emotional management, health and safety measures at our plants. Occupational and work-life balance. SAFETY INITIATIVES health and safety management has been integrated into Value-added Production System initiatives, ensuring In addition to making our working environment safer HEALTH MANAGEMENT 2020 that when we implement production improvements, for our employees, we are also implementing various we take health and safety concerns into account. initiatives to contribute to the overall health and Health Management 2020 is an initiative which BMW Brilliance employees are also encouraged to well-being of employees in both production and supports BMW Brilliance employees in making raise ideas and suggestions to promote safe working non-production roles. These include pilot projects informed decisions about managing their health. A conditions and ergonomic improvements. and rehabilitation courses to reduce the potential key component of the initiative is the annual health for musculoskeletal disorders amongst employees check programme. In 2017, we had 14,668 employees A worker wearing an exoskeleton on the assembly line. including flexibility checks and body and back participate in the annual health check programme, examinations for early identification and prevention. which provides a comprehensive health screening. We added physical flexibility tests, a 10-year risk To build safety awareness and improve injury-prevention assessment of cardiac disease, and work ability Safety at Tiexi plant skills, we started a campaign on “Slipping, Tripping and assessment questionnaires, and provided detailed Falling”. This included five rounds of body balance skill recommendations for medical treatment and guidance training, workplace inspections, and shared knowledge for diet and exercise. To improve efficiency, we added Safety is of the utmost importance in the manufacturing industry. As a forerunner in the application on personal protective equipment usage. online booking methods for medical appointments. of Industry 4.0 and Made in China 2025 technologies, we rely on the Tiexi plant to be a leading example for innovation, efficiency, digitalisation, and safety. Seasonal flu vaccines were provided to 3,280 employees, and 923 employees received the Hepatitis B vaccine. In 2017, safety engineers at Tiexi plant launched a series of safety education workshops, introducing new activities and highlighting safety achievements. Following the workshops, we held a Safety Knowledge Competition, where teams from the logistics shop, paint shop, assembly shop, and press shop won Excellent Team Awards. The team from the body shop won the Champion Team Award. We expect the Tiexi plant to establish a new benchmark for safe manufacturing. Seasonal flu vaccination. We also extended the gym hours at our Physical Assessment and Rehabilitation Centres to 15 hours Safety campaign poster at Dadong plant. per day to provide more flexibility for our employees’ schedules. We provided training year-round covering specific safety measures and their application to an evolving Two of the designated hospitals for work-related injury manufacturing industry. We also developed six training or illness are now providing a convenient payment videos on environment, health, and safety topics, service for BMW Brilliance employees; another increasing training flexibility and convenience. hospital will add the payment service in 2018. In recognition of the importance of workplace mental BMW Brilliance has approximately 500 expatriate health, BMW Brilliance initiated mental resilience employees and family members and we ensure programmes for employees, such as psychological they have high-quality health services, including counselling at each of our plants, to provide our 24-hour access to medical care, home visits, and employees with the opportunity to have face-to-face direct channels to visit different hospitals and clinics. meetings with counsellors. To raise awareness of the A monthly health newsletter is distributed via the public issue, a series of workshops were provided where WeChat account, and is updated on a regular basis more than 1,000 employees participated in training on to allow expatriates and their families to easily access topics including happy family relationships, love and health information. 98 EMPLOYEES I Training and development Training and development I EMPLOYEES 99 5.4 TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Responsible electrician • Establishes defined tasks. Flash 5 • Responsible that safety standards, regulations, and guidelines are implemented. • Technical leader, direct over associates. Through leadership and training, we enable our INTERNAL TRAINER Skilled electrician employees to realise their potential. The training and DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES • Self-responsible work on HV systems, e.g. every work on HV components, development of our employees is fundamental to Flash 4 system troubleshooting, work on EES (Electrical Energy Storage), working the sustainable growth of the company. We focus on The Internal Trainer Development Programme focuses under high voltage (AUS is needed), instruction of Flash 3 into defined tasks. strengthening our leadership culture and developing on the development of BMW Brilliance employees in the skills of our future talent. As part of our talent becoming “BMW certified trainers”. In 2017, 45 BMW Skilled electrician for defined tasks management, we regularly review the performance of certified trainers delivered 17 different courses on • Execution of defined tasks on HV systems, e.g. exchange of HV components, Flash 3 our employees based on our business performance flashing of whole vehicle, commissioning and decommissioning of vehicle both technical and non-technical themes. targets. We also organise awards such as “Best YOU” before maintenance. and “Best in My Eyes” to recognise exceptional A central element of the programme is the delivery of Electrically instructed person employee behaviour. our Train the Trainer curriculum which builds internal • Access to HV areas. capacity and contributes to long-term knowledge Flash 2 • Working area or vehicle has been confirmed safely by Flash 3/Flash 4/Flash 5. In 2014, the Academy of BMW Group China was retention. This year, we had five of our certified • General mechanical work on HV systems only during supervision by Flash 4/ launched as a joint structure to bring together all trainers qualify 26 trainees to be “BMW certified Flash 5. the training departments of BMW Group entities in trainers”, accumulating an average satisfaction rate Electro technical layman China. Through the Academy we create innovative of 4.96 out of 5. Flash 1 • Driving and operating of BEV/PHEV. training programmes that cater to the passions of our • A corresponding driver's license is required. employees, that advance their career opportunities, and contribute to the sustainable growth of the company. AREA MANAGER COMPETENCY MODEL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME In 2017, we rolled out our Competency Model to The Area Manager Development Programme is advance the professional development of our a BMW Group qualification programme for area employees, with a structured framework of employee managers in sales. The Academy provided 10 sessions competencies and clear appraisal criteria. It helps under the Area Manager Development Programme managers objectively identify and develop both in 2017, with 26 new area managers joining the individual and team potential. For employees, the programme and 23 completing certification. model helps them understand their own competencies, receive clear feedback, and find their individual development path. Overall, using the Competency Peer-to-peer technical training. Internal trainer development. Model establishes a common corporate language LANGUAGE COURSES regarding the competencies required to support our business development. In an intercultural working environment, one High Voltage Qualification Flash Training competency requirement at BMW Brilliance is good Job satisfaction is also closely linked to the design of language skills. We offer English, German, and Chinese an interesting and gratifying career path. Through the language courses for local employees and expatriates, Competency Model, we encourage our employees With the advancement of high-voltage battery technology, safety procedures and technical competence with both online and offline training modules. In 2017, to develop themselves and find a career path that is are important for all our employees working with new energy vehicles. Since 2012, we have offered 942 BMW Brilliance employees attended language suitable and motivating for them. We try to provide High Voltage Qualification Flash Training to provide knowledge sharing on the potential hazards courses for a total of 4,612 training days. challenging and meaningful training and assignments, related to handling high voltage battery systems. In 2017, we held 52 sessions for 974 BMW and promote the rotation of employees between employees in China, providing five tiers of training courses. departments, enabling them to experience different work environments. 100 EMPLOYEES I Training and development Training and development I EMPLOYEES 101 DEVELOPING FUTURE TALENT STRENGTHENING OUR LEADERSHIP CULTURE As part of the BMW Group’s global strategy to develop for the future. Through the following programmes, we young people and attract the talent of tomorrow, BMW are training and cultivating the next generation for the We recognise that leadership development is a critical improvement. Applying coaching techniques and BMW Brilliance has developed a series of specialised and benefit of the BMW Brilliance brand, the growth of factor in our ongoing success. The leadership style Brilliance’s Leadership Core Values, our managers seek localised programmes, traineeships, and vocational our business, and the development of the automotive we want to nurture is based on the Core Values of the to improve the individual performances of their team education opportunities to build the skill sets needed industry in China. BMW Brilliance culture: Responsibility, Appreciation, members and encourage continuous improvement Transparency, Trust, and Openness. Through throughout the organisation. targeted training, workshops, discussion panels, and communication campaigns, we are developing leaders Leadership Magic Cube was launched in 2017 as a Programme About Participants who can carry this culture forward based on their team-based learning programme that enhances team individual strengths. performance through collective work on innovation, strategy, decision-making, and collaboration. An international graduate initiative offering recent The Global An important cornerstone of leadership at our Leadership Think Tank was also relaunched as a talented graduates an opportunity to jumpstart their Leader To date, six Global Leader production units is the Standard Work Programme of training platform and venue for leadership reflection and careers at BMW Brilliance. Through four rotations, Development Development Programme the Academy, which enhances problem solving and team development. these professionals will work in multiple departments Programme employees have participated. leadership through a culture of coaching and continuous with two international assignments, one of which is (GLDP) at BMW Group Headquarters in Munich. Attracts high-potential Ph.D. students interested in Since 2014, we have had 14 BMW CORE ProMotion students participating in this research and development, production planning, China Ph.D. four-year programme, with VALUES and process optimisation with many of these students Programme three new doctoral students showing an interest in Industry 4.0 technologies. joining in 2017. Provides career growth and rapid promotion opportunities for outstanding master's degree graduates. In 2017, there were Fastlane China Fastlane trainees are provided skills training and 16 graduates from the Programme a designated “buddy” who provides project guidance programme. and inspiration so that trainees reach the fullest of their potential. SpeedUp China Recruits bachelor's degree students and develops In 2017, there were 18 in Production young professionals into high-quality production trainees that graduated from MONITORING OUR Programme technicians. the programme. PERFORMANCE The number of employee training days organised by We focus on continuous improvement by measuring Human Resources increased from and evaluating our training and development 27,851 99% of graduates joined BMW Programme adapted from the dual education system performance each year. In 2017, we maintained a very Brilliance Automotive. 178 The New in Germany, modified to suit the Chinese context. high employee training satisfaction rate of 97%. in 2016 to apprentices have graduated 34,314 Vocational Designed to build the technical skills of our production from the New Vocational Education employees and to support high school students to build Education Programme, with in 2017. Programme the capacities they need to secure well-paid jobs in the 54 completing the programme future. in 2017. 102 EMPLOYEES I Training and development Training and development I EMPLOYEES 103 EMPLOYEES: FORECAST 2018 We are driven to retain our standing as the safety, and electrical safety. We will also roll out most attractive employer in the Chinese initiatives addressing healthy diet and healthy automotive industry. As greater digitalisation activities. A new streamlined risk assessment and Industry 4.0 promise to transform our system will be applied to make our health and industry, we remain committed to our set safety risk management more effective and of Core Values and in taking a “people first” efficient. With this system, risks associated attitude. For the future, we will emphasise with particular tasks will be assessed, and all internal communication and expand risks will be grouped and prioritised according opportunities for employee engagement to recognised standards. For high-priority risks, through manager-employee weekly meetings further actions will be suggested and tracked to and our annual Associates Conference. We reduce the risks to an acceptable level. recognise that leadership development is a critical factor in our ongoing success. The For our entire workforce, we are pleased to have leadership style we want to nurture is based on received the support of the Shenyang Municipal the Core Values of the BMW Brilliance culture: Government in customer-built BMW Brilliance Responsibility, Appreciation, Transparency, Automotive Training Centre. This project will Trust, and Openness. Through targeted begin in mid-2018 and will be fully operational training, workshops, discussion panels, and in 2020. After completion, the BMW Brilliance communication campaigns, we are developing Automotive Training Centre will be a state-ofleaders who can carry this culture forward the-art comprehensive training base capable based on their individual strengths. of accommodating a maximum of 500 people for training and various kinds of activities. It To reinforce how we communicate with our will also be able to meet the demands of our employees, we issue a “HR AND ME” monthly growing vocational education trainings at BMW newsletter to share important human resources Brilliance. information, policies, and programmes with all our employees. In 2018, we will extend the With the expansion of our product line-up conversation by holding “HR AND ME LIVE” and facilities such as our new Research and session on key topics such as compensation Development Centre, our focus remains on and benefits for better communication. attracting top talent that enable the BMW Group and BMW Brilliance to reach our full In 2018, we will extend the health and safety potential together. In 2018, we will conduct a initiatives and campaigns which provide clear Research and Development Recruiting Tour employee benefits, and new campaigns will in Germany to identify the next generation be carried out to improve safety behaviour of world-class engineers, technicians, and and safety awareness. A series of safety technologists to drive our global innovation. initiatives will cover topics such as fire safety, traffic safety, chemical safety, confined space 06 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 6.1 / Strategy and management 6.2 / Our initiatives 106 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I Our sustainability drivers Our sustainability drivers I CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 107 Our Sustainability Drivers All of these investments are what contribute to our What is Nanjing Ningbao’s goal for objectives regarding customer satisfaction and brand Corporate Social Responsibility in the reputation, as well as environmental protection and future? sustainable development. These also contributed to our recognition in 2017 with the Excellence in Sales BMW is committed to “Less emissions. More driving Best Retailer in Sustainability awarded by BMW Group pleasure”. Our goal is to work with BMW to deliver on in Munich, which we are proud to have won. this promise. Our future will be to continue fulfilling our goals towards How has Corporate Social Responsibility corporate social responsibility, to always innovate and at Nanjing Ningbao evolved over time? to deliver premium products and services to the public. We will also focus on two main areas social mobility, We were established in 2002 and over the past safe and sustainable mobility, to create shared value fifteen years we have grown through an ever-evolving for the society and our business. automotive industry. We will continue to advance and invest in our “hardware” Our focus on corporate social responsibility despite for a more efficient and digitalised facility. We will Nanjing Ningbao Automotive Service Co., Ltd. the industry’s new and pressing challenges remain constant, we are committed to sustainable growth focus on expanding our “software” by increasing the scalability and implementation of our core CSR with BMW’s support and inspiration. programmes, around JOY Home, intangible cultural heritage, and our efforts in education ranging from How is strategic Corporate Social BMW Children’s Traffic Safety Training Camp, BMW We were the first distributor of new energy vehicles internships and training. Responsibility creating shared value China Cultural Tour, and BMW JOY Home which are for BMW in China and provide our customers with at Nanjing Ningbao? institutionalised within our employee and customer driving pleasure, safety performance, and an all-round activities. We use these programmes to engage our customer experience. BMW has always advocated for corporate social employees, clients, and local volunteers and contribute responsibility, and at Nanjing Ningbao, it is a to meaningful causes that build on the social fabric We guide our employees and customers to care for prerequisite for our development. We believe that of our community such as planting trees, preserving sustainability, and our corporate social responsibility strategic corporate social responsibility goes beyond the old city walls of Nanjing, visiting nursing homes programmes were introduced to make them truly charitable contributions and includes creating shared and orphanages, and assisting left-behind children. In happy. We have developed invaluable partnerships value for our environment, our society, and our addition, we firmly believe that happy employees lead within our community such as with the Shanghai business. to happy customers. Pudong Development Bank, to increase investment in community programmes. Through these programmes, That is why we became the first 4S dealership Our hardware represents our “green” facilities. The our employees and customers can donate and in Jiangsu Province, and made the investment exhibition halls of our store, we have installed solar volunteer. to upgrade to a BMW 5S dealership in 2012. We roofing systems, saving 50,000 kWh annually; our understand that within this highly competitive industry, ground source heat pumps keep indoor temperatures Being a leading service provider in this industry strategic corporate social responsibility gives us an consistent throughout the year, saving 40%-50% requires innovative business models and having edge in building brand equity and in addressing the on air-conditioning costs. We installed LED lighting incorporated strategic corporate social responsibility, needs of our community. To achieve this, we focus to reduce electricity consumption by 60%, saving we have realised significant value over time for our on two approaches, our software and our hardware. 320,00 kWh, introduced wastewater recycling, and an business and in the positive outcomes we see in our Our software represents our high-end services and automated car wash system that saves 50% more on community. community programmes. Programmes such as the water over traditional systems. 108 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I Strategy and management Strategy and management I CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 109 6.1 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT “Our mission is to think and act in a visionary manner as a responsible corporate citizen of Chinese society.” We believe there are significant opportunities for in our actions and initiatives to contribute to social BMW Children’s BMW’s expert CSR programme expanded to adult drivers in 2017, with the launch of BMW Brilliance in cooperation with BMW China to mobility and safe and sustainable mobility. Traffic Safety the new “BMW Good Driver” initiative that engaged BMW dealers, employees, and contribute to Chinese society in a meaningful and Education customers to promote better driving and road safety awareness. lasting way that creates shared value for our business, BMW’s strategic CSR approach focuses on creating our environment, and our communities. We are aligned shared value and in the development of innovative The BMW China BMW’s iconic programme that demonstrates BMW’s strategic approach to CSR, creates with the BMW Group’s new Strategy NUMBER ONE solutions that empower and enable over the long-term. Culture Journey shared value, and spurs innovation through empowerment. This goal is achieved in two > NEXT and the BMW Group’s Corporate Social At BMW Brilliance, creating shared value means ways: by communicating the importance of preserving our “Intangible Cultural Heritage” Responsibility strategy, and have upgraded our creating benefits for the company and also achieving (ICH) and in the promotion and inspiration of ICH works. This project acts as a bridge approach from charitable donations to strategic CSR. social goals. between traditional and modern life in China and articulates BMW’s commitment to society and local culture. We take stock of the significant progress and impact We take actions as an advocate and practitioner of that our CSR programmes have made to date and strategic CSR to leverage our resources and core BMW JOY Home BMW’s exclusive stakeholder engagement programme that showcases our evolution in particular with how our new approach to CSR competencies to support Chinese society and stay from donating to “enabling”. In 2017, the programme was extended to include a new refines how we create social and environmental true to our three principles: element called “Joyful Football”. This is an innovative model that aims to support leftvalue. In 2017, we applied our upgraded BMW China • Long-term commitment behind children’s physical and mental health through sports and educational activities. CSR Strategy to promote social mobility through tailor-made programmes that target the needs of • Addressing social issues disadvantaged groups in Chinese society and leverage • All-inclusive stakeholder engagement our core competencies to contribute to the safe and In 2017, we evolved our most-recognised CSR sustainable mobility of our local communities. Through clear positioning, innovation, and a sustainable programmes to adapt to a changing society and 157,600 operational model, BMW Brilliance effectively promotes address our local, national, and global commitments. Our management approach is described in > Chapter 6.1. various stakeholders’ long-term and active participation A detailed description of our CSR initiatives is to address environmental and social issues. All our CSR programmes are designed to address available in > Chapter 6.2. BMW Warm Heart Fund has current and emerging social challenges in Chinese At BMW Brilliance and BMW China, our flagship CSR society by leveraging our resources and capabilities to benefitted individuals 157,600 programmes have existed for over a decade, providing achieve tangible results. To ensure our progress, we times through these initiatives. OUR APPROACH a sense of pride for our employees and displaying our conduct regular reviews of programme effectiveness capabilities as a company to address and reinvent our and create strategies and action plans to adjust. Our mission is to “think and act in a visionary manner CSR initiatives. In an effort to continue this evolution, as a responsible corporate citizen of Chinese society”. our teams regularly revisit, rethink, and refine our we invest and engage with our employees, dealers, We use our China Charity Federation BMW Warm This is reflected in our CSR philosophy, as well as approach. and customer representatives and use it as a dedicated Heart Fund as a comprehensive volunteering channel through which we contribute our CSR efforts. platform to enhance how we engage with community stakeholders from across the country. By the end of 2017, more than 250 BMW dealers and 86,700 customers and employees participated in a variety of public campaigns to help address social THE CHINA CHARITY issues in Chinese communities. It is estimated that FEDERATION (CCF)-BMW the BMW Warm Heart Fund has benefitted individuals WARM HEART FUND 157,600 times through these initiatives. The CCF-BMW Warm Heart Fund was jointly A dedicated and professional team was set up to take established between BMW Brilliance, BMW China, and full responsibility of BMW Brilliance and BMW China the China Charity Federation (CCF) in 2008. Through CSR projects, covering tasks from internal and external the Warm Heart Fund, we are able to streamline how communications to stakeholder engagement. 2017 BMW Sustainability and CSR Forum. 110 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I Strategy and management Our initiatives I CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 111 6.2 OUR INITIATIVES AWARDS AND HONOURS IN 2017 In July, the BMW Children’s Traffic Safety Education programme received the Excellent CSR Project Award from the 9th China Annual Summit for Corporate Social Responsibility We seek to promote progress on key social issues magical road safety journey through a children’s traffic initiated by Southern Weekly. in China through targeted, well-monitored, and safety book series, “BMW Children’s Traffic Safety innovative CSR programmes revolving around caring Education – The Magic Castle of Safety Education”, In July, BMW Brilliance and BMW China received the Best Corporate Social Responsibility for disadvantaged youth, ensuring equal development and 4D augmented reality teaching tools, which have of 2016 Top 500 Global Enterprises’ Contribution in China Award from the 9th China opportunities, introducing dual-education approaches, been jointly produced by China Children’s Press & Annual Summit for Corporate Social Responsibility initiated by Southern Weekly. preserving traditional Chinese culture, and increasing Publication Group and BMW. road safety. In September, the BMW China Culture Journey was awarded as Best PR Campaign – China at PR Awards 2017 by Marketing Hong Kong. In November, the 2017 BMW Children’s Traffic Safety Education programme was awarded BMW CHILDREN’S TRAFFIC SAFETY the Public Welfare Marketing Golden Award at the 4th Suqin Awards. EDUCATION (CTSE) Aimed at improving children’s road safety education, In November, BMW China Automotive Trading Ltd. and BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. in 2005 we launched the nationwide BMW Children’s received the 2017 Responsible Corporate Award from China Newsweek. Traffic Safety Education (CTSE) programme, which is the first and longest-running children’s safety education In November, the BMW China Culture Journey was awarded the 2017 Golden Flag CSR programme by the Chinese automotive industry. At its Golden Award and the 2017 Golden Flag Grand Award. inception, the focus was on generating public awareness of children’s traffic safety through roadshows. In 2017, In December, BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. was honoured as a 2017 Excellent the programme continued to expand, with a footprint This year, we extended the CTSE programme to include Corporate Citizen by the 2017 China 13th Annual Outstanding Corporate Summit. that includes Beijing, Hangzhou, Guiyang, Shenyang, adult drivers through a new project called “BMW Changsha, and Shanghai, attracting nearly 5,000 In December, the 2017 BMW Children’s Traffic Safety Education programme was Good Driver” and in alignment with the government’s parents and children. honoured as 2017 Excellent Corporate Citizen Project by the 2017 China 13th Annual “China Good Driver Initiative”. The BMW Good Driver Outstanding Corporate Summit. project was developed to improve overall road safety for children. Over 11 million people engaged in a series of In December, the BMW JOY Home won the Annual Public Welfare Award at the 1 st online activities called BMW Good Driver , to advocate Chinese Auto Industry Public Welfare Gala by China Automotive News. for good traffic behaviour. At the end of 2017, we unveiled the BMW Children Traffic Safety Education In December, the BMW JOY Home was selected as a CSR Model Programme for the Ambassador programme to engage BMW dealers, car China Automotive Industry in 2017 by Beijing Morning Post. owners, employees, and media personnel to volunteer. In less than a year, we have had 400 BMW stakeholders In December, the 2017 BMW Children’s Traffic Safety Education programme was honoured register with close to half being qualified through online as 2017 Beijing Corporate Volunteering Programme Top 10. and offline training. In December, the 2017 BMW China Culture Journey was honoured as the Best Public Over the last twelve years, we have brought the CTSE Welfare Practice of Culture and Art in China Auto Industry of 2017 Yixuan Award initiated programme to a total of 66 cities, benefitting more than by Auto Business Review. 410,000 people, while our Train the Trainers programme has qualified over 9,000 people in our classrooms. In December, BMW JOY Home won the Public Welfare Education Zhumeng Award at the 1st Zhumeng China Automotive Industry on Teenager Development Public Welfare Gala. To continue the success of the CTSE programme, we are constantly looking for new opportunities to bring digitalisation into what we do and increase our outreach and impact. By emphasising the use of technology and interactive scenario-based teaching methods, our Magic Lab lets children embark on a 112 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I Our initiatives Our initiatives I CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 113 BMW CHINA CULTURE JOURNEY To achieve this, we apply powerful designing, marketing, and communication to inspire, spur curiosity, and At BMW, we believe that a successful brand 2017 BMW China Culture Journey Explores Intangible promote the consumption of intangible cultural heritage communicates its value beyond products and services, products. For instance, BMW China Culture Journey, Cultural Heritage Crossover Initiatives and that true value is calculated through contributions in collaboration with the travel website Mafengwo, to society and culture and in resolving social issues. launched the “BMW China Culture Journey Intangible BMW China Culture Journey launched the “Intangible Cultural Heritage Crossover Incubation A brand uses its own heritage and its people to build Cultural Heritage Tour Guide in Sichuan” and “BMW Programme” in 2017 supporting innovation and collaboration between ten inheritors from the Tsinghua bridges with society. China Culture Journey Intangible Cultural Heritage Tour BMW Innovation Centre for ICH Safeguarding and the ICH Crossover Creative Ambassadors in the Guide in Hunan” for two consecutive years to attract fields of music, fashion, gourmet food, and handicrafts. This belief is represented through our iconic CSR young people. After being uploaded on the Mafengwo programme, the BMW China Culture Journey. The website, the tours have been viewed and downloaded The ICH journey included a 10-day cross-country trip spanning over 2,300 km and 47 ICH events. The programme explores innovative means to preserve local two million times. vision of the BMW China Culture Journey is to preserve culture and history through the arts. cultural and societal values on which our communities and business operations are built. BMW China Culture Journey has advanced BMW’s strategic CSR in a more ICH Music sustainable manner, evolving from site visits to building a sustainable public platform that concentrates social Participation of pop music singer Jike Junyi, resources and integrates Intangible Cultural Heritage together with inheritors of ICH items in into modern life. traditional music, to produce the first-ever nonprofit ICH music. ICH Fashion Participation of designer Sara Yun, together with inheritors of traditional art items and traditional For more than a decade, the BMW China Culture craftsmanship items, to produce a collection Journey has invested in the conservation of Chinese of Chinese cultural elements and trendy ICHIntangible Cultural Heritage and has evolved from a inspired apparel. donation-based charity to a programme that focuses on enabling Intangible Cultural Heritage “inheritors”. For example, the BMW China Culture Journey has ICH Gourmet invited inheritors to hold interactive workshops at BMW Experience Shanghai. To date, nine sessions Participation of culinary expert Heimai to have been held, which have attracted over 200 integrate traditional food into modern The evolution of the programme is an illustration of our members of the public. dishes, creating “a bite of Intangible Cultural commitment to the shared development of Chinese Heritage”. society, as well as to the Chinese conventional wisdom In the future, our goal is to continue along our journey of “teaching people how to fish instead of giving them (more than 24,000 kilometres in 22 provinces) and a fish”. Through this approach, the BMW China Culture continue increasing our reach (more than 90 different Journey is exploring new and innovative models to heritage sites). We have donated a total of RMB ICH Handicrafts safeguard Intangible Cultural Heritage. 16.3 million to date through a range of events that Participation of designer Gao Yiqiang and include collaborative opportunities, such as working volunteer BMW car owners, together with the Tsinghua University’s Academy of Arts and with around ten inheritors of traditional Design to establish the Tsinghua BMW Innovation craftsmanship items, to design and produce Centre for ICH Safeguarding. Our investments are creative and practical ICH handicrafts which applied to create catalysts and develop innovative feature desirable Chinese cultural elements. models of safeguarding and promotion of ICH. 114 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I Our initiatives Our initiatives I CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 115 BMW JOY HOME In China, the project “JOY Home” was established in by BMW dealers and customers, many of whom 2017 BMW JOY Home Launches “Joyful Sports” 2011, developed to provide disadvantaged children participate as volunteers. in rural areas with greater opportunities to learn and In 2017, in response to the call from the government and realising the urgent need in the play. Through the programme, rural children receive This year was remarkable for the BMW JOY Home communities in which we live and operate, BMW JOY Home launched the programme “Joyful help with their homework, take part in educational programme with the JOY Home Launch Ceremony Football”. In partnership with world-renowned non-governmental organisation “Right to Play”, BMW activities, and as of 2017, participate in organised and with Joyful Sports training and events being held has developed and designed events and activities that improve children’s development as well as sports. The programme is supported and sponsored in Shenyang, Chengdu, and Beijing. provide training for local teachers in physical education. For schools that are unable to provide the equipment for football, BMW will provide participating BMW car owners, dealers, and employees with “Action Packages” that include the equipment for volunteers to organise and facilitate sporting activities with children. In the future, this emphasis on children’s development through sports and education will expand to other communities and grow “Joyful Sports” at BMW JOY Homes. In Shenyang nearly 100 BMW employees, car owners, and dealers participated. In Chengdu, we involved more than 60 principals and physical education teachers from 32 JOY Homes. In Beijing, 45 BMW employees, car owners, and media joined in activities to play games with children BMW EDUCATION OF SERVICE BEST focuses on the joint application of theoretical and and migrant workers throughout the year. TECHNOLOGY (BEST) practical knowledge and has attracted many talented high-level participants, with product knowledge and The BEST programme was developed by the BMW professional skills, to China’s automotive industry. China Training Academy in response to the national BEST also cultivates teachers with professional call for the development of vocational training. training capacity, international training ideas, and the It incorporates dual-education vocational training, most advanced automotive technologies. To date, we an approach that was credited with reinforcing and have set up 15 training bases across 13 provinces sustaining the rapid development of Germany’s in cooperation with over 300 dealers nationwide. In other parts of the country, we promoted Joyful economy. The BEST programme runs primary and Of the 7,000 graduates, 65% have now joined Sports curriculum in 6 JOY Homes and in-depth secondary education accreditation programmes BMW dealerships as a reliable force for high-quality Joyful Football training in 5 JOY Homes. for students, in cooperation with local vocational aftersales services. Creating multi-win outcomes for schools. schools, enterprises, students, dealers, and society, BEST has become a model for vocational education in China. 116 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I Our initiatives Our initiatives I CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 117 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ASSOCIATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROJECT In addition to CSR initiatives we implement ourselves, Developed for our employee volunteers, the Associate CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: we also engage stakeholders under the umbrella of the FORECAST 2018 Social Responsibility project is guided by the mindset BMW Warm Heart Customer Clubs and the Associate to “devote love and care for others”, with a slogan Social Responsibility project. of “helping each other with one RMB per person every month”. The project provides financial support and spiritual care to elders, orphans, sick children, BMW WARM HEART CUSTOMER CLUBS and the disabled as well as to employees in difficult BMW Warm Heart Customer Clubs are member-driven circumstances. Building on the momentum of 2017, we will In addition, we are developing a volunteer groups through which customers volunteer their time continue our exploration and innovation of management system for 2018. We are and resources to contribute to their local communities. By the end of 2017, volunteers had helped 250 creative projects with long-term objectives, focusing our efforts in our approach to The BMW Warm Heart Customer Club represents the homeless and disadvantaged elders in social welfare transition from donations to focus on volunteer management by developing a largest stakeholder network of its kind with 17 clubs homes, 50 disabled orphans in the Happy Dream enablement, and create shared value that network to engage all stakeholders both across China involving BMW dealers, customers, and Orphanage, twins with cerebral palsy, and over 30 benefits our communities, our environment, internally and externally, in order to mobilise other charity organisations that maximise community physically disabled children and primary students. Since and our local economy. their contributions as volunteers. benefits and impact. Since its formation as the 2008 we have helped 105 poverty-stricken patients first stakeholder volunteering platform in China’s with eye diseases to receive eye surgery, and in 2017, We will utilise a professional and comprehensive automotive industry in 2008, there have been over we held the “Walking for Bright” activity co-organised CSR project evaluation system of IOOI 400 public welfare events held. with Delos Foundation to provide students in financial (Input, Output, Outcome, and Impact) Model need with free eye examinations and eyeglasses. Over to improve the quantitative and qualitative 80 BMW Brilliance employees participated in this measurement of our projects’ social impacts. activity, helping over 100 students. Our Associate Social Responsibility project shows the value of social inclusion and the importance of providing support to those in our communities that need it most. BMW Good Driver promotion by Quanzhou BMW Warm Heart Customer Club. Public charity hiking activity – Walking for Bright. 07 APPENDIX 7.1 / About this report 7.2 / GRI content index 120 APPENDIX I About this report GRI content index I APPENDIX 121 7.1 ABOUT THIS REPORT 7.2 GRI CONTENT INDEX The BMW Brilliance 2017 Sustainability Report The content and data of the report relate primarily to The following table lists the GRI Standards Disclosures and their location in the BMW Brilliance’s Sustainability provides stakeholders with comprehensive information BMW Brilliance. We have made no changes in the Report. This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The compliance with the about the company’s sustainability ambitions and methods used to collect and measure the data on our GRI Standards has not been externally assured. progress. The topics included here have been selected sustainability performance. There were no significant and weighted in accordance with the findings of a changes to the list of material topics and topic systematic materiality process. The content of the boundaries of the report during the reporting period. report was prepared in compliance with the GRI General Disclosures Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative, applying The targets set within the report build on the indicators the “Core” option. Using the Global Reporting Initiative presented in previous years. Additional targets apply Page UN Global Content Index helps to show how we are implementing to all entities operating in China under BMW Group. GRI Standard Disclosure number Comments or omissions Compact the requirements of the UN Global Compact. Joint initiatives with BMW China Automotive Trading Ltd. or the BMW Group are included in the areas of customer relationship management, employee training GRI 102: Organisational profile General REPORTING PERIOD and development, and corporate social responsibility. Disclosures 2017 102-1 Name of the organisation pp. 2, 3, 129 This is BMW Brilliance’s fifth Sustainability Report, covering the calendar year from 1 st January to THIRD-PARTY VERIFICATION 102-2 Activities, brands, pp. 12-19 31st December 2017. The last BMW Brilliance products, and services Sustainability Report, covering our 2016 performance External auditors and experts audited indicators and activities, was released in November 2017. The from the areas of environmental protection, product 102-3 Location of headquarters pp. 13, 129 next Sustainability Report will be published in mid-2019. responsibility, and occupational health and safety in BMW Brilliance reports on an annual basis. accordance with ISO 14001, ISO 9001, and OHSAS 102-4 Location of operations p. 13 18001. 102-5 Ownership and legal pp. 12-13 REPORTING SCOPE form The sustainability performance data in the report 102-6 Markets served pp. 12-13 include the following production and operation sites of BMW Brilliance: our plants in Shenyang, as well as our branch company in Beijing and our five regional 102-7 Scale of the organisation pp. 12-13, offices. During the reporting period, the northern 15-17 extension of Dadong plant, the new Research and 102-8 Information on pp. 89-92 d: Not included in the total number of employees Principle 6 Development Centre, and the High Voltage Battery employees and other are interns. They perform administrative work Centre were opened. workers and support in the departments, but not to a significant effect. There are no self-employed workers. e: There are no significant variations (such as seasonal variations) in the employment numbers of BMW Brilliance. f: The small number of employees in other regional locations next to Shenyang and Beijing are integrated into the Beijing figures, as those locations legally belong to the Beijing offices. 102-9 Supply chain pp. 76-81 122 APPENDIX I GRI content index GRI content index I APPENDIX 123 Page UN Global Page UN Global GRI Standard Disclosure number Comments or omissions Compact GRI Standard Disclosure number Comments or omissions Compact GRI 102: Organisational profile (continued) GRI 102: Governance General General Disclosures 2017 Disclosures 2017 102-10 Significant changes to p. 120 102-18 Governance structure p. 24 According to the Articles of Association of BMW (continued) (continued) the organisation and its Brilliance, the highest authority of BMW Brilliance supply chain is the Board of Directors (BoD). The BoD has the power to make decisions on all major and important matters of BMW Brilliance as provided 102-11 Precautionary Principle pp. 24-28 Principle 7 in the Articles of Association. A management or approach organisation, the Board of Management (BoM), is established under the BoD, and is responsible 102-12 External initiatives pp. 24-28 for and in charge of the day-to-day operation and management of BMW Brilliance. 102-13 Membership of CAAM (China Association of Automobile associations Manufacturers) Stakeholder engagement CAEFI (China Association of Enterprises with Foreign Investment) 102-40 List of stakeholder pp. 30-31 IAC (The Investment Association of China) groups LNAEFI (Liaoning Association of Enterprises with Foreign Investment) 102-41 Collective bargaining p. 94 100% of local employees are members of Principle 3 agreements the Labour Union, and all Union members are SYAEFI (Shenyang Association of Enterprises with covered by the Collective Contract on Labour Foreign Investment) Remuneration. This excludes expatriates, who are BAEFI (Beijing Association of Enterprises with not eligible for the Labour Union Foreign Investment) ABNEA (Association of Beijing New Energy 102-42 Identifying and p. 29 Automotive) selecting stakeholders AHK (German Chamber of Commerce in China) EFQM (European Foundation for Quality 102-43 Approach to stakeholder pp. 29-31 Management) engagement Road Vehicle Committee of China Intelligent Transportation Systems Association (ITS China) 102-44 Key topics and pp. 32-33 concerns raised Strategy Reporting practice 102-14 Statement from senior pp. 2-3 decision-maker 102-45 Entities included in the p. 120 consolidated financial statements Ethics and integrity 102-46 Defining report content pp. 32-33 102-16 Values, principles, The 12 Basic Principles are: Principles 6, 10 and topic boundaries standards, and norms of Customer Orientation, Peak Performance, behaviour Responsibility, Effectiveness, Adaptability, Dissent (Frankness), Respect and Trust and Fairness, 102-47 List of material topics pp. 32-33 Principles Associates, Leading by example, Sustainability, 7, 8, 9, 10 Society, and Independence. 102-48 Restatements of Where necessary and possible, restatements are Core Values: information explained in footnotes to the respective graphs. Responsibility, Appreciation, Transparency, Trust, and Openness. 102-49 Changes in reporting p. 120 Norms of Behaviour: Associate Handbook including a Compliance and Ethics Code of Conduct section Legal Compliance Code Corruption Prevention Guideline Corporate Hospitality and Gifts Instruction Anti-Fraud and Fraud Response Guideline 124 APPENDIX I GRI content index GRI content index I APPENDIX 125 Page UN Global Page UN Global GRI Standard Disclosure number Comments or omissions Compact GRI Standard Disclosure number Comments or omissions Compact GRI 102: Reporting practice (continued) Corruption and anti-competitive behaviour (continued) General Disclosures 2017 102-50 Reporting period p. 120 GRI 205: 205-2 Communication and pp. 34-37 Our compliance training includes mandatory (continued) Anti-corruption training about antionline training for all non-production employees, 2017 (continued) corruption policies and additional classroom training for new employees procedures (continued) and managers, and special workshops and 102-51 Date of most recent p. 120 training for specific target groups (e.g. Sales, report Purchasing, and Finance). 102-52 Reporting cycle p. 120 c: Information unavailable: The number of business partners that policies and procedures have been communicated to is not reported. 102-53 Contact point for p. 129 questions regarding GRI 206: 206-1 Legal actions for antiIn 2017, there were no legal actions regarding the report Anti-competitive competitive behaviour, anti-competitive behaviour or violations of antiBehaviour 2017 anti-trust, and monopoly trust and monopoly legislation. 102-54 Claims of reporting p. 120 practices in accordance with the GRI Standards GRI 414: 414-2 Negative social impacts pp. 76, Principles Supplier Social in the supply chain and 78-80 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 102-55 GRI content index pp. 121-128 Assessment 2017 actions taken 6, 10 Product safety 102-56 External assurance p. 120 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 33, 46, Management material topic and its 53 Approach 2017 boundary Specific Disclosures for Material Topics 103-2 The management pp. 53-55 Page UN Global approach and its GRI Standard Disclosure number Comments or omissions Compact components 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 53-55 management approach Corruption and anti-competitive behaviour GRI 416: 416-1 Assessment of the health pp. 54-55 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material pp. 33-34 Principle 10 Customer Health and safety impacts of Management topic and its boundary and Safety 2017 product and services Approach 2017 103-2 The management pp. 34-40 approach and its Energy consumption components GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 33, 64, Principles 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 34-35 Management material topic and its 65 7, 8, 9 management approach Approach 2017 boundary GRI 205: 205-2 Communication and pp. 34-37 We define governance bodies as those 103-2 The management pp. 65-67 Anti-corruption training about anticommittees which receive active regular reports approach and its 2017 corruption policies and by the compliance function. All committee components procedures members are informed about BMW Brilliance’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. All committee members who are BMW Brilliance 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 65-66 employees have also received training on antimanagement approach corruption. Committee members representing our shareholders are not covered by the training GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption p. 65 Conversion factors: steam consumption measured programme of BMW Brilliance, but are covered Energy 2017 within the organisation in GJ*0.277 = MWh, gas consumption in cubic by the compliance programmes of BMW Group meters*10.82/1000 = MWh. and Brilliance Group respectively. 126 APPENDIX I GRI content index GRI content index I APPENDIX 127 Page UN Global Page UN Global GRI Standard Disclosure number Comments or omissions Compact GRI Standard Disclosure number Comments or omissions Compact Energy consumption (continued) Employee development GRI 308: 308-2 Negative environmental pp. 76, Principles 7, 8 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 33, 86, Supplier impacts in the supply 78-80 Management material topic and its 98 Environmental chain and actions taken Approach 2017 boundary Assessment 2017 103-2 The management pp. 98-101 approach and its Air pollution, emissions, and climate change components GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 33, 46, Principles 103-3 Evaluation of the p. 101 Management material topic and its 50, 64-65 7, 8, 9 management approach Approach 2017 boundary GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training p. 92 a: Information unavailable: Average training days 103-2 The management pp. 16-17, Training and per year per employee by gender are not reported. approach and its 50-52, Education 2017 components 54-55, 65-67 Occupational health and safety 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 16-17, management approach 50-52, 65-67 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material pp. 33, 86, Principles 1, 2 Management topic and its boundary 95 Approach 2017 GRI 305: 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) pp. 50-51 Emissions 2017 GHG emissions 103-2 The management pp. 95-97 approach and its components 305-4 GHG emissions intensity pp. 16, Efficiency indicator = CO2 emissions 65-66 (from vehicle production) from Scope 1 (CO2) and Scope 2 (CO2) divided by the total number 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 95-97 of BMW Brilliance vehicles produced. management approach 305-5 Reduction of GHG pp. 16, GRI 403: 403-2 Types of injury and rates p. 95 a: Information unavailable: Data is not reported emissions 65-66 Occupational of injury, occupational by gender. There are no occupational disease Health and Safety diseases, lost days, and cases in the company. We monitor the accident 2017 absenteeism, and number frequency rate instead of the lost day rate. GRI 308: 308-2 Negative environmental pp. 76, Principles 7, 8 of work-related fatalities Supplier impacts in the supply 78-80 b: Information unavailable: No data on types of Environmental chain and actions taken injury, injury rate and work-related fatalities are Assessment 2017 reported for contracted workers, as it is currently impossible to get solid data on this from contractors. Talent attraction and retention c: The scope of this health and safety data only GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material pp. 33, Principle 6 covers the production plants of BMW Brilliance. Management topic and its boundary 86-87 As they are all in the same region, no regional Approach 2017 breakdown is necessary. Minor (first-aid level) injuries are excluded from the number of work103-2 The management pp. 86-94 related injuries and from the accident frequency approach and its rate. The accident frequency rate is calculated components by the number of accidents with one day lost time or more, multiplied by one million hours 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 88-94 worked, divided by the total working hours of management approach the month. GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and pp. 88-92 a: Total number of new employees hires: 1,330. * The absentee rate only includes sickness leave. Employment employee turnover 2017 b: Confidentiality constraints: The total number of GRI 414: 414-2 Negative social impacts pp. 76, Principles employee turnover, as well as the breakdown Supplier Social in the supply chain and 78-80 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, by age group, gender and region (total Assessment 2017 actions taken 6, 10 numbers and rates) are not reported. 128 APPENDIX I GRI content index APPENDIX 129 Page UN Global WE LOOK FORWARD TO HEARING FROM YOU GRI Standard Disclosure number Comments or omissions Compact FURTHER INFORMATION AND PUBLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE AT: Public policy http://www.bmw-brilliance.cn/cn/en/csr/download.html GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 29-31, Management material topic and its 33 Contact for questions regarding this report: Approach 2017 boundary BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. Beijing Branch 103-2 The management pp. 29-31, 25th Floor, Tower B, Gateway Plaza approach and its 50 18 Xiaguangli, North Road East Third Ring components Chaoyang District Beijing 100027, P.R. China 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 30-31 management approach Tel.: +86 (0)10 8455 7000 GRI 415: 415-1 Political contributions BMW Brilliance operates within the commercial Report published by: Public Policy and legal framework and pays taxes accordingly. 2017 BMW Brilliance does not support political parties, BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. their representatives, or candidates for office with 14 Shanzuizi Road financial or in-kind political contributions. Dadong District Shenyang 110044 Aftersales services Liaoning Province, P.R. China GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 33, 47, Tel.: +86 (0)24 8455 6000 Management material topic and its 56 Approach 2017 boundary BMW Brilliance on the Internet: 103-2 The management pp. 56-58, www.bmw-brilliance.cn approach and its 115 www.zinoro.com.cn components 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 56-58 management approach Product portfolio and research and development GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 33, Principles Management material topic and its 4648 7, 8, 9 Approach 2017 boundary 103-2 The management pp. 44-48 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 44-48 management approach GRI 305: 305-5 Reduction of GHG pp. 16, Emissions 2017 emissions 50-51
