Re:BLUETION 2017 COWAY sustainability Report About This Report Contents Overview Overview CEO Message 06 04 This report is a summary of the 13th `2017 Coway Sustainability Report’ for this year, and the full report is published online. Company Profile 07 ‌Sustainability report site address is http://sustainability.coway.co.kr, Sustainability Management Overview 09 and it is available in Korean and English. ‌The site is optimized for both desktop computers and mobile devices. (Responsive web Design) Scope Re:BLUETION Story Focusing on the head office in Seoul, research institutes and production plants Including overseas operations for a portion of the data. What is Re:BLUETION 12 Reporting Period Jan. 1, 2017 Dec. 31, 2017 10 Re:BLUETION in Products & Technologies Re:BLUETION in Customers & Work Sites Re:BLUETION in Corporate Culture 13 14 15 To ensure there is enough data to provide comparable referencing, three years’ worth (in some case five years’ worth) of data was disclosed. In the case of quantitative activities related to core issues, activities conducted until 2018 were included. TRUST Report Standards 18 16 Core option of the GRI Standards Guidelines and IIRC’s Integrated ReIssue 1 Market Leadership porting Framework Issue 2 Product Safety & Reliability 23 Assurance Issue 3 Environmental Impact 26 This report received third party assurance for the audits of financial information through an independent audit corporation, while the non-financial information received third party assurance from Korea Management Registration(KMR). Appendix Economic Data 30 29 Social Data Environmental Data 32 35 Support for Global Initiatives 38 Inquiry Address 100-759, 11~17F, JoongAng Ilbo Bldg., 88, Seosomun-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul Department CSV Team e-Mail sustainability@coway.co.kr 2017 COWAY Sustainability Report 04 05 OVERVIEW Overview 04 OVERVIEW CEO Message Company Profile 06 07 Sustainability Management Overview 09 2017 COWAY Sustainability Report 06 07 OVERVIEW Company Profile Company Profile quality of air. It c an also collect indoor air quality data through Business At Coway, we work hard to maintain our market share in the home wellness appliance market Performance while developing new growth engines for continued revenue generation and sustainable growth. machine learning and tell us the best way to ventilate air. These To this end, while expanding our product lineup for water purifiers, air purifiers, bidets, and matnew technologies can be also used by Codys in the field. Such “ tresses, we offer personalized services to our customers. 2017 has been a record-breaking year for Our innovation changes the ” technological innovation will benefit both customers and Codys and increase the value of what they do. us as our consolidated sales reached KRW 2,516.8 billion, an increase of 5.9% over the past year, maintaining steady growth in sales. Meanwhile, our operating profit increased by 39.5% to KRW world! 472.7 billion with an operating profit margin of 18.8%. In 2018, we will further strengthen our marBreaking the limit through open innovation ket position and build trust with more competitive products based on the exclusive filter system, When the paradigm shifts, we have to change the way we work. CIROO, which filters air to ultrafine particulate matters, and Air Dynamics technology which will The key aspects of the 4th Industrial Revolution are openness put us as No. 1 technological innovator in the air and water appliance industry. I would like to express my sincere gratitude for your support and connectivity. Just like we’ve done in our collaboration with over the years and wish good health and happiness for you and Amazon, we are going to enhance the platform for open conyour family. The seed of our innovation began to sprout when nection. Our business model deals with life essentials, such as Sales Operating Profit & Margin we decided to provide our water purifier rental service at a low the air, water and sleep, so our vision for the future must be sol(K-IFRS Consolidated, Unit: KRW 1B) (K-IFRS Consolidated, Unit: KRW billion , %) cost. Now, we are seeing the benefits our purifiers are bringing id. As more global companies recognize our value, there will be Operating Profit(KRW billion) to people around the world. more opportunities for partnership to realize for open innovaOperating Margin(%) Since our incorporation in 1989, we have been dedicated to imtion. Such connection will change people’s lives not only in Koproving the purity of the air and water we all consume. Rather rea but also around the world. With products that can meet the 2,517 20% 18.8% than relying on conventional business models, we created a 2,376 varying needs of people, we will share the true value of healthy 2,315 14.3% new market and expanded our business through innovation. As lifestyle. In addition to our existing product lineup, including 4,633 4,727 a market leader, we have led changes and technological innovawater and air purifiers, bidets, mattress and cosmetic products, tion and set a new standard by hiring service specialists known 3,388 we will continue to introduce new and innovative products such as “Codys.” We recognize the true value of clean air and water, as FWSS (Fresh Wear Styling System) that will provide new user which is the foundation of our business. “Coway Trust” is our experiences and innovate lifestyle. We will set no limit to our first and utmost top priority in all our business processes from approach and vision for the market and customer experience. product development and design to quality and service. “Coway Trust Re:BLUETION” is our commitment for 2018 to Promoting the value of healthy lifestyle 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 making the world a better place to live. Trust is the value we Our commitment to the world and its sustainability will be continue to build and pursue while “Re” in “Re:BLUETION” repalso reflected in our social responsibility programs as we share resents the challenge we face. “Blue” in “BLUETION” is the color clean air and water with our neighbors. In 2016, we founded the Meanwhile, we are maintaining a strong momentum for growth through localized product and that symbolizes clean air and water. This year, we celebrate two startup school for youths, Wi School, based on our core compeservice development, and marketing strategy with focus on the subsidiaries in the US, Malaysia, decades of doing what we do best, which is our rental and Cody tencies to provide support for lone entrepreneurs to start their China and Thailand. In 2017, we built a foundation for midto long-term growth by forming a service. By focusing and further improving the core of our busiown businesses. Coway too was founded as a one-man startup, partnership with Amazon and reached KRW 411.3 billion in sales based on the strategies we deness, we will continue to lead innovation and change the world. and we believe it is our responsibility to help others realize their veloped for each company. dreams while creating new shared values through core compeInnovation that you can experience tencies. We appreciate your continuous interest and support in At Coway, we are reinforcing our core competencies and imour efforts to make the world a better place to leave. Global Business Performance proving the quality of our products to solidify the trust our Our history shows that the quality of people’s lives has im(K-IFRS Consolidated, Unit: KRW 1B) customers place in us. With such technological innovations as proved as our business grew. We are now able to drink clean ODM/BRAND CIROO, the standalone filtration system that can filter ultrafwater and breathe clean indoor air 24 hours a day. Our bidets Corporate Incense ine particles, and Air Dynamics, which creates pure flow of air, and mattress care service make our lives even better and 120 we are introducing innovative products that will revolutionize healthier. These changes are now a regular part of daily life. We 110 the industry and further increase our corporate value as a life are excited about the way we are changing the world and creat76 care company. It is our job to help people lead healthy lives by ing value for our customers. With this mission in mind, we will providing clean air and water. With this belief, we will lead innocontinue to bring customers new and better experiences and 291 222 vation to improve the quality of people’s lives. Looking toward help improve the quality of people’s lives. 174 the future, we are going to take advantage of the 4th Industrial 2015 2016 2017 Revolution by incorporating ABC—AI, Big Data, and Cloud June, 2018 technology —into our business. For example, AI can tell us the COWAY CEO 2017 COWAY Sustainability Report 08 09 OVERVIEW Company Profile Sustainability Management Overview Business Home Wellness Appliances Business Sustainability “Putting the ‘Goodness’ philosophy into action for a better world” is our vision that we pursue Areas Management in our sustainability management. Since our business deals with water, air, sound sleep, and Our business was founded and has grown based on the idea of providing expensive water purifibeauty, we deeply recognize the impact of our work on people’s lives. As a life care company, we Strategy ers at low cost so more people can drink clean water every day. As the world’s first water purifier wish to add value and make life better for all stakeholders throughout all stages of our business rental service provider, we expanded our business portfolio to include air purifier, bidet, water activities. softener and mattress and innovate our service through Cody as we lead the industry and market. Global Business “‌We cherrfully pursue unexplored paths together, beliving that all of Strategy At Coway, we are expanding our global presence based on our world class R&D infrastructure. our actions can create a better world.” As a leader in home wellness appliances such as air purifiers, water purifiers, and bidets, we drive our Global business by enhancing competitive advantages in local market and forming partnerships with global manufacturers. Mission Healthy Environment Happy People Global Network Vision Cordial Life Care Science & Solution Company Incheon Headquarters ‌ and R&D Center Bidet, Water Softener, Juicer in Korea 50 Partners 4 Overseas Subsidiaries 4 Production Plants Coway Trust Coway Pride Coway Fresh Netherland Logistic Center in Netherlands Core Values Health Convenience Pure Beauty China USA Korea Pocheon Thailand Recycle & Refurbish Malaysia Guangzhou Yugu Water & Air Purifier, Sustainability The Sustainability Management CFT—which is made up of the heads and persons in charge of the Management CSV Team, Ethics Management Office, HR Development Team, Environmental Management Team, Water & Air Purifier Filter Carbon and Win-win Cooperation Team—focuses on monitoring various sustainability management issues. Structure It also conducts internal assessments, establishes improvement measures, and reports their results. 2018 Global Business Strategies Issues that are identified to have potentially critical influence are reported to the Infinite Responsibility Committee and the Management Committee under the Board of Directors. The improvement [Strategic Market Development] measures are then implemented accordingly. [Local Subsidiary] [Sales Channel Development] Develop new strategic market through Drive growth through localization Develop sales channels and prospect market sales The Environmental Management Committee, Occupational Safety and Health Committee, and Goodness Council (a consultative body of partners) also convene each quarter. On the other hand, in 2017, 〮 ‌Malaysia : secured 1 million customers so far 〮 Form ‌ Amazon Partnership to drive sales in 〮 Develop ‌ key sales channels in Taiwan and by release customer base with new products the US Saudi Arabia we established the ‘Infinite Responsibility Committee’ with the CEO as the chairman in order to real〮 ‌US/Thailand : expanding strategic sales base 〮 Expand ‌ brand business in China ‌ 〮 Expand business with focus on new brand ize sustainability management vision and strengthen responsibility management for stakeholders in and localized services 〮 Develop ‌ new sales channels (e.g. online) 〮 Focus ‌ on the efficiency of the existing ODM 2017 and the meetings are held once a week to solidify the trust our customers. Board of Directors Cosmetics Business After we established Cosmetics Research Lab in 2003, we entered the cosmetics market in full force in Management Committee 2010 focusing on the development of premium products for healthy and beautiful lifestyle. Based on the customer base we built on the home wellness appliance line, we started with door-to-door sales and expanded our distribution channels to home shopping network, department stores, duty-free Infinite Responsibility Environmental Management Occupational Safety and shops, and online malls. With the anti-aging product brand, “Re:NK”, bio-fermented herbal brand, Committee Committee Health Committee Goodness Council “Allvit” and health food brand “Healthygru”, we provide customers with a lifestyle that is healthy and beautiful. Sustainability Management CFT 2017 COWAY Sustainability Report 10 11 Re:BLUETION Story Re: Re:BLUETION Story 10 What is Re:BLUETION 12 BLUETION Re:BLUETION in Products & Technologies Re:BLUETION in Customers & Work Sites Re:BLUETION in Corporate Culture 13 14 15 Story 2017 COWAY Sustainability Report 12 13 Re:BLUETION Story Coway Trust Re:BLUETION What is In 2017, we aimed to build trust in our business practice. Our vision for 2018, however, is to Re:BLUETION Beethoven Project for Technological Innovation Re:BLUETION in Products & further strengthen this trust and use it as a foundation as a leader in the industry and take our There are about 40 research labs and 17 conference rooms at our Environment Technology Lab where responsibility for the air, water and people’s health to the next level. To this end, we have estabTechnologies about 250 researchers are working on the research and development of new technology for products lished Coway Trust Re: BLUETION in 2018 as our guide for the future. Unlike the innovations that such as air purifiers, water purifiers, bidets, and mattresses using more than 410 state-of-the-art deother companies pursue, our approach to innovation focuses on revolutionizing our strength vices and equipment. Since 2017, we have selected key projects for our new growth engines as part of and developing new ways of doing business. the Beethoven Project where our CTO serves as a project manager. The project is largely divided into Stellar Project for product development and Re:Bluetion Project for operational innovation while the CTO oversees the progress on a weekly basis, makes decisions and sets the directions. Re:BLUETION Beethoven Project Product Innovation Technology & Operation Innovation Stellar Project Re:Bluetion Project “Re” represents the + = The color blue in “BLUETION” Innovation is enabled when Innovate existing product line for new product Respond to the 4th Industrial Revolution and R&D challenge we face in our represents our pursuit of the essence in our essence meets new development operational innovation tasks pursuit of sustainable the business challenges 〮 Paradigm ‌ shift for water purifier/air purifier/bidet 〮 ‌Strategic open innovation in response to the 4th growth (in terms of technology, performance and customer Industrial Revolution experience) 〮 Innovation in development speed and quality/cost 〮 Living ‌ Care product development based on core 〮 Building ‌ a foundation for sustainable growth Coway innovation (e.g. Water / Air Care Technology) through new product development Slogan Concept Key Initiatives Coway Trust Commitment to creating clean 〮 Fulfill ‌ our responsibility by improving our service and Development of Innovation Engine through Air Lab quality through R&D environment At Coway, we operate Air Lab with the concept of “everything about the air”. Through this, we Coway Trust Re:BLUETION 〮 Respond ‌ to market competition through strategic promote our expertise and leadership in air quality management. The site provides hands-on Revolution product development and online marketing as part of content, air quality self-diagnosis, and useful information (e.g. Air Lab Report) to raise awareInnovation for our environment Change, innovation core business innovation and healthy lifestyle and challenge ness of the importance of air quality care program. 〮 New ‌ challenge for global and cosmetic business Blue 〮 ‌Focus on key areas of business (e.g. roles of Cody, Big Data Clean and clear Identity Homecare Doctor, and door-to-door sales force) Since 2014, we have accumulated 120 billion pieces of data collected from the air purifiers installed at our customers and used this data to classify the indoor air quality into 24 categories and provide customized filters. Using this Big Data, we are able to identify the indoor and outdoor air quality at home and the trend of change by time of day, and even provide healthcare service through the application. Direction of We are innovating our technologies, products and the way we provide service for our customers Re:BLUETION and work in the field. Through innovation in every aspect of our business, we are dedicated to making the world a better place to live. Analysis by Residential Environment Analysis by Time Analysis by Season Air Purifier Effectiveness Analysis High level of pollution in roads, railroads Highest level of pollution outdoor on High level of pollution during High level of pollution when air and urban areas 11:00-12:00 spring/winter purifiers are not used Low level of pollution in mountains, coastal High level of pollution indoors at 8:00am Low level of pollution during Low level of usage of air purifiers Re:BLUETION areas and parks and 8:00pm summer/autumn * 2016-2016 Korea’s air quality data collected through IoCare air quality devices and air purifier IoCare Re:BLUETION in Re:BLUETION in Re:BLUETION in Products & Technologies Customers & Work Sites Corporate Culture Global Industry-Academy Research Projects At Coway, we carry out joint research with colleges, research labs and governments around the world on air quality and flow to make sure that clean air flows everywhere under any circumstances. 〮 ‌Beethoven Project for 〮 Innovation ‌ in Customer 〮 Internal ‌ Innovation System Technological Innovation Experience through Service Lab “I.Q.BLUE” 〮 ‌Development of Innovation 〮 Customer ‌ Service Innovation 〮 Innovation ‌ in Calling System 〮 ‌Harvard University: indoor air quality 〮 ‌Air analysis and filter Engine through Air Lab through REDcap analysis on living environment development Industry〮 ‌Konkuk University: air flow analysis Coway R&D 〮 ‌Research for the development Academy (research on air dynamics) Center of filters and products Research 2017 COWAY Sustainability Report 14 15 Re:BLUETION Story Coway Trust Re:BLUETION Re:BLUETION Internal Innovation System “I.Q.BLUE” in Corporate At Coway, we established I.Q.BLUE ((Infinita Quest Blue) through which our employees share Culture their ideas for the development of new products and business models as part of our sustainable growth strategies. In addition, we have implemented a platform to share their ideas online withRe:BLUETION Innovation in Customer Experience through Service Lab out feeling any pressure or restriction. in Customers At Coway, we established Service Lab to design and improve customer experience. The Service & Work Sites Lab operates under the slogan “see from the customer’s perspective and innovate their experience through new ideas”. By understanding their perspectives, we turn their negative experience 〮 ‌Foster pioneering spirit into a positive one and gain competitive advantages in the market by commercializing the experiInfinita + Quest = 〮 Create a creative environment 〮 ‌Develop new business/product ence they have in our brand. (Latin: infinite) (English: Quest) ideas What Service Lab Does Suggestion Process 〮 ‌Divided into 4 areas: CX* Report, CX Research, CX Project, and CX Platform. MVP produc〮 ‌Define and perform our key tasks such as customer experience New product/ Employee First review Second CommercialCREW Preparation of tion and maranalysis on new product/service, CS Barometer with real-time Process business recommenda(team review (execization/drop/ gathering business plan ket validation access to service status, service research activities, service proposal tion managers) utive officers) review (repeat) innovation projects, and customer experience innovation forum. * CX: Customer Experience Max. 5 persons Conditions Min. 100 Min. review score 80 Can proceed Decision making recommendations on average without them Cycle At all times 1 time/quarter Service Lab Space Concept Platform Online process within I.Q. BLUE Offline Welcome Zone Open Heart Zone Show the identity concept of Coway & Service Lab Communicate with customers and service agents for improvement Performance Service Exhibition Zone Creating Idea Zone Symbolize Coway’s approach in service Produce new, creative ideas (Project Space) Registration status Sample production ideas, Real-time Coway Zone Building Trust Zone (99 in progress, 11 applied in commercialization under Validate ideas from the customers’ perspectives Share Coway’s service status in an accurate and timely manner (Through the prototypes of the ideas) 120cases practice, 10 in Quest Box) 3cases review (Digital Wall) Innovation in Calling System Customer Service Innovation through REDcap In order to respond to a changing market environment in a prompt, flexible manner with a high level of creativity and autonomy, we have introduced a new title system. By separating the job In July, 2017, we established “REDcap” to innovate customer experience and implement customtitle/position from what we call each other, we standardize it to “OOO nim” to promote mutual er-oriented business management. As an organization fully prepared to meet the needs of our cusrespect and open-minded communication while developing innovative ideas. The new system tomers, they handle complaints and provide service on site in case of emergency. was applied to the entire company, while the existing title-based form of address is used for sales and production jobs due to their specific job and organizational circumstances. To make sure that REDcap is operated efficiently, we have changed our system so that emergency issues that may affect safety and health are handled within 24 hours. We also have a Blue Whistle system to keep REDcap “promote The new calling system is expected to an open, creative and horizontal informed of any emergency situation and organizational culture and increase the complaints identified during the service for immediate action. REDcap level of job satisfaction among employees. ” ‘Ready’, ‘Emergency’, and ‘Deployment’ HR Support Team Manager of Coway 2017 COWAY Sustainability Report 16 17 TRUST Report TRUST TRUST Report 16 Issue 1 Market Leadership 18 Report Issue 2 Issue 3 Product Safety & Reliability Environmental Impact 23 26 2017 COWAY Sustainability Report 18 19 TRUST Report Market Leadership Continuous R&D Organization R&D At Coway, we focus our resources on technological innovation to help people enjoy clean air Innovation and water with our superior technological expertise and state-of-the-art research facilities. There are 361 researchers dedicated to advancing life-dependent technologies in our R&D CenOur Approach ter, the Environment and Quality Research Lab, Design Research Lab, and Cosmetic Product Research Lab. Coway R&D Organization R&D Center Environment & Quality Design Research Lab Cosmetic Product Research Lab Research Lab Home environmental Home environmental Design, product/technology Verification of product quality Cosmetic Design, Cosmetic product and Water/air filter and safety BX Design technology development Sleep & living care product (foundation / color / hair / body / stability etc.) R&D Investment and Performance At Coway, we strengthen our competitive advantages by investing our resources in R&D efforts. Our R&D investment in 2017 reached KRW 36.1 billion, accounting for 1.44% of sales. Of the researchers working at the Coway R&D Center, 18 of them were certified by WQA (Water Quality Association) as CWS (Certified Water Specialists). This ranked first in Asia and third in the world, and our CWS conduct in-depth research on water while renewing their qualifications by taking the test each year. As a result, we have registered 150 patent rights out of 315 we have applied for over the years. Business Relevance & Approach Our business environment is undergoing dramatic changes with increasing demands for home appliancResearch on Water and Air es in response to declining air quality, diversified needs of customers, and advancement of digital techAt Coway, we conduct research on water and air with a sense of responsibility and pride in how nologies such as artificial intelligence and internet of things. Companies around the world are investing we take care of the essential part of life. At our Environmental Analysis Center, we collect and in R&D and increasing their intangible assets such as intellectual property rights, while strengthening analyze water from more than 40 countries around the world and establish our own “Coway their foundation for revenue generation by providing personalized service. World Water Map” based on which we respond to the conditions of water quality that changes depending on geography and environment. In line with this trend, we are continuing our R&D projects and creating new values for our products and services based on our expertise, IoT technology and big data in order to lead changes and innovation. In Meanwhile, we are carrying out the “IAQ (Indoor Air Quality)” field test where we analyze the air 2017 in particular, we upgraded our IoT applications and incorporated them into our flagship products quality on-site at the customers to make sure they can enjoy clean indoor air everywhere in response such as water purifiers, air purifiers and bidets while creating new values through local partnership with to increasing concern on particulate matters. The test is designed to study indoor air quality in the such companies as Amazon and Apple. In addition, we focus our resources in service innovation to proactual environment we live in, not a controlled environment. Twenty-four air quality indicators were vide unparalleled service for our customers. developed based on more than 110 billion cases of data collected from 1,300 households, used to quantify the health effects of pollutants and provide customized filters for our customers. Our dediActivities Business Case cation and efforts led to product innovation and patented technologies. Continuous R&D Innovation ‌Development of Competitive Products and Fostering Specialist “Water Sommeliers” Business Case Technologies Service Quality Assurance System Personalized Solution for Customers Fostering Specialist “Water Sommeliers” We encourage our researchers to become certified for “water sommelier” to provide clean water Performance for our customers. Those who are qualified play a key role in evaluating water taste for the development of water purifiers. In 2017, 26 researchers qualified as water sommeliers through the Water Sommelier Training Program*. 20 of them received the Intermediate (Level 3) which is the R&D Cost Ratio CES 2018 basic level of water sommelier while 6 of them have acquired the Advanced (Level 2) which al(against Sales) Innovation Award lows them to train others. We are the only company in the country that has water sommeliers of 2017 Advanced level. We plan to develop our water sommelier training programs for the researchers 1.44 % 5categories of the Environmental Technology Research Lab and strengthen our competitive advantages in the market. * ‌The Water Sommelier Training Program is organized by the Korea International Sommelier Association with an aim to enhance the expertise of researchers and strengthen our brand reputation as a leading water company in Korean. 2017 COWAY Sustainability Report 20 21 TRUST Report Development Advanced Filter Technology Business Case of The filter technology is a key to making water clean and healthy to drink. In order to meet the Competitive needs of consumers, we have researched filter technology for over 30 years to ensure continuPresenting Future of Life Care Industry at 2018 CES ous innovation. As a result of these efforts, we have developed CIROO (Coway Intensive Reverse Products and Osmosis” which has exceptional performance. By using superior intensive membrane materials, At Coway, we create values by introducing innovative total life care solutions and cutTechnologies processing technology, and carbon filter system, we are able to provide clean water that tastes ting-edge technologies. In 2017, we showcased our products and service solutions based on better thanks to advanced RO filter technology. In 2018, we will launch RO direct water purificabig data platform that will innovate the lifestyles of consumers in the 2018 CES (Consumer Electronics Show) we have entered for 3 consecutive years. tion system featuring the CIROO2.0 Filter which is designed to maintain filter performance and provide water with great taste thanks to self-cleaning system. Life Changing Technology Innovative Products based on Digital Technology With “new life-changing technologies” as our concept for this year’s exhibition, we showcased 25 innovative products and customized care solutions including FWSS (Fresh Wear Styling System). At Coway, we are developing human-centered products that incorporate cutting-edge technologies based on IoT (Internet of Things), AI (artificial intelligence) and Big Data. In particular, we FWSS (Fresh Wear Styling System) offers present a new paradigm in creating value for our customers through the IoCare (Internet of Care) Incorporated with AI deep-learning IoT-based “Coway Smart Bed” provides intensive clothing management and technology, “Active Action Air Purifier” the best sleeping experience. solutions which combine customer care and IoT technology as our growth engine for the future. cleans the storage space. IoCare Product Development ‌ 〮 Provides a total clothing management ‌ 〮 Provides innovative air purification 〮 Helps ‌ those who have trouble sleeping Coway HANDSPAN Water Purifier IoCare is designed to monitor the performance and water usage solution and maintains perfect storage solutions through in-depth indoor due to irregular sleeping patterns 24 hours a day and automatically sanitize itself to make sure that clean water is available at all conditions for clothes that require pollution pattern analysis and develop healthy sleeping habits by intensive care, e.g. suits, coats and customized AI air care for the area combining the mattress and IoT. times. In addition, its smart system connects to the IoT and monitors performance in real time, knits. where clean air does not reach. 〮 Monitor ‌ the user’s sleeping pattern and notifies the user and our service center if any abnormality is detected. If the system is not used for 〮 Features ‌ an air purification system at 〮 Features ‌ Coway’s first deep learningsurrounding environment in real-time more than 48 hours, it notifies the user accordingly and also features customized care system for the bottom to provide air cleaning and based AI mode using big data on indoor to remove any factors that interfere silver generation. dehumidification for not only storage air quality. with sleeping and create the perfect space but also the surrounding area and conditions for sleeping. Reliability of IoCare Series create the perfect storage environment for all clothes all year long. In response to increasing demand for IoT-based product development, we are expanding our testing facilities and equipment as part of our quality assurance process. We will continue to improve the reliability of our IoCARE series to meet the demand for product development. Key Activities to Enhance Reliability Enhance test performance for parts Test sensor reliability Enhance network test Enhance application test process 〮 Develop accelerated lifecycle test 〮 ‌Analyze the sensitivity of sensors 〮 ‌Analyze field data and apply 〮 ‌Test Doctor/Cody/User APP 〮 ‌Hire outside consultants and according to user environment standards 〮 Acquire APP2.0 test technology join industry-academy research 〮 ‌Test the sensitivity of aged 〮 ‌Analyze potential cause of projects sensors malfunction Secure reliability of sensing 2018 CES Award Winners Parts test Test network technology Test APP technology Model Categories Concept Strategic Partnership with Global Companies Home 〮 ‌Sufficient direct water supply using nano 〮 2 types of faucet (bottle/cup) Giga(P-5600N) technology At Coway, we form strategic partnerships with global IT companies to improve our customer service Appliances 〮 Detachable faucet for easy maintenance 〮 Power-free, slim design for easy installation standards and market position. We will continue to strengthen our customer care programs through 〮 Omni-directional circulation care Active Action Smart 〮 AI-based space care using big data collaboration with top global companies, setting a new standard and paving the way for the future. (AP-0818A) Home 〮 Double-sided suction system 〮 Smart IoCare 〮 Customized space care using motion sensor 〮 Personalized mattress hardness setting 〮 ‌Sleeping environment system 〮 ‌Launched “Air Mega” air purification system for the North American market, which supports Alexa, Amazon’s voice Tech For A Smart Bed System 〮 Snoring relief feature (air purification, heating chamber) and recognition platform in 2017. Better World 〮 Sleep pattern analysis and reclining replaceable topper 〮 ‌In 2018, we are launching new products that support Amazon’s IoT-based order service known as ”DRS (Dash Replenishment Service)” and place orders automatically if the filter needs to be replaced at the end of its lifecycle. 〮 ‌External environment notification Beauty Platform Smart 〮 Optimize conditions for cosmetic products (multi-functional mirror-temperature, (CBD-01) Home 〮 Lighting / charging station 〮 ‌“Coway Tower”, the world’s first air purifier that connects to Apple’s smart platform, “Home Kit”, is scheduled to humidity, UV) launch. Home 〮 Intensive apparel care 〮 ‌Space care (air purification, 〮 The users can control the system through iOS apps and Siri. Le Grandbleu FWSS Appliances 〮 Personalized styling settings dehumidification) 〮 ‌Smart air purification system with the Naver AI platform “Clova” support will be launched. 〮 ‌Features voice control through Clova speakers and smart phone applications. 2017 COWAY Sustainability Report 22 23 TRUST Report Personalized Product Safety & Reliability At Coway, we focus on the innovation of our service to provide unparalleled customer experiSolutions for ence while adding more services to our Heart Service as part of our customer care program. Customers Heart Service Overview In addition to the basic Cody care service, we provide such services as Cody-on, Special Care, Our Approach and IoCare product innovation and after-sale care service as part of our new Heart Service. How Heart Service Work Cody-On Service for Peace of Mind Coway “Cody-On Service” is designed to visualize and provide the details of product inspection at a glance through mobile devices. Previously, it was difficult for our Codys to explain their service results to customers after conducting Heart Service. However, with the Cody-On Service, customers can understand the outcome of the service they carried out. It also provides a quick service preview in advance through notifications. Coway Cody-on Service Pre-visit Service Feedback & Notification Confirmation Survey + + 〮 ‌Send text messages 〮 ‌Confirm service details 〮 ‌Customer satisfaction (e.g. Talk) a day before through text messaging survey is conducted scheduled visit (e.g. Talk) 〮 ‌Complaints are handled Business Relevance & Approach Cody explains the service carried 〮 ‌Provide service preview 〮 ‌The information is available and improved immediately out using the “Cody-on Service”. (mobile) through mobile devices At Coway, we recognize the importance of product safety and consistent performance as our products are designed for processing air and water and are used for an extended period of time. Therefore, our quality management is a series of processes we rely on to fulfill our responsibilities in terms of quality and safety. Special Care Service for Replacement From quality planning and management to assurance and improvement, we focus our resources on the As part of our “Special Care Service”, we replace parts of water purification systems. Previously, overall improvement at each stage of our quality management. In 2017, we redefined all our business we provided this service for rental customers after 29 months of use. As of May 2017, this service processes and activities to implement quality management practice from the “customers’ perspective” applied to all models on cold/hot/purified water flow, tubing and faucet. Our specialized service and “broad perspective”. In particular, we continued to enhance our commitment to the safety and qualengineers known as “Special Doctors” visit customers and conduct necessary maintenance inity of our product through the activities of the Infinite Responsibility Committee, CICS renewal, chemical cluding check-up, sanitation, cleaning and replacement of parts. substance control system and customer-oriented service quality improvement. Coway service engineers known as Special Doctors replace parts to be sanitized on site as part of Special Activities Business Case Care Service. ‌ Enhanced Product Validation throughout the Product Safety Enhancement Entire Process Customer-oriented Quality Management ‌Safety Specifications Prevention and Management System Business Case Service Quality Assurance Program Performance At Coway, we take a survey on our Heart Service to identify their level of satisfaction and monitor feedback as part of “After-Sale Service”. We introduced a one-stop quality assurance system from complaints handling to follow-up on improvement. In addition, our Consumer Electricity Public Test Labs for Quality Committee consisting of managers in charge or product development, production, customer service and quality control carries International Safety Safety Certifications 2017 out improvements while enhancing our competitive advantages in service through real-time management based on IoCare. Certification Center Report complaints to Check complaints Resolve complaints Update the results in DB Call to follow up and 128cases 12cases service center offline or by call to prevent recurrence monitor improvement 2017 COWAY Sustainability Report 24 25 TRUST Report Product Technological Innovation for Enhanced Safety and Sanitation CustomerQuality Management Program Safety At Coway, we are committed to maintaining the highest level of safety and sanitation for our oriented Quality At Coway, we internalize our quality-management activities throughout the entire business proEnhancement Management products from their design stage. Through technological innovation, we apply easy-to-clean cess from development to sales and disposal to ensure safety of our products. and replaceable detachable cork tips for all models with safety warning displays for a check-up even if the customers are not subject to regular care service. Daily Quality Monitoring QS7 (Quality Solution 7 Days) Quality VOC Council Key quality-related data (e.g. after-sale ser“Emergency Residence TFT” is issued in On-site quality VOC channels are unified Enhanced Sanitation Care vice and return) is analyzed and monitored response to quality issues to make sure they and regular meetings of the council held for on a daily basis for effective and timely qualiare resolved within 7 days to keep customeffective and timely quality improvement. ty improvement. ers satisfied. Design Materials Care Service Worst Improvement Assurance System Quality Improvement Progress Quality Forecast The “Worst” defects are identified and TFT Management Any risks that may have an impact on manuStandardized modular design for easy New materials for enhanced safety Development of Smart Signaling service is organized for the improvement of each The progress made for improvement is facturing quality are managed according to product category. managed in real time and failure cases weekly production plan. replacement of parts and areas 〮 ‌New materials are developed and used for 〮 ‌Users are notified at each service step are kept in the database for continuous 〮 ‌Detachable cork tips are used for easy prevention of harmful substances 〮 ‌Sanitation monitoring and warning system: improvement. replacement and sanitation 〮 ‌Key performance: development of materials safety warning messages display for scheduled 〮 ‌Standardized design ensures easy cleaning for HEPA/humidifier filters maintenance * 4M(Man, Machine, Method, Materials) and replacement on a regular basis 〮 ‌Product status, filter water quality and indoor water quality data, and usage pattern are provided based on IoT Infinite Responsibility Quality Management In October 2016, we organized “Infinite Responsibility Committee” to make sure our product safety and reliability are reviewed comprehensively and a proactive approach is taken for mainChemical Process Control System tenance and improvement. Consisting of executive officers of the company, the committee diWith the HSPM (Hazardous Substances Processing Management) certification, we reinforce our rectly reports to the CEO and discusses the safety issues of our products every week to expedite chemical process control system based on a cycle of planning, execution, review, and continuous imthe decision-making process. Matters are discussed from multiple perspectives based on the coprovement. We ensure compliance with EU / K-RoHS standards for all parts used since 2010. In 2015, ordination between divisions and the results are incorporated into the corporate-wide process. we expanded K-RoHS compliance and registered all our service parts codes for internal validation of By the end of 2017, 130 issues have been discussed in 47 meetings. In addition, we established conformity. In 2016, we built a database in order to identify chemical substances used in our work“Coway Infinite Responsibility Committee” website to communicate with our stakeholders on places, and a database for compliance with domestic and overseas regulations and requirements. In various activities we carry out to build trust. 2017, we applied our chemical process control system to each product to meet the demands of our customers for chemical process and ensured compliance with global environment regulations. Infinite Responsibility Committee http://trust.coway.co.kr/about.html Safety Certification At Coway, we maintain our safety certifications even after the product is launched and expand the Business Case scope of certification to a corporate-wide level as part of certification management practice. In 2017, Enhanced Product Validation throughout the Entire Process we conducted post-certification of electrical safety and electromagnetic compatibility, and reviewed the energy efficiency of our water purifiers to prevent inconsistencies between our certifications At Coway, we conduct product validation throughout the entire process even in consideration of its operating environment as well as and actual performance. Meanwhile, we make sure our products comply with local regulations from safety, hazard and sanitation. their development phase. In 2018, we plan to expand the scope of our performance certification management such as Clean Air (CA) and Healthy Humidifier (HH) to maintain its status. Enhanced Validation Reliability of Foreign Pre-Design Review Reliability Test Planning Fair Failure and Defect Specialized testing devices/ Substance approx. equipment New safety test In order to improve our product R i s k fa c t o r s a r e a s s e s s e d We collect information on the In order to prevent product fail250types (e.g. electrical safety, 8cases guidelines design, we implement PDR through the fair designed for inforeign substances produced ures and defects, we carry out electromagnetic, standby power) (Pre-Design Review) throughout depth analysis of the reliability in water and air purifiers and in-depth analysis using statethe entire product development of new products, parts and funcreview it to develop new test of-the-art equipment and proprocess from planning to design tions while reducing deviations processes. In 2017, we comcesses. In 2017, we analyzed the Business Case and development. In particamong test teams. After the pleted analysis of 48 foreign causes by reviewing 23 cases ular, we are monitoring new development phase, we review substances, while incorporating and standardized the design to quality-related risks by coordiall progress made during the this process to the service items prevent recurrence. Safety Specifications Prevention and Management System nating with experts outside the process to identify the areas of for safety. company and identify the areas improvement in our test stanAs part of our efforts to enhance product certification management, we prepared for the renewal of CICS for certification management of improvement in our review dards and review procedures. website and identification of certificates that required corporate-wide management in 2017. Based on this, in 2018, we will establish system. Meanwhile, failures are docuand implement a system and process to maintain the initial status of certifications as well as the integrated management of our safety mented through a system and and performance certification. shared at a corporate-wide level. 2017 COWAY Sustainability Report 26 27 TRUST Report Environmental Impact Circular Refurb System Economy At Coway, we manufacture and sell refurbished products, and recycles plastics from waste to save resources and minimize environmental impact. We collect waste products free of charge from our customers and recycle the materials or refurbish them for reproduction and sale Our Approach through our recycling center. Refurbished Products Sold (Unit: Item) 21,527 21,112 17,348 2015 2016 2017 Plastic Recycling As our products are subject to the Act on the Resource Circulation of Electrical and Electronic Equipment and Vehicles as of 2014, we established a waste collection and recycling system to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations (including voluntary agreements on collection and recycling of plastic waste). In particular, our Codys collect and recycle waste filters so that we can manage not only products but also service wastes. In addition, we collect Business Relevance & Approach and recycle all our product wastes as part of our voluntary recycling program. In response to environmental problems such as depletion of natural resources due to consumption, Category 2015 2016 2017 increase of waste such as plastics, and climate change, the importance of circular economy where resources are recycled and reused for less environmental impact, over the consumption-based linear Recycled Plastic Materials (ton) 6,353 6,902 6,515 economy is recognized. Recycling Rate (%) 69 69 71 Under these circumstances, we are implementing “Refurb” system to satisfy customers who want reasonable and prudent consumption and minimize environmental impact by reusing our resources. We are also working on reducing environmental burdens and greenhouse gas emissions by expanding our Business Case eco-friendly product lineup. In particular, we continue developing eco-friendly technologies to minimize the environmental impact while maintaining our certification on carbon emission and energy saving. Implementation of the Product LCA (Life-Cycle Assessment) At Coway, we identify greenhouse gas produced throughout our purchase, production, distribution, use and disposal process and apActivities Business Case ply it to our product design through LCA (Life-Cycle Assessment). ‌Implementation of the Product LCA Circular Economy (Life-Cycle Assessment) We reduce carbon emission and ensure We introduced solar power facilities and Eco-friendly Product Development sustainable growth based on the Voluntary a se Prod uc renewable energy system to improve our ‌Energy Winner of the Year “CO2 Emission Reduction” Green Purchase Agreement. r ch tio energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emission. Pu n Coway Life-Cycle Assessment Di Performance We manage waste materials produced sal str Since 2013, we have estimated and managed Dispo ibuti through our workplace/product/service, sell on greenhouse gas emission for transportation refurbished products and recycle plastic mafrom our logistics hubs in response to climate terials. change. Environmental Reduction of greenhouse Use KRW Investment gas emissions 2017 619.8million 378tonCO e 2 To save energy and water, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we developed eco-friendly technology and keep track of its impact. Our Hanppyum IoCare system based on instant hot water and high-efficiency inverter cold water technology saves energy and maximizes energy efficiency. 2017 COWAY Sustainability Report 28 29 Appendix Eco-friendly Eco-friendly Products Product The most significant environmental impact of our products is energy and water consumption when Development they are used. In order to minimize the impact, we are committed to improving the energy efficiency and reducing water consumption of our products by using vacuum insulation materials and Nano-trap filters. In particular, we are incorporating instant heating and semiconductor cooling technologies in our product development for better energy efficiency. Models with Reduced Packaging Weight Models with Improved Energy Efficiency & Eco-friendly Package Water Purifier (Model: CHP -480L) Lighter Packaging Materials ❶ Energy Efficiency Rating: Class 1 AP-1013F: packaging box materials ❷ Improvement ‌ (double layer → single layer) 〮 ‌Inverter compressor → 65% energy saved compared to the existing compressor 〮 3-step instant water heating control technology (85℃, 70℃, 45℃) Air Purifier (AP -1515D) Eco-Friendly Packaging Acquired GP certification mark for bidet packing in 2017 Appendix ❶ Energy Efficiency Rating: Class 1 ❷ Improvement ‌ from previous models Model: BASH30-A 〮 ‌Double-suction flow design: 50% energy saved compared to existing multi-suction type Improvement: ‌Compact design of bidet packing material Eco-friendly Product Certification Through carbon label/environmental mark certification system, we share the progress we made on environmental sustainability in our products. Eco-friendly Product Certification Status (Unit: Case) Models 2015 2016 2017 Carbon Emission Certification 4 Environmental Mark Certification 7 4 7 Water Footprint1) 1 1 Carbon Neutral Product Certification2) 1 2 Carbon Balloon3) 2 1) ‌Water Footprint: quantifies the environmental impact based on the total amount of water used directly or indirectly for the entire process from acquisition of raw materials, production, distribution, use and disposal, and verified in accordance with ISO 14046 requirements 2) ‌Carbon Neutral Product Certification: certification given to products that have acquired CER (certified emission reduction) equivalent to the greenhouse gas emitted throughout the entire production, distribution, use and disposal process or offsets the carbon emission through greenhouse gas reduction activities 3) ‌Carbon Balloon: whereas Carbon Label calculates the environmental impact made throughout the entire process under Korean certification standards, Carbon Balloon is an international carbon certification that calculates the carbon emission Appendix 29 under more stringent ISO14044 & PAS 2050 standards. Eco-friendly Product Sales (Unit: KRW 100M) Category 2015 2016 2017 Economic Data 30 Eco-friendly Product Sales 5,972 6,292 5,983 Social Data 32 Business Case Environmental Data 35 HANDSPAN Water Purifier Energy Winner of the Year “CO2 Emission Reduction” Support for Global Initiatives 38 IoCare (CHP-482L) Coway HANDSPAN Water Purifier IoCare won the “‘CO2 Emission Reduction Award” at the 20th Energy Winner of the Year hosted by the Korea National Council of Consumer Organization and Ministry of Energy Commerce, Industry and Energy. The award recognizes products and technologies with excellent enerEfficiency gy efficiency. 1st Class The HANDSPAN Water Purifier IoCare uses the “instant water heating system” and “high-efficiency inSave up to 83% energy (‌compared to standard hot/cold verter water cooling system” to minimize energy consumption by heating the water when it is needed. water purification systems) It provides hot water for the convenience of users depending on situation and use. 2017 COWAY Sustainability Report 30 31 Appendix ESG Data Features of Resource Procurement Coway has been successful in producing most of the parts it requires in Korea through constant R&D efforts by the company’s Environmental Technology Institute and Quality Management Institute, or by purchasing them from numerous suppliers within Korea. Today, the company is also equipped with automatic production lines for filters. Furthermore, core parts used for water Economic Organizational Scope purifiers are ultra-precision filters, so competitors have had to work hard to increase the number of more technologically advanced products they produce in Korea to keep up with Coway. Financial Data Financial Highlights(Consolidated basis) Coway’s Supply Chain Coway engages in trade with a total of 268 suppliers in order to procure raw materials and parts for manufacturing products. Sales (Unit : bn KRW) Operating Profit (Unit : bn KRW) ROE (Unit : %) 2,517 463 437 2,376 20.2 Category 2015 2016 2017 2,315 339 15.8 Total 288 273 268 13.0 No. of Suppliers Tier 1 suppliers 193 178 173 Tier 2 suppliers 95 95 95 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Total Assets (Unit : bn KRW) Total Liabilities (Unit : bn KRW) Deb Ratio (Unit : %) 2,159 1,177 119.8 Research and Development Status (Unit : KRW million, %) 1,968 1,775 784 Category 2015 2016 2017 66.3 537 R&D Expense 34,029 34,821 36,174 43.3 R&D Cost Proportion (vs Sales) 1.47 1.47 1.44 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Intellectual properties (Unit : case) Summarized Financial Position (Unit : bn KRW) Category 2015 2016 2017 Brands Total Patents Utility models Designs Non-current assets 1,122 1,235 1,367 (Including overseas) Current assets 653 733 791 4,267 799 182 2,645 641 Total assets 1,775 1,968 2,159 Shares of the controlling company 1,237 1,183 982 Paid-in capital 41 41 41 Capital surplus 98 98 98 Retained earnings 1,177 1,180 963 Other equity items -78 -135 -119 Economic Performance Creation and Distribution Non-controlling interest 1 1 Total shareholders' equity 1,238 1,183 982 Non-Current liabilities 62 49 52 Coway distributes economic performance to various stakeholders, including shareholders, customers, employees, and suppliCurrent liabilities 473 735 1,125 ers. The amount distributed to stakeholders in 2017 is 124,473 ten million won. Total liabilities 537 784 1,177 Total liabilities and shareholders' equity 1,775 1,968 2,159 Summarized Income Statement (accum.) (Unit : bn KRW) Category 2015 2016 2017 Sales 2,315 2,376 2517 Cost of sales 729 812 798 Gross income 1,586 1,564 1,718 Selling and administrative expenses 1,123 1,225 1,246 Operating income 463 339 473 Net income before income tax 454 324 440 Net income 343 243 326 2017 COWAY Sustainability Report 32 33 Appendix Social New Employment, Turnover, and Average year of service Coway is fulfilling its social responsibility through creating employment for vulnerable groups such as people with disabilities, as well as to recruit excellent human resources to maintain its leading position in the market and strengthen the company’s competitiveness. Social Reporting KPI Category 2015 2016 2017 KPI 1 KPI 2 KPI 3 No. of New Employees 643 668 683 Rate of New Recruitment(%) 13.4 14 14.1 Average Years Turnover Supplier No. of Retirees 628 677 574 of Service Rate Satisfaction Turnover Rate(%) 13.1 14.1 11.8 Average year of service 6.5 6.8 7.2 Business Sites and No. of Employees (Unit : Persons) Category 2015 2016 2017 Basic Remuneration Comparison between Men and Women Domestic Coway does not adopt different remuneration policies for male and female employees, but pays the same salaries to both from the time they begin Total No. of Employees 4,780 4,771 4,879 working at the company. Production 250 249 264 Sales 3,331 3,358 3,397 Category 2015 2016 2017 Total No. of Employees R&D 368 358 361 Basic annual salary for a new male employee 38,000,000 38,000,000 38,000,000 Clerical work 805 779 830 Basic annual salary for a new female employee 38,000,000 38,000,000 38,000,000 Others 26 27 27 No. of Employees by Regular 3,936 3,920 4,007 Employment Type Temporary 844 851 872 Male 1,572 1,588 1,685 Comparison of New Employees’ Remuneration and the Legal Minimum (32.9%) (33.3%) (34.5%) No. of Gender 3,208 3,183 3,194 Category 2015 2016 2017 Female (67.1%) (66.7%) (65.5%) Legal Minimum Wage(monthly, KRW 10,000) 108.8 116.6 126.0 Foreigner 6 5 No. of minority group* New Employee Wages(monthly, KRW 10,000) 307.5 316.7 316.0 Disabled 44 51 Rate(%) 282 272 251 Overseas Total No. of Employees 1,292 1,631 1,885 Overseas 15 13 15 No. of Employees by dispatch Employment Type Local Operation of the Labor-Management Council 1,277 1,618 1,870 recruitment Coway discusses its major decisions and changes it implements regarding corporate management through regular meetings of the * Systematically manage and report the data from 2016 Labor-Management Council. If significant operational changes occur, we transparently share them in advance. In 2017, through 5 meetings of the Labor-Management Council we held discussions on 9 Agendas, including evaluation committee operations and promotion, annual salary adjustment, incentive payment, system improvement in corporate culture and education. Employees by Gender and Age (Unit : Persons) Coway is an equal opportunity provider and does not discriminate based on age or gender. In 2017 we establishd a global CSR Category 2015 2016 2017 Guide containing human rights, labor, environment and overall safety principles and in 2017 there were no violations related No. of Council Meetings 7 5 5 to child and forced labor No. of Agenda Issues Discussed 10 8 9 No. of Agenda Issues 10 8 9 Category Gender 2015 2016 2017 * 노사협의회에서 논의 및 의결된 사안은 전 임직원에게 적용됩니다. 번역누락 Male 11 11 15 Executive over 50 years of age Female 1 1 0 Operation of the Grievance Counseling Program Male 38 37 78 Employee over 50 years of age Female 508 849 849 Male 12 14 11 Executive aged 30-50 Category 2015 2016 2017 Female 2 1 1 Operation of the Grievance Counseling Program 51 28 52 Male 1,465 1,462 1,489 Employee aged 30-50 No. of Grievances Handled Handling Rate 51 28 52 Female 2,448 2,352 2,107 Male 69 64 92 Handling Rate(%) 100 100 100 Employee under 30 years of age Female 252 248 237 Major Grievances HR, Sales, Job, Private Matters 2017 COWAY Sustainability Report 34 35 Appendix Social Environmental Safety & Health Related Certification (Unit : KRW) With a high portion of clerical and sales employees, Coway tends to have a lower industrial accident rate compared to other manuNatural Resources Used in Business Activities facturing industry companies. However, at business sites which have a higher potential for safety accidents, such as Coway’s Yugu and Incheon plants as well as its R&D Center, Coway operates an Industrial Safety and Health Committee for each business site to Environmental Reporting KPI respond to potential risks. At the same time, it upholds rigid safety management standards by meeting the very highest re quireCategory Target Target Year ments for renowned safety and health management system certificates KPI 1. GHG Emissions reduction per Unit Reduce GHG intensity by 50% by 2020 from the base year 2010. 2020 Achieved 50% share of eco-friendly products compared to total KPI 2. Improving occupancy rate of eco-friendly products 2020 sales of environmental household appliances. Category Remark KPI 3. Reduction of suppliers (GHG partnership) GHG OSHAS 18001 Reduce GHG Intensity by 50% by 2020 from the base year 2010. 2020 Yugu / Incheon Plant Emissions & Emission per unit KOSHAS 18001 Use of Materials (Unit: Ton) Maternity Protection (Unit: Person) Category 2015 2016 2017 Plastics1) 9,185 10,017 9,123 Category 2015 2016 2017 Non Renewable Raw Metal2) 4,332 5,096 4,398 Materials Employees using parental leave 117 129 115 Theoretical weight applied3) 2,266 2,335 2,160 Return to work after parental leave 78 95 97 Total 15,783 17,448 15,681 1) Water filtration systems, air purifiers, bidets, water softeners. And food waste treatment appliances 2) Weight is applied as theoretical Industrial Accident Case 3) Packaging materials: paper boxes, plastics & protective films, and use of EPS in 2017 Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Energy Use (Unit : GJ) No. of Industrial Accident Case 0 0 0 Category Energy Source1) 2015 2016 2017 LTIFR n/million hours worked 0 0 0 Butane 2 0.4 (Lost-Time Injuries FreLPG quency Rate) percentage of employees 100 100 100 Diesel 268 265 276 Direct LNG 1,601 402 323 Kerosene 267 250 432 Anti-corruption Related Indicators Propane2) 4,126 5,394 5,407 Direct Total(GJ) 6,264 6,311 6,438 Indirect Electricity(GJ) 103,640 101,543 103,205 Category 2015 2016 2017 Indirect Total(GJ) 103,640 101,543 103,205 Anti-corruption Training (Ethics Management, Indirect Total(GJ) 109,904 107,8543) 109,6434) 40 55 49 Proper Business Practices) Energy Use per Unit (GJ/KRW 100 million) 4.72 1) ‌Joongang Ilbo Building (Seoul Office), Seoul National University Environmental Technology Research Institute, Cosmetics Research Center, Yugu Logistics Category 2015 2016 2017 Center, Production Plant(Yugu, Incheon, Pocheon)_Excluding water environment division according to company division 2)LPG is classified as propane according to the verification of the GHG target management standard. Analysis of Corruption Measures against 3) ‌2016 Verification Standard: [Scope1 + 2] x 115,175GJ. At the time of external verification, Data are presented based on the previous year’s coefficient of 7 7 7 Risks Corruption Cases application for comparison with the previous year 4) 2017 Assurance criteria energy use is the same as 108,312GJ No. of inspected Suspension with pay and 54 40 46 business sites other measures Water Use (Unit: Ton) Social Contribution and Volunteer Activities Category 2015 2016 2017 Yugu Plant 30,916 40,083 37,879 Category 2015 2016 2017 Incheon Plant 16,603 16,711 6,482 No. of Volunteer Groups 1,449 1,412 1,482 Pocheon Plant 235 146 134 Environmental Technology Institute(R&D Center) 15,104 19,358 22,597 Volunteer Hours per Employee 24.3 20 24 Logistics Center(Yugu) 3,386 4,071 4,893 Social Contribution Costs & Donations Total 66,244 80,3691) 71,985 15.2 6.3 10.5 (unit: KRW 100 million) 1) In 2016, water use increased due to the increase in the production amount of Yugu factory and strengthen test by water purifier. 2017 COWAY Sustainability Report 36 37 Appendix Environmental Waste Generation Amount Category 2015 2016 2017 Environmental Impact due to Business Activities Products 13,263 14,024 13,770 Business Site: General 1,023 1,619 1,431 Generation of Waste Business Site: Designated 27 38 28 GHG Emissions (Unit : tCO e) 2 Services 8,501 9,095 9,307 Total (Unit: Ton) 22,814 24,776 24,536 Category 2015 2016 2017 Amount of Waste Recycled (Unit: Ton) 12,837 13,559 13,294 Direct Emissions (Scope1) 391 401 380 Waste Recycling Rate (%) 55 54 Indirect Emissions (Scope2) 5,369 5,261 5,012 Total Emissions (Scope1+2) 5,760 5,662 5,392 Yugu Plant 2,015 2,165 1,950 Incheon Plant 658 677 598 Hazardous Substance Process Management (Unit : %) Pocheon Plant 349 387 359 Category 2015 2016 2017 Environmental Technology Institute (R&D Center) 1,565 1,588 1,708 Response Rate to Parts Containing Hazardous Substances 100 100 100 Cosmetics Research Institute 174 183 203 Seoul Office (JoongAng Dail yBuilding) 390 382 287 Logistics Center (Yugu) 464 328 287 Net Emissions (KRW100M) 0.266 0.238 0.232 Plastics Recycling Domestic Logistics and Transport (Scope 3) 4,514 4,795 5,047 Commuting Vehicles (Scope 3) 49 49 49 Category 2015 2016 2017 Output(Ton) 1) 9,185 10,017 9,123 * ‌Domestic logistics and transport are carried out through subcontracts, which are excluded from the company’s calculation of emissions (data is taken from subcontractors) and external verification. Amount Recycled(Ton) 2) 6,353 6,902 6,515 * Since 2016, the Water Environment Division has been excluded from the calculation of emissions by the corporate division of the Coway. Recycling Rate (%) 3) 69 69 71 1) filter, water purifier, purifier, bidet, water softener, food processor 2) The recycling rate is stagnant due to the continuous increase in product and maintenance service accounts. 3) Recycling rate: (waste product / waste filter) Plastic recycling amount / (product / filter) Plastic delivery amount GHG Emissions from the Use of Refrigerants Sales of Refurbished Products (Unit: No. of units) R-134a Category Category 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Water Filtration Appliances 13,492 9,165 4,267 Use of Refrigerants in Product Manufacturing(kg) 50,238 52,340 46,580 Air Purifiers 4,500 6,584 8,533 Use of Refrigerants in Product Disposal(Kg) 15,562 20,188 13,452 Water Softeners 49 1 GHG Emissions Caused by Refrigerants from 16,185 20,996 13,990 Waste Products(tCO2e) Bidets 3,486 5,362 4,548 Use of Eco-friendly Refrigerants in Product R-600a, R-436B Food Waste Treatment Appliances Manufacturing(kg) 651 950 800 Total 21,527 21,112 17,348 2017 COWAY Sustainability Report 38 39 Support for Global Initiatives Joined the UNGC(United Nations Global Compact) We joined the UN Global Compact(UNGC) in June 2006 to abide by the 10 principles in the areas ofhuman rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption and to fulfill our role as a corporate citizen a citizen who not only pursues its own growth, but also does its part in meeting and going beyond its social responsibility. This online sustainability report represents our commitment to becoming what we aspire to be. Supports the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change at the COP21 Climate change is one of the major challenges of our time. Coway wants to be a positive player in climate change, ensuring climate is kept on safe levels around the world for communities and environment. This demands important investments and collaborations. Coway is the only Korean company which declared its support for the ‘UN Framework Convention on Climate Change’ agreed by 195 countries at the COP21 held in Paris in December 2015. We’ve been participating in the corporate voluntary carbon reduction plan scheme. Selected as the Carbon Management Sector Honors Coway was selected as the Carbon Management Sector Honors by the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) Korea for nine consecutive years in recognition of its excellence in response to climate change. Listed as the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices(DJSI) World Coway has been consistently named in DJSI Asia-Pacific since 2013 and has been added to the DJSI World index in 2017. In particular, Coway was highly acclaimed for responsible activities such as environmental policies and systems, occupational safety & health activities, and community contributions. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Implementation Declaration Following the adoption of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that are replacing the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), we will endeavor to develop and implement solutions to attain the SDGs*, exploring new opportunities for sustainable growth. 11~17F, JoongAng Ilbo Bldg., 88, Seosomun-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul
