NON-FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Taking action for generations. Contents 1. BIG the Company .............................................................................................................................................................................. 4 1.1. Description of the business model .................................................................................................................................... 4 1.2 Investing in the business location ...................................................................................................................................... 4 1.3 Compliance & corporate governance ................................................................................................................................ 5 1.4 Sustainability in the BIG Group............................................................................................................................................ 6 2. Room for clients ................................................................................................................................................................................ 9 2.1 Customer-oriented construction and refurbishment.................................................................................................. 9 2.2 Customer-oriented building management ..................................................................................................................... 9 3. Room for employees ..................................................................................................................................................................... 11 3.1 Diversity & equal opportunities ....................................................................................................................................... 11 3.2 Occupational health & safety............................................................................................................................................ 11 3.3 Further education and training, knowledge management & corporate culture ........................................... 11 3.4 Life-work balance ................................................................................................................................................................... 12 4. Room for sustainable buildings................................................................................................................................................ 14 4.1 Energy efficiency in design, construction & management ..................................................................................... 15 4.2 Renewables .............................................................................................................................................................................. 16 4.3 Healthy interior climate....................................................................................................................................................... 16 4.4 Environmental construction materials .......................................................................................................................... 17 4.5 Disabled access, safety and security in BIG buildings ............................................................................................... 17 4.6 Land use and sealing............................................................................................................................................................. 18 4.7 Sustainability on the road ................................................................................................................................................... 18 5. Room for society ............................................................................................................................................................................ 20 5.1 Focus on sustainable value increases ............................................................................................................................. 20 5.2 Architecture ............................................................................................................................................................................. 20 5.3 The educational space of the future ............................................................................................................................... 20 5.4 Art (BIG ART) ............................................................................................................................................................................ 22 6. Room for innovation and new technologies........................................................................................................................ 23 7 Key performance indicators on nachhaltigkeit.big.at........................................................................................................ 24 8. Audit report ..................................................................................................................................................................................... 25 9. Acknowledgments ........................................................................................................................................................................ 27 2 GRI 102-14 Foreword DI Hans-Peter Weiss DI Wolfgang Gleissner Managing Director Managing Director Sustainability and cross-generational As one of Austria’s largest property owners, thinking are elementary components of our we have a huge responsibility towards our corporate philosophy. This is why, as a society and environment. By doing business driver and shaper of public space, we have in a way that is more efficient and better at firmly anchored the issue in our corporate conserving resources, as well as by strategy and safeguarded the pursuit of our integrating sustainable measures into goals at every level through a construction and refurbishments, we comprehensive sustainability organisation. enhance the positive impact of the In particular we want to lead the way in Company and the sustainable value the fields of the educational space of the increase of its portfolio. As we support our future and energy as a leading company for buildings throughout their entire lifecycle – sustainability in the real estate sector, as from design and planning through to both of these issues have a significant demolition – we see massive potential impact on society and the environment. across this entire value chain for achieving The latest stakeholder survey and impact our goal of creating space that is futureanalysis have also reconfirmed our oriented in terms of society, the intention to continue down this path. environment and the economy. If you want to learn even more about the sustainability activities of the BIG Group, you are welcome to visit our multimedia platform: nachhaltigkeit.big.at 3 1. BIG the Company 1.1. Description of the business model GRI With around 2,200 properties, the BIG Group, which is wholly owned by the Republic of 7.2 102-2 Austria, is one of Austria’s largest property companies. Its core business involves managing million m2 102-5 the portfolio of around 7.2million m² of rentable space and a fair value of EUR 12.0 bn in a rentable space 102-6 manner that facilitates stable growth and sustainable value added. As BIG develops and 102-9 supports its properties throughout their entire lifecycle – from design and planning through to demolition – a responsible approach to resources is a priority throughout this value chain. This holds true equally for the supply chain for construction services in the field of construction and refurbishments, as well as for services contracted for managing €12.0 and maintaining the buildings. In the business segments of Universities, Schools and bn fair value Special Properties, asset management represents the owner’s interests and project management realises construction projects. Offices, commercial and residential properties are managed in the subsidiary ARE Austrian Real Estate GmbH (ARE). In addition, ARE Austrian Real Estate Development GmbH (ARE DEVELOPMENT), a wholly owned ARE 100% subsidiary, develops urban areas and privately financed residential property projects in owned by the Austria, both alone and with partners. The administration and maintenance for the Republic of Group’s properties is handled by BIG’s Property and Facility Management. Austria More detailed information on the business model, portfolio, business performance and earnings for the year 2017 can be found in the Annual Report of the BIG Group. 1.2 Investing in the business location GRI Another example of sustainability: “Every million euros invested or spent by the BIG Group 101-1 in Austria has an impact of around EUR 1.8m in production, around EUR 0.9m in value around bis 103 added and some 14.5 positions equivalent to full-time jobs”. This was the conclusion of a 203-1 2014 study commissioned by BIG from the Institute of Advanced Studies. Investment 7,800 jobs SDG 8 volumes in portfolio properties in 2017 totalled EUR 539.9m, of which EUR 397.7m went on through BIG new-build and general-refurbishment projects – around half of which was dedicated to investments refurbishment – and EUR 142.2m on maintenance, corresponding to around 7,800 jobs in the Austrian construction and real estate industry. SCHOOLS Differing demographic developments are underway in urban and rural areas and these are 408 playing a key role in determining the requirements for school construction in urban and school community planning. With around 3.0 million m² of space, the 408 school properties properties account for the largest share of the BIG portfolio. Currently under preparation, once SCHEP – the school development plan from the Federal Ministry of Education, Science and Research – comes into force, the challenge for the coming years will be the timely joint implementation of the projects specified therein. UNIVERSITIES The BIG university portfolio consists of 207 properties with space of around 2.0 million m². 207 The dynamic growth of the Austrian universities with their rising student numbers and university further development of formats has created a sharp increase in demand for space. The properties range of buildings and space available has to do justice to these requirements, for example through new builds, adapting existing buildings and through the conception of flexible spaces. 4 SPECIAL PROPERTIES This business segment consists of around 1,000 properties and covers a rentable area of approximately 600,000 m². The portfolio contains properties with special security aspects such as correctional facilities and processing points for asylum seekers, as well as other types of building in socially sensitive areas and special-purpose properties including mine shafts, war cemeteries or properties on the country’s borders. In 2018 these will once again have to be properly maintained or refurbished. ARE AND ARE DEVELOPMENT The core business of ARE consists of the asset classes Office and Residential. This means Around that its significant operational goals are renting office space and creating a modern, innovative residential range. The departments of the Republic of Austria are among the most important clients in the Office asset class. ARE focuses on the best-possible use and 10,000 managing the approximately 1.6 million m² portfolio in a way that ensures value retention. Furthermore, the goal of ARE and ARE DEVELOPMENT in the course of the ARE apartments by investment programme is to initiate up to 10,000 privately financed apartments with an 2020 investment volume of around EUR 2 bn by 2020. This will provide continuous stimulus for the national economy in the coming years and make a key contribution to creating the necessary housing in the major urban areas of Austria. GRI 103-1 bis 1.3 Compliance & Corporate Governance 103-3 102-16 Strict adherence to legal stipulations along with clear structures and transparency strengthens trust in the Company and establishes the BIG Group as a reliable partner to its stakeholders. What’s more, it also averts potential damage to the Company. Openness as a principle: Since 2011 and its realignment under the Federal Real Estate Act (Bundesimmobiliengesetz), the BIG Group has pursued the principle of the utmost The highest transparency within the Company. The corporate bodies are characterised by their clear standards of structures and processes, as are the individual organisational units, particularly in finance, transparency accounting, controlling and reporting. As a state-affiliated company, BIG is governed by the have Federal Code of Public Governance and has also committed to uphold the rules of the been upheld Austrian Code of Corporate Governance since December 2008. at BIG since The BIG Group continuously develops its Group-wide compliance structures and processes 2001 and has defined the fields of anti-corruption, award processes, data protection, and capital market law as material compliance areas. In the compliance area of anti-corruption the quality of the processes under the corruption prevention programme is safeguarded with the distribution of the responsibilities across the departments of legal affairs, audit and HR (preventing – uncovering – reacting). Adherence to compliance stipulations is guaranteed through the appointment of a Compliance Officer as well as through checking and further developing the relevant regulations and information within the Company. Furthermore, the Company mitigates the risk of breaches in relation to corruption, which come with negative impacts such as the improper distribution of public resources or competition distortion, through mandatory anti-corruption training for all employees, in the course of which a knowledge check is used to determine whether the content has actually been successfully retained. WHAT WE’RE DOING GRI ■ The BIG Group is governed by the Federal Code of Public Governance and has also 205-2 205-3 voluntarily committed to uphold the rules of the Austrian Code of Corporate Governance 5 ■ Code of Conduct: Mandatory rules of behaviour for all employees and managers ■ The BIG Group has a Compliance Officer and a Coordinator for data protection ■ Information for employees: Anti-corruption guidelines, guidelines on responsible behaviour, FAQ and data protection handbook ■ Training programme: Anti-corruption (obligatory incl. knowledge check), legislation on award processes, data protection, law on wage dumping and social dumping RESULTS 2017 ■ Consistent realisation of training programme described above ■ Adapting the tender documents and accompanying guidelines ■ External evaluation: Comply-or-Explain rules have been upheld ■ One case brought on suspicion of corruption ended in a monetary fine – the employee affected is no longer with the Company. GRI 102-42 102-43 1.4 Sustainability in the BIG Group 102-44 102-46 As of the 2017 reporting period, BIG publishes its key non-financial performance indicators 102-47 and consolidated content in accordance with Art. 243b, 267a of the Austrian Commercial 102-49 Code (UGB) in the course of the Annual Report in accordance with the GRI standards 102-52 (“Core” option). This report focuses on the action fields that are the most relevant for the Group’s stakeholders and the greatest impacts on the environment and on society. MATERIALITY PROCESS A widely disseminated survey was conducted among stakeholders from the worlds of business, politics, administration, representation of interests, and the media, as well as all employees. This was used to determine the most relevant issues to the Group’s business and was accompanied by an internal survey of focal points for a modern employer. In combination with an impact analysis carried out by experts from the fields of architecture, sustainable building, schools, universities and innovation & urban management, the top topics identified were the Educational space of the future and Energy efficiency in design, construction and operations. These are focal points that are also reflected in the corporate strategy and that show that BIG acts in line with the needs of its stakeholders. The BIG Group Materiality Matrix resulting from this process forms the foundation for this report and shows the action fields that will be prioritised in the coming years. In addition to these focal points, BIG is committed to the universal principles of the UN UN Global Global Compact for human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. GRI Compact Furthermore, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) serve as a further basis for 102-12 Sustainable action, especially in the following areas: Quality education, affordable and clean energy, decent work and economic growth, sustainable cities and communities, as well as Development measures for climate action. As an employer and contractor, equal opportunities and Goals diversity are just as self-evident for BIG as adherence to compliance criteria and tender regulations. 6 BIG Group Materiality Matrix 7 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Joint action is a precondition for addressing sustainability-related issues as effectively as GRI 102-18 possible. This is why the BIG Group has firmly anchored the topic of sustainability in its strategic approach and put in place a control process across every level. This enables the strategic approach, goals and measures to be aligned with every area of BIG and ARE in the course of the integrated strategic and planning process, along with the pursuit of these goals in the Sustainability Board on which all relevant departments are represented. Coordinated through the proprietary sustainability management that is in place, support is given to developing the performance and to establishing the sustainability roadmap as a consistent and transparent control instrument. The related GRI figures as well as the more extensive indicators were defined with the operating business segments and should initiate a comprehensive control process. INTERNAL ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ISO 14001 GRI A special focus of the BIG Group lies in the part it plays as a role model and the careful use and ISO 102-11 103-1 of resources in its own buildings. Its environmental management is certified to ISO 14001 45001 bis and the procurement and use of the infrastructure and disposal is regulated in-house. The certification 103-3 ISO 45001 certification was expanded to every location in the course of the re-audit. Additional information on every area – including those beyond the stated priorities – can be found on our sustainability platform nachhaltigkeit.big.at. 8 2. Room for clients On the one hand, needs-based planning and management increases customer satisfaction and long-term safe use, on the other it assists the BIG Group in making investments that offer sustainable economic stability. GRI The needs of the different client groups with highly individual requirements and differing 103-1 conditions is at the forefront of the Group’s activities. Through close cooperation and Making bis continuous dialogue the BIG Group is able to address these needs and offer individual, room for the 103-3 holistic solutions. While the Group may not have a direct impact on user behaviour in the SDG 4 buildings and is also dependent on users when contracting investments, nonetheless BIG future SDG 9 and ARE stand by the side of their customers as advisors and experienced sparring together partners, in order to achieve a sustainable end result. 2.1 Customer-oriented construction and refurbishment The BIG Group and its staff not only assist ministries and their departments, universities and schools but also private clients. The largest tenants are the Federal Ministry for Education, Science and Research, Austrian universities, the Federal Ministry of Constitutional Affairs, Reforms, Deregulation and Justice, as well as the ministries of the interior and finance. The Company nurtures longstanding partnerships with these clients and collaborates closely on project realisation. This is already apparent in the incorporation of the user-based space and functional programme – preceding the planning on larger projects – in which feasibility studies form the basis for all further planning steps. In addition to earlier participation in the design process and the further development of individual advisory instruments, user surveys are also used to enhance the focus on customers as they provide valuable reference points for the planning and realisation. On top of this, regular adjustments are made with regard to the needs of the educational programme in order to increase the specialist expertise in addition to designating Sustainability Officers as contact partners in business segments. 2.2 Customer-oriented building management GRI Support services for the portfolio and clients are rendered in close cooperation with the 102-10 business segments’ asset management and ARE. The BIG Property and Facility Management (PFM) charged with this task supports its clients, offering complete coverage with locations across the whole of Austria. The focal points of PFM are the commercial management and maintenance of buildings, whereby proximity to customers is also prioritised. This has been strengthened still further by the educational plan with the PFM Academy and the internal restructuring initiated in 2017: Customers have a central contact partner in the form of cluster managers, who are able to answer any questions in the areas of both commerce and technology. 9 The BIG Group’s most important stakeholders WHAT WE’RE DOING ■ User surveys and analyses ■ Spatial and functional programmes as part of the planning process (feasibility studies) ■ Increasing specialist expertise through the quality of consultations ■ Participation processes on pilot projects ■ Central contact person as direct contact point RESULTS 2017 ■ Quick poll on university libraries 2017, quick poll on housing 2017 ■ Participation projects: MED CAMPUS Graz; Klostergasse 21 grammar school, Vienna; Ettenreichgasse secondary school/grammar school, Vienna ■ Contact partners for sustainability in the business segments Schools, Universities and Special Properties ■ BIG Changes 2.0: Bringing together Property Management and Facility Services to form Property and Facility Management: Cluster managers as direct contact partners ■ Conceiving the PFM Academy and the integration of sustainable specialist seminars into the curriculum 10 3. Room for employees Implementing visions requires enthusiastic and motivated practitioners – that’s why our closest stakeholders and most important partners are our employees. Here we report on the issues that are most significant for them. With its 934-strong team, the BIG Group treasures in-depth specialist expertise, conscientiousness, integrity and entrepreneurial thinking. Efficient recruiting and fast onboarding are used to conquer current and future challenges and are supported by a differentiated approach to strengthening the employer brands (BIG, ARE, ARE DEVELOPMENT). Detailed information on all of the Company’s services can be found at nachhaltigkeit.big.at and can be accessed by all employees in equal measure. The success of the range on offer is regularly evaluated in the course of employee surveys. The following texts exclusively report on issues examined in the employee survey. SDG 5 SDG 3.1 Diversity & equal opportunities 10 GRI The diversity in the Company is viewed in a particularly positive light with employees 103-1 coming from 14 nations, whereby – according to the latest survey – the majority feel that bis their individuality is appreciated. Around a third of all staff are women, as are around half 30% 103-3 of those at ARE, while women also account for 30% of the management staff in the Group. 405-1 406-1 In order to promote equal opportunities and to avoid the risk of discrimination, a working of the Group’s group on the issue of diversity has been established in addition to compliance officers. management is The first steps of the group involve judging the employee mood regarding diversity and female equal opportunities and being able to implement targeted measures. No instances of discrimination were reported in the period under review. 3.2 Occupational health & safety A top priority for the Company is the physical and mental wellbeing of its employees and mitigating the risk of sickness and accidents at work. To this end the Group offers a wide Health and range of promotions and initiatives. The “BIG Vital Days” across every federal province safety in the are among the most important measures to keep staff fit in body and mind alongside workplace regular health checks across Austria, stress prevention, healthy back training, quotas at sports clubs, nutrition workshops and a weekly fruit basket. When faced with challenging professional situations, staff can draw on coaching for self-help and taking responsibility. Regular inspections by company doctors and safety officers in all work sites ensure workplace safety. The requisite safety information is brought to the attention of all employees and, where necessary, the equipment needed for fulfilling the agenda is made available. 3.3 Further education and training, knowledge management & corporate culture SDG 8 In addition to a comprehensive programme provided by the Company for targeted education and training, sharing knowledge and experience in the Group is a factor that Values-based GRI should not be underestimated in order to prevent the loss of expertise. One of the greatest 103-1 challenges in recent years has been developing a shared culture from the many different corporate bis original cultures and coming together proactively in a way that recognises value. An culture 103-3 essential part of this process has been a good feedback culture, the inclusion of the topic as part of the education plan and incorporating the employees in the strategy and 11 development processes. This was supported by the development of new formats and pilot projects such as cross-generational mentoring and the innovation prize advertised internally every year with a focus on innovation in products, processes, social aspects and management. The targeted further development of each individual is achieved through performance management, in which meeting targets is reflected along with dedication and teamwork, as well as through an educational plan tailored to the employee’s needs. Furthermore, a portal accessible by all employees promotes knowledge transfer by providing comprehensive information throughout the Group. 3.4 Life-work balance Audit on job and family A core issue for the Company is the reconciliation of one’s professional and private life. It offers its employees a broad range of different measures ranging from flexitime, partial retirement and educational sabbaticals to partial childcare during the holidays and a company crèche in Vienna through to a range of options for managing parental leave. During this period a contact partner is available for organisational questions and guarantees young mothers and fathers the chance to take part in further education measures and events. BIG holds the State seal for job and family, having been re-audited in 2016. WHAT WE’RE DOING ■ Audit by Familie & Beruf Management GmbH ■ Assistance provided by safety officers and company doctor; healthcare measures ■ A compliance officer and diversity team promote equal opportunities ■ Regular employee surveys ■ Performance management facilitates feedback culture ■ Constant professional development through a modern educational plan ■ Coaching pool for challenging situations at work and cross-generational mentoring ■ Regular information via the internal staff portal ■ Annual call for the innovation prize RESULTS 2017 ■ Diversity & equal opportunities ü Seats on the BIG Supervisory Board & ARE Supervisory Board are filled based on parity ü A diversity team was established and reported its initial findings: Employee survey; mentoring programme; checking Group communications for genderneutral language; empowerment for women in the educational plan; Camillo-Sitte Symposium Room for the Future : Gender-appropriate presentation of BIG in the secondary technical and vocational college Vienna III ü No instances of discrimination were reported in 2017; should such an incident come to light in the future, it will be documented and further steps will be taken ü BIG took part in the 2017 Daughters’ Day ■ Occupational health & safety ü Inspections by the company doctor and safety officers as well as ü Health programmes such as the Vital Day, healthcare training, vaccination campaigns and healthy back training were carried out ü The coaching pool was very well received in the period under review. 12 GRI 404-2 ■ Further education and training, knowledge management & corporate culture ü Further development of the educational plan, integrating more sustainable programmes and PFM Academy ü Performance reviews have been conducted for all employees since 2016. ü A cross-generational mentoring programme has been initiated. Key components include enrichment and development tools for mentees and mentors on careers and leadership, women and technology, and mastering challenges/self-motivation. Every employee is welcome to apply. ■ Life-work balance ü Management of parental leave and nursing care (tool for re-entry to work and care) ü BIG Baby Day 2017: Employees brought their children (up to age 6) to the Company for a day ü No meetings scheduled at the start or end of the day and no obligation to deal with emails on weekends are some of BIG’s internal regulations 13 4. Room for sustainable buildings Sustainable buildings and good infrastructure counteract the risk of damage to the environment or people and promote customer satisfaction. The development of standards has facilitated the consistent quality for sustainably increasing the value of the entire portfolio as well as for the timely identification of economic potential. GRI Viewed holistically, a sustainable building is defined by its socio-cultural, economic and 103-1 environmental features and qualities. Sustainable construction, refurbishment and 103-3 management therefore require a holistic approach involving the continuity of entire processes and integrated concepts under the inclusion of all participants. HOLISTIC BUILDING PROGRAM (HBP) The sheer variety of the portfolio and the stakeholders makes standardisation more difficult and poses a challenge regarding consistent sustainable investments. In order to accommodate the differing needs, a dedicated planning and documentation programme Find out more has been developed and since 2015 has facilitated the offering of a continuously controllable process for sustainability criteria. With the HBP, which includes the Group’s about our own findings from the analysis of the property portfolio as well as the key points of all high quality leading certificates, individual sustainability criteria for a building can be optimally standards for adjusted to the economic framework and the user requirements. Here a light is shone on new buildings the long-term economic considerations over the entire lifecycle – a key factor for clients. In and future the HBP should be used more widely in the course of customer consultations as long as there are not already plans for certification in place. To this end, internal training refurbishments measures for HBP and for sustainable construction, refurbishment and management have been intensified and sustainability officers installed in the operating business segments. As an accompanying measure, portfolio-oriented standards are currently being developed in the individual business segments; in future these should be offered prior to the design phase. Within ARE/ARE DEVELOPMENT the focus is also on customers and the products they have Around 20 requested. Here sustainability criteria are incorporated on a project basis and the bestbuildings possible exploitation of potential is achieved. certified since Alongside a high number of sustainable measures on individual projects, between this 2012 reporting period and 2012 around 20 BIG Group buildings have been awarded certification under different systems such as TQB, ÖGNI (Gold), ÖGNI (Silver), ÖGNI (Bronze), ÖGNI Blue Card, BREAM, klimaaktiv Gold, klimaaktiv Silver and Passivhaus Standard. Five further buildings are in the planning or pre-certification stage. Twelve buildings were successfully documented in line with HBP criteria. LIFECYCLE COST ANALYSIS SDG 9 Sustainability measures are also reflected in the lifecycle costs. This involves considering the impact of investment costs on usage and maintenance costs already during the planning phase and applying an overall economic analysis. The HBP potential analysis is a first step to making this visible. It is carried out at a very early point during the baseline analysis so that the findings can serve as a decision-making foundation for the client. In future the use of the lifecycle-costs module in HBP will show how well it can be anchored in the Company. 14 4.1 Energy efficiency in design, construction & management SDG 7 In order to support climate targets, the Group has set itself the goal of increasing the share SDG of energy-related improvements during maintenance and refurbishment measures or 125 GWh 13 keeping them at the same high level as well as identifying additional potential for savings. Furthermore, under the Energy Efficiency Act, BIG is obligated to save a total of 125 GWh energy savings by GRI in its portfolio of buildings from 2014 to 2020 – this corresponds to the annual energy 2020 103-1 bis consumption of a small town. Measures being employed here include large-scale thermal 103-3 upgrades, energy-savings contracting and maintenance measures as well as involving tenants and users in the related decisions. Energy efficiency classes in the Group portfolio in% each m2 NRF Energy efficiency Energy efficiency Energy efficiency Energy efficiency classes A++, A+ and A class B class C class D -G ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION & REFURBISHMENT The portfolio subject to mandatory disclosure has had its energy ratings determined by means of the efficiency classes shown on the energy certificates. If the energy efficiency classes A and B are taken together, a third of the examined portfolio conforms to at least the standard for low48% energy buildings. An analysis of the larger refurbishment projects of the last two years also energy savings shows that targeted measures such as thermal upgrades or replacing technology can lead to average savings of 48% of final energy consumption. Under consideration of the overall economic impact, most projects include an expansion or conversion aspect in order to individually adjust and improve the conditions of use. ENERGY SAVINGS CONTRACTING GRI A major contribution to fulfilling the stipulations of the Energy Efficiency Act comes from 305-5 energy savings contracting under the “Federal Contracting Offensive” in cooperation with the Around Federal Ministry for Digital and Economic Affairs. Under this scheme the services rendered by 150,000 t design and planning offices and technological companies have been refinanced through the CO2 saved energy savings achieved, whereby since the start of the project in 1999 up to and including 2016 energy savings totalling around 820 GWh have been achieved, along with CO2 savings of some 150,000 tonnes and a reduction in energy costs of around EUR 38m. The targets met in the course of contracting will be registered at the monitoring point once the standardised basic values of the Energy Efficiency Act are fulfilled. OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT The integral design achieved through the early inclusion in the planning process of facility managers, operations management and energy efficiency experts serves as a support 15 mechanism for a total cost approach and optimisation of the total energy consumption right from the start. In addition to the quality of the technical installations and devices used, energy consumption is also significantly influenced by user behaviour. To address this, the Company offers consulting services from design and planning through to support from PFM teams and developing concepts for optimisation. 4.2 Renewables SDG 7 In the meantime around 74% of the Group’s total space is heated using climate-friendly district SDG 13 heating. The share of fossil fuels has fallen to 21% and will continue to decline in the course of 74% future refurbishments as long as it is not necessary to maintain old heating systems as GRI district heating 103-1 supplementary systems. For new buildings attention is paid to avoiding fossil fuels in every area bis well in advance and environmentally friendly alternatives are explored together with 103-3 customers. With the use of environmental technologies such as geothermal, solar, concrete core activation, heat recovery, photovoltaic plants and climatic testing, BIG supports measures to meet climate goals and gather knowledge for the future. In the Schools segment 43 photovoltaic systems were installed under the contracting model by the end of the reporting period. What’s more, another 33 photovoltaic systems and eleven solar heating systems are in use at existing properties. Energy mix of the Group portfolio in % 2017 TOTAL AREA HEATED TOTAL AREA HEATED TOTAL AREA HEATED TOTAL AREA HEATED WITH WITH DISTRICT HEATING WITH FOSSIL FUELS WITH ELECTRICITY RENEWABLES (HEAT PUMPS ETC.) 4.3 Healthy interior climate SDG 12 A high-quality atmosphere in which to work and study, as well as a general feeling of wellbeing, are directly linked to a healthy interior climate; this has to take into account the complex ÖISS GRI interplay of light, air and acoustics. The high demands of the building’s shell in terms of air regulation 103-1 tightness and insulation properties not only increase the energy efficiency, but also contribute bis to a good interior climate. The air quality framework laid out in the ÖISS guidelines is applied on for air 103-3 every new Schools project under consideration of the possible subsequent costs. quality Here options for natural ventilation are explored and daylight concepts are developed to improve the light quality and energy credentials. Pleasant temperatures, the prevention of overheating, and appropriate humidity levels are achieved though a technologically sophisticated building shell with shading systems and latent heat storage as well as through measures applied during the operating phase. By integrating the HBP Comfort package already prior to the planning phase, an intensive user analysis is conducted under inclusion of the operations management. In the period under review BIG once again participated in cooperation projects with schools in order to further develop its expertise in this area: GrünPlusSchule and GRÜNEzukunftSCHULEN 16 with the Vienna University of Technology (TU Wien) and the University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences, Vienna (BOKU). 4.4 Environmental construction materials SDG 12 Environmental construction materials save energy used for production, increase the quality of the ambient air and can be disposed of in an environmentally sound way. By including the HBP GRI Ecological Building package it is possible to commission a complete evaluation of the 103-1 construction materials used in terms of their eco-credentials (OI3 index) and disposal indicators. bis 103-3 This facilitates the avoidance of damaging substances in construction materials such as volatile organic compounds (VOC) or formaldehyde. On a project basis, alternative types of construction materials are tested in ARE/ARE DEVELOPMENT in terms of energy efficiency, heat and disposal qualities: On the residential project Wildgarten in Vienna sustainable materials were deliberately used on individual sections. In the first construction phase of this urban development one section was realised using a timber construction, alongside two sections built using the common brick method. Should this prove successful, further construction projects of this type would be possible in the second phase. Apart from this, as a developer the BIG Group is subject to the Recycling Construction Materials Directive that demands that waste generated through construction and demolition works is separated, sorted and recycled. One exceptional project completed in the period under review is the IFA BOKU in Tulln, Lower Austria, the first laboratory and research building made of wood whose environmentalenergetic quality conforms to the low energy standard. Additional examples of timber and hybrid buildings can be found at nachhaltigkeit.big.at. 4.5 Disabled access, safety and security in BIG buildings SDG 10 More than Disabled access to public buildings provides free and non-discriminatory access to public GRI services and mitigates the risk of discrimination and unequal treatment of people with 82% disabled 103-1 disabilities. The BIG Group is delivering its contribution to achieving the legal stipulations by access bis 2019, whereby it is securing structural accessibility to services and amenities in buildings for 103-3 people with limited mobility to and in the buildings (first floor = main usage area) in cooperation with the tenants. By the reporting date EUR 26m had been invested for this purpose in the property portfolio, whereby it has also been possible to make more than 82% of the buildings’ areas accessible for people with limited mobility. Joint concepts with stakeholders were a decisive factor in the rapid realisation. In compliance with the legal requirements, attention is paid to minimising the risk of accidents as far as possible, as well as that of any possible fire risk. Safety inspections and the related measures serve to secure and safeguard the usability and safe usage of the buildings. In terms of fire safety, particular attention is paid to the safety of people and to ensuring that safe escape from the building is guaranteed in case of fire. The Construction Coordination Act (Bauarbeitenkoordinationsgesetz) applies to construction sites and regulates the employee stipulations for coordinating health and safety protection. Furthermore, ARE has enhanced its focus on the subjective sense of security of the (apartment) tenants, for example through the use of light and sight lines. 17 4.6 Land use and sealing SDG 11 Green and wooded areas in urban settings make a key contribution to a good city climate. In its SDG 15 development strategy the Group acts in accordance with the urban development plans available and chooses to build on green areas only under consideration of the risks related to soil sealing GRI 103-1 including countering the risk of poor water permeability and soil overheating, as well as that of bis the loss of fertile soil. The main focus is on maintaining and improving the existing portfolio, 103-3 which is why solutions that involve denser use or repurposing are preferred. Applying the criteria of the GREENPass©, the development of which was assisted by the University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences Vienna and the Graz University of Technology, in the Holistic Building Program has made it possible to achieve optimal designs for open spaces. The goal here is to optimise the greening of buildings and their inclusion into the open spaces by simulating the microclimate and water retention, as well as the long-term optimisation of costs. Facade systems, green roofs and innovative sports turf structures are currently being tested in pilot schools in cooperation with the Vienna University of Technology and the University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences Vienna. The portfolio also includes woodland and green areas. In Vienna these include, for example, parts of the green Prater, the Sternwarte Park and woodland areas in Gerasdorf. ARE DEVELOPMENT launched a pilot project for temporary cultivation in 2018: In cooperation with the Morgentau association in advance of a construction project development, a piece of fallow land in Quartier 12 in the Reininghaus urban development area in Graz measuring over 5,000 m² was made available as a pick-your-own garden for organic vegetables. As a follow up, the use of the land for migrating bees was being examined at the time the report was published. At the end of the reporting period figures were not yet available on land use & sealing. 4.7 Sustainability on the road SDG 11 As the existing infrastructure is a significant factor when accessing a building and road traffic is SDG 13 a key generator of particulate emissions and greenhouse gases, attention is paid to the state of Homes the local infrastructure when developing projects. In addition, legal requirements on parking With EGRI spaces are checked and offsetting concepts are produced where appropriate. This can lead to Carsharing 103-1 bis expanding the facilities for bicycle storage with dedicated bicycle service days, cooperation 103-3 initiatives with municipal organisations or E-Carsharing. Regarding the latter, ARE DEVELOPMENT successfully started a pilot project of homes with E-Carsharing in 2016 as part of the Beatrixgarten (Vienna) project and has already expanded this to the projects ARGENTO (Vienna), Rosenhöfe (Graz) and Wimmergasse (Vienna); realisation of this scheme is also imminent on the projects Rosa and Heinrich (Graz). Environmentally sound transport measures have also been implemented in the BIG Group, including prioritising public transport for business travel, a fleet of low-emission vehicles, as well as a job ticket for public transport, company-owned electric scooters and company bicycles. 18 WHAT WE’RE DOING ■ The Holistic Building Program (HBP) as an instrument for optimised planning, control and documentation: Inclusion in feasibility studies, further developing the HBP criteria catalogue & planning tool, as well as evaluating projects for the application of HBP criteria and the development of standards ■ Strengthening consultancy in the business segments ■ Implementing pilot projects in cooperation with stakeholders ■ Holistic design and planning including operations management through internally developed specifications RESULTS 2017 ■ Developing and checking sustainability standards on the basis of HBP in the business segments Universities, Schools and Special Properties ■ Direct contact partner on sustainability issues in the business segments Universities, Schools and Special Properties ■ New education plan: HBP design, planning and construction process, sustainable specialist seminars, PFM Academy ■ New HBP planning tool: Usage costs, potential analysis and documentation ■ HBP expansion: Sustainable management and operations management, criteria for openspaces strategy and standardisation of early usage cost analysis on the basis of GEFMA benchmarks BEST PRACTICE 2017 ■ As of 31 December 2017 there are twelve HBP-checked projects planned, while another project was completed in 2017 ■ Completion of MED CAMPUS Graz, Module 1: ÖGNI precertification “Platinum”; final certification pending ■ First timber construction project for scientific use completed: Laboratory and research building of the IFA University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences Vienna am Tullnerfeld ■ Start of Triiiple: High-rise project with open spaces and a greened crossing above the WienSüd motorway slip road ■ E-Carsharing: In the residential construction projects Beatrixgarten (Vienna), ARGENTO (Vienna), Rosenhöfe (Graz) and Wimmergasse (Vienna) E-Cars are available for common use ■ In-house: prioritising public transport for business travel, low-emission company vehicles, job ticket for employees, use of company-owned electric scooters and company bicycles. The full project list for BIG is available at www.big.at 19 5. Room for society 5.1 Focus on sustainable value increases SDG 9 In order to provide the Republic of Austria with space in line with the criteria of a market economy, a priority is placed on continuous, stable growth and the sustainable value increase of Long-life GRI the property portfolio. As the majority of the BIG Group’s properties are held as standing assets, 103-1 its interest is focused on the long lifespan of the buildings. The value added is noticeable in the buildings for bis 103-3 reduction of maintenance costs and the intervals at which modernisation is required and this is sustainable evaluated and documented internally by BIG. Meeting society’s needs for educational and office value added space and for security-related facilities also represents additional value added for society. 5.2 Architecture SDG Complex projects demand independent, innovative, effective and profitable architectural 11 solutions. The historic legacy also has to be respected: Architectural GRI Close to 400 properties of the BIG Group, representing around 25% of the rentable space, are competitions 103-1 heritage-protected and come with the responsibility of preserving this cultural heritage for secure highbis future generations by creating a link between the past and the present. 103-3 quality The Company sees architectural competitions as an essential instrument in advancing the results Austrian construction culture and achieving as broad a spectrum as possible for high-quality works that not only reflect the contemporary development fashions but also convincingly break new ground. Here efforts are made to encourage young architects to participate in the competitions. For larger urban development projects, the Company draws on its own Architectural Advisory Board (AAB). The AAB advises on the selection and design of the award process and attends the jury meetings. Its members are excluded from participating in the architectural competitions for the duration of their three-year postings. An overview of the awards won for architecture is available at nachhaltigkeit.big.at 5.3 The educational space of the future A good environment for working and learning is facilitated in schools through high building quality and operational security. The optimised exploitation of existing resources and buildings offers sustainability in terms of environmental construction and enhances the cost-benefit balance. SDG 4 BIG is the leading contact partner for educational buildings in Austria, with school and university buildings making up around two-thirds of the Group’s building stock. The strategic GRI focus lies primarily in the further development of its 408 school and 207 university buildings in 103-1 bis a way that preserves their value. 103-3 Alongside the construction of new educational buildings in urban development areas, the priority is to make the existing properties in the portfolio fit for the new generations in the Educational future and to align them to the needs of the generations to come. The increasing scarcity of space of the reserves of building land also makes forward planning and innovative solutions for educational construction essential and will pose a challenge in the coming years. future In order to safeguard the quest for excellence at schools, the products are continuously adjusted 20 to customer requirements and the service range is extended. Spaces and buildings have to conform to modern requirements for teaching, learning, working, sport and relaxation. Older buildings and structures have to be upgraded accordingly. The goal is to create facilities that offer the optimal backdrop over the longest possible period of use. Functionality and flexibility are thereby becoming increasingly important and form a central component of modern educational construction, under which the high quality of the buildings Multifunction and operational security provide a good environment for working and learning. al usage The responsibility towards society in regard to the materiality and architecture of universities, as concepts and well as on the education of every individual student, motivates BIG to realise sustainable flexible projects. spaces BIG also intends to maintain its market leadership in the area of universities and to continue to strengthen its local presence and client partnerships. The focus is on projects that are optimised in terms of their lifecycles and that can be flexibly adjusted for the sometimes rapid changes in university education and to the needs of the users. Intensive participation by users helps to realise the needs of the key stakeholders in an optimum way. As the continuous rise in the number of students in Austria demands continual extra capacities, BIG’s task is to access suitable reserves of space and offer flexible, modern solutions. This is why multifunctional usage concepts and the efficient use of space play a part in the current concepts. Here the campus is becoming ever more important as an interface between teaching, applied research, and the economy, for example at MED CAMPUS Graz or the Science Park of the Johannes-Kepler University Linz, where the establishment of industrial and research operations and start-ups were considered under a holistic approach along with accommodation for students and professors. In addition to developing sustainable standards in the business segments Schools and The challenge Universities under inclusion of functionality, the comfort quality of the rooms and the ambient of climate, another challenge increasingly faced especially in the Schools segment is digitalisation. Issues here include adequate IT facilities as well as complete WLAN and broadband coverage. digitalisation For university buildings it is also necessary to remain flexible and be able to react quickly to the rapid developments of digitalisation. Alongside user-oriented rooms, a long-term approach to investments and innovative technologies should also be applied to educational buildings and, wherever possible, their impact on usage costs should be included in the overall economic assessment. WHAT WE’RE DOING ■ Evaluating and developing sustainable school and university standards for in-depth consultancy ■ Promoting stakeholder dialogue and participation ■ Participating in focused research and development projects SCHOOL RESULTS 2017 ■ Research and development cooperation: ü Avoiding the heat: Workshops and connecting passages, pilot spaces and monitoring in cooperation with pupils and the University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences Vienna, St. Pölten technical college ü GREEN Fields: Test site for innovative sports turf structures at Gerasdorfer Straße secondary academic school in cooperation with the University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences Vienna ü GrünPlusSchule Kandlgasse: Energy efficiency & interior climate through greening measures with pupils in cooperation with the University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences Vienna & Vienna University of Technology 21 ü GRÜNEzukunftSCHULEN: Further development of the GrünPlusSchule in Schuhmeierplatz secondary school, Diefenbachgasse secondary and grammar school ■ Stakeholder dialogue: 9. Camillo-Sitte Symposium “Room for the Future”, secondary technical and vocational college Vienna III ■ Best Practice: Aspern educational quarter, Kremszeile secondary school, tourism school at Wilden Kaiser (Tyrol) UNIVERSITY RESULTS 2017 ■ Sustainability focus: Flexibility in university construction (micro and macro flexibility) ■ Research and development cooperation with the AEE – Institute for Sustainable Technologies to develop energy master plans for urban quarters ■ Analysing applicability and comparing HBP – ÖGNI, for example at the Vienna Biocenter St. Marx ■ Energy: Optimised approaches in terms of specific needs, locations and projects as well as status analysis of a property to evaluate possible clustering of the portfolio ■ Stakeholder participation ü Podium discussion series with Der Standard University of the Future ü Best practice inspections prior to project start ■ Best practice: Flagship project MED CAMPUS Graz, Türkenwirtgebäude University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences Vienna, IFA BOKU Vienna in Tulln 5.4 Art (BIG ART) BIG wants to promote cultural diversity and the dialogue between architecture, art and people who come into contact with these spaces and art projects. Art activities have been bundled under the term “BIG ART” since 2005 and are an additional SDG service that benefits users directly and are exclusively financed by the Group. A dedicated team 11 is responsible for the development of permanent and temporary art projects. This approach and GRI the high quality of the art projects realised makes the Company’s engagement the only one of its 103-1 kind in the Austrian real estate industry. The goal is to promote dialogue and to display art at bis selected sites, some of which take the viewer by surprise. This holds true in particular for places 103-3 where many people – especially young people – study, work, learn, go in and out, and where art has the chance to be part of the ensemble right from the start. The BIG ART Advisory Board (BAAB) was founded in order to safeguard the high quality of the artistic discourse. It is composed of renowned art experts, artists and architects and advises on the selection of projects, nominates artists for the art & construction competitions, and forms the basic jury. WHAT WE’RE DOING ■ Employing a dedicated BIG ART team ■ BIG ART Advisory Board (BAAB) ensures consistently high quality ■ Holding contests for art & construction RESULTS: PROJECTS COMPLETED 2017 ■ Anita Witek – Circling The Square, Eisenstadt secondary school ■ Misha Stroj – An einem Körper, MED CAMPUS Graz ■ Manfred Erjautz – Shelter (high touch), MED CAMPUS Graz ■ Matt Mullican – Canvas Rubbing Project, MED CAMPUS Graz ■ Esther Stocker – Knitterobjekt, MED CAMPUS Graz ■ Karin Sander – Transzendenzaufzug, University of Art and Design Linz 22 6. Room for innovation and new technologies SDG 9 The BIG Group manages properties that have to fulfil highly divergent functions today and tomorrow. Sustainable, future-proof buildings and retaining one’s own competitiveness calls for Find out more in GRI 103-1 the innovative further development of products and services in the Company’s core business. the Research and bis This is why promoting new technologies and innovations in cooperation with stakeholders is a Development 103-3 top priority. Enquiries about cooperation or projects are evaluated by the specialist departments chapter of the and participation is then recommended internally following a strategic assessment. Particularly Annual Report of strict attention is paid to the potential for replicating the findings on future projects the BIG Group or (multiplication). at nachhaltigkeit.bi In terms of content, BIG’s current focus is on further developments in the areas of energy and the g.at educational space of the future, while ARE DEVELOPMENT with ARE_living is dedicated to innovative approaches for the way we will live tomorrow. The goal of the ARE_living programme is to develop contemporary apartment buildings that strive to bring together flexibility, a long lifespan and a feeling of wellbeing in the property. The performance of the ARE_living concept should be evaluated using a planned pilot project and will be observed over multiple years following completion of the building. BIG is a partner to the start-up initiative Digital Building Solutions (DBS) with the objective of driving forward digital solutions for the real estate industry. Advertised for the first time in 2017, the DBS award provided a platform for more than a hundred start-ups to present their digital software and/or hardware solutions for the real estate industry related to any aspect of services for designing, building, operating or financing buildings. Vienna, 9 March 2018 The Management Board DI Hans-Peter Weiss DI Wolfgang Gleissner 23 7. Key performance indicators on nachhaltigkeit.big.at 24 Overview of key performance indicators as of 31 December 2017 Investments in the business location 2016 2017 Unit GROUP Investments in portfolio properties TOTAL 516,6 539,9 Mio. EUR Investments in portfolio properties: New build and refurbishments 369,8 397,7 Mio. EUR Investments in portfolio properties: Maintenance 146,8 142,2 Mio. EUR BIG Investments in portfolio properties TOTAL 456,0 472,0 Mio. EUR Investments in portfolio properties: New build and refurbishments 334,6 353,1 Mio. EUR Investments in portfolio properties: Maintenance 121,4 118,9 Mio. EUR ARE Investments in portfolio properties TOTAL 60,6 67,9 Mio. EUR Investments in portfolio properties: New build and refurbishments 35,2 44,6 Mio. EUR Investments in portfolio properties: Maintenance 25,4 23,3 Mio. EUR Energy efficiency in operations 2016 2017 Unit Energy efficiency classes as share of entire portfolio [on the basis of net floor area NFA] GROUP Energy efficiency classes A++, A+ and A k.A. 3,7% % Energy efficiency class B k.A. 24,3% % Energy efficiency class C k.A. 46,2% % Energy efficiency classes D to G k.A. 25,8% % BIG Energy efficiency classes A++, A+ and A k.A. 2,9% % Energy efficiency class B k.A. 24,6% % Energy efficiency class C k.A. 49,1% % Energy efficiency classes D to G k.A. 23,4% % ARE Energy efficiency classes A++, A+ and A k.A. 5,8% % Energy efficiency class B k.A. 23,6% % Energy efficiency class C k.A. 38,3% % Energy efficiency classes D to G k.A. 32,3% % Energy savings through contracting 2016 2017 Unit GROUP excluding business segment Universities Planned annual savings 1) Planned annual energy savings through new contracting agreements 5.924 6.725 [MWh] Cumulative energy savings through contracting since 1999 1.400 1.600 [t] Planned annual cost savings through new contracting agreements 0,40 0,48 Mio. EUR Cumulative actual savings through contracting from 1999 up to and including 2016 2) Cumulative energy savings through contracting since 1999 820.000 2) [MWh] Cumulative CO2 savings through contracting since 1999, through conversion factors determined 150.000 by federal energy 2) consultants in[t] 1999 Cumulative cost savings through contracting since 1999 38,0 2) Mio. EUR Percentage of rentable space subject to contracting agreements 23,0% 28,0% % Energy efficiency in design and construction 2016 2017 Unit Average specific heating requirements (based on local climate) of newly built properties completed in the reporting year [kWh/m² GFA per year] GROUP k.A. k.A. kWh/m²a BIG k.A. 25,9 kWh/m²a ARE k.A. k.A. kWh/m²a Energy mix and renewables 2016 2017 Unit Energy mix of the portfolio based on NFA net floor area by energy source used for main heating system [m2 NFA] GROUP Percentage of total space heated with district heating k.A. 73,9% % Percentage of total space heated with fossil fuels k.A. 21,5% % Percentage of total space heated with renewable energy sources k.A. 1,0% % Percentage of total space heated with electricity (incl. heat pumps) k.A. 3,6% % BIG % Percentage of total space heated with district heating k.A. 76,2% % Percentage of total space heated with fossil fuels k.A. 20,3% % Percentage of total space heated with renewable energy sources k.A. 1,3% % Percentage of total space heated with electricity (incl. heat pumps) k.A. 2,2% % ARE % Percentage of total space heated with district heating k.A. 67,9% % Percentage of total space heated with fossil fuels k.A. 24,6% % Percentage of total space heated with renewable energy sources k.A. 0,2% % Percentage of total space heated with electricity (incl. heat pumps) k.A. 7,3% % Disabled access 2016 2017 Unit Building space with disabled access3) as percentage of total space of portfolio [%] GROUP k.A. 82,0% % BIG k.A. 81,9% % ARE k.A. 82.4% % Note: n/a (= not available): Data exist but could not be applied retroactively with complete coverage due to the time components in relation to the Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act; comparable figures will be available in full from 2018. 1) Based on future guaranteed savings per year under new contracting agreements concluded in the respective year. The assumed savings are based on empirical values. 2) Findings for 2017 only ascertained after the reporting deadline. 3) Access = for people with limited mobility up to the first floor (main usage area) Environmental performance indicators BIG Group, properties used by the Company pursuant to environmental management GRI-Standards Unit 2016 2017 Absolute annual indicators Paper consumption 301-1 kg 30.363 k.A. Heating consumption 302-1 kWh 1.821.244 k.A. Power consumption 302-1 kWh 2.017.140 k.A. Fuel consumption (company cars) 302-1 kWh 483.682 k.A. Water consumption 303-1 m³ 5.773 k.A. Residual waste 306-2 kg 89.961 k.A. Used materials 306-2 kg 121.548 k.A. Hazardous waste 306-2 kg 1.009 k.A. Specific annual indicators Specific heating consumption 302-3 kWh/m² 61,6 k.A. Specific power consumption 302-3 kWh/MA 2.606 k.A. Specific fuel consumption 302-3 kWh/MA 1.255 k.A. Specific water consumption m³/MA 7,5 k.A. Specific residual waste kg/MA 116 k.A. *Data for 2017 will be published in a subsequent report. Human Resource Performance Indicators as of 31 December 2017 Employees Unit 2016 2017 GROUP Total Headcounts 922 934 Female employees Headcounts 317 325 Male employees Headcounts 605 609 Employees by type of employment Total employees in permanent employment Headcounts k.A. 898 Female employees in permanent employment Headcounts k.A. 310 Male employees in permanent employment Headcounts k.A. 588 Total employees in temporary employment Headcounts k.A. 36 Female employees in temporary employment Headcounts k.A. 15 Male employees in temporary employment Headcounts k.A. 21 Employees by part time/full time Total employees in full-time employment Headcounts k.A. 804 Female employees in full-time employment Headcounts k.A. 208 Male employees in full-time employment Headcounts k.A. 596 Total employees in part-time employment (not incl. parental leave) Headcounts k.A. 110 Female employees in part-time employment Headcounts k.A. 98 Male employees in part-time employment Headcounts k.A. 12 Employees on parental leave (as of 31 December 2017) Headcounts k.A. 20 BIG Total Headcounts 863 869 Female employees Headcounts 289 295 Male employees Headcounts 574 574 Total in temporary employment Headcounts k.A. 31 Total in part-time employment Headcounts k.A. 100 Employees on parental leave (as of 31 December 2017) Headcounts k.A. 17 ARE Total Headcounts 59 65 Female employees Headcounts 28 30 Male employees Headcounts 31 35 Total in temporary employment Headcounts k.A. 5 Total in part-time employment Headcounts k.A. 10 Employees on parental leave (as of 31 December 2017) Headcounts k.A. 3 Diversity by gender GROUP Members of the Supervisory Board Total (BIG + ARE* ) Headcounts 6 6+6 Female members of the Supervisory Board (BIG + ARE*) Headcounts 2 3+3 Male members of the Supervisory Board (BIG + ARE*) Headcounts 4 3+3 Female members of the Supervisory Board (BIG + ARE*) % 33% 50% Male members of the Supervisory Board (BIG + ARE*) % 67% 50% Members of the Management Board Total (BIG + ARE* ) Headcounts 2 2 Total female members of the Management Board Headcounts 0 0 Total male members of the Management Board Headcounts 2 2 Total female members of the Management Board % 0% 0% Total male members of the Management Board % 100% 100% Managers (department heads) Total (BIG + ARE* ) Headcounts 25 23 Total female managers Headcounts 6 7 Total male managers Headcounts 19 16 Total female managers % 24% 30% Total male managers % 76% 70% BIG Members of the Supervisory Board Female members of the Supervisory Board (BIG + ARE*) % 33% 50% Male members of the Supervisory Board (BIG + ARE*) % 67% 50% Members of the Management Board Female members of the Management Board % 0% 0% Female members of the Management Board % 100% 100% Managers (department heads) Female managers % 25% 33% Male managers % 60% 67% ARE Members of the Supervisory Board Female members of the Supervisory Board (BIG + ARE*) % * 50% Male members of the Supervisory Board (BIG + ARE*) % * 50% Members of the Management Board Female members of the Management Board % 0% 0% Female members of the Management Board % 100% 100% Managers (department heads) Female managers % 20% 20% Male managers % 80% 80% Diversity by generation GROUP Total employees < 30 years Headcounts k.A. 76 Total employees 30-40 years Headcounts k.A. 234 Total employees 41-50 years Headcounts k.A. 272 Total employees 51-60 years Headcounts k.A. 330 Total employees >60 years Headcounts k.A. 22 BIG Total employees < 30 years Headcounts k.A. 65 Total employees 30-40 years Headcounts k.A. 212 Total employees 41-50 years Headcounts k.A. 250 Total employees 51-60 years Headcounts k.A. 320 Total employees >60 years Headcounts k.A. 22 ARE Total employees < 30 years Headcounts k.A. 11 Total employees 30-40 years Headcounts k.A. 22 Total employees 41-50 years Headcounts k.A. 22 Total employees 51-60 years Headcounts k.A. 10 Total employees >60 years Headcounts k.A. 0 Fluctuation * GROUP Total fluctuation rate (pursuant to Schlüter formula) % k.A. 5,1% Female employees leaving the Company Headcounts k.A. 14 Male employees leaving the Company Headcounts k.A. 43 Percentage of new hires % k.A. 7,4% Female employees joining the Company Headcounts k.A. 23 Male employees joining the Company Headcounts k.A. 46 BIG Female employees leaving the Company Headcounts k.A. 12 Male employees leaving the Company Headcounts k.A. 40 ARE Female employees leaving the Company Headcounts k.A. 2 Male employees leaving the Company Headcounts k.A. 3 Employees on parental leave 2) GROUP Total employees on parental leave Headcounts 29 30 Female employees on parental leave Headcounts 26 27 Male employees on parental leave Headcounts 3 3 BIG Total employees on parental leave Headcounts 25 24 Female employees on parental leave Headcounts 23 23 Male employees on parental leave Headcounts 2 1 ARE Total employees on parental leave Headcounts 4 6 Female employees on parental leave Headcounts 3 4 Male employees on parental leave Headcounts 1 2 Further education and training GROUP Total hours for further education and training hours 14716 15731 Average hours for further education and training per employee hours 16 17 BIG Average hours for further education and training per employee hours k.A. 16 ARE Average hours for further education and training per employee hours k.A. 25 Absenteeism GROUP Total days absent (sick days) days 11024 Target working days of all employees days 220331 Average days absent per employee days k.A. 12 Absenteeism % k.A. 5,0% BIG Total days absent (sick days) days 10720 Target working days of all employees days 206390 Average days absent per employee days k.A. 12 Absenteeism % k.A. 5,2% ARE Total days absent (sick days) days 304 Target working days of all employees days 13941 Average days absent per employee days k.A. 5 Absenteeism % k.A. 2,2% Accidents at work 3) GROUP Total accidents at work number 6 10 Accidents in the work place number 2 3 Commuting accidents (accidents on the way to or from work) number 4 7 Accidents at work per 100 employees number / 100 empl k.A. 1,1 number / 1 Mio. Accidents at work per 1 million working hours working hours k.A. 5,7 BIG Accidents at work per 100 employees number/ 100 empl 0,7 1,2 ARE Accidents at work per 100 employees number/ 100 empl 0,0 0,0 Employees with disabilities GROUP Employees with disabilities (registered disabled under national law) Headcounts k.A. 32 Percentage of employees with disabilities % k.A. 3,4% BIG Percentage of employees with disabilities % k.A. 3,6% ARE Percentage of employees with disabilities % k.A. 1,5% Disclosure on benefits provided to employees GROUP Percentage of employees receiving benefits % 100% 100% Compliance/preventing corruption 4) GROUP Members of the Supervisory Board/Management Board/managers (department heads), who received training/information in preventing corruption Headcounts k.A. 23 Employees not including managers, who received training/information in preventing corruption Headcounts k.A. 763 Total percentage of persons who received training/information in preventing corruption Headcounts k.A. 786 TOTAL persons who received training/information in preventing corruption*5) % k.A. 84,2% Disciplinary measures arising from actual compliance breaches Cases of compliance breaches by employees resulting in disciplinary action (without termination of employment) Headcounts 0 0 Cases of compliance breaches by employees resulting termination of employment Headcounts 0 1 Note: n/a (= not available): Data exist but could not be applied retroactively with complete coverage due to the time components in relation to the Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act; comparable figures will be available in full from 2018. *own Supervisory Board since 2017 1) Not included here: Returning from maternity protection, parental leave, military and civilian service, sabbaticals and educational sabbaticals 2) Employees who were on parental leave in the course of the reporting period 3) Accidents at work subject to mandatory reporting 4) Training and information regarding business ethics and preventing corruption up to and including 2017 5) The percentage of persons receiving training and education is below 100% due to employees joining and leaving the company throughout the year and because this training is of limited relevance for staff in facility services 8. Audit report This report is a translation of the original report in German, which is solely valid. Independent Assurance Report on the Combined Consolidated Non-financial Report 2017 We have performed an independent assurance engagement in connection with the combined consolidated non-financial report 2017 (the “NFI-report”) of Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft m.b.H. (“the Company“). Management’s Responsibility The Company's management is responsible for the proper preparation of the NFI-report in accordance with the reporting criteria. The Company applies the legal requirements of the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act (§§ 243b and 267a UGB) and the sustainability reporting guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards, Option “Core”) as reporting criteria and publishes the NFI-report as supplement in the Annual Report 2017. The responsibility of the legal representatives of the company includes the selection and application of reasonable methods for sustainability reporting as well as the use of assumptions and estimates for individual sustainability disclosures that are reasonable under the circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility includes the design, implementation and maintenance of systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the sustainability reporting in a way that is free of – intended or unintended – material misstatements. Auditors‘ Responsibility Our responsibility is to state whether, based on our procedures performed, anything has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the NFI-report of the Company is not in accordance with the legal requirements of the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act (§§ 243b and 267a UGB) and the sustainability reporting guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards, Option “Core”) in all material respects. Our engagement was conducted in conformity with Austrian Standards for independent assurance engagements (KFS/PG 13) and in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000) applicable to such engagements. These standards require us to comply with our professional requirements including independence requirements, and to plan and perform the engagement to enable us to express a conclusion with limited assurance, taking into account materiality. An independent assurance engagement with the purpose of expressing a conclusion with limited assurance is substantially less in scope than an independent assurance engagement with the purpose of expressing a conclusion with reasonable assurance, thus providing reduced assurance. The procedures selected depend on the auditor's judgment and included the following procedures in particular: Inquiries of personnel on corporate level, which are responsible for the materiality analysis, 25 in order to gain an understanding of the processes for determining material sustainability topics and respective reporting boundaries of the Company; Risk assessment, including a media analysis on relevant information concerning the sustainability performance of the Company in the reporting period; Evaluation of the design and implementation of the systems and processes for the collection, processing and control of the disclosures on environmental, socialand employees matters, respect for human rights and anti-corruption and bribery, including the consolidation of the data; Inquiries of personnel on corporate level responsible for providing and consolidating and for carrying out internal control procedures concerning the disclosures on concepts, risks, due diligence processes, results and performance indicators; Inspection of selected internal and external documents in order to determine whether qualitative and quantitative information is supported by sufficient evidence and presented in an accurate and balanced manner; Visit of the site in Salzburg to inquire personnel to assess local data collection and reporting processes and the reliability of the reported data. Analytical evaluation of the data and trend explanations of quantitative disclosures, submitted by all sites for consolidation at corporate level; Evaluation of the consistency of the for the Company applicable requirements of the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act (§§ 243b and 267a UGB) and the GRI Standards (Option “Core”) with disclosures and indicators in the report; Evaluation of the overall presentation of the disclosures; The procedures that we performed do not constitute an audit or a review. Our engagement did not focus on revealing and clarifying of illegal acts such as fraud, nor did it focus on assessing the efficiency of management. Furthermore, it is not part of our engagement to review future-related disclosures and statements from external information sources and expert opinions. This assurance report is issued based on the assurance agreement concluded with the Company. Our responsibility and liability towards the Company and any third party is subject to paragraph 8 of the General Conditions of Contract for the Public Accounting Professions. The respective latest version of the AAB is accessible at http://www.kpmg.at/aab. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the NFI-report of the Company is not in accordance with the legal requirements of the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act (§§ 243b and 267a UGB) and the sustainability reporting guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards, Option “Core”) in all material respects. Vienna, March 9, 2018 KPMG Austria GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsund Steuerberatungsgesellschaft Peter Ertl Austrian Chartered Accountant 26 9. Acknowledgments PUBLISHER Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft m.b.H. GRI 1020 Vienna, Trabrennstraße 2c 102-1 102-3 www.big.at 102-5 nachhaltigkeit.big.at 102-53 www.big-art.at 102-50 Non-financial report for the year 2017, published in March 2018. Conformity to GRI Index and SDGs available at nachhaltigkeit.big.at CONTACT nachhaltigkeit@big.at PROCESS SUPPORT ARGE denkstatt & Grayling GRAPHIC DESIGN Frischzellen für kreative Leistungen PICTURES Cover: Tourismusschulen am Wilden Kaiser, St. Johann/Tirol, credit: David Schreyer Management-Board, credit: Wolfgang Zlodej PRINTING Bösmüller, Stockerau DISCLAIMER This report is a translation into English of the non-financial report issued in the German language and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking users. In the event of a discrepancy or translation error, the German-language version prevails. Every care has been taken in the preparation of this non-financial report; however we regret that we cannot rule out possible deviations owing to the complexity of the issues or any round-off, typesetting and printing errors. The disclosures and forecasts in the report are subject to constant changes and no guarantee is given. The non-financial report can also be downloaded from nachhaltigkeit.big.at and contains additional information such as conformity to the GRI index and the SDGs. Our special thanks go to everyone who helped with the content of the 2017 nonfinancial report. This will now be published annually together with the BIG Annual Report. Care has been taken to reduce the texts in light of the issues that are most material for our stakeholders and more detailed information is also provided at www.big.at, nachhaltigkeit.big.at, www.big-art.at or in the Annual Reports of BIG and ARE. Only FSC-certified paper from sustainable forests has been used in the production of this non-financial report. FSC is a global not-for-profit organization that sets the standards for what is a responsibly managed forest, both environmentally and socially. Furthermore, this print edition comes from particularly sustainable production that preserves resources and has been printed in a climate-neutral manner. Only renewable energy was used in its production. 27
