UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) REPORTING YEAR 2017 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 01 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 ABOUT TUNDRA Tundra Fonder is a Swedish asset manager specialising in frontier markets, the new emerging markets. Frontier markets include countries such as Vietnam, Nigeria, Pakistan and Sri Lanka – countries which in many cases are among the fastest growing countries globally. We manage our funds with local research offices in Asia and has one of the largest investment teams dedicated to frontier markets in the world. This is also reflected in our performance. With the main office in Stockholm, Sweden and local offices in TUNDRA SUSTAINABLE Karachi, Pakistan and Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam we analyse FRONTIER companies on our markets continuously. We manage four founds with a focus on Frontier Markets. Read more about Tundra Fonder TUNDRA AFRICA here: www.tundrafonder.se/. Responsible investments always played a central role at Tundra Fonder. The term ESG (Environment, Social aspects and Corporate Governance) is used TUNDRA VIETNAM when we summarise our efforts within sustainability. All three pillars E, S and G are equally important in our work as we incorporate aspects of environment, social issues and corporate TUNDRA PAKISTAN behaviour in our investment process. • An environmental policy is not only important to ensure a long term sustainable development, but also reduces the risk of future clean-up costs and production stoppages. It is essential that companies have a clear strategy for environmental issues in their respective sector and country. • Social issues are considered a core feature in Tundra’s ESG work. Corporate attitudes and beliefs on how to handle employees and the relationship with other stakeholders has a major impact on the business, both shortand long term. Disrespecting human rights is not only in breach with international conventions, but also entails worse conditions to the company. A wage that violates local laws, for example, means a risk that we as investors could underestimate the long term cost levels of a company. • Assessments of a company’s corporate governance and business ethics is central to the investment analysis. Improperly completed procurement processes involve a risk of revision and revenue loss at a later stage. Companies with a good corporate governance also tend to pay more attention to both environmental and social issues. 02 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 OUR COMMITMENT We believe that partnerships and collaborations between business, academic institutions, civil society, government and other stakeholders are key to a sustainable future. Tundra supports and aligns its work with several global initiatives that encourage organisations to integrate environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) factors into their investment processes and strategies. These initiatives include the UN Global Compact (UNGC), the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), the Nordic Swan Ecolabel, Climate Action 100+ and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). We believe that signing up to these international instruments demonstrates a commitment to sustainability. Partnering with global sustainability networks opens up avenues of collaboration e.g. investment in new technology, transitioning from fossil fuels to renewable energy, which ultimately improve business bottom-line and continuity. Furthermore, by adding their voices to business/investor led pressure groups on climate action, companies will amplify the pace of change. In the following pages we account for our policies and activities regarding the ten principles in Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. 03 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES; PRINCIPLE 8: UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY; PRINCIPLE 9: ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES. At Tundra, sustainability is at the core of our values. It is integral to our business strategies and operations. We have distinguished ourselves from our competitors by specialising in investing in sustainable growth in developing economies. Our sustainable investment approach is implemented across all our four funds. Although we are a small company with 15 employees, we consider our own footprints by recycling, replacing flights with web-based meetings and above all by encourage our portfolio companies to consider their environmental impact. In October 2017 Tundra Sustainable Frontier Fund was among the first twelve investment funds globally to receive the Nordic Swan Ecolabel. The Nordic Swan Ecolabel, is a cooperative agreement created by the Nordic Council of Ministers. At its inception, the ecolabel strove to identify goods and services that minimized their environmental impact. 2017 was the first time the Nordic Swan Ecolabel was applied to financial instruments and investment funds. The ecolabel is only awarded to funds with an established record of and a systematic approach to sustainability in their investment process. Tundra Fonder is proud to be a founding signatory of the Climate Action 100+ a five-year initiative led by investors to engage with the world’s largest corporate greenhouse gas emitters. www.climateaction100.org. Tundra also supports the global Carbon Disclosure Project, CDP, that encourages investors, companies and cities to collect and selfreport on environmental data. The CDP maintains one of the most comprehensive databases on environmental impacts. We encourage our portfolio companies to disclose emissions through the CDP. For more information, please visit www.cdp.net/en. 04 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOUR PRINCIPLE 1: BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS; PRINCIPLE 2: MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES. PRINCIPLE 3: BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING, PRINCIPLE 4: THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR; PRINCIPLE 5: THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR; PRINCIPLE 6: THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION. Apart from integrating the ten principles of the UN Global Compact into our Business, we follow the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy. In the screening of companies adherence to international norms for human rights, the environment, labour standards and anticorruption are assessed. We also collaborate with civil society and governmental organisations to assure that we get correct information on working conditions and human rights in the countries we work in. We make company visits, and regularly interact with our portfolio companies to assure compliance with the criteria set for our funds. We advocate transparency for our portfolio companies, and for all our stakeholders. We apply the same criteria for ourselves as an organisation as for others. We share reports, case studies, thematic reports, monthly data and other relevant disclosures on our website and in direct e-mails with our clients and investors. To ensure our portfolio companies adherence to regulations on human and labour rights we also have an external consultant (Sustainalytics) screening on a quarterly basis. We also rely on in-house research, and analysis in this process. We consider gender equality an important part of our legacy. Running a business in one of the worlds most gender equal countries puts us at the forefront in driving issues on equality and equity. We consider this aspect when recruiting, when planning events, when setting salaries or any other aspect of our business. We also engage in employee trainings and ESG awareness session(s). 05 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: BUSINESSES SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY. As an asset manager we follow strict regulations under Sweden's financial supervisory authority (FI) to ensure stability and efficiency in the financial systems. This is also applies to other sections of our organisation. Anti-corruption and good corporate governance are core components in our financial analysis. We keep regular internal meetings/engagements on ethics and trading policies (disclosing our personal trades etc.) with all of our employees. All employees are required to sign off on the Tundra Code of Conduct – this is currently under revision and will serve as a basis for educational talks with all personnel during autumn 2018. In March 2017, the Ho Chi Minh Stock Exchange (HOSE) – the largest stock exchange in Vietnam – announced the initiation of a sustainable index which promotes ESG standards for its companies. Tundra, representing the asset management industry, was invited to speak at the conference. We are also in contact with the largest listed companies in several of our markets, and arrange events and conferences to inform them and other stakeholders on our views on corporate governance. Tundra joined the PRI in early 2017 and we encourage all our stakeholders in finance to adopt the movement as well. “Developed by investors for investors”, the six aspirational principles encourage the incorporation of ESG concerns into everyday investment practices. Offering a list of possible actions for incorporating sustainable strategies, the PRI’s aim is to develop a more sustainable global financial system. That ESG issues can have a major impact on investments and should be considered alongside financial factors when investing, is the main rationale for this framework. The PRI has over 1,800 signatories across 50 countries which represent USD70 trillion. For more information, please visit www.unipri.org. Proxy voting is a component of corporate governance that enables shareholders to express their views on a broad ranges of issues. By using our right to vote we have an impact on decision making processes. 06 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 SDGs, DR A. MASLOW & JOHN LENNON Tundra considers the work on the SDGs as a fundamental pillar in the efforts within ESG, and a work in progress. It is our ambition to try to incorporate these ambitious global goals into the core of our business. Last autumn Tundra formalised the commitment to the UN Global Compact as a signatory. The Global Compact has, however, been one of the leading international guidelines since the launch of the Tundra Frontier Sustainable fund. last year in September we attended the UN Global Compact Leaders Summit in New York. We consider the UNGC an unique opportunity to create platforms and to take part in international collaborations aiming at a sustainable future. We are also intending to be an active partner in the local Network Sweden, to be launched during spring 2018. Abraham Maslow, born in Manhattan New York on April 1st 1908, is often described as one of the greatest psychologists of our times. He is best known for his theory on Self-Actualisation and the Hierarchy of Needs*. Dr Maslow’s holistic approach to human needs i.e. how ‘basic’ and ‘psychological’ needs have to be fulfilled in order to achieve self-actualisation, has been used in a variety of settings since it was introduced in the mid-forties. The model has been debated and scrutinised over the years. More recent interpretations have added the use of modern phenomena such as social media to the figure. Here we present our take on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) using a pyramid approach inspired by Dr Maslow. Our underlying thesis is that the SDGs are interconnected albeit in an interchangeable hierarchic manner. As exemplified in this version of the behavioural pyramid; we believe that certain structures and goals must be met before other goals can be reached. Along these lines we would consider gender equality (#sdg5) a prerequisite to reach quality education (i.e. education for all) (#sdg4), which in turn is fundamental to achieving zero hunger (#sdg2) and no poverty (#sdg1). Similarly basic goals pertaining to environment (#sdg13, #sdg14 and #sdg15) and health (#sdg3) are essential in achieving more specific goal e.g. decent work and economic growth (#sdg8). Ultimately, we hope, it is possible to achieve not only a world of ‘no hunger,’ and one with ‘no poverty,’ but an equal world that build on equitable institutions. “You may say I'm a dreamer. But I'm not the only one. I hope some day you'll join us. And the world will be as one.”** *Maslow, A.H. (1943). A Theory of Human Motivation. Psychological Review, 50, 370-396. **Written by John Winston Lennon • Copyright © Downtown Music Publishing 07 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 TUNDRA ESG RATING SYSTEM During 2017 all companies in all of Tundra’s funds have received the Tundra ESG Questionnaire. For the Tundra Frontier Opportunities Fund; companies have additionally been validated on a range of variables. The following pages will give a short overview of the results. Through our Tundra Questionnaire we engage with all companies in our portfolios. Companies in the Tundra Sustainable Frontier Fund additionally has been analysed on a range of criteria that are important to us in the assessment process. All results will be presented at group level. Detailed scores will be communicated to companies an a yearly feedback and used for dialogue going forward. Scores will be divided into three categories accordingly: Less than 5 points – Unsatisfactory ESG practices, Between 5-8 points – Satisfactory/strong ESG policies (with at least 4 points from the grey section (E, S & G, reporting and communication) Higher than 8 points – Very strong ESG practices Companies will be evaluated annually and expected to increase scores after written feedback including score. Questionnaire will be developed to include more specific questions pertaining to different sectors and building on reported incidents. Results from this years ratings can be found in our full Sustainability Report on our website: www.tundrafonder.se/sustainable 08 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 DISCLAIMER Important: Please read this information/disclaimer This publication is issued by Tundra Fonder AB (”Tundra”). The information – assumptions, opinions, valuations, recommendations etc. – presented in this publication have been compiled by Tundra. The publication is based on generally available information from sources that Tundra believes to be reliable. However, Tundra cannot guarantee the accuracy of this information. This publication – as well as all or parts of its content – may not be duplicated or distributed under any circumstances without the written permission of Tundra. Use of information This publication is intended exclusively for the use of Tundra’s clients in Sweden and is thus not intended for any individual or company in the USA, Canada, Japan or Australia, or in any other country where the publication or availability of the material is prohibited or restricted in any way. The Fund or the Fund Company Tundra Fonder is not registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933, the United States Investment Company Act of 1940, or any other applicable law of the United States. Therefore fund units may not be offered, sold or in any other way distributed to physical or legal persons in the United States of America. It is the responsibility of individuals or entities acquainting themselves with this presentation to inform themselves of and comply with these regulations. A legal entity may be prevented from investing in Tundra’s fund by law or internal regulations. Foreign law may prevent investments to be made from outside of Sweden. Tundra will not verify that investments from outside of Sweden are made in accordance with foreign law and Tundra will not accept responsibility for any such investments. It is the responsibility of persons reading this presentation to inform themselves of, and to follow these rules. Should any such person or company nonetheless accept offers from Tundra, of whatever kind they may be, it may be disregarded. No part of this presentation should be construed as a solicitation or recommendation to conduct or make use of any type of investment or to enter into any other transactions. The opinions expressed in this presentation reflect the present views of the participants and may thus be subject to change. The information in this presentation does not take into account the specific investment goal, financial situation or needs of any specific recipient. The information should not be regarded as a personal recommendation or investment advice. The client should always seek adequate professional advice before taking any investment decision and each such investment decision is taken independently by the client and at the client's own risk. Tundra accepts no liability whatsoever for any direct or consequential loss of any kind arising from the use of this presentation. Tundra’s employees may hold, indirect or indirect investments mentioned in this presentation. The state of the origin of the Fund is Sweden. This document may only be distributed in or from Swizerland to qualified investors within the meaning of Art. 10 Para. 3,3bis and 3ter CISA. The representative in Switzerland is ACOLIN Fund Service AG, Stadelhoferstrasse 18, CH-8001 Zurich, whilst the Paying Agent is Bank Vontobel Ltd, Gotthardstrasse 43, CH-8022 Zurich. The basic documents of the fund as well as the annual report may be obtained free of charge at the registered office of the Swiss Representative Risks Investments in financial instruments are associated with risk and an investment may both increase and decrease in value or even become worthless. Historical returns are no guarantee of future returns. International investments, particularly those on new markets in developing and growth countries (such as Eastern Europe (including Russia), Asia, Latin America and Africa), are normally associated with a higher level of risk than investments in Swedish or other developed markets’ securities. These risks include both political and economic uncertainty in other countries as well as currency fluctuations. These risks are particularly high on new markets since these countries may have relatively unstable governments and immature markets and economies. 09
