2017 Annual Report Contents OVERVIEW Statement by the CEO Goals and strategies Market overview 4 8 14 Vasakronan in Dynamic city environment 15 Property management 18 Smart energy 19 VASAKRONAN’S ASSIGNMENT Schneider Electric 21 New Segelhuset 24 is to generate a high, risk-weighted return for Property development 26 our owners the First, Second, Third and Fourth Uppsala Science Park 29 Swedish National Pension Funds, though never Transaction activities 30 at the expense of the environment and people. Sthlm Seaside 31 A return that will benefit Sweden’s current and Financing 32 future pensioners. Green financing 35 Property holdings 36 Office solutions 37 WE TAKE RESPONSIBILITY Retail 39 for the people who are affected by our business. We do so by applying fair work conditions and REGIONS creating good work and urban environments. Our regions 42 It goes without saying that we also say no to Region Stockholm 44 any form of discrimination. Region Gothenburg 50 Region Öresund 54 Region Uppsala 58 HOW WE CREATE VALUE To accomplish our assignment, we must create ADMINISTRATION REPORT AND value in the business. This is achieved through FINANCIAL STATEMENTS good property management and development, Contents financial statements and notes 62 and supplemented by active transactions. Administration Report 63 Our strategy builds on our having attractive Risks and risk management 64 properties, being a good landlord and having Corporate Governance Report 68 dedicated employees. The Board of Directors and Auditors 74 Senior executives 75 Other information 76 Comments to the financial statements 78 Notes 90 Proposed appropriation of profits 109 Auditors’ report 110 GRI AND OTHER INFORMATION Sustainability reporting with GRI Index 114 Auditor’s statement on the sustainability report 126 Impact Report, Green Bonds 127 Auditor’s statement Impact Report 130 Quarterly and five-year overview 131 Definitions 134 Addresses, website, calendar and production 136 This Annual Report is a translation of the Swedish original. seconds OUR AMBITION IS TO BE SWEDEN’S LEADING PROPERTY COMPANY Vasakronan is Sweden’s largest property company with a portfolio comprising 179 properties with total area of OUR VISION 2.4 million sq. m. is to create future-proof cities for everyone, We own, manage and develop centrally located office and retail where people and properties in Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö, Lund and Uppsala. companies thrive. The majority of the portfolio is located in Stockholm. The market value of our property portfolio amounts to approximately SEK 127 billion. The number of employees is approximately 350. WE WILL ACHIEVE THIS BY: • Generating a high total yield that should also exceed that of the industry in general. UPPSALA • Being the preferred choice for tenants looking STOCKHOLM for office or retail premises. • Being perceived as the most attractive employer in the industry. GOTHENBURG • Assuming social responsibility and striving for long-term sustainable development. LUND MALMÖ Property values increase due to rising market rents SEK 127 The value of the property BILLION SEK 4.7 Net operating income increased to BILLION portfolio increased 6.9% and SEK 4,678 million (4,459), up 6% nudged SEK 127 billion. against comparable property holdings. Contracted rent by geographic market Stockholm, 62% Offices, 74% Gothenburg, 19% Retail, 18% Öresund, 12% Other, 8% Uppsala, 7% Vasakronan in brief SEK m 2017 2016 Rental revenue 6,490 6,251 Net operating income 4,678 4,459 Profit before value changes and tax 3,413 3,217 Net interest –1,165 –1,152 Change in property values 7,973 12,056 Change in value of financial instruments 468 –764 Net profit for the year 9,269 11,472 Market value of property, SEK bn 127 116 Contracted rent, SEK m 6,638 6,481 Occupancy rate, % 93.1 94.2 Interest coverage ratio, multiple 3.9 3.8 Loan-to-value ratio, % 45 46 Number of properties 177 179 Area, thousand sq. m. 2,430 2,426 Environmental certification, % 84 77 Energy performance, kWh/sq. m. 100 110 Number of employees 349 339 Vasakronan’s ambition is to run its entire business in a sustainable manner. Consequently, reporting of our sustainability agenda has been integrated into the company’s annual report. A summary of how we control, set targets and follow up our significant sustainability topics is on pages 114–125. 2 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS IN 2017 • A 20-year lease was signed with Scandic • An agreement was signed to acquire the Hotels for 20,000 sq. m. at Platinan in newly developed Sthlm Seaside property central Gothenburg. at Hammarby Sjöstad for SEK 900 million. The total area is 12,500 sq. m. of office • The reconstruction of Klara C, opposite space. Stockholm’s Central Station, comprising a total of 34,000 sq. m. of office and retail • A 15-year lease was signed with the space was completed. National Food Agency, Sweden for 8,300 sq. m. of space at Celsius in Uppsala. • A new green bonds framework was launched and was awarded the highest sec• A lease was signed with the Swedish Q1 ond opinion, Dark Green, by the Center for International Climate Research, CICERO. Transport Agency for 3,500 sq. m. at Kista Entré just outside Stockholm. Q2 Q3 Q4 • Willys Hemma signs lease and, as a result, • Leases signed with Tyréns in Stockholm all our retail properties along Södra for 12,000 sq. m. and with UNIQLO for Förstadsgatan in Malmö are let. 2,100 sq. m. • Redevelopment and extension of Sergel• Completion of the fully leased properties huset at Sergels torg in central Stockholm Hubben at Uppsala Science Park for started. 12,500 sq. m. and Nöten 5 at Solna Strand for 4,400 sq. m. • Vasakronan retained its lead position with a Green Star rating in the annual • The cross-sector initiative Älskade stad sustainability survey, Global Real Estate received the Sustainability Award from Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB). the Swedish Confederation of Transport Enterprises. VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 3 STATEMENT BY THE CEO Record net operating income Rising rental revenue, low vacancies and technology-driven cost savings mean that we achieved a record net operating income in 2017. Now we are focusing on a new organisation to enable full utilisation of the potential that modern technology offers in our properties. At SEK 9,269 million after tax (11,472), we once again Malmö in the most central locations or when we already posted a healthy net profit for the year. Particularly have contracts with tenants. In the attractive location gratifying was the robust improvement in net operating next to Triangeln, a completely new office building is being income, which rose a full 6% to SEK 4,678 million (4,459). developed in the Priorn property and half of the office Already at the start of the year, we identified potential for space is already leased. a stronger net operating income, but could not dream of such a significant increase. Healthy earnings from operatHigher project volumes ing activities will be even more important when the propThe need for new, modern and space-efficient offices erty market levels off and profits are no longer driven by means that Vasakronan continues to invest in new convalue increases. struction and renovation of existing properties. Over the Throughout 2017, market rents continued to climb in all next few years, we expect to increase investments from of Vasakronan’s markets. On average, the year’s renegotiSEK 2.5 billion to SEK 3 billion annually. All project develations have resulted in rent increases of just over 10%. opment entails some risk. Consequently, our project Stockholm noted the highest increase in rent levels stimudevelopments are always in prime locations and we always lated by continuous growth in office employment, low aim for long-term ownership. As market leader, we also vacancies and continued low increases in office space. have many tenants who have changing needs and require new premises, which also lowers risks in our project venPositive rent trend tures. Nonetheless, because we are probably at the peak The trend toward more efficient office space utilisation of the economic boom, we are cautious and conscious of and less square metres per employee is still going strong. all market changes. Recent years’ positive rent trend has meant that Stockholm now has the third highest office space rents in Successful projects Europe — only London and Paris have higher square metre The recently completed construction of Hubben in rents. Also Gothenburg, Malmö and Uppsala report healthy Uppsala is a good example of successful project developdemand for premises. But while new construction is ment. Hubben is the central location and knowledge hub expected to remain low in Stockholm, Gothenburg and at the Uppsala Science Park research and innovation Uppsala, the selection of new office space is greater in centre. Uppsala is a market characterised by stability Malmö. This explains the weaker trend in both rent levels and strong confidence in the future. A 20-year lease and property values in the Öresund region. Therefore, was signed with Region Uppsala even before the start of despite healthy underlying demand, we only build new in construction. Moreover, we are now constructing a new 4 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 5 STATEMENT BY THE CEO “The overall assessment is that city retail has good potential to manage the paradigm shift that retail is now undergoing.” FREDRIK WIRDENIUS, CEO VASAKRONAN building on behalf of the National Food Agency at Science lise the opportunities that new technology offers and furPark. Another example of the long-term nature that distinther enhance our customer offering. It is also important guishes our project activities is the lease that Vasa­kronan that we can thus become an even more attractive signed with the consulting firm Tyréns for 12,000 sq. m. of employer to attract the talent that we must have to manoffice space at the Nattugglan property on Södermalm in age increasingly complex technical environments. Stockholm — a building on which construction has not yet begun and which will be ready for occupation in 2021 at Continued development of city retail the earliest. During the past year, e-commerce has continued to capture market shares from physical stores. As the largest Sustainability in everything we do city retail player in our four markets, we obviously monitor For many years, Vasakronan has been the property industhe trend closely and have noted that retailers’ margins are try leader in terms of sustainability and, at the turn of the declining while e-commerce is benefiting from increased year, 84% of our buildings were environmentally certified. consumer spending. Clothes stores are hardest hit, particSustainability topics are integrated in all aspects of our ularly multi-brand stores, while those with a strong propriwork — from green leases and green office services to etary label can better resist the downturn. energy efficiency measures and green bond financing. The overall assessment is that city retail has good The energy savings are substantial and have had a favourpotential to manage the paradigm shift that retail is now able impact on financial performance. In less than ten undergoing. We see a clear trend toward small shops years, we have lowered our energy consumption by 120 where the shops are also used to reinforce the proprietary kWh per sq. m., resulting in a SEK 200 million improvelabel and drive e-commerce. From a practical perspective, ment in our net operating income, which this means a transition with a greater mix among different in turn increased property value by around SEK 4 billion. types of offers. Prime retail locations are being retained, while the slightly less attractive locations are converted New technology creates new opportunities to other businesses, such as restaurants, Rapid technological advances create completely new coffee shops, gyms or co-working sites. We also work opportunities for us as property owners, not only in terms actively, together with other property owners, to develop of energy efficiency. Smart control systems and sensors and make retail districts more attractive. A successful mean that we can proactively discover irregularities — example of such a partnership is Södra Förstadsgatan in such as ventilation that is not functioning optimally — and Malmö, where now all retail assets in our portfolio are take action long before they become a problem for our fully leased. tenants. A requisite to fully utilise the advances offered by Central Stockholm is hardly showing visitors her best technology in our modern properties, we must have side given the string of transformation projects in progress employees and an organisation that can capitalise on and — not least Vasakronan’s extensive renovation of Sergelmanage the new opportunities. Therefore, as of February stan. But it is my conviction that when the large-scale 2018, we will implement a new organisation to better utidevelopment projects are completed, Stockholm will be 6 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STATEMENT BY THE CEO immensely attractive and attract both Stockholmers as of our loans. Our leading position in terms of sustainability well as tourists and other visitors. A contributor to this will and our high percentage of environmentally-certified be the Japanese casualwear chain UNIQLO, which signed properties makes it possible to double this. Evidence of a lease with Vasakronan and will open its first shop in the our strong position is that both the Nordic Investment Nordic countries in the autumn of 2018 in Sverigehuset Bank (NIB) and the European Investment Bank (EIB), both next to Kungsträdgården. of which have extremely stringent sustainability and certification requirements, have issued green loans to VasakStrategic acquisition in Stockholm ronan at very favourable terms. In July 2017, we acquired the newly built office building Sthlm Seaside at Hammarby Sjöstad — a strategic acquisiWell-prepared Vasakronan tion in a growing area that will soon be considered part of I feel that Vasakronan is well prepared for a downturn the inner city. Public transport is already good but, in a and we are ever vigilant in terms of all the changes in our few years, a new underground station will be built directly world. That said, at this time we see no storm clouds loomadjacent to the property. Seaside was Vasakronan’s only ing on the horizon. Instead, all systems indicate that the major acquisition in 2017, a year with continued healthy Swedish economy will remain strong and demand for activity in the Swedish transaction market. While the level office premises will remain healthy. The average rent that was lower than the peak year of 2016, property transacour tenants pay today is lower than the market rents in all tions for a total of SEK 157 billion were completed with four Vasakronan markets, which means that there is Swedish buyers dominating the market as they have in potential for continued rising rental revenue. The fact previous years. Institutional investors stand out as the that the addition of new office facilities will be very small newest players in the property market and I believe that in both Stockholm and Gothenburg points in the same this trend will continue for some time. In the current market direction. In total, this means there is every likelihood that conditions, Vasakronan will most likely not be a net buyer, net operating income and cash flow will be robust also in but will prioritise investments in its own projects. 2018. This provides us with sturdy shock absorbers in the Despite a healthy period of rising rent levels, Vasakevent of a market cooldown — whenever it arrives. ronan will continue to implement the necessary reforms to ensure we are well prepared the day the economic boom stalls. As in previous years, we have steadily Stockholm, February 2018 extended the terms for our financing and we now have an average tenor of 3.8 years (3.4). The difference between borrowing on long or short tenors was relatively low in Fredrik Wirdenius 2017. Therefore, we have positioned ourselves so that CEO almost 40% of our loans now have a longer tenor than seven years. We have also continued to increase the percentage of green financing, which now accounts for 20% VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 7 GOALS AND STRATEGIES Create sustainable values Vasakronan’s mission is to deliver a long-term and stable return to its owners. Though never at the expense of the environment and people who live and work in and around our properties. We reach our ambition via attractive properties, by being a good landlord and through dedicated employees. Ownership of Vasakronan is equally shared erty portfolio based on current market conDialogue and observation by the First, Second, Third and Fourth Swedditions. Mapping and analysing our stakeholders’ ish National Pension Funds. The owners are expectations in terms of Vasakronan’s activito ensure long-term financing of the pension Good landlord ties are prerequisites for achieving our goals system and invest their capital in various Vasakronan should be the preferred choice and generating sustainable values. Theretypes of assets. Property investments are when looking for premises in the selected fore, we maintain a steady dialogue with our made through Vasakronan, among others. markets. The offering therefore includes a stakeholders. The dialogue formats with our The mandate from the owners is to generate a broad range of attractive premises coupled various stakeholders are presented in more long-term high and stable return, with sus­­tain­­­ with a high degree of service. Our broad detail in the table on page 9. As a compleability as an integrated part of the business. range increases possibilities for tenants to ment, we also monitor general sustainability locate new premises when their needs trends, as well as other property companies Vasakronan’s ambition is to be Sweden’s change without having to change landlord. and other industries. We do so in order to leading property company. That is A close, open dialogue with the tenants is identify possible issues that may prove to be achieved by: a prerequisite for long, healthy relationships. material to our ability to conduct business in • Generating a high total yield, which also Our properties are managed by personnel a sustainable manner. Our main stakeholders will exceed that of the industry in general. who have extensive knowledge of the propare our tenants, suppliers, lenders, employ• Being the preferred choice for tenants erties and the tenants’ local needs. For tenees, communities and owners. looking for office or retail premises. ants who want a more convenient solution, In addition to our ongoing dialogues, • Being perceived as the most attractive we offer our Smart & Klart office concept to we arranged a workshop in 2017 that was employer in the industry. cover all their needs on-site, or premises in attended by some 30 representatives from • Assuming social responsibility and striving properties that have an extended range of the various stakeholder groups. The aim was for long-term sustainable development. services. Moreover, our active sustainability to discuss which sustainability topics they agenda enables Vasakronan to help the tenexpect Vasakronan to focus on in its operaOur strategies ants achieve their own sustainability goals. tions and reporting. It also presented an Attractive properties It is becoming more common to view the opportunity to receive feedback in terms of Vasakronan’s portfolio should consist of premises as a tool for change and developour current efforts. The results showed that properties that have premises that are, over ment of a business. Vasakronan can advise stakeholders mainly expect Vasakronan to time, attractive in the rental market. Consewhen potential or existing tenants are decidreport long-term financial results, the use of quently, the portfolio is concentrated to ing on layout and modifications. Correctly materials in project development, property Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö, Lund and designed, premises can enhance productivenergy consumption, customer satisfaction Uppsala, all of which are strong economic ity, creativity and workplace satisfaction. and work conditions at the suppliers. growth markets. Vasakronan’s properties Our owners, employees and investors give are located in attractive office and retail Dedicated employees top priority to long-term financial results. lo­cations that have good public transport Cultivating dedication and motivation Our tenants prioritise energy consumption, connections, and offer efficient, modern among employees the key to a successful proximity to public transport and local serpremises. Retail properties are concentrated property business. Vasakronan’s corporate vices. Our suppliers and other societal actors to city retail. The portfolio properties are culture is marked by professionalism, flexi­ feel that the use of materials in project develmanaged in a sustainable manner so as to bility and innovation. Employees are encouropment are important. They also expect have a low environmental impact and to aged to be innovative and to test new, Vasakronan to focus on work conditions. embrace societal responsibility. un­proven alternatives. Our employees are For more information about Vasakronan’s The current property portfolio is continusatisfaction-driven, and get things done in stakeholder dialogues, go to pages 9 and 11. ously expanded to match tenant and market a decent and trustworthy manner. The demand, and new buildings are constructed decision-making paths are short and we Prioritised areas in locations with strong demand. Property work transparently with an all-inclusive Based on the mapping of stakeholders’ expecdevelopment is supplemented by transaction perspective that includes our stakeholders, tations, an internal prioritisation of which susactivities that enhance Vasa­kronan’s propour properties and the city. tainability topics were considered material 8 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GOALS AND STRATEGIES was arranged during the year. When setting In the business planning ahead of 2018, these specific challenges were identified that the company faces and priorities, Vasakronan took into account the that the organisation is expected to devote particular focus to during the coming year: actual impact on people, the environment, economy and society, and consideration was Dynamic city environment and more early leasehold improvements will be To enhance the attractiveness in and around our carried out. More focus will also be given to offering also given to Vasakronan’s vision and business properties, each individual building will contribute the tenants more digital solutions in the buildings. strategy. Prioritised sustainability topics were to the block, neighbourhood, district or city as a then validated by Vasakronan’s management. whole. Together with other property owners and New technological solutions the city, we pursue the task of developing the block To stay one step ahead and be a successful propA total of 12 sustainability topics were deemed for tomorrow’s retail needs and to create secure erty company, we need to utilise new technological material, nine of which are the same as last and safe environments. solutions. We’ve done so for many years to improve year and three are new. The new topics are our energy performance. These efforts continue Best property developer now and focus on, inter alia, evaluating the choice of “Employee health and safety”, “Public transAlthough the portfolio is under continuous develmaterials in our new development and reconstrucport and local service” and “Security and opment, there is vast potential to generate further tion projects. safety”. For more information about which value through an innovative and structured agenda. This is realised by creating a long-term development Continuous advances sustainability topics were identified as mateplan for each property. Rapid advances are being made in many areas rial, read Vasakronan’s GRI Index on page 115. and, as a company, we must be equipped for these Smart solutions for customers changes. This means that we will continue to reinIn addition to material sustainability topics, We see a clear trend that indicates that customers force the digital knowhow in all parts of our business Vasakronan applies a structured, long-term want more streamlined solutions. Consequently, as well as increasing diversity in our organisation. approach to a number of other sustainability the range in the Smart & Klart concept will expand topics. A global key area is water consumption which, while not deemed material in the ing income, and the greatest short-term affect materiality analysis, is part of the information is achieved through raising the occupancy rate Stakeholder dialogues submitted in the impact report to our green and reducing vacancies. Therefore, financial Occasions for dialogue bond issuers. Other issues that the stakegoals are formulated to grow net operating Tenants holders have requested information about income in comparable property holdings and • Customer meetings are measures that are taken in the properties levels for occupancy rate and average vacancy • Customer satisfaction survey • Customer service and ongoing dialogues due to climate changes and eco-­system periods. regarding management services. A project has therefore been initiWithin the environmental area, Vasa­ • Theme lectures ated to create action plans and a division of kronan has long been an industry leader responsibilities concerning these issues. through, inter alia, continuous improvement Suppliers • During procurement processes for framework of the property portfolio’s energy perforagreements, when placing orders and in meetBusiness plans rule mance and through a growing proportion of ings with suppliers Planning, control and follow-up of the operaenvironmentally-certified buildings. Project • Regular reviews/audits tions are in line with the organisational strucdevelopment uses large quantities of mateLenders ture, with a clear delegation of responsibilirial that impact the environment when pro• Individual meetings with banks and ties and authorities. Business planning is duced and also generates large quantities of the capital market • Financial statements done every year with a focus on areas that waste. Goals are therefore set that aim to • Capital market presentations could be developed or improved. Business increase the share of recycled material and plans are prepared for both the company as to reduce the amount of waste. Employees a whole and for the units that answer to the Sustainable value generation also requires • Performance • Workshops appraisals • Business planning CEO. Based on the business plans, a budget is focus on societal issues.Ahead of 2017, our • Employee survey set for the coming year, as are goals within the ambition was to increasingly reflect the comfinancial, environmental and societal areas. munities in which we operate by increasing Community The goals’ focus may vary over time and diversity within the organisation, and targets • Attending and participating in meetings with stakeholders and industry organisations as well moni­toring continues throughout the year. were set that aim to increase the proportion as other forums of employees who have foreign backgrounds. • Network meetings Goals and challenges Moreover, goals were defined that address The overall financial return goal is to achieve health and security for our employees and Owners • Board meetings, one of which each year is a a total yield over a rolling ten-year period that for those who work in our properties. strategy meeting will average above 6.5% annually. The total Ahead of 2018, we foresee a continued • Meeting with owner representatives for specific discussions on corporate governance yield should also be at least 0.5 percentage strong rental market. This offers excellent points higher than the industry average in potential to improve net operating income accordance with the IPD Sweden Annual Propin comparable property holdings and to ties. Within the societal area, we are pursuing erty Index (not including Vasakronan). The reduce vacancy periods. Moreover, our focus our agenda to create a good work environannual outcome is monitored and analysed. is still to lower costs for leasehold improvement for our employees and others who are Long-term profitability in a property comments, to reduce waste and to increase matein and around our properties. pany presumes positive growth in net operatrial recycling in project development activiRead more about goals on pages 12–13. VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 9 GOALS AND STRATEGIES STRATEGIES Read more on page 8 Attractive properties • Good landlord • Dedicated employees OPERATING ENVIRONMENT FACTORS BUSINESS MODEL Business climate Demand Interest rates Competition PROPERTY PROPERTY Read more on page 14 MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT We manage our When we develop a propproperties from erty, we do so in our role as STAKEHOLDERS AN a long-term a developer for long-term Tenants perspective with OPEN AND ownership and we take an Suppliers employees who INNOVATIVE all-inclusive perspective. Lenders are the best at CORPORATE Each individual property Employees what they do. CULTURE will contribute to the Communities We have a broad block, neighbourhood, range of office and district or city as a whole. Owners retail premises Read more on pages 9 and 11 in prime locations. OPENING VALUES Capital goods (properties) Financial capital TRANSACTIONS Expertise We have an explicit, measured strategy Energy and other for investments/transactions and we have an natural resources action plan for each individual property. Trust and relationships Read more on pages 8, 18 and 32 AN OPEN AND INNOVATIVE CORPORATE CULTURE Vasakronan’s corporate culture is distinguished by professionalism, flexibility and innovative thinking. Employees are encouraged to be innovative and to test new, unproven alternatives. We are satisfaction-driven, and get things done in a decent and trustworthy manner. The decision-making paths are short and we work transparently with an all-inclusive perspective that includes our stakeholders, our properties and the city. Our employees can handle cutting-edge technologies, recommend smart solutions for a digitised way of working and know what the customers require. Sustainability permeates our entire business and we do our utmost to practise what we preach, for example when we design office environments, properties, blocks or entire neighbourhoods. Our dedication to what we do is vast and our ambition is high. That is why we are happy to involve other parties in our efforts. Our vision is to create future-proof cities for everyone, where people and companies thrive. 10 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GOALS AND STRATEGIES STAKEHOLDER EXPECTATIONS VALUE ADDED Tenants • Long-term property management that • Leasehold improvements that are adapted • Environmentally-certified buildings that offers premises that provide good service to the customer’s business. help customers reduce their environmental and a good work environment. impact. • Large selection of premises in attractive • Collaboration aimed at minimising negalocations that provide tenants with • An opportunity to actively work together tive environmental impact. potential for growth in pace with changes with Vasakronan in making environ• Energy consumption in property managein their own business. ment-appropriate decisions in their own ment and within project development. business. • Attractive neighbourhoods in the form of, • Access to public transport and local for example, a wide range of service • Safe and healthy environments accessible service. offerings. to all. Suppliers • Use of materials. • A distinctly formulated code of conduct • Transparency, the exchange of knowledge • Customer in terms of specifications confor suppliers defines Vasakronan’s and trust afford suppliers the opportunity cerning the supplier’s work conditions. specifications. It helps the suppliers to to create new customer offerings, services • Collaboration for greater sustainability. raise the quality of their own deliveries and concepts. and promotes general improvements. • Collaboration with one of the most prominent players in the industry which enhances the suppliers’ brand. Lenders • Long-term and stable financial management. • High, reliable and long-term stable yields. • Lending to Vasakronan enhances the • Customer satisfaction. • An investment that is reliable in the long lenders’ brand. • Measures to modify the premises term even from a societal and environmendue to climate changes. tal perspective. • Energy consumption in property management and within project development. Employees • Responsible and ethical business practices. • Opportunities to work with the best • An approach distinguished by innovation, • Stable, long-term employer that offers properties, in the best locations, with the the opportunity to influence and the good employment terms. most attractive customers and in the most freedom to try new ideas. • Good work environment. challenging projects. • Equal treatment. • Involvement in local communities. • A valueand purpose-driven corporate • A long-term, responsible employer with culture with short decision-making paths. financial muscle. Communities • Advocate more eco-system service • A long-term reliable and stable return that • Safe and attractive urban environments in the planning phase and in the operations. will benefit Sweden’s current and future that provide variety and experiences. • Use of materials. pensioners. • A progressive, inquisitive and innovate • Transportation and emissions. • A property owner that gets involved in approach makes us the industry leader. and is an active member of community-­ This drives progress in the entire property improving networks with targets including, industry. lowering the climate impact. Owners • A long-term stable yield where • A long-term reliable and stable yield. • A strong, structured and thorough considera­tion is given to people, • An investment in the property industry’s sustainability agenda generates value and ethics and the environment. minimises the risk for our owners. strongest brand. • Transparent reporting. • Investing in Vasakronan enhances the • Customer satisfaction. owners’ brands. VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 11 GOALS AND STRATEGIES Financial targets 2017 Target fulfilment 2017 A total yield of at least 6.5% per year and on average over a rolling The total yield was 11.0% for 2017, and 8.6% on average over the ten-year period. latest ten-year period. Read more on page 36. A total yield of at least 0.5 percentage points higher than the industry The total yield was 11.1% for 2017, and 7.6% on average over the per year and on average over a rolling ten-year period. latest ten-year period. Read more on pages 36–40. An increase in net operating income for comparable property holdings Net operating income for comparable property holdings was 6%. of 5% compared with 2016. Read more on page 80. An occupancy rate of at least 92% at the end of 2017. The occupancy rate was 93.1% at the end of the year. Read more on page 40. A 15% decrease in the percentage of premises with long-term vacancies. The percentage of premises with long-term vacancies was on par with last year. The cost of leasehold improvements in conjunction with new leases In Region Gothenburg, the cost of leasehold improvements in conjunction with should, on average, be below the amount of annual rent. new leases was less than the annual rent. In other sub-markets, the cost was higher than the annual rent. Price changes in conjunction with renegotiations should Price changes in conjunction with renegotiations totalled 10.2% (10.6) exceed the results for 2016. Environmental targets 2017 Target fulfilment 2017 Energy performance to be improved 3% compared with 2016. Energy performance improved 9%. Read more on pages 18 and 118. Increase the percentage of buildings with environmental certification. The share of environmentally certified buildings increased to 84% (77). Read more on pages 18 and 122. 50% of the buildings should have an energy consumption of less than At the end of the year 56% of the buildings had an energy consumption 100 kWh/sq. m. and year. below 100 kWh/sq. m. At the end of the year, 50 solar photovoltaic systems will be operating. At the end of the year, 49 solar photovoltaic systems were operating. Increase reuse of materials in project development activities. In 2017, the amount of reused materials was 116 tons (19). The outcome from last year includes only part of the year since follow-up of reused material started in 2016. Decrease the amount of waste generated from project Waste from reconstruction projects amounted to an average of 43 kg/sq. m. (121) and to development activities by 5%. 38 kg/sq. m. (–) for new construction projects. The outcome refers to the Board-­approved projects that were completed during the current year. Read more on pages 26 and 121. Food waste will be sorted in all the buildings. At the end of the year, food waste was sorted at 76% of the buildings. 100% renewable fuel will be used for transportation During the year, work commenced to introduce the requirement for renewable in all development projects. fuel for transportation in major projects. The requirement will be part of Vasakronan’s environment plan for major projects. 10% lower emissions from commuting and business trips. Emissions from commuting and business trips was 298 tons (288). New build and redevelopment projects that started in 2017 will All new build and redevelopment projects that started in 2017 have begun to report their use of material. report on their use of materials in the project. Higher GRESB ranking. Vasakronan defended its Green Star ranking and earned more points, but did not improve its ranking. Societal targets 2017 Target fulfilment 2017 All employees act in accordance with our values and comply The annual survey of employees’ awareness of our internal policies with our internal Code of Conduct. showed that 98% are aware of our internal Code of Conduct. During the year, a values workshop was arranged within the company. All suppliers have accepted our Code of Conduct. Vasakronan’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers is applied in conjunction with all new supplier agreements and is now included in 100% of the supplier agreements signed by the Purchasing Department. All employees know how to prevent discrimination and harassment. The annual survey of employees’ awareness of our internal policies revealed that 99% are aware of our equal treatment policy. During the year, all employees have received information on the changes in the Discrimination Act, and our approach and policy for discrimination or impediments to equal treatment have been amended. All employees know how to prevent stress and contribute to a good Health and well-being were two areas included in the year’s values workshop. work environment. During the year, the Management Group received training in early signals of ill health and in the prevention of stress and exhaustion. Contribute to the successful launch of the Safe Construction Council During the year Vasakronan contributed to the launch of Håll nollan, an organisation (Håll nollan). that collaborates with the goal of zero accidents in the construction industry. Read more on page 27. We have carried out at least one WELL-certified1) project per region. In 2017, the task of WELL certifying a property in Uppsala began. Increase the percentage of women and the percentage of employees The percentage of employees with a foreign background was 14% (13) and the with foreign backgrounds. percentage of women was 42% (40) at the end of the year. Read more on page 123. 1) WELL is a certification that assesses the impact of a building and its indoor environment on human health, well-being and productivity. The certification is issued by the International Well Building Institute. 12 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GOALS AND STRATEGIES Targets 2018 • A total yield of at least 6.5% per year and on average over a rolling ten-year period. • A total yield of at least 0.5 percentage points higher than the industry per year and on average over a rolling ten-year period. • An increase in net operating income for comparable property holdings of 6% compared with 2017. • An occupancy rate of at least 93.5% at the end of 2018. • A decrease in the percentage of premises with long-term vacancies by 10%. • The cost of leasehold improvements in conjunction with new leases should average less than SEK 3,000 per square metre. • Price changes in conjunction with renegotiations should exceed the results for 2017. Targets 2018 • Energy performance to be improved 3% compared with the results for 2017. • Increase the percentage of buildings with environmental certification. • 60% of the buildings should have an energy consumption of less than 100 kWh/sq. m. and year. • At the end of the year, 65 solar photovoltaic systems will be operating. • Introduce new solutions to cut power peaks. • Increase reuse of materials in project development activities. • Decrease the amount of waste generated from project development activities. • We have specified the use of renewable fuel for the transport of materials and waste in all new Board-approved projects. • All Board-approved new build and redevelopment projects will report their use of materials. • Increase the percentage of green financing. • Better ranking in the global sustainability survey, GRESB. Targets 2018 • All employees act in accordance with our values and comply with our internal Code of Conduct. • All employees know how to prevent stress and contribute to a good work environment. • All employees know how to prevent discrimination and harassment. • We have carried out at least 50 security measures in our properties and projects. • All suppliers accept our Code of Conduct and we have completed several supplier audits. • Our projects will issue correct and uniform accident reporting. • Increase the percentage of women and the percentage of employees with a foreign background.  VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 13 MARKET OVERVIEW Strong rental market The economic upturn and the low new construction level of office premises resulted in strong demand and high rent levels. Stockholm in particular had the strongest growth with rents rising by about 10%. This is one of the highest rent increases in Europe. Strong growth in our year was 2.4%. The basis for consumption operating environment Upward office employment looks bright for 2018, with an increase in % In 2017, most parts of the world saw ecochild benefits and tax reductions for pen­ 5 nomic growth take off. In the USA, both the sioners having positive impacts. HUI’s fore4 economy and the labour market are marked cast for 2018 indicates growth of 2.5%. The by strong optimism. The Federal Reserve 3 challenge for retail is not in macro prospects raised its key interest rate on three occasions 2 but in the paradigm shift that the industry is during the year and more raises are to be 1 currently undergoing due to the steadily expected going forward. The tax package growing e-commerce sector. The fact that 0 that the Trump administration recently 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18p 19p 20p e-commerce accounted for practically all pushed through has also bolstered the Office employment, change in metropolitan regions retail sales growth in 2017 is clear evidence growth prospects for the US. In the euro Source: Statistics Sweden and Evidens of this. area, the upswing is wide and is mainly driven The labour market in Sweden is currently by rising employment, increased investments Robust Swedish economy strong. In 2017, employment rates rose 2.3% and growing exports. Despite uncertainty In Sweden, the economic trend continued to and employment is expected to climb a further regarding future collaboration within the trend positively. Rising employment rates, 1.4% in 2018. According to forecasts by SCB EU, the outlook is good for the next few residential investments and increased and Evidens, office employment in metropoliyears with continued positive GNP growth exports are the main contributors to the tan areas will increase almost 2% in 2017 and of 2.3% in 2018 and 2.1% in 2019. robust economic situation. According to the 2018. In December, the Riksbank (Sweden’s latest forecast from the National Institute of central bank) decided to keep the repo rate Stable growth Economic Research (NIER), GNP increased unchanged at –0.50%. Their assessment is % by approximately 2.5% in 2017. The predicthat an increase in the repo rate will occur 8 tion is that GNP growth will increase slightly during the second half of 2018. 6 in 2018 and reach almost 3%. However, the 4 autumn’s downturn in housing prices is a Strong rental market 2 major cause for uncertainty. Should the The office rental market in all cities and 0 –2 downturn persist and be extended, it would sub-areas where Vasakronan is active has –4 have negative consequences on consumption strengthened during the year. Stockholm’s –6 and investments, and therefore on the entire CBD and central Stockholm, where rents 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16p 17p 18p 19p economy. rose about 10% in 2017, saw the strongest GDP growth in Sweden, fixed prices According to HUI Research, retail sales in growth. This is one of the highest rent Source: National Institute of Economic Research Sweden are strong, and growth for the whole increases in Europe. For modern objects in 14 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 VIGNETTE DYNAMIC CITY ENVIRONMENT THE NEW MALMSKILLNADSGATAN is taking A hub in the new Sergelstan is Soltrappan, which shape. Ground was broken in summer 2017. 10,000 links Malmskillnadsgatan and Sergels torg together. sq. m. to be torn down and 24,000 sq. m. of new space The stairway will be a natural venue where people to be created. The project, part of the transformation can sit, enjoy a cup of coffee, have lunch or just take of Sergelstan in Stockholm City, is expected to be it easy and relax a while. At the top of Malmskillnads­ completed in 2020. A street that has been felt both gatan, Soltrappan morphs into a terrace that unwelcoming and unsafe will have been transformed becomes an attractive place to be. By reducing the into a place where people like to be and want to be — width of the street, more room is created for walking. around the clock. Next to Soltrappan, on the corner of Sveavägen Restaurants and coffee shops interspersed with and Hamngatan, a pavilion is being built. It will be workplaces and flats built on the north side of the accessible and open, and enhance the role that block. A restaurant with a rooftop bar, probably Sergels torg has historically had as an active and Stockholm’s largest, will be built on the corner. New flexible place where people meet and gather. offices, exquisitely renovated or completely new, The pavilion can be used for art installations and will be right off of Malmskillnadsgatan. Some will lectures, for example, or as a restaurant. have entrances from Malmskillnadsgatan, others via Hamngatan or Sveavägen. Several offices have terraces, and all will have access to a common rooftop patio that offers a fantastic view of the city. VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 15 MARKET OVERVIEW prime central Stockholm locations, leases for office rents are being signed at levels above SEK 8,000 per sq. m. Of all of Europe’s major cities, rents were higher in only London and Paris at the close of 2017. Rent levels have risen steeply in Gothenburg also, and increased by about 5%. The current economic upswing prompting strong demand for modern, effective office space in central areas combined with low new construction Britt Lindqvist of premises over a prolonged period are the Head of Business Development main reasons for the strong rent trend. For central locations in Vasakronan’s markets, What will the office of tomorrow look like? office vacancies have remained relatively still “We have indentified three elements — a need for flexibility, insight into what an at low levels during the year, rising from 3.5% office means for the corporate culture and to not quite 5%. Malmö is the exception awareness of how important the environwhere office vacancies were approximately ment is for the health of the employees. 9% in 2017. It is difficult for companies to predict their It is evident that the tenants are changing needs and long contracts are unattractive. their requirements in terms of solutions for At the same time, many have started to realise that an office is much more than a numthe premises needs. More emphasis is put on ber of square metres at a good location. It space-efficiency and it is increasingly comcan be a way to cultivate a corporate culture, mon that tenants opt for office solutions that contribute to a better business transaction offer fewer square metres per workplace. At and we know that satisfied employees perthe same time, office premises must be flexiform better.” ble so that they can be modified to suit the How does that affect tenant’s preferred workplace solution. Yet Vasakronan’s offering? another trend is the growing demand for “We can take a broader approach and we office solutions ready for quick occupation. have created several different concepts A company’s need for offices can change grown by almost 20% each year. The Swedish to make it easier for the customers. Our quickly and for some tenants, it can be diffiTrade Federation estimates that e-commerce ex­­perts can handle square metres, recommend smart solutions for a digitised way cult to plan far in advance. In such instances, will account for as much as 30% of retail sales of working and know what is required in fully fitted and equipped offices that have a in 2025. Of the 2.4% increase in retail sales in leadership matters. Customers have differmore flexible notice period are in demand. 2017, e-commerce accounted for over 80% ent needs and we can offer support where Vasakronan meets this need with its Smart & according to Postnord. This shift is apparent needed.” Klart concept, which is currently offered in also among Vasakronan’s tenants. Sales for What are the challenges? several locations in each region. clothes and shoe stores in Vasakronan’s “It is important that our potential customers portfolio fell by 4% and 2.5% respectively can experience all the opportunities and Greater challenges for shops in 2017, which is slightly more than the retail possibilities that the right office can offer. The trend in retail sales is the factor that sales index (RSI) for comparable sectors. We are moving away from square metre affects the retail premises market the most. On the other hand, sales for consumer elecpricing and approaching being able to charge for the experience — it is an importOver the past ten years, e-commerce has tronics stores in the portfolio rose by 2.1% ant journey for us and ultimately for the customer.” Rising market rents, primarily in central Stockholm What is our vision? “Technology is advancing even more, but it SEK/m²/year 7,000 does not exist for its own sake but because Lund A-läge it benefits the employees and business. The 6,000 Stockholm’s CBD CBD Malmö office should be a place where people are 5,000 Central Stockholm (excl. CBD) Göteborg CBD comfortable and feel good. We are all differStockholm Suburbs 4,000 Uppsala innerstad ent and our perception of what is a good Central Uppsala noise level, lighting and temperature varies. 3,000 Gothenburg’s CBD Stockholm ytterområde Malmö’s CBD I believe that we will dig deeper into what 2,000 Stockholm innerstad Lund prime locations drives us. What is more, humans have a need 1,000 Source: DTZ Stockholm CBD to be surprised. That is why even an office 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Källa: DTZ needs to evolve.” Market rent, offices 16 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 MARKET OVERVIEW High transaction volumes SEK billion 225 180 135 90 45 0 99 01 03 05 07 09 11 13 15 17 International investors Swedish investors Transaction volumes Sweden, property values Source: Cushman & Wakefield is characterised by continued good access to capital and very low interest rates. In total, transactions were concluded for a value of SEK 157 billion. This can be compared with SEK 208 billion in 2016 where the comparison figure was affected by a single major transaction, namely Castellum's acquisition of Norrporten for SEK 22 billion. Of the total transaction volume, the single largest segment was residential property, corresponding to over 30%. The percentage of office properties sold was slightly higher as compared with RSI where the sector’s sales rental market has remained stable and rent compared with last year and corresponded dropped by 1.7%. levels have been unchanged in Vasakronan’s to approximately 20%. Most of the transacThat the retail rental market is affected by markets. The vacancy level for the retail tion volume was attributable to sales in changing consumer patterns is increasingly market is still low at approximately 2–3%. Stockholm. Swedish investors still account evident. New buying patterns place new Malmö CBD is the exception with vacancy for 73% of all acquisitions made during the demands on premises in terms of size and levels for retail premises at approximately year. Nonetheless, Swedish players were net layout, and is also apparent in the growing 4% at the end of the year. sellers during the year, while foreign players demand for pop-up shops or showrooms. were net buyers. Norwegian investors in Another common trend is e-tail in which Stabilising yield requirement particular made net purchases during the e-commerce businesses complement their Activity in the Swedish properties market was year, followed by German and UK investors. online commerce with a physical store that slightly lower in 2017 compared with 2016, Over several years the market’s yield provides service. which can be considered a record year, but requirement fell in all of Vasakronan’s During the year, the trend in the retail was on par with 2014 and 2015. The market sub-markets. 2017 saw requirements stabilise, albeit at low levels. In Stockholm’s and Gothenburg’s CBD, the yield requirement Declining sales for retail stores in Vasakronan’s portfolio was 3.5 and 3.9% respectively, and in Stock% holm’s inner suburbs, Öresund and Uppsala, 12 Total between 4.2 and 5.0%. 10 8 Sportoch fritidshandel 6 Consumer electronics retail 4 ClothingRestaurang retail 2 Food andMestgroceries 0 livsmedel –2 Restaurants Klädhandel –4 Sports and leisure retail –6 Elektronikhandel Total –8 –10 Source: Vasakronan 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 17 PROPERTY MANAGEMENT We help customers achieve success Correctly designed premises, flexible solutions, daily service and care for the environment. Through effective management, continuous follow up and dedicated employees, Vasakronan optimises conditions for its tenants. Vasakronan offers a broad selection of decided on the layout, Vasakronan aims to be tenants’ demands for environmentally certiattractive premises in prime locations for a better landlord even for everyday matters. fied premises, even our existing properties offices and retail, which gives us excellent By working with selected partners, Vasa­ must be certified. Achieving this requires a opportunities to meet the needs of both kronan can offer assistance with everything, structured property management approach potential and existing tenants. Vasakronan from moving to various services during the and clear procedures for our environmental also provides strategic and competent worklease. agenda. Vasakronan’s approach has created place strategy consultancy services. This Particularly good local service is provided the opportunity to certify a large number of means that we can make recommendations in premises where Vasakronan owns all or properties concurrently within the framewhen it comes to selecting and designing most of the area around the property and work of the LEED Volume Programme. premises so that they support and develop can therefore design all-inclusive solutions During the year, a total of 14 properties were the company in the best possible way. We that suit its tenants. These properties offer certified and, at year end, 84% (77) of the know that one solution does not fit all. Conservice in the form of reception, restaurants, portfolio was environmentally certified. sequently, Vasakronan has devised a method conference facilities and gyms. Tenants have for mapping, identifying and fulfilling our high-quality office solutions, and the option Effective energy use customers’ various needs. to utilise the various resources with others. The property sector accounts for almost Companies and businesses today change 40% of society’s energy consumption. rapidly and the need to move to new premMinimal impact on the environment Therefore, reducing our energy consumption ises can arise suddenly. Our Smart & Klart Environmental certification of existing and and using renewable energy is an important office concept makes it easy for tenants to new-build properties is essential from sevissue. Low energy consumption is also a prefind a convenient solution. Smart & Klart eral perspectives. For example, it is thirdrequisite for being able to assign buildings means that tenants do not have to deal with party evidence of our properties’ low enviall the practical issues such as IT, workplaces, ronmental impact. It also means that we can fittings and kitchens. In principle, the tenant fulfil our tenants’ growing environmental Improved energy performance can move in the day after the agreement is specifications. That our buildings are envikWh/m2 signed. ronmentally certified is also paramount for 150 For retail tenants, Vasakronan offers our green bond funding. Vasakronan has set pop-up shops that include everything high environmental certification goals and 100 needed in the form of fittings, check-outs, our aim is to certify our entire property portpayment solutions and even store staff. folio. 50 Environmental certification requirements A good landlord for everyday needs are set from the start for all new construction 0 13 14 15 16 17 When a tenant has chosen premises and and acquisitions. However, to meet all of our 18 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 VIGNETTE SMART ENERGY ON THE SURFACE the four solar photovoltaic sysphotovoltaic technologies will soon be rolled out, tems at Uppsala Science Park look like traditional such as rooftop panels that have integrated solar cells systems. But the solar panels are connected to a new and thin film on glass. direct current grid. Consequently, electricity is used Vasakronan has also tested battery energy storage more efficiently in all connected properties and to store the surplus from solar cell production. The power peaks are cut. Eventually, the idea is to connect technology is still expensive but is expected to become DC electricity directly to charging stations for electric a competitive alternative within a couple of years. vehicles, office equipment and ventilation systems, Geothermal energy solutions are yet another energy thereby reducing the energy loss of converting elecproduction alternative. The properties Hästskon in tricity to alternating current. Stockholm and Triangeln in Malmö use aquifers, which The Science Park facility is one example of how is an underground reservoir of water, to heat and cool Vasakronan continuously tests new solutions in the the properties. In the summer, water is extracted to area of energy. Since 2008, energy consumption has cool the properties and the warmed water is then fallen by 50% per square metre and carbon emissions pumped back into the ground to be used as a heat have, in principle, been reduced to zero. At the same source in the winter. time, our own energy production has increased in Additional IT investments were made during the pace with falling prices for solar photovoltaic systems. year to optimise heating, cooling and ventilation. A new In 2017, a further 12 systems were installed. In total, platform of IoT solutions is being built that will enable Vasakronan has 49 systems generating approximately the use of sensors to control the indoor climate accord3,660 kW. These accounted for almost 3.5% of the ing to the needs. The long-term goal is to halve energy total property electricity during the year. Other solar consumption to 50 kWh/sq. m. and year. VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 19 PROPERTY MANAGEMENT environmental certification with high ratings approach to lowering its emissions, and since In this way, distribution of goods to stores can and a requisite for issuing green bonds on our 2006, direct emissions have declined by be coordinated using electric vehicles, thereby properties. around 97%. Vasakronan engages in climate reducing the strain on the environment and With the help of technological solutions compensation for the remaining direct emisstreets. This cross-sectoral initiative received and an effective, knowledgeable organisasions and certain indirect emissions, by purattention in 2017 when it was awarded the tion, Vasakronan conducts continuous chasing shares in compensation projects. Swedish Confederation of Transport Enterimprovements aimed at using energy as effiCompensation is conducted annually, in prises’ Sustainability Award. ciently as possible. There is also close colla­ arrears. For a summary of Vasakronan’s total Another way to minimise emissions is to boration with tenants, particularly via the greenhouse gas emissions, see page 120. ensure that the properties we own are in leases, to identify more ways to reduce Part of the task of further reducing prime locations with good access to public energy use. emissions is creating a more efficient energy transport or where plans are underway to During the year, efforts to reduce energy consumption combined with purchasing of expand public transport. Vasakronan actively consumption continued and, by year end, renewable energy. Another part is creating tries to improve the potential for public transenergy performance averaged 100 kWh/sq. the conditions for sustainable transportation port in terms of, frequency of services and m. (110). This is a 9% reduction over the year. to and from our properties. Among other the location of public transport stops. At year end, 56% of the buildings had an options, Vasakronan provides electric vehicle energy performance below 100 kWh/sq. m. charging stations and car pools so that tenExtensive property management expertise At the same time, we increased our own ants can travel sustainably to and from work. The management organisation is decenenergy production, primarily through solar Another example is our Cykel & Service contralised into four regions and a separate, cenphotovoltaic cells. A total of 49 solar photocept that makes it easier for tenants to ride trally coordinated Technical Operations & voltaic systems (37) were in operation at year their bikes to work. Parking spaces in garages Development Unit that is staffed in each city end and these are estimated to generate a and basements are converted into bicycle in order to create close relationships with our total of 3,200 MWh each year. parking that offer safe bicycle storage and tenants. The rest of the operations is organthe possibility to have it serviced during ised into specialist units. This enables each Emissions must decrease work hours. part of the organisation to become the best Properties have a major climate impact, from Under Vasakronan’s Älskade stad initiative, in their fields and support management. The project planning, construction and manageVasakronan collaborates with Ragn-Sells, properties are managed with our own staff in ment to renovation and demolition. For this Bring and Stockholm City to set up urban all business-critical areas and with continuity reason, Vasakronan takes a goal-oriented consolidation centres in the heart of the city. in staffing. This facilitates the long-term work In 2016, you predicted a major breakthrough alternatives and to grow. I believe that our for digitisation in 2017. Did it come true? ventures will pay off soon.” “Yes. New examples of the benefits of digiti­ What are the greatest challenges right now? sation in property-related contexts are con“The new organisation will take effect as of stantly emerging. Not least of which is the large2 February 2018. Although we are well prescale change we are making in our technology pared, it is essential that we hit the ground organisation where our employees can devote running in our new roles and cultivate a good themselves to technology issues full time. collaboration with Coor. We are convinced that “We are streamlining and fine-tuning the this will be an excellent solution. roles in the new organisation. Time-consuming “We have already halved our energy contasks, such as managing complaints and key sumption in the properties. Our next challenge badges are being outsourced so that we can is to halve it again. Digitisation provides us with focus on the more complex challenges. Such as opportunities that we haven’t had before. New developing and testing new technology, helping technology will help us to reduce unnecessary our customers with indoor climate issues and energy use when the systems themselves perbecoming really good at embedding new techform the analyses we do manually today.” nology in the buildings so that they develop over time.” Can this also generate customer benefits? “Definitely. Indoor climate is an area that our Wouldn’t it be easier and customers are very engaged in. When people cheaper to let others do the testing? feel that they know a little more about their “We want to be on the vanguard and challenge indoor climate, they also tend to be more satisourselves. Doing so makes us an attractive fied overall. This is why it is important for us to landlord. But it is also a question of being an get involved and to invest in knowledge and attractive employer. We have to offer opportuskills development in issues concerning energy Nicklas Walldan Senior Vice President nities that allow our employees to try new and indoor climate.” Technical Operations & Development 20 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 VIGNETTE SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC AFTER LOOKING FOR OFFICES FOR 1.5 YEARS with Vasakronan, its latest technology for building Schneider Electric left its office in Malmö and moved automation systems and energy-effective buildings with some 240 employees to Mobile Heights Center, in conjunction with the move. This way, the office also MHC, in Lund. In April, the global energy conglomerdoubles as a test environment for the company’s own ate — with 145,000 employees in over one hundred solutions. countries — opened its doors to its new innovation MHC covers a total of more than 20,000 sq. m. centre. It is here that new smart solutions for steerand is a cluster for innovative companies that develop ing, control and surveillance of energy flows in propthe latest in mobile technology and IoT. A few of the erties are developed. companies are the test lab Tech Mahindra, computer The offices are on four stories and cover a total of consultant Sigma Connectivity, the cloud research 5,300 sq. m. As opposed to the old offices where the institute Mapci, Anoto, Precise Biometrics, Ericsson workspaces were fixed, most employees now have and Sony. fluid workspaces. An activity-based office, it is Rapid digitisation makes it more important than divided into different zones for different types of ever to tie the collaborations together and make use processes, such as creative and innovative zones. of all the open research data that exists. For SchneiA showroom is being created on the bottom floor der Electric, the move has meant more exchange where customers — such as major construction and internally, greater flexibility and more exchange of property companies — will be able to see the latest knowledge with partners, Lund University and other innovations. Schneider Electric installed, together innovative companies in the region. VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 21 PROPERTY MANAGEMENT of maintenance, investments and active supervision of the properties to discover and rectify any irregularities in time. Personal contact makes a difference for tenants and cultivates long-term relationships. The tenants interact with personnel with extensive knowledge about the premises and the tenants’ needs. They can also contact a central customer service desk for fast feedback when filing a complaint. Customers have a voice To accomplish our mandate to generate high, long-term returns, excellent customer satisfaction is a must. Customer satisfaction surveys are carried out regularly to monitor how satisfied our tenants are and to identify areas for improvement. Vasakronan conducts a customer satisfaction survey, Tyck om Vasa­ kronan, at the beginning of every year. The latest survey was performed at the start of Stringent requirements for suppliers Audits are carried out regularly to ensure 2018, and the score was 76 (77) for office To successfully conduct our business, we that the suppliers live up to their obligations. and 75 (75) for retail. The survey has a 1 to need to work with various suppliers. Each In 2017, a total of three (ten) major supplier 100 scale, where a score of at least 80 correpurchase must be conducted with profesaudits were carried out. In addition, nine sponds to a grade of Very good. sional correctness, objectivity and honesty (seven) small-scale supplier audits were carwhile observing good business practice. Purried out in conjunction with contract meetA safe city for all chasing is also based on competitive tenderings and employee controls of suppliers. It is important for everyone to feel safe and ing. Quotes are evaluated and prioritised on These audits show that our suppliers fulfil secure in their local surroundings. As the basis of how they fulfil the specified our work environment and human rights employers, our tenants want to ensure that requirements in terms of expertise, sustainrequirements in a satisfactory manner. The their employees have a safe workplace and a ability and work environment agenda, funcbusiness goal for 2018 includes increasing safe journey to and from work. Vasakronan tion, execution, design and price. We want the number of completed supplier audits. regularly implements measures aimed at crepeople who work on behalf of Vasakronan, For more information, see pages 13 and ating a safe and secure environment in and regardless of which company they work for, 122–124. around our properties. An important part of to have acceptable work conditions and to be this work is to create a mix of offices, retail treated with respect and consideration for Code of Conduct sets the rules and entertainment — and thereby to cultivate the health and safety of the individual. Vasakronan’s corporate culture is distina more dynamic environment even after busiVasakronan’s size means there is every guished by professionalism, flexibility and ness hours. Within facilities management, potential to achieve economies of scale in innovative thinking. Employees are encourmeasures are also carried out to improve our procurement process. The work is led aged to be innovative and to test new, lighting in dark areas such as parking lots or by a central procurement department that unproven alternatives. Our work is satisfacareas around our development properties. ensures that purchases meet high quality and tion-driven, and things are done in a fair and Other measures include trimming trees and sustainability requirements at the lowest trustworthy manner. Day-to-day work is bushes to improve visibility, oversee alarms possible cost. A systematic procurement defined by short decision-making paths, and install entrance systems. process also affords the possibility of placing transparency and an all-inclusive perspective In 2017, Vasakronan joined forces with the demands on suppliers and contractors to, that encompasses our stakeholders, our Swedish Property Federation to initiate cerinter alia, minimise the risk of corruption and properties and the city. We strive to conduct tification of three areas in Gothenburg in human rights violations, and even to reduce our business in a sustainable manner and we accordance with the Purple Flag standard. their environmental impact. To support this do our utmost to practise what we preach, Purple Flag is an accreditation process that process, Vasakronan’s Code of Conduct for for example when we design office environidentifies places that have successfully Suppliers is applied to all new supplier agreements, properties, blocks or entire neighworked to improve safety and access, and ments. In 2017, the Vasakronan’s Code of bourhoods. that offer a diverse selection also at night. Conduct for Suppliers was signed in all new All employees and job applicants must be The areas chosen for certification are Fredagreements entered into via the procuretreated equally and given equal opportunistan, Nordstan and Lilla Bommen. ment department. ties for growth, development and promotion 22 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PROPERTY MANAGEMENT injuries and rehabilitating employees on long-term sick leave. One of Vasakronan’s long-term goals is to create a good work environment free from negative stress. During the year, a workshop was arranged where areas such as work environment and stress were discussed in the organisation. Salary surveys are performed regularly to ensure that there are no unmotivated salary discrepancies. The survey is performed by a third party to ensure the highest possible level of objectivity. The most recent salary Martin Sandgärde survey revealed an unmotivated salary disHead of Retail Stockholm crepancy and that men’s salaries are 2% (0.6) #ÄLSKADE STAD is an initiative that higher. This will be monitored and adjusted aims to create a more sustainable city. as part of the 2018 salary review. What does that mean? “The aim is to reduce traffic in the city of Societal responsibility Stockholm and thereby also to reduce noise and emissions. Älskade stad is based on a Vasakronan’s vision is to “create future-proof cross-­sectoral collaboration involving playcities for everyone, where people and comers who dared to invest in and modify their panies thrive.” Therefore, we have a clear business models to new needs. Including as well as equal pay for equal work. This ambition to get involved in important societal taking on new tasks that are beyond their approach, combined with the UN’s Global matters, even if they are not directly associordinary core business.” Compact principles, is summarised in Vasa­ ated with Vasakronan’s business. A prerequiWhat’s Vasakronan’s role? kronan’s Code of Conduct, to which all site for Vasakronan’s involvement is that we “We have found a way to collaborate with employees have access. Our employees’ can make a difference and that our employStockholm City, Ragn-Sells and Bring. awareness of the Code of Conduct is folees perceive it as relevant. Löparakademin, a Together with the city, we have created the lowed up in conjunction with the annual non-profit organisation that supports young preconditions through a new urban consolisurvey concerning company policies. people in socially disadvantaged areas, is one dation centre in the heart of the city. Bring and Ragn-Sells have, on commercial To ensure proper conduct within the comexample of our involvement. Vasakronan grounds, developed a business model that pany, Vasakronan has a Compliance Officer contributes its expertise and resources in combines deliveries and package returns and the role is held by Vasakronan’s General various areas via an Advisory Board and also as well as collection of dry waste with an Counsel. Employees and others can anonymakes a financial donation to the organisaelectric car to stores and offices.” mously report any suspected incidents of tion every year. In Gothenburg, Vasakronan How has the collaboration worked out? lack of compliance with laws, rules or policies partners with Mitt liv, an organisation that “Excellent! As proof of this we received to her. There is also an external whistle-­ promotes a more inclusive society and advothe Swedish Confederation of Transport blower function that both employees and cates the value of diversity to the labour marEnterprises’ Sustainability Award in external players can contact. ket. This collaboration has included, among October. The jury’s reasoning was: The other measures, a diversity course for all cross-­sectoral collaboration has streamlined goods traffic and contributed to a Good work environment Gothenburg-based employees along with more sustainable and dynamic urban enviCultivating employee participation, dedicamentorship and internship programmes. ronment. The collaboration is a commendtion and satisfaction is not only the key to a Vasakronan is also involved in many conable example for others to emulate!” successful business but also Vasakronan’s texts to promote positive developments in Biking to work is another way of responsibility as employer. To retain skilled the property industry. Within environmental contributing to a more sustainable city. employees and attract new talents, Vasa­ issues, the Sweden Green Building Council What does Cykel & Service offer? kronan offers far-reaching opportunities for and Byggvarubedömningen (a non-profit “We started a partnership with Cykloteket development and a good work environment. organisation owned by large developers and two years ago to make it easier for people The employees have the opportunity to property owners in Sweden) are examples of to ride their bikes to work. Cykloteket is attend both external and internal courses instances where Vasakronan was one of the located in our property Klara Zenit on that are customised to the needs of each initiators when both organisations were Mäster Samuelsgatan. They have successfully handled surveillance of the bike parking employee. Individual performance reviews formed. Vasakronan also subscribes to the and offer access to shower rooms, lockers, and regular employee surveys are also part UN’s climate initiative Caring for Climate, bicycle parts and repairs. Hopefully, this can of employee and manager development. Klimatpakten i Stockholm and Uppsala be a source of inspiration for the property The health of our employees is also regularly klimat­protokoll as well as many different industry in general. We are also eager to monitored, and much effort is devoted to research and development collaborations establish more partnerships in the future.” wellness activities, and to preventing work within a range of different areas. VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 23 New Segelhuset is emerging NEXT TO SERGELS TORG IS SERGELHUSET, commonly Focus on sustainability referred to as the bank palace because SEB has had offices here since 1965. In the summer of 2017, SEB relocated and the CAREFUL RENOVATION When interiors and conversion could begin. Vasakronan is now developing a total components of buildings are demolished, we do of 86,000 sq. m. of offices, stores and flats here. so with respect and care. We preserve as much as possible. More than 40 tons of material has been recycled, including 221 inner doors, 462 laminated glass panels and 212 ceiling lamps. BUILDING MATERIAL ASSESSMENT Essentially, only building material that has been assessed from an environmental perspective according to Hamngatan Byggvarubedömningen is used for new build and redevelopment activities. WITH THE ENVIRONMENT IN MIND Project planning, demolition and new builds are carried out in line with meticulous procedures that minimise energy consumption, noise and transportation to and from the construction site. The consolidation centres mean that the number of vehicles driving to and from the site have been reduced from ten to two an hour. The vehicles run on fossil-­ free diesel and hydrotreated vegetable oil (HVO). HIGHEST ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFICATION After redevelopment, all buildings will have the most up-to-date and smart energy solutions. Vasakronan’s goal is that they will be LEED certified and achieve the highest ranking, Platinum. Doing so requires, among other criteria, rainwater management — recycling rainwater that is used to flush the toilets. Malmskillnadsgatan AN AQUIFER is used as an energy source for Sergelhuset by harnessing the underground water SAFER IN THE CITY. Malmskillnadsgatan will transform from what was a dark back in Brunkebergsåsen. The water can effectively street that people avoided at night to a central inner-city street with a dynamic and store energy that can then be used for both heatvibrant city life. Restaurants, cafés with outdoor seating, stores on the ground floor ing and cooling. and flats on the upper floors mean round-the-clock activity and security. 24 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 HIGH UP ON BRUNKEBERGS­ ÅSEN, with a 180-degree view from east to west, rooftop terraces spread out. People come to socialise over a cup of coffee or after work. CONNECTING SPACES A hub ACTIVE AND DYNAMIC OPEN, BRIGHT AND and a natural venue is what SolThe new Sergelhuset is part AIRY Sergelhuset is trappan will be as it connects of the Sergelstan project which made up of three buildSergels torg and Malmskillnads­ will give all of Stockholm City ings that are connected gatan. People will be able to a facelift. The districts and underground and face relax here, enjoy their lunch, streets adjacent to Sergels toward Sveavägen, Hamn­gatan, have a cup of coffee or just torg have long been in need of Malmskillnadsgatan and Mäster unwind. The 36 stairs will be renewal. Now the block will be Samuelsgatan. Modern offices, stores, restaurants clad in Kullahus granite recyconnected in a more obvious and venues are now being built here. The bottom cled from Sergelhuset’s facade. way and it will be easier for floors are being opened up to let in light and to make people to navigate between them accessible. The project is enormous, with a different places. gross area the size of twelve football pitches. VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 25 PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT Building for tomorrow Flexible solutions for facilities, an eye on the use of construction material, and a safe and secure environment for everyone in and around the premises. These are some of the areas on which Vasakronan focuses when building and developing its properties. Vasakronan aims to be the preferred choice environment. When tenants make choices accounted for 2% and non-renewable material when tenants are looking for premises. This regarding premises, it is important that they for the rest. Of the non-renewable material, means that we must offer the products and are environment friendly. Consequently, all approximately 8% was recycled material. Our solutions that are in demand. Vasakronan has of Vasa­kronan’s projects have environmental ambition is to increase both the percentage a portfolio that more than adequately fulfils certification. This is something we need to of renewable material and reduce the amount market needs, and new premises are contake into account in the development of a of material per square metre in project develstantly added through new construction and property. For a building to obtain environopment activities, and goals for 2018 have development of existing properties. mental certification, there are requirements been set in this regard. We strive to have premises that are fundafor new construction or redevelopments and Waste workshops are arranged for all mentally general in terms of design and not on the property’s impact on the environment major new construction and redevelopment solely customised for existing tenants’ current and on energy performance in the day-toprojects. The aim is to identify opportunities preferences. Premises that can be modified day management. in the projects that can reduce the quantities with a minimum of effort to meet tenant’s of waste and to define a tangible efficiency changing needs saves time, money and the An eye on materials goal. During the year, we pursued our efforts During new construction, redevelopment, to increase the percentage of reused material leasehold improvements and property mainand, at year end, 116 tons of material had An increasing share of tenance, large quantities of material are used been reused. The largest proportion stems waste is recycled that have an environmental impact when from the renovation of Sergelhuset in central they are produced and transported. ThereStockholm. fore, it is essential to reduce the amount of Work is also underway within Vasakronan material and use renewable raw materials to reduce our climate impact from transporand recycled or reused material to a greater tation to and from our projects. In the lead extent. We also need to be sure that materiup to 2018, we set a goal for the company to als do not contain hazardous substances that increase its demand for the use of renewable can be spread in indoor environments and to fuel when transporting material and waste to the eco system outside our buildings. our major development properties. Recycling, 21% As of 2017, we require all major new build Energy reuse/incineration, 47% and redevelopment projects to report the Safe environments Landfill, 31% type of and amount of material used. This It is not just the property, it is also the surHazardous waste, 1% was done when Hubben i Uppsala was built, roundings that are important to tenants. Project waste 2017 a building that was completed in December. Both Vasakronan and the tenants want premThe results showed that renewable material ises in close proximity to a good selection of 26 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT Ulrika Dolietis Managing Director of Håll Nollan the collaboration for zero accidents in the construction industry Håll Nollan aims to ensure zero workplace accidents. What is the background to the initiative? “A construction site is under constant change. Every day, a hoard of people pass through who have different skills. This makes the construction industry one of the most dangerous. Some 6,000 workplace accidents occur every year. This is far too many. Håll Nollan is a challenge and a reminder that this is one of the most important issues.” Who’s behind the initiative? “The organisation was started by 13 players with various forms of involvement in construction projects, and includes property owners, developers and contractors. Since we started in March 2017, we have gained another 14 members, bringing our total up to 27. We are happy to add to our numbers.” How do you intend to reach your goal? “We have every chance of making a difference. The scope of expertise among our members gives us a good overview of the entire process, from planning and procurement to project planning, production and management. There’s a ton of experience and expertise that we can share, and we need to add to our expertise in areas where we have knowledge gaps. We also know that we can, with the right structure and culture, prevent a great deal. That is why we work with four areas of interest: Leadership and culture, knowledge and expertise, mutual processes and standards, as well as setting requirements as customers.” What are the challenges? “We are working together to draft a sector-­ wide standard for a safe and secure work environment. Everyone has made some progress, though not equal, so reaching an agreement may pose a challenge. It is about everyone giving and taking a bit, making some changes. That said, everyone wants to make a difference and no one accepts the Vasakronan is one of the players behind the Håll Nollan initiative. The goal is to situation as it is today. Our members devote eliminate workplace accidents in the both time and resources. This is definitely construction industry. not a question of just talking big.” VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 27 PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT local service and public transport in order to Our suppliers sometimes perform risky work ant, however, is that the occupancy rate facilitate effective and eco-smart commutand our ambition is that no one should have an always exceeds the capitalisation rate. ing. When planning for a new property, or accident or be severely injured when carrying In 2017, at total of SEK 2.5 billion (2.0) when renovating an existing one, a plan is out work on behalf of Vasakronan. Therefore, was invested in the development of properdrawn up that specifies the mix of various we set stringent requirements for contractors ties and, over the past five years, SEK 2 billion activities. To create a healthy, dynamic area in terms of construction site safety and, as of on average has been invested every year. with a good range of service, we have a 2018, we are sharpening our internal proce2017 marked the completion of the new constant dialogue with other property dures for reporting incidents and accidents. development of Hubben in Uppsala, which owners, municipalities and infrastructure In 2017, Vasakronan contributed to the is fully leased to Region Uppsala. Renovation planners. launch of Håll nollan, an organisation that of Klara C on Vasagatan in central Stockholm It is also essential that the people who are collaborates for zero accidents in the conwas completed as was the redevelopment of in and around the premises feel safe. When struction industry. part of Nöten 5 in Solna Strand. These propplanning our new construction and redevelerties are also fully leased. opment projects, we identify measures to Investments in the right markets The robust rental markets and high demand create a safe place. One example is the redeProperty development entails financial risk for newly built premises in prime locations velopment of Sergelhuset in central Stocktaking. This risk is curbed by investing only in generate favourable conditions for the conholm where dark sections and narrow stairmarkets where Vasakronan has good market tinued growth of the portfolio. Therefore, ways have been eliminated. In addition, flats insight and where there is a strong demand we are planning more projects and expect to are being built in parts of the building which for premises. If the market conditions are invest approximately SEK 3 billion in 2018. will add a greater mix to the area and create a deemed to be particularly favourable, projmore vibrant place even at night. ects can start even if all of the premises are Potential development rights not leased by the project start date. In additional to the development potential Stringent requirements for suppliers At year end, ongoing property projects had in existing properties, Vasakronan also has To manage project risks, Vasakronan puts a total investment volume of SEK 9.4 billion development rights and future potential emphasis on quality-assurance processes (3.4), of which SEK 2.7 billion (2.1) was capita­l­ development rights. At present, there are for execution. Our personnel always assume ised. The increase is the result of the construczoning plans for approximately 342,000 responsibility for steering and monitoring tion start of several major projects during the sq. m. of office space. projects, even when external project managyear. For some of the projects, long leases were Efforts are constantly underway to ideners and contractors are hired for the actual signed with tenants even before constructify new potential projects for the 1.7 million work. When we procure contractor services, tion start. The occupancy rate for ongoing sq. m. of as yet unplanned development we ensure that they fulfil our high requireprojects was 44% (72) at year end. The lower rights that are part of Vasakronan’s portfolio. ments in both the execution phase and the occupancy rate is due to the fact that several Among these are residential development end product. All suppliers must also comply major projects with a low initial occupancy rights primarily in the Norra Kymlinge area with our Code of Conduct for Suppliers. rate are in the start-up phase. Most importnorth of Stockholm. Large investments in property projects Total investCapitalised, Percentage Area of premEstimated date Occupancy­ Environmental Area Property ment, SEK m SEK m capitalised, % ises, sq. m. of completion rate, %1) certification Stockholm Segelhuset 3,100 480 15 62,000 Dec 2021 4 LEED Gothenburg Platinan 1,800 252 14 35,500 Dec 2020 54 LEED Stockholm Nattugglan, house 2 800 31 4 15,000 June 2021 80 LEED Malmö Priorn 5 580 41 7 13,200 Dec 2019 47 LEED Uppsala Kronåsen 1:1 Hubben 485 475 98 12,850 Dec 2017 100 LEED Uppsala Kronåsen 1:1 Celsius 420 18 4 10,150 Dec 2020 82 LEED Stockholm, Frösunda Hilton 7 390 303 78 11,000 Jan 2019 2 LEED Stockholm Styrpinnen 15 190 25 13 3,850 June 2019 0 LEED Gothenburg Drivhuset 190 153 80 12,200 April 2018 64 Miljöbyggnad 2) Stockholm Part of Nöten 5 184 181 98 4,400 Nov 2017 100 LEED Gothenburg Part of Läppstiftet 175 147 84 8,800 June 2018 84 LEED 2) Gothenburg Bohusgatan 114 23 20 5,400 Dec 2018 100 LEED Total major property projects 8,428 2,129 25 44 Other projects 969 534 Total 9,397 2,663 1) Calculated based on area. 2) Pertains to the property’s prior certification. The project pertains to part of the property and separate certification of the project will not occur. 28 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 VIGNETTE PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT UPPSALA SCIENCE PARK, has long lacked a natural include Uppsala Biobank, which is in charge of all venue for both spontaneous and planned meetings. biobank tests and samples from Region Uppsala But now it has Hubben, right in the heart of one of and Uppsala University as well as Uppsala Clinical Sweden’s foremost innovation centres. The area is Research Center, UCR. The centre is involved in home to some 140 companies, active primarily in clinical research — regionally, in Sweden and inter­ the fields of Life Science, bio-technology, materials nationally. science, medicine and IT. On the bottom floor are restaurants and conferThe construction of the five-story building started ence facilities operated by Coor. There are also sevin 2015 with an investment of close to SEK 500 million. eral innovation-supporting organisations in clean, The building was completed at the beginning of 2017. shared premises under the name Innovation Hub In all, approximately 500 people will work here. The Uppsala. Now, it is easy for STUNS, STUNS Energi, largest tenant is Region Uppsala, which signed a Uppsala BIO, UIC, Uppsala University Innovation, 20-year lease for approximately 10,500 sq. m. UU Holding and SLU Holding to collaborate and effecHubben is right next to Uppsala University Hospital, tively use office space and meeting rooms. The differand the hospital area and Hubben are connected via ent players are now gathered in the middle of Uppsala the culvert in the basement. Science Park which makes the innovation support visRegion Uppsala has several operations in Hubben. ible and more easily accessible to researchers, conThe Clinical Training Center (CTC) affords personnel tractors and companies. Innovation Hub will play a and students the opportunity to obtain training in key role since Hubben will become a central point for practical skills, collaboration, communication and all companies and anyone else who wants to leadership in a hospital setting. Other organisations collaborate and exchange knowledge. VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 29 TRANSACTION ACTIVITIES Bought and sold during the year Buying and selling properties improves the quality of Vasakronan’s portfolio and increases longterm returns. In recent years, Vasakronan’s property turnover has averaged SEK 3 billion each year. Over the past five years, Vasakronan has purand choice of materials. Vasakronan’s perlocated in the western part of Hammarby chased properties for SEK 4 billion and sold sonnel perform most of the analyses, which Sjöstad, in an area experiencing strong for SEK 9 billion. This equals an average propmakes it easier in the event that we take growth and has an attractive mix of flats, erty turnover of close to SEK 3 billion each possession. We also consult with external workplaces and service. Public transport in year. Properties are bought and sold to experts when needed. the area is good, and offers a metro and light increase the return but this also entails a level rail line, buses and ferries. The options will of risk. Therefore, any acquisition is carefully New properties improve in 2025 when the extension of the analysed in advance to ensure that the propDuring the year, the newly developed propblue metro line to Sockenplan and the creerty meets our high standards in terms of erty Hammarby Gård 12, Sthlm Seaside in ation of a new exit from Gullmarsplan with operating expenses, energy consumption Stockholm, was acquired. The property is direct access to the premises are completed. Sthlm Seaside covers 12,500 sq. m. of office space and is essentially fully let. Property divestments 2017 A new detailed development plan has been Purchase adopted for the Grankällan block in the assoprice, Property City Buyer SEK m Transfer date ciated company Järvastaden where some Swedish Transport 200 flats will be developed. In December, Part of Skytteholm 2:24 Stockholm Administration 4 23 Jan 2017 parts of Grankällan were acquired with the Gothenburg intent to resell to an external party and transPart of Gullbergsvass 1:16, 16:1 and 3:3 Gothenburg municipality 170 31 Mar 2017 fer in 2018. Benzelius 1 Lund Hemsö 150 1 Jun 2017 Kungsängen 37:1 Uppsala Klövern 285 2 Oct 2017 Several divestments Part of Telefonfabriken 1 Stockholm HSB 32 21 Nov 2017 During the year, Vasakronan completed five Total property value 641 divestments of properties, or parts of properties, for a total of SEK 641 million. In Lund, the Benzelius 1 property was sold to Hemsö Property acquisitions 2017 at a property value of SEK 150 million. In the Purchase autumn, Kungsängen 37:1 in Uppsala was price, sold to Klövern at a property value of SEK Property City Seller SEK m Occupancy 285 million. Part of the Telefonfabriken 1 Hammarby Gård 12 Stockholm Skanska 9001) 1 Dec 2017 property at Telefonplan was sold for SEK 32 Solna Järva 2:28, 2:35, 2:362) Solna Järvastaden 1493) 19 Dec 2017 million to HSB Bostad, which acquired a Total property value 1,049 share in the same property in 2016. 1) Net after deduction of deferred tax. 2) Part of Grankällan 3) Acquisitions from associated companies. An agreement was signed concerning resale to external party with transfer in 2018. 30 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 VIGNETTE TRANSACTIONS HAMMARBY KAJ, with a stunning view of the canal, To make the most of the water-front location and the is home to Sthlm Seaside. Vasakronan acquired the view of Södermalm, Sthlm Seaside has terraces and a property for approximately SEK 900 million and took glass facade. People working here can take the ferry possession at the end of 2017. The eight-storey to work or opt to use the light rail line. It is also close building, which houses 12,500 sq. m., was soon fully to Gullmarsplan, a hub for public transport, and to let. Softtronic signed a lease for just over half of the Skans­tull’s metro station. When the blue metro line space, and the other tenants are Arrowhead, Goto 10, is extended from Sofia in Södermalm to Sockenplan, The Internet Foundation in Sweden – IIS, Mutate, a new exit from Gullmarsplan will be built with direct Silentium, Yggdrasil and Propelle. access to the property. When the exit is completed in Sthlm Seaside is the first stage in Skanska’s large2025, already good public transport will become even scale office project in Hammarby Sjöstad, Sthlm New better and the distance from Sthlm Seaside to Kungs­ (Stockholm New Creative Business Spaces). Sthlm trädgården will be shortened to two stops. It is also New aims to bring together innovative, creative comclose to the hotels and restaurants in Hammarby panies in a completely new district south of the Sjöstad, which has developed over the last 15 years Skansbron bridge over Hammarby canal. There will into one of Stockholm’s most expansive areas. be seven buildings when Sthlm New is finished. These The area offers an attractive mix of housing, workwill house a total of 100,000 sq. m. of office space and places and service. Hammarby Sjöstad will continue more than 6,000 workplaces. The next stage, which to grow and an estimated 25,000 people will live includes the office high-rise Sthlm 01, is expected to here in 2020. be completed in 2020. VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 31 FINANCING New framework for more green financing Access to capital remained favourable in 2017 and Vasakronan was able to extend average debt maturities at the same time as the average interest rate was lowered slightly. A new framework for green financing was adopted and the share of borrowing through the issue of green bonds has continued to grow. Owning and managing properties is a capital-­ bonds were issued in the Swedish market for Vasakronan has a subscription commitment intensive business. Consequently, it is essenSEK 155 billion (102) and in the Norwegian from the First, Second, Third and Fourth tial to always have access to financing on market for NOK 87 billion (67). Vasakronan Swedish National Pension Funds. The subfavourable terms. The goal of our treasury was the largest issuer in the Swedish corposcription commitment serves as a credit facilactivities is to secure our financing needs at rate bonds market and the seventh largest ity, whereby the owners undertake to purthe lowest possible cost within the framein the Norwegian market. Access to bank chase the company’s commercial paper for up works and restrictions set by the financial finance was also good, particularly the option to SEK 18 billion on request from Vasakpolicy. Vasakronan finances its activities to borrow with longer tenors. ronan. At year end, cash and cash equivalents either through owners’ capital or through of SEK 1,423 million (2,147), the unutilised external borrowing. The division between Borrowing at low interest rates subscription commitment of SEK 18,000 milowners’ capital and borrowing is decided by Interest-bearing liabilities, net of cash and lion (18,000) and the unutilised portion of weighting the requirements for returns and cash equivalents, increased during the year the loan from the EIB of SEK 1,370 million (–) financial stability. and amounted to SEK 56,998 million together correspond to 152% (127) of loans External borrowing is done in the capital (53,093), mainly due to dividends paid to maturing over the next 12 months. This market through bonds or commercial paper, the owners. As previously, low interest rates means that loans maturing within one year or from banks. The strong ownership strucapplied for borrowing and the average are covered 1.5 times (1.3) and that the comture, combined with the high quality of our interest rate was 1.7% (2.0) at year end. The pany is thus well equipped to manage any disproperty portfolio and stable earnings, gives increase in interest-bearing liabilities means ruptions in the capital and bank markets. Vasakronan financial strength. Diversified that the net interest expense rose slightly to borrowings and subscription commitments SEK 1,165 million (expense: 1,152), an Extended fixed-interest tenors from the owners further contribute to the increase that was curbed by a slight fall in Changes in market interest rates and credit company’s strong and stable position. There average interest rates. The interest coverage margins influence borrowing expenses. is a connection to the ownership structure ratio increased to a multiple of 3.9 (3.8) as a Therefore, the fixed-interest structure must since the agreements for bonds, commercial result of an improved net operating income. be balanced to limit the effects of changes paper and bank loans contain a change of conVasakronan strives diversify borrowings in market interest rates or credit margins. trol covenant that allows lenders to terminate across several sources of financing and, at A long fixed-interest tenor lowers interest the loan unless the current owners collectively year end, the share of capital market financing rate risk but can entail a higher average interor separately own at least 51% of Vasakronan. was 68% (72) and the share of bank financing est rate in the short term. Vasakronan’s fixed-­ was 32% (28). During the year, Vasakronan interest strategy is to have about half of the Good access to capital issued bonds for SEK 10.3 billion (8.0) in the Access to capital has been good in both the Swedish capital market, and for NOK 2.8 bilbank and credit markets during the year. lion (2.9) in the Norwegian capital market. Lower average interest rate Good credit market conditions are due priSecured bank loans for SEK 3.2 billion (4.6) marily to record-breaking inflows in funds were obtained and at year end, bank loans % 4 and central banks that have supported the outstanding secured against mortgage deeds markets with bond purchases. As a conseamounted to 12% (13) of the Group’s total 3 quence, credit margins for Vasakronan when assets. The financial policy states that collat2 issuing a 5-year bond declined from 91 to 65 eralised loans must not exceed 20% of total basis points during the year. Both the Norweassets and the aim is to increase the share of 1 gian and Swedish capital markets had record-­ unsecured bank financing which, during the 0 breaking years in terms of the volumes of coryear, increased to 6% (1) of the total loan 13 14 15 16 17 porate bonds issued. In total, ­corporate portfolio. 32 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 FINANCING Sources of financing widely distributed Higher percentage of green financing –6 Bonds, SEK 17.6 billion –2 Bank loans, with collateral, SEK 15.3 billion –5 Commercial paper, SEK 6.9 billion 5 Green bonds, SEK 8 billion 3 NOK Bonds, SEK 6.7 billion Inflation-linked bonds, SEK 0.5 billion 0 Bank loans without collateral, SEK 3.4 billion 5 –8 –6 –4 –2 0 2 4 6 8 On balance-sheet date Changes in sources of financing 2016–2017 percentage of total borrowing loan portfolio with floating interest and the did new bank loans for financing with long ments were raised for new build and redevelremainder with fixed interest rates at longer tenors. The proportion of loans maturing opment projects financed with green bonds. tenors. This allows the company to benefit within the next 12 months decreased to 23% These projects must have a minimum certififrom low floating interest rates while fixed (29), due to a reduction in commercial paper cation of LEED Platinum or BREEAM Outinterest rates protect against rising interest borrowing, and the share of loans maturing standing, and an energy performance that is rates. Vasakronan uses interest-rate derivain five years or more rose to 27% (16) of 25% below the National Board of Housing, tives to achieve a preferred average fixed-­ interest-­bearing liabilities. The average loan-­ Building and Planning’s guidelines (BBR interest tenor. During the year, the company to-maturity increased during the year to requirements). continued to use the low interest rate condi3.8 years (3.4) and average loan-to-maturity Borrowing through green bonds contribtions through new derivatives with maturities taking into consideration unutilised credit utes to a diversified loan portfolio and of up to 15 years. The proportion of loans commitments increased to 4.4 years (3.9). thereby to lower financing costs. Vasakronan with fixed-interest maturities within one year aims for all properties to eventually meet the was 41% (45) and loans with fixed­-interest New green bonds framework framework’s requirements and thus enable maturities of five years or more amounted to A little over four years ago, Vasakronan was 100% green financing. Investments that 43% (42) of interest-bearing liabilities. The first in the world to use green corporate bonds qualified for green bond financing under average fixed-interest tenor increased and to offer the capital market the opportunity to Vasakronan’s green framework amounted was 4.5 years (4.3) at year end. invest in new build and redevelopment projat year end to SEK 14.2 billion (6.2) and total ects that lead to lower energy use and climate green bonds outstanding increased to SEK Financing risk declined impact. Since then, the capital market’s inter8.0 billion (5.2). For more information, see The risk of increased costs for refinancing est in green investments has increased, and Vasakronan’s investment report for green or new borrowing is considerably limited therefore, a new framework that also allows bonds on page 127. through diversified financing sources, with the refinancing of existing properties was At the end of 2016, Vasakronan obtained specific conditions that can be utilised in diflaunched during the year. The new framework its first bank loan with the Nordic Investment ferent market conditions. Financing risk is has been reviewed by the independent Center Bank (NIB), which finances projects that also limited since the average remaining tenfor International Climate Research (CICERO) improve the environment in the Nordic and ors for interest-bearing liabilities may not be and Vasakronan is the first Swedish property Baltic countries. During the year, Vasakronan less than two years. Financing risk in the loan company to be awarded the highest second obtained yet another bank loan with the NIB. portfolio declined during the year through opinion, Dark Green. The unsecured loan is for SEK 2.3 billion and increased borrowing with long tenors. At the For an existing property to qualify for has a tenor of ten years. In addition, an agreesame time, borrowings with short tenors financing within the framework, it must have ment was signed with the European Investwere reduced by a lower volume of commera minimum rating of LEED Gold, and an ment Bank (EIB) for a loan facility of cial paper. Moreover, increased borrowing in annual energy performance of under 100 SEK 1.9 billion with a nine-year tenor. The the Norwegian capital market contributed as kWh/sqm. With the new framework, requireloans will finance the redevelopment of VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 33 FINANCING Sergelhuset in central Stockholm and the in value is recognised in profit or loss. The Platinan new build in Gothenburg. The aim is unrealised change in value has no effect on for these properties to achieve LEED Platicash flow and will not impact earnings if the num certification, and it is precisely this high derivative is held to maturity. environmental profile that enables financing At year end, the derivative portfolio through the NIB and the EIB. At the close of amounted to SEK 63,727 million (52,781). the period, the green loans with the NIB and The year-on-year increase was primarily the EIB together with the green bonds attributable to hedging on borrowings in consti­tuted 20% (10) of the total loan port­ NOK and an adjustment to fixed-interest folio. Vasa­kronan’s ambition is to eventually tenors on bonds issued at a fixed rate. The have 100% green financing. value change in derivatives was up SEK 468 million (down: 764), which was due to higher Derivatives currency long-term interest rates during the year. hedge Norwegian borrowings Interest-rate derivatives were redeemed Vasakronan uses derivatives primarily to early during the year for a nominal value of adjust the fixed-interest structure in the loan SEK 3,200 million (2,900). With that, a previportfolio. Moreover, currency derivatives are ously recognised loss of SEK 359 million Thomas Nystedt Group Treasurer used to eliminate currency exposure on loans (loss: 519) was realised. New interest-rate Extremely low interest rates in NOK, but also to eliminate the risk of infladerivatives were simultaneously entered into continued throughout 2017. tion when borrowing through inflation-linked with longer maturities. For more information What do you predict for 2018? bonds. All derivatives are recognised at marabout Vasakronan’s derivatives, refer to “It’s always difficult to foresee the future, but our understanding is that we have hit ket value in the balance sheet and the change Note 32 on page 107. bottom and that we now must expect cautiously climbing interest rates. Riksbanken has indicated an initial increase in interest Financial policy ensures balanced risks during the latter part of the year, while several central banks have signalled that they Financial policy in brief Actual, 31 Dec 2017 will trim their government bond purchases.” Financing risk What have you done to prepare for rising Loan-to-maturity min. 2 years 3.8 interest rates and higher credit margins? Loans maturing, 12 months max. 40% 23% “We are pursuing the same strategy that we Credit commitments and cash/loans initiated in 2016, to reduce our short-term maturing 12 months at least 100% 152% and increase our long-term borrowing. We are borrowing on increasingly longer tenors Interest-rate risk and locking in interest rates for a long way Interest coverage ratio at least 1.9x 3.9 forward. Nonetheless, we have actually Fixed-interest period 1–6 years 4.5 managed to lower the average interest rates Fixed-interest maturity within 12 months max. 70% 41% on our loans in 2017.” Credit risk Have the banks become more Counterpart’s rating at least Amet restrictive with issuing loans? Currency risk “It’s our understanding that banks in general Currency exposure not permitted met are more cautious with approving loans, The outcome was within the restrictions defined in the financial policy. particularly to companies involved in project development, but this isn’t something that Vasakronan’s financial policy governs the company’s treasury activities and regulates various we’ve noticed. All the major banks want to variables to ensure balanced management of the financial risks. The financial risks are limited by lend us money. The Swedish banks are also regulating the average remaining maturities on interest-bearing liabilities, and a ceiling for how in the vanguard in terms of green financing, great a percentage that are allowed to mature within 12 months. and Vasakronan is obviously a very interestThe fixed-interest and fixed-interest maturity structures are regulated in the policy in order to ing company to finance.” limit the effects of rising interest rates. You increased borrowing in Norway To reduce risks of counterparties not meeting their undertakings under liquidity management, in 2016. Has this continued? investments may only be made with companies that have a credit rating of at least Aon Standard & “Yes, we are very pleased with the terms Poor’s rating scale or with companies that are State or municipality owned. The counterpart for that we receive in the Norwegian capital derivatives must have a credit rating of at least Aon Standard & Poor’s rating scale. Moreover, market, and have continued to increase ISDA agreements that allow offsetting of payables and receivables from the same counterparty borrowing at about the same pace as the are required. For more information, refer to Note 27 on page 104. year before. We are now the Swedish company that has the greatest financing from Norway.” 34 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 VIGNETTE GREEN FINANCING 2017 WAS THE YEAR demand for green bonds virtuenables existing properties to be financed with green ally exploded in Sweden and a series of the largest bonds. The updated framework was enthusiastically investors suggested large-scale investments in green received by the market, and was awarded the highest bonds. Vasakronan, first in the capital market to issue second opinion, Dark Green, by the Center for Intergreen bonds in 2013, welcomes the increase in denational Climate Research, CICERO. mand that has entailed good terms for financing An equally prominent seal of quality is the fact the for the company. NIB and the EIB have chosen to finance two of Vasa­ During the year, many new investors have chosen kronan’s largest development projects via green loans. to invest in Vasakronan’s green bonds. Meanwhile, Both the NIB and the EIB perform meticulous analyses there has been an increase in awareness and know­ before they make a decision to lend money. For example, ledge about green financing and dialogues with the NIB only accepts certification in accordance with existing investors have improved. Many investors the strictest environment-classification systems, LEED currently have specific questions regarding how and BREEAM. That these two banks are now lending Vasakronan ensures that development projects and more than SEK 4.4 billion to the development of Sergelexisting properties truly are 100% green. huset in Stockholm and Platinan in Gothenburg signals In 2017, Vasakronan updated and tightened the full confidence for Vasakronan’s environmental efforts green bonds framework, a change that means higher in the projects and green financing. environmental ambitions for the project and that VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 35 PROPERTY HOLDINGS Positive value growth The strategy of focusing on modern buildings in attractive locations contributes to increased property values. During the year, the value of Vasakronan’s portfolio rose from SEK 116 billion to SEK 127 billion. Vasakronan’s portfolio consists of properties office and retail properties, with retail propand the ten largest properties accounted for with premises that are attractive over time. erties primarily concentrated to city retail. 31% of the value. Of these seven are in StockConsequently, the portfolio is concentrated Our assessment is that these properties give holm, two in Gothenburg and one in Malmö. to Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö, Lund and high long-term returns at carefully measured The largest property in terms of value is Klara Uppsala — metropolitan areas with strong risk, even if the short-term return may vary. Zenit in central Stockholm with an estimated economic growth and high liquidity in the In the long term, there will always be a market value of more than SEK 8 billion. transaction markets. These cities have been demand for modern premises in prime locaOther large properties include Garnisonen found to have the best prerequisites for good tions. in Östermalm in Stockholm, Spektern on rental growth in terms of factors such as popRegeringsgatan/Hamngatan in Stockholm ulation growth and employment, particularly Several environmental certifications and parts of Nordstan in Gothenburg. The in the service sector. The location of the At year end, Vasakronan’s property portfolio Stockholm-based properties account for properties in each city is also decisive. It is comprised 179 properties (179) and a total 65% (64) of the total value, which is around becoming increasingly evident that centrally lettable area of 2.4 million sq. m. (2.4). Of the SEK 83 billion. For the portfolio as a whole, located premises with good local service and total area, 84% (77) was environmentally the average value is close to SEK 700 million public transport are in demand. certified. (650) per property. For a detailed description Vasakronan’s property portfolio focuses The total market value of the properties at of the portfolio, refer to the table on page 41 on modern, streamlined and centrally located year end amounted to SEK 127 billion (116), and the property lists under each region section. Focus on yields The ten largest properties correspond to 31% of the property value To evaluate how well the operations and indiProperty Known as Location vidual properties are developing financially, Blåmannen 20 Klara Zenit City, Stockholm total yields are followed up continuously. The Garnisonen 3 Garnisonen Östermalm, Stockholm evaluation is based on the average outcome Uggleborg 12 Klara C City, Stockholm over rolling ten-year periods in accordance Telefonfabriken 1 Hus 01 Telefonplan Telefonplan, Stockholm with IPD Sweden Annual Property Index. Spektern 13 Spektern City, Stockholm Also the outcome for each separate year is Hästskon 12 Sergelhuset City, Stockholm followed up and analysed. For 2017, the total Nordstaden 8:27 Part of Nordstan City, Gothenburg yield was 11.0% (16.3) where the average Jakob Större 18 Jakob Större City, Stockholm for the index not including Vasakronan was Gasklockan 3 Gasklockan Malmö 11.1% (13.6). Nordstaden 10:23 Part of Nordstan City, Gothenburg Over the past ten-year period, Vasa­kronan’s The ten largest properties based on market value. total yield was 8.6% (9.0) a year, where the 36 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 VIGNETTE OFFICE SOLUTIONS A TEXT MESSAGE ON THE ESCALATOR or a report three aspects, both through our own experience and completed at the kitchen table is often a part of our through the knowledge that our customers pass on. workday. New technological solutions mean that Digitisation has given us the potential to be flexiwe are no longer tied to a specific place, which parable even at the office. By sharing resources, employdoxically means that the office is more important ees can decide themselves where they want to work than ever. Good conditions for physical meetings and depending on the tasks at hand or with whom they interaction often top our customers’ wish lists. The need to work with. They are offered a palette of workphysical environment often has a big impact on how a place options while decreasing the need for space. workplace functions — and how the corporate culture Increasingly more of our customers want to is perceived. A well-functioning office can be a decidoccupy the premises quickly yet are often uncertain ing factor in whether an organisation can perform at of their future needs. This is where our Smart & klart its best. office concept comes in. The premises are already fitFor Vasakronan, it is important to be able to offer ted with everything needed at an office. The tenant the solution best suited to the customer’s own chalcan move in the same day and move out on short nolenges. Every workplace is unique. Opinions about lotice. Smart & klart is available in different locations cation, technology and people are fundamental when and there are several different concepts to choose Vasakronan sketches its drafts for the needs of tobetween. morrow. The company has far-reaching expertise in all VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 37 PROPERTY HOLDINGS average for the index not including Vasakof future residual values based on yield corresponding to 6.9% (11.6). The increase in ronan was 7.6% (8.0). The yield for 2017 was requirements. At the start of the year and value is largely due to rising market rents but 3.9% (4.1), compared with the index excludmid-year, all properties are valued by exteralso to a generally lower yield requirement in ing Vasakronan of 3.9% (4.1). nal appraisers and valued internally for the the portfolio. The value increase was greatThe market value must be determined in other quarters. A more detailed description est in Stockholm, followed by Uppsala, and order to continuously estimate the total yield. of the valuation methodology can be found amounted to 8.5% (12.8) and 8.4% (9.1) This is done through valuations conducted on page 97. respectively. During the year, the value of every quarter in accordance with the development properties rose 7.9% (14.0) and adopted valuation policy. The valuation prinPositive value growth contributed 0.9 percentage points to the ciples are the same since 1997 and coincide In total, Vasakronan’s properties had positive total increase in value. with the RICS Red Book guidelines and IPD value growth in 2017 and the portfolio’s Sweden Annual Property Index. The valuavalue grew to SEK 127 billion (116). ExcludWide distribution lowers risk tions are based on cash-flow projections over ing completed investments, this means a The risk in the lease portfolio is limited a period of at least ten years and calculation change in value of SEK 8.0 billion (12.1), through a wide distribution over many tenants active in various industries and a diversified maturity structure. No individual tenant Change in value, by region accounts for more than 3 percentage points of the contracted total rent, while the ten Contribution to change in Change in value, % value, percentage points largest tenants account for only 17%. Of Stockholm 8.5 5.5 these ten, four are in the public sector. BroGothenburg 4.9 0.9 ken down by sector, public sector tenants Öresund 0.2 0.0 account for 24% of the contracted rent Uppsala 8.4 0.5 where the average remaining term to maturity is 7.7 years. Total 6.9 Change in value, by category Widely distributed over many tenants Contribution to change in Share in % Change in value, % value, percentage points Swedish Police Authority 3 Investment properties 6.6 5.7 Ericsson 3 Development properties 7.9 0.9 H&M 2 Transactions 0.3 Swedish Prison and Probation Service 2 Total 6.9 Försäkringskassan (Social Insurance Agency) 2 Swedish National Courts Administration 1 Factors impacting value1) Åhléns 1 SEK m Value impact, % Ramböll 1 Yield requirement 2.1 Sony Mobile 1 Market rents 4.8 KPMG 1 Total 6.9 Total 17 1) The increase in value was also due to investments and other factors impacting value that have been Largest tenants, share of contracted rent allocated proportionally across yield requirements and market rents. Even distribution of rents to maturity Public sector comprises SEK m No. of contracts Annual rent, SEK m % of total largest share of tenants 2018 1,349 1,142 17 Public sector, 24% 2019 958 1,167 18 Services, 21% 2020 830 1,120 17 Consumer goods, 18% ≥2021 1,146 2,865 43 IT, 8% Total 4,283 6,294 95 Finance, 5% Telecom, 4% Residential 1,168 99 1 Industry, 3% Garage – 245 4 Other, 17% Total 5,451 6,638 100 Maturity structure for contracted rent. Breakdown by sector, share of contracted rent 38 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 VIGNETTE RETAIL 34 STORES that correspond to 11,372 sq. m. new with vacancies. Now, all the stores in Vasa­kronan’s retail. That was Vasakronan’s addition to city retail portfolio are fully leased along the district — for the in 2017. One of the most prestigious establishments first time in seven years. was the Japanese clothes chain UNIQLO that will Another aspect that has permeated our retail open its doors in the autumn of 2018 in Sverigehuset agenda was creating dynamic inner cities that reclaim near Kungsträdgården in Stockholm. Another estabtheir previous status as a place where people meet lishment that got a lot of attention was Rörstrands/ and enjoy themselves — all hours of the day. In order Iittala’s new flagship store at Stureplan in Stockholm. for this to happen, collaboration is necessary, such In 2017, Vasakronan has focused heavily on develas through Business Improvement Districts (BIDs). oping city retail, and based these efforts on the work Private and public parties collaborate to create done to prepare strategies for the most important attractive, safe places that offer experiences, service, retail districts. It is about choosing which stores, how stores and restaurants. the environment should be improved and defining Traditional retail had it tough in 2017. Not least in the soul of the district. This work started to produce the wake of growing e-commerce. At the same time, results during the year. there is a clear trend in which e-commerce is a comSödra Förstadsgatan is one example. The ambition plement, not a threat. For example, Zara in Arkaden was to create one of Malmö’s most genuine districts in Gothenburg recently expanded its store with a with a diverse selection where local and close by meet pickup desk for products ordered online. We have urban and large-scale. Vasakronan has conscientiously also witnessed how the digital flows into the physical. added businesses that reinforced the strategy. A new Royal Design is one example. Together with its sister addition to the mix was Willy’s hemma, which in the company Rum21, Royal Design will open a store on first quarter of 2018 will open the street’s first groKungsgatan in Stockholm in the summer of 2018. cery store. Södra Förstadsgatan has long struggled VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 39 PROPERTY HOLDINGS For the lease portfolio as a whole, the average Based on the contracts up for renegotiation, remaining term to maturity is 4.2 years (4.3). 64% (76) of the tenants decided to remain in In 2018, 17% of the commercial contracted their premises. The reduction is primarily rent will be subject to renegotiation. The explained by SEB’s move from Segelhuset, number of leases, not including flats and which lowered the repurchase rate by 7 pergarages, amounted to approximately 4,300 centage points. Renegotiations and lease and the contracted rent amounted to SEK extensions during the years resulted in a new 6.3 billion (6.5) on 31 December 2017. Of the rent payable that on average surpassed the total contracted rent, 74% (74) was office earlier amount by 10.2% (10.6). Net lettings premises and 18% (19) retail premises. The for the year amounted to SEK 167 million remainder comprised flats, parking, hotels (61), of which SEK 23 million was for lettings and other. in new construction projects. The occupancy rate was 93.1% (94.2) on Broad selection 31 December 2017. During the year, the Market concentration and the property development property Sergelhuset was portfolio’s high quality provides vast opporvacated, which lowered the occupancy rate tunities to offer new and existing tenants a by 1.4 percentage points. Of the total vacanbroad selection of premises. In 2017, leases cies, 2.5 percentage points (0.4) is attributed corresponding to an annual rent of SEK 613 to ongoing projects and 0.3 (0.3) is attributed million (475), or 167,000 sq. m., were signed. to vacant development properties. The loss In addition, renegotiations or lease extenin income for the vacant properties sions of existing contracts corresponding to amounted to SEK 407 million (327). an annual rent of SEK 1,036 million (807) were completed. High long-term total yield Focus on office and retail % 15 Värdeförändring 12 Direktavkastning 9 Offices, 74% 6 Retail, 18% 3 Other, 8% 0 Vasakronan IPD Vasakronan IPD Vasakronan IPD 10 yr. 3 yr. 2017 Yield Change in value Contracted rent by property type Vasakronan’s total yield compared with IPD Sweden Annual Property Index (not including Vasakronan) Property portfolio in growth cities Stockholm 65% Gothenburg 19% Öresund 10% Uppsala 6% Vasakronan’s properties are located in five cities in Sweden distributed over four regions, of which 65% of the property portfolio’s value is in Stockholm. 40 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 VIGNETTE Net Environ­ Area, operating Investmental Number of thousand Market Contracted Occupancy income, ments, Change in certificaRegion/Property type properties sq. m. value, SEK m rent, SEK m rate, % SEK m SEK m value, % tions1), % STOCKHOLM INNER CITY Offices 42 746 58,626 2,747 93 1,970 806 10.3 Retail 2 41 3,070 150 97 98 14 9.2 Other 2 9 20 0 – –1 2 24.0 Central Stockholm, total 46 796 61,716 2,897 93 2,067 822 10.3 84 INNER SUBURBS Offices 22 554 19,050 1,168 90 802 503 4.1 Other 14 75 2,213 67 92 33 15 –1.7 Stockholm inner suburbs, total 36 629 21,263 1,235 90 835 517 3.4 73 Stockholm, total 82 1,425 82,978 4,132 92 2,902 1,339 8.5 79 GOTHENBURG Offices 25 274 12,478 661 95 487 532 6.1 Retail 11 148 11,201 581 98 468 112 3.6 Other 0 1 10 2 100 1 0 * Gothenburg, total 36 423 23,688 1,244 96 957 644 4.9 94 ÖRESUND MALMÖ Offices 19 191 6,952 404 90 281 66 1.8 Retail 10 95 3,783 235 88 131 41 –0.5 Other 3 4 300 14 100 10 26 –6.1 Malmö, total 32 290 11,035 653 90 422 133 0.8 96 LUND Offices 4 62 1,569 118 92 74 46 –3.5 Retail 1 2 63 4 100 2 3 * Lund, total 5 64 1,632 122 92 76 49 –3.3 100 Öresund, total 37 353 12,667 775 90 498 182 0.2 97 UPPSALA Offices 12 173 5,164 343 96 224 354 9.8 Retail 8 55 2,277 142 98 97 21 5.4 Other 4 101 2 100 1 3 11.3 Uppsala, total 24 229 7,542 487 96 321 377 8.4 79 TOTAL 179 2,430 126,875 6,638 93 4,678 2,543 6.9 84 The data in the tables are based on property category, see the definition on page 134. 1) Share of the region’s area * Data not stated due to one or few properties VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 41 VIGNETTE Our regions Vasakronan’s portfolio consists of properties with premises that are attractive over time. The portfolio is concentrated to the metropolitan areas of Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö, Lund and Uppsala. Vasakronan’s properties are in cities that have strong economic and Nordstan. Vasakronan is the largest property owner of retail growth and that have been found to have the best prerequisites premises in Gothenburg through the Arkaden and Kompassen in terms of factors such as population growth and employment, galleries, and a large partnership in Nordstan. particularly in the service sector. The Öresund region’s portfolio consists of properties in The portfolio in Stockholm includes attractive, well-known Malmö and Lund. In Malmö, this is mainly centrally located mixproperties in Stockholm’s CBD and central Stockholm, including use proper­ties that have office and retail premises. The retail four of the Hötorgsskrapor, Klara Zenit and Garnisonen. The properties stretch from Triangeln in the south and along Södra properties located in Stockholm’s inner suburbs such as Kista, Förstads­gatan all the way to Stortorget. In Lund, the portfolio Solna, Sundbyberg and Telefonplan have good public transport consists primarily of office properties in the area around Ideon connections. and Brunns­hög. In Gothenburg, the office portfolio is concentrated to attracIn Uppsala, the portfolio is concentrated to commercial propertive sub-markets such as Gullbergsvass, Gårda, Inom Vallgraven ties in central Uppsala and Uppsala Science Park. Lower yield requirement, retail Stable market rent, retail % SEK/m²/year 7 16,000 Lund A-läge Lund A-lä 14,000 Malmö CBD Malmö C 6 12,000 Göteborg CBD Göteborg 5 10,000 Uppsala innerstad Uppsala i 8,000 Stockholm ytterområde Stockhol 4 6,000 Stockholm innerstad Stockhol 4,000 Stockholm CBD Stockhol 3 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Källa: DTZ 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Källa: DTZ ­ Stockholm’s CBD Central Stockholm (excl. CBD) Stockholm CBD Gothenburg CBD Malmö CBD Stockholm suburbs Central Uppsala Gothenburg’s CBD Source: DTZ Malmö’s CBD Lund prime location Source: DTZ Lower yield requirement, office Rising market rent, offices % SEK/m²/year 7 7,000 Lund A-läge Lund A-lä 6,000 Malmö CBD Malmö C 6 5,000 Göteborg CBD Göteborg 5 4,000 Uppsala innerstad Uppsala i 3,000 Stockholm ytterområde Stockhol 4 2,000 Stockholm innerstad Stockhol Stockholm CBD Stockhol 3 1,000 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Källa: DTZ 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Källa: DTZ Stockholm’s CBD Central Stockholm (excl. CBD) Stockholm’s CBD Central Stockholm (excl. CBD) Stockholm Suburbs Central Uppsala Gothenburg’s CBD Stockholm Suburbs Central Uppsala Gothenburg’s CBD Malmö’s CBD Lund prime location Malmö’s CBD Lund prime location Source: DTZ Source: DTZ 42 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 VIGNETTE Share of Vasakronan Share of Vasakronan 2017 2016 total1) the region1) Largest tenants, share2) % Market share, % REGION STOCKHOLM CENTRAL Market value, SEK m 61,716 55,242 H&M 4 Central Stockholm, incl. CBD Rental revenue, SEK m 2,855 2,723 NetEnt 2 Vasakronan 13 Net operating income, SEK m 2,067 1,938 Tieto Sweden 2 AMF 8 Occupancy rate, % 93 96 Clas Ohlson 2 Fabege 6 Number of properties 46 46 44% Offices, 78% KPMG 2 Hufvudstaden 5 Area, thousand sq. m. 796 796 Retail, 16% AFA 4 Environmental certification, % 84 78 Other, 6% Source: CBRE INNER SUBURBS Market value, SEK m 21,263 19,057 Ericsson 16 Stockholm inner suburbs Rental revenue, SEK m 1,171 1,117 Social Insurance Agency 8 Vasakronan 13 Net operating income, SEK m 835 778 Univ. of Arts, Crafts & Design 4 Klövern 12 Occupancy rate, % 90 90 JM 3 Fabege 12 Number of properties 36 32 19% Offices, 87% Svenska Kraftnät 3 Unibail Rodamco 6 Area, thousand sq. m. 629 617 Retail, 2% Humlegården 5 Environmental certification, % 73 73 Other, 11% Source: CBRE REGION GOTHENBURG Market value, SEK m 23,688 22,147 Prison and Probation Service 8 Gothenburg’s CBD Rental revenue, SEK m 1,246 1,205 Swedish Police Authority 8 Vasakronan 22 Net operating income, SEK m 957 928 Åhléns 5 Wallenstam 14 Occupancy rate, % 96 97 National Courts Administration 4 Hufvudstaden 9 Number of properties 36 36 19% Offices, 61% SEB 3 Balder 8 Area, thousand sq. m. 423 422 Retail, 33% SEB 7 Environmental certification, % 94 90 Other, 6% Source: Vasakronan via Datscha REGION ÖRESUND MALMÖ AND LUND Malmö’s CBD Market value, SEK m 12,667 12,606 Swedish Police Authority 15 and Västra Hamnen Rental revenue, SEK m 755 756 Sony Mobile 8 Vasakronan 20 Net operating income, SEK m 498 501 Prison and Probation Service 4 Wihlborgs 14 Occupancy rate, % 90 90 Scandic Hotels 4 Balder 6 Number of properties 37 38 12% Offices, 64% Malmö University 2 Volito 5 Area, thousand sq. m. 353 360 Retail, 24% Midroc 4 Environmental certification, % 97 69 Other, 12% Source: Vasakronan via Datscha REGION UPPSALA Market value, SEK m 7,542 6,871 Region Uppsala 11 Central Uppsala Rental revenue, SEK m 463 450 Medical Products Agency 7 Vasakronan 19 Net operating income, SEK m 321 314 National Courts Administration 5 Skandia Fastigheter 9 Occupancy rate, % 96 96 National Food Agency, Sweden 5 Uppsala Univ. Foundations 9 Number of properties 24 27 7% Offices, 68% Municipality of Uppsala 3 Municipality of Uppsala 8 Area, thousand sq. m. 229 231 Retail, 19% Hemfosa 4 Environmental certification, % 79 79 Other, 13% Source: Vasakronan via Datscha 1) C  ontracted rent 2) Share of the region’s contracted rent. VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 43 REGION STOCKHOLM Sergelstan is emerging Demand for efficient office space in Stockholm has increased and vacancies are few, both in and outside the city. The conversion of Sergelhuset and soon also Sergelgatan will make the new Sergelstan one of the city’s most attractive areas. “We have reached unprecedented rent levels and in renegotiations, we managed to raise the rents an average of 14%.” Ronald Bäckrud, Senior Vice President, Stockholm Region What do you want to showcase from 2017? move to a new head office. Tyréns will let 80% of “The rental market was extraordinary in all of the property. Stockholm, even in our properties that are outside We landed the Swedish Transport Agency as the city. We have reached unprecedented rent a new tenant at Kista Entré. It’s great to add a levels and in renegotiations, we managed to raise large public agency to the mix of IT companies the rents an average of 14%. It was also gratifying that dominate in Kista. We collaborate with other that so many major customers chose to renegotiparties in the area to give the Kista area a more ate and stay with us, such as JM in Frösunda. dynamic urban feel – so that it feels safe and One trend that stood out during the year was secure all hours of the day. For example, we are that customers are willing to pay more per square trying to promote more outgoing activities at metre as long as they can see that the space is street level.” used more efficiently. Cost per workplace is a concept that has taken root, and we see that What are the biggest challenges in 2018? when a customer moves, they often move to “Above all, the trend in retail. We see one sale smaller, more efficient premises.” after the other and watch how profitability in the stores is falling while e-commerce is booming. Any projects that you are particularly pleased with? There are also other businesses, such as travel “That Klara C on Vasagatan is fully let. That’s agencies, that have realised that there is no longer really wonderful. And of course, the conversion a need for physical stores since sales are only of Sergelhuset where SEB was once the dominant done online. tenant. Thanks to positive, early dialogue with Retail also needs to streamline its use of space SEB, the stores and the municipality, we were and it will be less common with large, multistorey able to start redevelopment the day after SEB stores in the future. Given the demand for offices, vacated the premises. Now we have three years we will probably convert retail premises one floor of work ahead of us to get everything done and up into offices. The bottom floors will be needed fill up the space with interesting tenants. There for sustainable transportation in the form of is a lot of interest since the location is fantastic bicycle parking, car pools and logistics facilities and large cohesive office premises are a rare for consolidation centres.” commodity in the city.” What are you most looking forward to? And outside the city? “Pursuing our plan to liven up and vitalise the area “We are developing the Nattugglan 14 property we call Sergelstan. In tangible terms, this means at Medborgarplatsen on Södermalm and Tyréns tying together Segelgatan with Sergelhuset via has already signed a lease to move its head office Mäster Samuelsgatan and thereby giving the there, despite the fact that the detailed developentire area a boost. In 2018, we will focus on ment plan has yet to be completed. But they identifying the right feel for the area and the wanted to secure new premises in the area early necessary mix of tenants. This will be an on since they are growing heavily and need to extremely exciting process to follow.” 44 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 VIGNETTE REGION STOCKHOLM Sergelgatan is being converted. Green oases, restaurants and eateries with outdoor seating will give it new life. There is already an entrance from the street to the terrace that every summer provides musical and cultural entertainment and hosts events. VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 45 REGION STOCKHOLM CENTRAL STOCKHOLM Central Stockholm 25 4 7 18 31 34 32 12 13 8 26 6 19 30 24 35 27 2 14 22 3 21 9 28 23 11 29 17 10 33 15 9 SERGELHUSET In July, the redevelopment and 1 11 SVERIGEHUSET extension of Sergelhuset During the year a started, which involves lease was signed with three properties, three the Japanese clothes streets and one square. brand UNIQLO in The investment amounts Sverigehuset in to an estimated SEK 3,100 20 Kungsträdgården. million and is expected to The store is UNIQLO’s be completed in 2021. first in the Nordic 16 countries and covers 5 2,100 sq. m. 16 NATTUGGLAN A 15-year lease was signed with Tyréns in the Nattugglan block at Medborgarplatsen. The aim is to replace the existing building there with a new, expanded and modern office property totalling 15,000 sq. m. 46 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CENTRAL STOCKHOLM REGION STOCKHOLM Central Stockholm Year of construction/ Environmost recent Lettable mentalredeveloparea excl. Share, % certifiName of property Street address ment garage, sq. m. Offices Retail cation1) 1 Argus 8 Skeppsbron 38/Packhusgränd 7/Tullgränd 4/Österlånggatan 47 1788/2002 5,165 LS 2 Beridarebanan 11 Sergelgatan 8–14/Sveavägen 5–9 Hitechbuilding/ 1961/2007 24,352 LG Mäster Samuelsgatan 42 2 Beridarebanan 4 Sergelgatan 16–18/Sveavägen 13/Läkarhuset 1962/2000 12,943 LG 2 Beridarebanan 77 Sveavägen 17/Sergelgatan 20–22/Hötorget 2–4 1958/1996 15,447 LG 3 Blåmannen 20 Drottninggatan 53/Mäster Samuelsgatan 50–60/ 2000–2003 65,526 LG Bryggargatan 1–9/Klara Norra Kyrkogata 14 4 Bremen 1 Tegeluddsvägen 3–9 1964/2008 21,334 – 5 Gamen 12 Götgatan 74–80/Vartoftagatan 21–51 1959/2006 31,192 LC 5 Gamen 8 Åsögatan 106A–108/Götgatan 72A 2000/2001 5,835 LG 6 Garnisonen 3 Karlavägen 96–112/Oxenstiernsgatan 15/Linnégatan 87–89/ 1886/2004–05 136,162 LG Banérgatan 16–30 7 Getingen 11 Sveavägen 163–167/Ynglingagatan 18 1955/2005 23,853 LG 8 Grönlandet Norra 1–5 Drottninggatan 96–98/Wallingatan 2/Holländargatan 17/ 1800/2001 15,572 LG Kammakargatan 15 9 Hästskon 12 Sveavägen 2–10/Hamngatan 24–32/Mäster Samuelsgatan 39A–B/ 1963 53,218 Malmskillnadsgatan 13–17, 36–40/Sergelarkaden 2/Sergelgången 9 Hästskon 9 Hamngatan 22/Regeringsgatan 45 1935 9,667 – 10 Jakob Större 18 Jakobsgatan 2–8/Regeringsgatan 8–24/Västra Trädgårdsgatan 7 1975/2009 26,590 LG 11 Kungliga Trädgården 7 Hamngatan 25–27/Västra Trädgårdsgatan 10–12 1969 5,423 LS 12 Kurland 11 Holländargatan 21A/Kammakargatan 32 1884 2,274 LG 13 Lyckan 10 Lindhagensgatan 124–132/Hornsbergsv. 17 1940/2005 23,718 LG 13 Lyckan 9 Lindhagensgatan 122/Nordenflychtsvägen 55 1936/2003 8,370 LG 14 Matrosen 4 Birger Jarlsgatan 2–4/Nybrogatan 3/Ingmar Bergmans gata 1–3 1893/1984 9,264 LS 15 Munklägret 21 Hantverkargatan 15/Parmätargatan 12 1958/2000 6,330 LG 16 Nattugglan 14 Västgötagatan 5–7/Folkungagatan 44/Åsögatan 101 1978/2015 22,269 LP 17 Pennfäktaren 11 Vasagatan 7 1977/2009 12,010 LG 18 Riga 2 Hamburgsvägen 12–14/Fjärde Bassängvägen 11–19/ 2010 24,386 LG Malmvägen 7–13/Tredje Bassängvägen 2–14 19 Sejlaren 7 Sveavägen 25–29/Olofsgatan 6–8/Olof Palmes gata 7/ 1930/1995 10,232 LG Apelbergsgatan 44 20 Skjutsgossen 8 Krukmakargatan 15–21 1942/2008 12,275 LG 21 Skravelberget Mindre Hamngatan 2/Birger Jarlsgatan 1–5/Smålandsgatan 5 1903/1999 9,052 – 12–13 22 Skären 3 Mäster Samuelsgatan 11/Norrlandsgatan 12 1853/1984 1,758 LC 23 Spektern 13 Hamngatan 29–33/Regeringsgatan 26–32/Sergelgången/ 1975/1995 28,192 LG Västra Trädgårdsgatan 17 24 Sperlingens Backe 45 Stureplan 2 1897/1959 3,905 – 24 Sperlingens Backe 47 Birger Jarlsgatan 16/Grev Turegatan 1 1935/1993 8,222 – 25 Starkströmmen 2 & 4 Midskogsgränd 1–5 1965 9,192 – 26 Stuten 12 Kungsgatan 25–27/Regeringsgatan 67–71/Oxtorgsgatan 2–4 1925/2002–05 14,888 LS 27 Styckjunkaren 11 Birger Jarlsgatan 6D & 10 1891/1984 1,615 LS 27 Styckjunkaren 7 Birger Jarlsgatan 14/Grev Turegatan 2/Riddargatan 2 1900/1987 2,244 LS 28 Styrpinnen 12 Hamngatan 13 1979/1995 2,223 – 29 Styrpinnen 15 Kungsträdgårdsgatan 16/Näckströmsgatan 1 1901/1990 3,647 LG 30 Sumpen 14 Lästmakargatan 6/Norrlandsgatan 22 1856/1985 2,046 LS 30 Sumpen 15 Stureplan 17–19/Birger Jarlsgatan 19/Kungsgatan 1 1895/1980 3,981 LC 30 Sumpen 16 Stureplan 13/Lästmakargatan 2–4 1862/1988 3,010 – 31 Svea Artilleri 14 Valhallavägen 117 Bldg 81–Bldg 87 1877/2013 22,088 LG 32 Tre Vapen 2 Valhallavägen 185–215/Lindarängsvägen 1–7/Borgvägen 6–22 1959/2005 38,473 LG 33 Uggleborg 12 Vasagatan 14–18/Klara Västra Kyrkogatan 9–15/ 1934/2016 34,527 LP Klara Vattugränd 1/Klarafaret 4 34 Uppfinnaren 2 Östermalmsgatan 87/Artillerigatan 62 A–B/Skeppargatan 61–63 1914/2003 16,819 LG 35 Vildmannen 6 Biblioteksgatan 11/Lästmakargatan 1–3 1897/1998 6,320 LS Total Stockholm’s inner city 795,609 1) LP=LEED Platinum LG=LEED Gold LS=LEED Silver LC=LEED Certified VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 47 REGION STOCKHOLM STOCKHOLM INNER SUBURBS Stockholm’s inner suburbs 3 8 12 10 13 16 11 12 KISTA ENTRÉ During the year a lease was signed with the Swedish Transport Agency 25 for 3,500 sq. m. at Kista Entré, one of 9 20 the area’s most 21 modern properties. 22 4 6 14 15 18 17 1 5 17 NÖTEN The redevelopment of part of 2 Nöten 5 was finished 19 at the end of the year. The investment amounted to SEK 184 24 million and, on com23 pletion, the entire 7 redeveloped section was leased to the COWI consulting 26 group. 7 STHLM SEASIDE In December Vasa­­ kronan took possession of the newly developed property Sthlm Seaside in Hammarby­ Sjöstad. The property’s total area is 12,500 sq. m. and it was almost fully let when possession was taken. 48 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STOCKHOLM INNER SUBURBS REGION STOCKHOLM Stockholm’s suburbs Year of construction/ Environmost recent Lettable mentalredeveloparea excl. Share, % certifiName of property Street address ment garage, sq. m. Offices Retail cation1) 1 Albydal 3 Sundbybergsvägen 1–3/Solna Access 1979/2003 28,246 LG 2 Alvik 1:18 Gustavslundsvägen 129–145 1987 47,986 – 3 Bredbandet 1 Isafjordsgatan 2–4/Dalviksgatan/Grönlandsgatan/Kistavägen – – – 4 Bromsten 9:1 Sulkyvägen 1–31/Sulkyvägen 2–32 – – – 5 Diktaren 1 Terminalvägen 32–40 (Tegelhuset) 1965 6,751 – 6 Godset 4 Sturegatan 3–9/Fabriksgränd 1/Järnvägsgatan 2–10 / Lysgränd 2 1977 21,722 LG 7 Hammarby Gård 12 Hammarby Kaj 10A/Hammarby Kaj 10D 2017 12,457 LP 8 Hekla 1 Isafjordsgatan 14–16/Blåfjällsgatan/Grönlandsgången/ 1975/2001 36,119 LG Kistagången (part of) 9 Hilton 7 Gustav III:s Boulevard 48–52 – – – 10 Hårddisken 1 Isafjordsgatan 10/Hans Werthéns Gata/Grönlandsgatan/ – – – Dalviksgatan 11 Järvafältet Järva Dammtorp/Sjövägen/Mellersta Järvafältet – 2,084 – 12 Katla 1 Kista Science Tower/Färögatan 33 (Main entrance)/ 2003 48,804 LG Hanstavägen 11, 21, 27, 29 13 Knarrarnäs 2 Knarrarnäsgatan 1–11/Hanstavägen 2/Isafjordsgatan 1 / 2002 42,652 LG Kista Entrance 14 Kronan 1 Sturegatan 2–4 B/Ekensbergsvägen/Prästgårdsgatan 1–3/ 1981 23,075 LG Tallgatan 15 Magasinet 1 Sturegatan 1/ Fabriksgränd 2 2009 12,340 LS 16 Modemet 1 Isafjordsgatan 10–12/Hans Werthéns gatan 1/Grönlandsgatan 31/ 2008/2015 58,667 LG, LS & Blåfjällsgatan 4/Modemgatan 10–12 LP 17 Nöten 3 Solna strandväg 96–122 1949/2000 35,800 LG 18 Nöten 5 Solna strandväg 62–86 1986 29,202 – 19 Primus 1 Primusgatan 16–20 1963/2000 27,607 – 20 Rosenborg 1 Gustav III:s Boulevard 54–58 2007 10,306 LG 21 Rosenborg 2 Gustav III:s Boulevard 62–66 2009 10,921 LG 22 Rosenborg 3 Rosenborgsgatan 2–12 2014 17,106 LP 23 Rosteriet 6 & 8 Rosterigränd 2–16 1959/1999 17,421 LG 24 Sicklaön 37:49 Kvarnholmsvägen 56 1972/2002 33,769 – 25 Sundbyberg 2:44 Torshamnsgatan – – – 26 Telefonfabriken 1 Telefonvägen 22A–30, LM Ericssonsväg 12–32 and others 1939/2010 106,506 LG Total, Stockholm inner suburbs 629,541 1) LP=LEED Platinum LG=LEED Gold LS=LEED Silver VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 49 REGION GOTHENBURG Exciting city developments The great transformation of Gothenburg has only just begun. The first ground was broken for the Platinan block, Vasakronan’s first contribution to the new Älvstaden district. The rental market has been characterised by a boom with few vacancies. “In total, we have an investment volume of SEK 3.2 billion in future projects.” Kristina Pettersson Post, Senior Vice President, Gothenburg Region What do you want to showcase from 2017? 20,000 square metres. Our vision is that Platinan “On the office side, we have an enormous boom will be a location that draws people around the with low vacancy rates and rising rents. We have clock. The hotel is an important part of creating a let a record amount of space, and top rates reached lively, safe neighborhood, and it adds vitality and as high as 4,000 Swedish krona per square metre. services at the property. Many tenants are demanding more modern and Putting Fredstan on the map was also grati­ efficient areas wich make it possible to better fying. Fredsgatan is one of Gothenburg’s most utilise the premises. Less area per workplace is popular shopping districts. At the same time, the then needed, which they are willing to pay a neighboring blocks and cross streets are perceived higher price for. as empty and a little unsafe, once the shops have The year was also marked to a great extent by closed. That is why, in partnership with other all our projects, in both new construction and property owners, we took a proper grip with the redevelopment of our properties. In total, we aim of expanding the offering of shops, services, have an investment volume of SEK 3.2 billion in culture and restaurants. The next step is marketour project pipeline.” ing Fredstan to the public.” Which project was the largest? What are the biggest challenges in 2018? “The Platinan block. Here, we are building 60,000 “One is further strengthening retail. Competition square metres of hotel, offices and shops. The first is fierce, and I think we will be seeing many new ground was broken on 15 June and occupation is concepts combining physical and digital retail. planned for 2021. It’s a fascinating project. Take Despite the tough retail situation, however, we just the piling work. A total of 1,100 steel and have experienced strong demand and an excelconcrete piles will be driven into the ground; laid lent occupancy rate in our retail premises.” end to end, they would be ninety kilometers long.” What are you looking forward to? What do Gothenburg residents think “Getting to watch Platinan rise up from the about all these changes? ground and feeling: This is it! We’re considering “They’re a bit split on the issue. They welcome describing its growth with things like VR technoldevelopment, but at the same time they expect a ogy and films. We want to offer the people of few difficult years with all these projects, which Gothenburg a journey where they can watch the some of them are worried about. For example, it will new city grow. affect how we travel to and from the city. For us, it’s I’m also looking forward to continuing to work incredibly important to keep the city full of life, on getting parts of the city certified under Purple and we are working full time to identify solutions.” Flag. This is about improving safety, accessibility, offerings and the physical environment. The spring What are you particularly proud of? of 2018 will be a time for concrete measures, and “The lease to Scandic in Platinan of a total of in August it will be time to show the proof.” 50 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 VIGNETTE REGION GOTHENBURG Platinan In June, the first ground was broken for Platinan in central Gothenburg. This is Vasakronan’s first contribution to the new Älvstaden district. 60,000 square metres of hotel, offices and shops will be built on this block. Scandic Hotels has signed a 20-year lease for 20,000 square metres. Occupancy is planned for 2021. VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 51 REGION GOTHENBURG Gothenburg 3 PLATINAN At the beginning of the year, development of 60,000 square metres of office, hotel and shopping space began in the Platinan block. A 20-year contract has been signed with Scandic Hotels, which means that 54% has already been leased 1 LÄPPSTIFTET Over by the start of construction. the past few years, Läpp­ stiftet has undergone measures to reduce its energy 13 consumption. At the end of the year, it was one of the properties that qualified for the issue of green bonds. 2 3 1 31 32 29 30 27 28 14 25 9 11 16 24 15 10 7 23 12 21 5 22 18 19 8 20 17 6 4 26 27 – 32 NORDSTAN One of the initiatives Vasakronan took during the year was certifying Nordstan in Gothenburg under Purple Flag, which is a distinction that showcases locations that are successfully working on improving safety, accessibility and offerings during the evenings as well. 52 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 REGION GOTHENBURG REGION GOTHENBURG Year of construction/ Environmost recent Lettable mentalredeveloparea excl. Share, % certifiName of property Street address ment garage, sq. m. Offices Retail cation1) 1 Gullbergsvass 1:16 Lilla Bommen 1–2/Hamntorget 1 1989 31,980 LG 2 Gullbergsvass 16:1 Gullbergs Strandgata 2–8 1984/1986 22,831 LG 3 Gullbergsvass 3:3 Vikingsgatan 1–5/Gullbergs Strandgata 3–7 – – – 4 Gårda 18:23 Vädursgatan 6 1989 12,194 MB 5 Gårda 18:24 Gårdatorget 1–2 1991 8,738 LG 6 Heden 22:19 Bohusgatan 13–15/Skånegatan 9 1984 24,176 LG 7 Heden 42:1 Skånegatan 5/Ernst Fontells Plats 15 1964/2005–12 52,916 LG 8 Heden 42:2 – – – – 9 Heden 42:4 Ullevigatan 11 2010 20,550 LG 10 Heden 42:5 – – – – 11 Heden 46:1 Ullevigatan 15 2009 16,534 LG 12 Heden 46:3 Skånegatan 1–3 2015 20,276 B 13 Högen 3:1 Härkeshultsvägen 2, Råhult Partille 1984/2006 1,395 – 14 Inom Vallgraven 11:6 Arkaden/Fredsgatan 1–3/Drottninggatan 38–48/ 1970/2002 21,003 LG Södra Hamngatan 37–43/Östra Hamngatan 36 15 Inom Vallgraven 17:3 Drottninggatan 13/Västra Hamngatan 10/Kyrkogatan 20–22 1813/1994 4,125 LS 16 Inom Vallgraven 19:18 Kyrkogatan 44/Östra Hamngatan 31 1905/1987 2,760 LS 16 Inom Vallgraven 19:7 Drottninggatan 37/Östra Hamngatan 29 1864/1966 2,183 LS 16 Inom Vallgraven 19:9 Östra Hamngatan 33/Kyrkogatan 46 1810/1940 1,769 LS 16 Inom Vallgraven 20:14 Kungspassagen, Kungsgatan 48, Kyrkogatan 23 1930/2002 3,979 LG 16 Inom Vallgraven 20:6 Kungsgatan 50/Kyrkogatan 25 1850/1960 3,690 LS 16 Inom Vallgraven 20:7 Östra Hamngatan 35/Kyrkogatan 27 1800/1944 1,818 LS 17 Inom Vallgraven 22:3 Kungsgatan 31–33 1930 1,568 – 18 Inom Vallgraven 22:15 Kungsgatan 27–29/Västra Hamngatan 12–16/Vallgatan 12–14 1936/2006 9,371 – 19 Inom Vallgraven 22:16 Kungsgatan 35–39/Vallgatan 16–24 1910/2008 10,806 LC 20 Inom Vallgraven 33:10 Magasingatan 22 & 24 1978/1995 3,146 LG 21 Inom Vallgraven 59:14 Ekelundsgatan 8–10/Kungsgatan 26–32/ 1844/2009 10,295 LG Magasingatan 7A, 7B, 7C & 9/Kyrkogatan 1–7 22 Inom Vallgraven 61:11 Kungsgatan 12–18/Käppslängareliden 1/Otterhällegatan 12 1972/2008 10,028 LG 23 Inom Vallgraven 7:5 Centrumhuset/Östra Hamngatan 52 / 1939/1996 8,885 LS Östra Larmgatan 15–21/Kungsgatan 61–67 24 Inom Vallgraven 8:18 Kompassen/Kungsgatan 58–60/Kyrkogatan 35 & 39/ 1974/2015 11,530 – Östra Larmgatan 9–13/Fredsgatan 9–11, 12–14 25 Inom Vallgraven 9:13 Fredsgatan 6–10/Drottninggatan 49–65/ 1967/2013 8,290 LG Kyrkogatan 56–60/Östra Larmgatan 3–7 26 Lorensberg 45:16 Storgatan 53/Södra vägen 3–5 1957/2009 6,917 LG 27 Nordstaden 10:20 Köpmansgatan 9/Norra Hamngatan 18/Östra Hamngatan 30–34 1930 6,520 LS 28 Nordstaden 10:23 Köpmansgatan 11–25/Götgatan 13–15 & 14–16/ 1986 27,524 LG Norra Hamngatan 20–34 29 Nordstaden 17:6 Kronhusgatan 9–13, Torggatan 16 1862/2003 4,611 LS 30 Nordstaden 21:1 Kronhusgatan 2A/Packhusplatsen 2/Smedjegatan 1 A 1901/2008 5,125 LG 31 Nordstaden 31:1 Sankt Eriksgatan 3/Nedre Kvarnbergsgatan 3 1787/2005 2,317 LG 32 Nordstaden 8:27 Östra Hamngatan 18–24/Nordstadstorget 1–7/ 1974 43,138 LC Spannmålsgatan 11–15/Postgatan 22–24 Total Region Gothenburg 422,988 1) LG=LEED Gold LS=LEED Silver LC= LEED Certified MB= Miljöbyggnad B=BREEAM VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 53 REGION ÖRESUND Major focus on city retail Thanks to a regeneration of Södra Förstadsgatan and Södertull, all retail and dining premises in the portfolio are fully let. Centrally located and next to Triangeln, the construction of Priorn — a new office property where half the space was let from the start — will begin in 2018. “It’s important to be on our toes in retail — an important segment for us.” Anna Stenkil, Senior Vice President, Öresund Region What do you want to showcase from 2017? What are you looking forward to in 2018? “That would have to be our work on Södra “Above all, continuing to develop our retail Förstadsgatan, where for the first time in seven spaces. It’s important to be on our toes in retail — years all the shops are let. Three years ago, our an important segment for us. We have worked analysis of the shopping district found that, long on developing Triangeln, Södra Förstads­ despite large flows of people on the pedestrian gatan and Södertull, and we will continue to do so. precinct, retail sales were low. Now we have We have to meet the changes that occur when changed the character of the street, bringing in online shopping increases, and be sensitive to shops like Grandpa and Meadow — two trendy people’s preferences and behavior. Development clothing shops — and Willys Hemma, the first of city retail can never stop. supermarket on the street. The result is an interThen, of course, it’s a matter of making our esting shopping street that has a small-town feel offices as attractive as possible. We have the best with a big-city quality.” office locations in Malmö. In the Priorn 5 block, which is next to Pildammsparken, Malmö Konst­ How have you continued developing Södertull? hall and the Triangeln shopping centre, we are “People in Malmö also want an experience. The now building an entirely new office property. best locations in Södertull are by the water, and Construction will begin in 2018, and nearly half we regard the area as a natural place for meetings the space is already leased to organisations and dining, especially on warm summer days. That including Region Skåne and COWI.” is why we created a restaurant district on the site. Designtorget, which previously had premises by Is there anything else for 2018 Södertull, has moved to Södra Förstadsgatan and you’d like to showcase? made room for businesses like Condecco and “At MHC — the Mobile Heights Center — in Lund, Vibiblioteket. Now Södertull is popular, and we have come a long way toward creating an established.” interesting cluster for high-tech companies working in the mobile phone sector. For that industry, What were the biggest challenges in 2017? being in close contact with each other over “A large number of new offices have been built in boundaries and collaborating for development is Malmö over the last ten years, in locations like important. We have been able to push the develHyllie and Västra Hamnen, resulting in supply opment of MHC in pace with Sony drawing down outpacing demand. We have met this by measures their space, and we intend to continue that.” such as a strong offering of office space in the city and by offering Smart & klart, turnkey offices with everything included so that tenants can move in immediately. We currently have three, and are planning for more.” 54 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 VIGNETTE REGION ÖRESUND Södra Förstadsgatan in Malmö Vasakronan is working in partnership with other property owners to develop the shopping district and make it more attractive. One example of success is Södra Förstadsgatan, where all the shopping premises in the port­ folio are now fully let. A new addition to the mix is Willys Hemma, which will be opening the first supermarket on the street. VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 55 REGION ÖRESUND Öresund Malmö 25 3 21 23 12 17 11 5 18 6 10 22 16 4 24 7 26 9 1 8 2 1 2 7 8 9 13 14 26 13 14 SÖDRA FÖRSTADSGATAN 15 During the year, a lease was 19 signed with Willys Hemma for 1,300 sq. m. on Södra Förstadsgatan. As a result, 19 PRIORN Leases have the entire ground floor of the been signed with COWI and holding at Södra Förstads­ Region Skåne in the Priorn 5 gatan has been fully let. property, which began construction during the year as a result of the detailed development plan entering into force. The leases mean that 20 the property was 43% let at the start of construction. Lund 3 3 NYA VATTENTORNET In February, Schneider Electric moved into Nya Vattentornet, also known as the Mobile Heights Center 1 (MHC). The property covers 20,000 sq. m. and as a result of the lease to 4 2 Schneider Electric, the occupancy rate is at 80%. 56 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 REGION ÖRESUND REGION ÖRESUND MALMÖ Year of construction/ Environmost recent Lettable mentalredeveloparea excl. Share, % certificaName of property Street address ment garage, sq. m. Offices Retail tion1) 1 Björnen 1 Södra Förstadsgatan 17/Kärleksgatan 2/Davidshallsgatan 14 1903/2001 3,864 LG 2 Björnen 38 Södra Förstadsgatan 25–27/Davidshallsgatan 26 1904/1999 5,269 LG 3 Bylgia 1 Hans Michelsengatan 2/Skeppsbron 17 1960/2004 8,855 LG 4 Carl Gustav 5 Södra Tullgatan 4/Kanalgatan 3–5/Södra Vallgatan 3 A–C 1961/2000 15,194 LG 5 Claus Mortensen 26 Södergatan 14 1967/2009 3,237 LS 6 Claus Mortensen 35 Södergatan 20/Baltzarsgatan 43 1898/2009 1,993 LS 7 Delfinen 12 Södra Förstadsgatan 2/Drottninggatan 38 1908/2007 5,380 LG 8 Elefanten 23 Södra Förstadsgatan 22–24/Södra Långgatan 25/Lugna gatan 38 1938/1988 5,888 LS 9 Elgen 14 Södra Förstadsgatan 9–11/Davidshallsgatan 10/Storgatan 22 1937/1998 5,723 LS 10 Gasklockan 3 Porslinsgatan 6/Malmgatan 1/Drottninggatan 7 1993/2014 54,898 LG 11 Hans Michelsen 9 Adelgatan 1–3/Bruksgatan 1–3/Norra Vallgatan 51–52 1974/ 2013 2,003 LS 12 Jungmannen 1 Skeppsgatan 9 2004 5,114 LG 13 Kaninen 26 Södra Förstadsgatan 33–47/Rådmansgatan 10/Triangeln 2–4 1989/2013 36,678 LS 14 Kaninen 27 Södra Förstadsgatan 49–51/Friisgatan 2/ 1958/2013 19,428 LS Sankt Johannesgatan 1 A/Triangeln 15 Kaninen 30 & Rådmansgatan 12 A–C/Rådmansgatan 18 A–C/ 2012 11,551 LS & BVG Innerstaden 6:149 Sankt Johannesgatan 1 E, 2C, 3 N–W 15 Kaninen 32 Rådmansgatan 16 2012 4,701 LG & BVG 16 Magnus Stenbock 2 Gustav Adolfs Torg 12/Torggatan 2 1894/2007 5,254 LG 16 Magnus Stenbock 4 Södra Tullgatan 3/Torggatan 4/Södra Vallgatan 5 1963/2010 10,477 LG 17 Nereus 1 Neptuniplan 7–9/Matrosgatan 1/Styrmansgatan 2/ 2012 16,678 LP Bassängkajen 10–12 18 Oscar 1 Stortorget 31/Södergatan 1–3 1903/2004 2,997 LS 18 Oscar 17 Stortorget 27–29/Stortorget 19–23/Lilla Torg 2–4/ 1910/2001 14,222 LG Skomakaregatan 7–11 19 Priorn 2 Rådmansgatan 13/Sankt Johannesgatan 2–6 1944/2010 8,171 LG 20 Regndroppen 1 Hyllie/Bures gata – – – 21 Relingen 1 Propellerg. 1/Västra Varvsgatan 10 2000 5,117 LG 22 Sankt Jörgen 7 Södergatan 28/Kalendegatan 27 1929/2012 5,590 LG 23 Sirius 1 Jörgen Kocksgatan 9/Navigationsgatan 3 1992 7,114 LG 24 Smedjan 13 & 15 Celsiusgatan 33–35/Östra Farmvägen 5 1937/2004 11,231 – 25 Stapelbädden 3 Stora Varvsgatan 13A/Södra Stapelgränd 4 2012 8,100 BE 26 Tigern 1 Södra Förstadsgatan 1/Regementsgatan 2 1893/2008 2,508 LS 26 Tigern 7 Södra Förstadsgatan 7/Storgatan 37 1894/2006 2,335 LS Total Malmö 289,570 LUND 1 Apotekaren 12 Lilla Fiskaregatan 2/Kyrkogatan 1–3 1912/1981 4,028 LC 2 Galten 25 Mårtenstorget 12–14/Råbygatan 2 1985 1,889 LC 3 Nya Vattentornet 2 Mobilvägen 8–10/Sölvegatan 51 1999 24,494 LG 3 Nya Vattentornet 4 Mobilvägen 4–6 2007/2008 27,540 LG 4 Repslagaren 31 Stora Södergatan 45–47 1980/2008 5,773 LG Total Lund 63,724 Total Region Öresund 353,294 1)LP=LEED Platinum LG=LEED Gold LS=LEED Silver LC=LEED Certified BVG=BREEAM Very Good BE=BREEAM Excellent VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 57 REGION UPPSALA Completed projects and new business In December, Region Uppsala began moving into Hubben in Uppsala Science Park, and the National Food Agency signed a lease in a new building that will be completed in 2020/2021. Both are key to the development of one of Sweden’s foremost innovation environments. “Mutual trust was the key to sealing the deal.” Jan-Erik Hellman, Senior Vice President, Uppsala Region What do you want to showcase from 2017? And then, on 1 December it was incredibly excit“How obviously the boom has impacted our office ing to move into the completed Hubben in Uppsala lets. It’s going very well for many companies. At Science Park. Region Uppsala has signed a 20-year the same time, new production of commercial lease at the 12,500-square metre building. Conproperties in central Uppsala over the past few struction began in 2015, and it feels unreal now years has been low. This means that, essentially, that it’s finished.” we have no vacancies. What are the challenges in 2018? Matching tenants to office premises has also “Uppsala is experiencing steady population gone tremendously well, even for those propergrowth. This is an excellent foundation for retail ties that have stood empty for longer periods. operations in the city. At the same time, we’re And since that work went so smoothly, we have seeing a number of vacancies as regards retail also had the opportunity to invest a lot of time premises. Previously there was a list of interested and energy into our major development projects.” parties for any given premises, but that has Which was the largest lease? changed. Restaurants and cafés are still inter“The National Food Agency in Uppsala Science ested, but smaller individual shops are cautious. Park, who signed a lease for 8,300 square metres. It’s clear that retail is undergoing a transformaThat’s an investment of SEK 420 million. A strong tion that is especially connected with digital player like this will clearly promote the developdevelopments. Competition from the larger malls ment of one of Sweden’s foremost innovation outside of town is also stiff. We have to work even environments. The first ground was broken in harder and stay just a bit sharper in order to creMarch 2018.” ate an attractive city centre where people want to be.” What are you particularly proud of? “How we worked on the lease to the National What are you looking forward to the most? Food Agency. A team of ten people have been “Continuing to work on the city centre, from plans involved for around six years. The National Food like the shopping district strategy we developed Agency has been leasing their current premises, for Dragarbrunnsgatan. There are a number of in the Hugin block, from us since the mid-70s. parties working together — property owners, the Adapting the premises to meet modern requiremunicipality, and shops. The aim is to create a ments at a reasonable cost was not possible. shopping district that is alive both day and night, Customer satisfaction was relatively low when where people meet for experiences, culture, we began the work, but our long-term efforts shops and restaurants. With its central location created mutual trust which was the key to sealing and proximity to public transportation, it has the deal. excellent prerequisites.” 58 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 VIGNETTE REGION UPPSALA Science Park in Uppsala Uppsala Science Park is one of Sweden’s foremost innovation environments. There are around 140 business here, active primarily in Life Sciences, biotech, materials science, medicine and IT. New additions are Region Uppsala, which moved into the Hubben property, and the National Food Agency, which signed a lease for 8,300 sq. m. VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 59 REGION UPPSALA Uppsala 9 SALA The Swedish National Courts Administration leases approximately 7,000 sq. m. in the Sala property. During the year, the Administration chose to extend the lease of the premises for seven years. 19 1 2 3 5 7 6 9 4 8 12 11 13 18 16 20 10 21 15 17 14 14 CELSIUS 14 HUBBEN Construction of The Hubben new approximately build project at the 10,000 sq. m. at the Science Park was Celsius property in completed in Decemthe Science Park has ber. The 12,500 sq. m. begun. The investproperty has been ment amounts to an fully let to Region estimated SEK 420 Uppsala. million and the property is expected to be completed by the end of 2020. 60 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 REGION UPPSALA REGION UPPSALA Year of construction/ Environmost recent Lettable mentalredeveloparea excl. Share, % certifiName of property Street address ment garage, sq. m. Offices Retail cation1) 1 Dragarbrunn 14:5 Svartbäcksgatan 8/Sankt Persgatan 6 1970 5,140 – 2 Dragarbrunn 18:1 Gamla Torget 5 1990/2001 1,435 LS 3 Dragarbrunn 18:2, Gamla Torget 1–3/Östra Ågatan 25–27 1973/1991 6,131 LS 18:7 4 Dragarbrunn 18:9 Stora Torget 4/Svartbäcksgatan 4 1978/2001–04 6,026 LG 5 Dragarbrunn 19:10 Dragarbrunnsgatan 35/Påvel Snickares Gränd 1 1966/2005 4,198 – 6 Dragarbrunn 19:11 Svartbäcksgatan 1B–5/Sankt Persgatan 7/Påvel Snickares Gränd 3 1918/1978 9,173 LG 7 Dragarbrunn 20:3 Dragarbrunnsgatan 38–40/Vaksalagatan 8 1966/1999 3,433 LC 8 Dragarbrunn 23:4 Dragarbrunnsgatan 39/Vaksalagatan 5 1961/2006 2,716 LC 9 Dragarbrunn 24:5 Vaksalagatan 7–13/Dragarbrunnsgatan 42–44/Kungsgatan 49 1974/2000 15,352 LG 10 Dragarbrunn 26:3 Bredgränd 4/Kungsängsgatan 5 B/Kungsängsgatan 7 1962/2006 4,261 LG 11 Dragarbrunn 26:4 Kungsängsgatan 3–5A/Smedsgränd 3 1962/1994 4,998 – 12 Dragarbrunn 28:5 Kungsgatan 53–55/Bredgränd 14–18/ 1895/2011 21,041 LG Dragarbrunnsgatan 46–48 13 Dragarbrunn 31:1 Dragarbrunnsgatan 50–52/Bangårdsgatan 10–28/ 1860/2011 19,852 LG Bredgränd 15–19/Kungsgatan 57 A–D 14 Kronåsen 1:1 Dag Hammarskjölds väg 10–14, 26–54, 58–60 1910/2017 69,851 LG 15 Kungsängen 1:25 Kungsgatan 79/Dragarbrunnsgatan 78/ 2006 10,974 LG Samaritergränd 5/Strandbodgatan 10 16 Kungsängen 14:1 Fjalars gränd 4 – – – 16 Kungsängen 14:2 Suttungs gränd 3 1885/2008 1,747 LS 16 Kungsängen 14:5 Suttungs gränd 3A – – – 17 Kungsängen 16:6 Hamnesplanaden 1–5/Kungsängsgatan 43/ 1975/2008 30,650 – Strandbodgatan 2–4/Ebba Boströms gata 7 18 Kungsängen 4:4 Bangårdsgatan 5–9/Kungsängsgatan 18A/ 1972/2013 6,728 LG Dragarbrunnsgatan 51–53 19 Kvarngärdet 1:19 Portalgatan 2 1959/1990 5,160 LG 20 Årsta 11:233 Haeggströmsgatan 1 – – – 21 Årsta 64:1 Haeggströmsgatan 1 – – – Total Region Uppsala 228,866 1) LG=LEED Gold LS=LEED Silver LC=LEED Certified VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 61 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES Administration Report 63 Risks and risk management 64 Corporate Governance Report 68 The Board of Directors and auditors 74 Senior executives 75 Other information 76 Consolidated income statement incl. comments 78 Consolidated balance sheet incl. comments 82 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 85 Consolidated cash-flow statement incl. comments 86 Parent Company financial statements 88 NOTES General information Note 1 90 Summary of important accounting and valuation policies Note 2 90 Critical judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies Note 3 93 Segment reporting – Group Note 4 94 INCOME STATEMENT Rental revenue Note 5 95 Expenses allocated by category Note 6 95 Administration Note 7 95 Average number of employees Note 8 95 Salaries, other benefits and social security costs Note 9 96 Intra-Group transactions Note 10 97 Interest income Note 11 97 Interest expense Note 12 97 Change in value of investment properties Note 13 97 Profit from participations in subsidiaries Note 14 98 Change in value of financial instruments Note 15 98 Appropriations and untaxed reserves Note 16 98 Tax Note 17 99 BALANCE SHEET Intangible assets Note 18 100 Investment properties Note 19 100 Equipment Note 20 100 Shares and participations in subsidiaries Note 21 101 Shares and participations in joint ventures Note 22 103 Non-current receivables Note 23 103 Accounts receivable Note 24 103 Other current receivables, prepaid expenses and accrued income Note 25 103 Cash and cash equivalents Note 26 103 Interest-bearing liabilities Note 27 104 Other non-current liabilities Note 28 105 Provision for pensions Note 29 105 Other current liabilities, accrued expenses and deferred income Note 30 106 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Note 31 106 Supplementary disclosures for financial assets and liabilities Note 32 107 CASH-FLOW STATEMENT Adjustment for non-cash items Note 33 108 OTHER NOTES Related parties Note 34 108 Dividend per share Note 35 108 Events after the balance-sheet date Note 36 108 OTHER Proposed appropriation of profits 109 Auditors’ report 110 62 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Administration Report The Board of Directors and CEO of Vasakronan AB (publ), corporate registration number 556061-4603, hereby present the 2017 Annual Report for the Group and Parent Company. The macro environment Operations In 2017, economic growth accelerated in many parts of the world. The Vasakronan owns, manages and develops centrally located office economy and labour market has been optimistic in the US. The euro and retail properties in Stockholm, Uppsala, Gothenburg, Malmö and area experienced a wide upswing mainly driven by rising employment, Lund. At year end, the property portfolio comprised 179 properties increased investments and growing exports. In Sweden, the economy (179) with a total lettable area of 2.4 million sq. m. (2.4). Of the total continued its positive trend, and the main reasons behind the strength area, 84% (77) was environmentally certified. At year end, the total of the economy were rising employment, housing investment and market value of the properties was SEK 127 billion (116), of which the increased exports. ten largest properties accounted for 31%. Access to capital remained healthy in terms of both the banking and credit markets during the year. The favourable credit market conContracted rent by Contracted rent by ditions were mainly due to record large inflows to fixed-income funds property type geographic market and to central banks supporting the market through bond purchases. Interest rates remained extremely low in Sweden and Europe. At its December meeting, the Riksbank (Sweden’s central bank) decided to keep the repo rate unchanged at negative 0.5 percent. However, ex­pectations are for the interest to be raised in the second half of 2018. Rental market During the year, the office rental market strengthened in all areas Offices, 74% Stockholm, 62% and sub-areas where Vasakronan operates. The strongest trend was Retail, 18% Gothenburg, 19% posted in Stockholm’s CBD and central Stockholm, where rents rose Other, 8% Öresund, 12% around 10% in 2017. Moreover, in Gothenburg, rent levels rose sigUppsala, 7% nificantly by about 5%. The main underlying reasons for the rising rents are the strength of the economy together with considerable demand for modern, efficient office space. At 31 December 2017, the occupancy rate was 93.1% (94.2). During For central locations in Vasakronan’s markets, office vacancies the year, the Sergelhuset development property was vacated, thus have remained relatively stable at low levels over the year, from 3.5% lowering the occupancy rate by 1.4 percentage points. to barely 5%. The exception was Malmö, where office vacancies were At year end, Vasakronan had a project portfolio comprising new about 9% in 2017. construction, extensions or redevelopments valued at SEK 9.3 billion (3.4) of which SEK 2.7 billion (2.1) was capitalised. The occupancy rate Property market for major projects was 44% (72) at the end of the period. Several Activity in the Swedish property market was down slightly in 2017 major projects with a low initial occupancy rate are in the start-up compared with 2016, which can be seen as a record year, but was phase, for example Sergelhuset and Platinan. on a par with 2014 and 2015. During the year, completed transacVasakronan improves its property portfolio by buying and selling tions amounted to SEK 157 billion, compared with SEK 208 billion in properties, thereby creating the preconditions for an increased long2016. Office properties accounted for 20% of the above. The majority term return. During the year, properties for slightly more than SEK of the transactions were conducted in Stockholm and most of the buy1 billion were acquired, of which Sthlm Seaside was the largest and ers were Swedish operators. five properties were divested for a total of SEK 0.6 billion. The market continues to have favourable access to capital and extremely low interest rates. Market requirements for yields have declined in all of Vasakronan’s sub-markets over several years. In 2017, these stabilised at low levels. In the CBDs of Stockholm and Gothenburg, the requirements for yields are 3.5% and 3.9% respectively, and in Stockholm’s inner suburbs, Öresund and Uppsala from 4.2–5.0%. VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 63 ADMINISTRATION REPORT RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Reasonable and desirable levels for risk assumption Vasakronan has been tasked by its owners with delivering a high and stable, long-term return. At the same time, the operations should take people, ethics and the environment into consideration. To best achieve these goals, we have to manage all the opportunities and risks that impact operations. All business operations are associated with Ultimately, it is the Board’s responsibility to CEO, comprises the CFO, General Counsel risks, which when managed correctly can establish appropriate and effective systems and Group controllers. The steering commitgive rise to opportunities, but when managed for risk management and internal control. tee’s responsibilities include follow up and incorrectly can have considerable negative The Board has delegated day-to-day responongoing development of internal control. consequences in the form of lower revenue, sibility to the CEO and has established guideVasakronan’s day-to-day risk efforts higher costs or reduced credibility. Efforts lines in terms of how to conduct these efforts involve all employees and follow a structured to identify, analyse, manage and follow up and the risk levels that are acceptable. The process. risks are therefore a prioritised area at Vasa­ CEO is supported by a steering committee kronan. for internal control that, in addition to the Risk management process Risk inventory Risk assessment Risk management Follow-up An inventory is made of The Management Group Allocation of Ongoing follow-up by new and existing risks by assesses the risks included responsibility, priorities, the Management Group. conducting workshops in the inventory based on proposed remedial Yearly reporting of risk with representatives from likelihood and impact. measures and preparation efforts to the Audit various parts of the of overall action plans. Committee and Board. Review of material risks organisation. Breakdown of risks to unit together with the Audit Committee and the Board. level and coordination of business plans across all levels. Vasakronan has divided identified risks into four categories: BUSINESS-RELATED RISKS FINANCIAL RISKS AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE Risks related to external factors that Vasakronan is unable to directly Risks related to our funding, our financial reporting and inadequate influence, but where the negative effects can be mitigated. compliance with ordinances, laws and regulations. OPERATIONAL RISKS ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS Risks resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes or Risks arising from the negative environmental impact of operations routines, human error or system error. and from environmental changes leading to property damage. All of the risks are ranked based on their financial impact on operations the company. A description of the risks and their rankings is presented in and on the likelihood of the risk occurring after taking into account the the tables on pages 65–67. The tables also describe how the company’s company’s internal controls, preventive measures and level of priority in risk focus has changed compared with last year. 64 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT ADMINISTRATION REPORT BUSINESS-RELATED RISKS Vasakronan’s Risk description Analysis and exposure Management assessment Increased e-commerce will lead to fewer Lower demand for Vasakronan’s store space will • Competitive intelligence Impact purchases in physical stores, which will lead to lower rental revenue and higher vacancy • Offer flexible solutions, for example, Likelihood result in stores closing down, entering rates for store premises. Vasakronan’s portfolio in terms of size of premises receivership or demanding smaller mainly comprises stores in central locations with • Plan for each property and ongoing evaluaPriority premises. considerable natural flows of people. Vasakronan tion of alternative uses for premises Focus believes demand will remain firm for these types • Follow-up and analysis of sales statistics of premises, albeit for other uses, which will reported by store tenants partially mitigate the effect. • Close dialogues with existing tenants • Clear concepts for shopping precincts • Diligent analysis ahead of acquisitions as well as new construction, extensions or redevelopments • Strive to achieve a good mix of different sectors, rental periods and premises types in each property/area Negative market trend due to raised In the short term, the single largest impact on • Competitive intelligence Impact yield requirements and/or lower market the company’s financial performance is from the • Clear strategy for each property Likelihood rents leading to a downturn in property value of the properties, even if it does not directly • Structured process for decisions regarding values. affect cash flow. Vasakronan has chosen to connew construction, extensions or redevelPriority centrate its portfolio in markets with strong ecoopments Focus nomic growth. The long-term assessment is that • Portfolio focused on central and desirable these properties have the best prerequisites for locations generating a favourable value trend even if, in the short term, they may be the most volatile in terms of yield. Decreased confidence in Vasakronan among As Sweden’s largest property company, there is • Active valuation efforts involving Impact the company’s stakeholders due to unethical considerable public interest in Vasakronan’s all employees Likelihood behavior or breaches of laws and regulations operations. This, in combination with the owner• Policies with clear allocation of could harm the brand. ship structure and the listing of the company’s responsibility and authorities Priority bonds on the Stockholm Stock Exchange, means • Codes of conduct for employees Focus stringent requirements are set for the company’s and for suppliers behaviour. Lack of confidence in Vasakronan • Whistle-blower mechanism could lead to substantial economic damage in the form of lost business or partnerships. Political decisions can lead to changed Vasakronan’s operations are impacted by political • Competitive intelligence Impact prerequisites. This could pertain to decisions decisions in a number of different areas that • Participate in debate via Likelihood regarding new tax legislation, the relocation could negatively impact rental revenue or costs. appropriate forums of government agencies or energy-related Such decisions are generally outside the com­ • Analysis of the effects and of Priority decisions. pany’s control. The effects can be limited through possible proactive measures Focus proactive monitoring of plausible decisions, • Dialogue with the Board and owners analysis of consequences and action plans for the about impact and actions various alternatives. The pace of technical development is rapid. Vasakronan aims to be at the forefront as regards • Reorganise to achieve an inbuilt capacity Impact New digital solutions are replacing old techthe use of modern technological solutions and of to create change and development Likelihood nology, new participants are entering the service offerings. The company drives develop• An innovative corporate culture that market and customers are demanding new ment in various areas and is open to collaboration promotes testing new solutions Priority solutions and services. Those who are unwith different participants. Moreover, Vasakronan • Connected technology in our properties Focus able to adapt their operations to these new continuously strives to ensure it has the right that gather a large quantity of different conditions may lose customers, suppliers skills to meet developments. data. and employees. • New innovative energy solutions Low impact, likelihood or priority Medium impact, likelihood or priority High impact, likelihood or priority Increased focus compared with the preceding year. Unchanged focus compared with the preceding year. VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 65 ADMINISTRATION REPORT RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT OPERATIONAL RISKS Vasakronan’s Risk description Analysis and exposure Management assessment Major renovation and nnew construction Vasakronan has a project volume of SEK 9.4 • Quality assurance of internal processes Impact projects are associated with risk across all billion. Most of the projects are complex, continue including risk analysis, project reviews Likelihood phases, which increases with the project’s over a long period of time and involve many and exchanging experiences complexity. Moreover, in economic booms, different parties. Calculation errors, delivery • Highly skilled project organisation Priority when demand is high, risk increases due to delays or increased expense due to unforeseen • Contractual agreements with partners Focus the lack of suppliers and employees. events or carelessness can lead to substantial • Code of conduct for suppliers negative financial consequences for Vasakronan. • Simulation of various outcomes/scenarios • Clear supplier procurement process In pace with increasing property sector If critical information is lost or falls into the wrong • Continuously follow developments Impact digitalisation, there is an accelerating need hands as a result of a computer crash, data by participating in seminars Likelihood for a well-functioning information and data hacking or inadequate IT security, the financial • IT and communication policy security. Development in these areas is rapid consequences could be considerable and the • High awareness of IT security-related risks Priority and is becoming increasingly complex. company’s credibility may be damaged. through internal and external courses Focus Vasakronan has prioritised this issue and • Ongoing information via internal channels actively monitors developments in the area. Employees are a company’s most important Competition is fierce for the best employees. • Strong brand  Impact assets, since they create the company’s Vasakronan has a strong brand and an innovative • Market-leader in the property sector Likelihood culture and develop its business. If it is not values-based corporate culture. Staff turnover is • Development plans for personnel possible to keep the right employees or low and there is considerable interest in working • Collaboration with universities Priority sufficient employees, the business will at the company. • Succession planning for key personnel Focus underperform. All activities are associated with risk for both The employees’ working environment and health • Collaboration between employees, safety Impact physical and mental injury. are strategically important issues for Vasakronan. officers, managers, company management Likelihood An unsafe working environment and a negative and suppliers work climate lead to an ineffective organisation. • Training in physical and mental health Priority Vasakronan works actively to minimise the risk • Clear goals linked to worksite accidents Focus of employees, contractors or tenants suffering and mental health as well as their follow-up physical or mental injury in and around • Wellness measures Vasakronan’s offices, projects or properties. • Codes of conduct for employees and suppliers • Whistle-blower mechanism Investments are made through new conThrough its size and focus, Vasakronan has • Clear investment strategy Impact struction, and major renovations as well excellent market knowledge of the regions and • Clear decision process Likelihood as through the acquisition of existing sub-­markets in which it operates. Long lead times • Highly skilled in property investment properties. apply when starting larger new or redevelopment • Active dialogues with municipalities Priority projects, which always entail market risk. How­ Focus ever, Vasakronan never starts new projects in weaker sub-markets without having first leased out the majority of the premises. All business relationships entail a risk that Vasakronan is exposed to counterparty risk in • Structured procurement process for Impact the counterparty is unable to meet its terms of its suppliers, tenants and transaction suppliers and accepting new tenants, Likelihood obligations. counterparties. To limit risk, diligent evaluations incl. credit checks and taking references are always conducted prior to entering into • Consequences from non-delivery are Priority contracts. contractually regulated Focus • Risk classification of tenants • When necessary, a deposit is required 66 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT ADMINISTRATION REPORT FINANCIAL RISKS AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE Vasakronan’s Risk description Analysis and exposure Management assessment Property is a capital intensive industry and it Vasakronan has an LTV of 46% and a strong • Financial policy that regulates the use of Impact is important to secure access to borrowed financial position. In combination with the owner several sources of funding Likelihood capital to ensure the survival of the operation. structure, this reduces refinancing risk. • The average maturity of interest-bearing When capital is scarce, risk arises that the liabilities is not permitted to be lower than Priority cost of new financing or refinancing will be two years Focus high or impossible. • Not more than 40% of interest-bearing liabilities are permitted to mature within the next 12 months. • Green financing Interest on borrowed capital is a large cost Vasakronan has relatively long fixed-interest • Financial policy with conservative goals Impact item in profit or loss and a change in interest periods of 4.2 years, which limits exposure to for interest coverage ratio, fixed-interest Likelihood rate can have a considerable impact. changes in interest rates. If the interest rate tenors and fixed-interest maturities increases 1 percentage point, the interest • Interest-rate derivatives aimed at achie­ving Priority expense will rise by SEK 220 million. the desired fixed-interest structure Focus Financial reporting comprises important Awareness of financial reporting risks is created • Policies with clear allocation of responsibility Impact decision-data and shortcomings can lead to by discussion between the employees concerned. and authorities Likelihood erroneous decisions for the company, as well Work at Vasakronan is facilitated by the company’s • Good internal control with preventive and as for external parties such as lenders and centralised accounting and finance function. follow-up controls Priority investors. • External audit Focus • Highly skilled accounting and finance function • Continuous monitoring of regulatory changes • Proactive work with and analysis of new tax and accounting rules Vasakronan has to adapt to numerous Regulations can be complex to interpret and • Continuously follow developments Impact different rules, regulations and laws. comply with. Vasakronan continuously strives to pertaining to laws, rules and regulations in Likelihood Non-compliance with regulations can lead stay updated vis-à-vis current regulations as well relevant areas to economic consequences, sanctions or as regulatory changes to ensure regulatory • Proactive analysis of the possible effects of Priority damaged confidence. compliance. changes in rules and acting with the above in Focus mind • Active participation in debate to the extent possible in the relevant forums • Dialogue with politicians or other influential individuals ENVIRONMENT-RELATED RISKS Vasakronan’s Risk description Analysis and exposure Management assessment Properties have a major impact on the Vasakronan is Sweden’s largest property • Environmental policy with clear aims for Impact environment throughout their life cycle — company and has a goal of delivering a high and Vasakronan’s sustainability efforts Likelihood from project planning, construction and stable, long-term return, but never at the cost of • Clear targets for reducing energy management to renovation and demolition. the environment. Environmental initiatives consumption and waste, increased Priority should not be seen as an isolated area but rather as recycling of materials and reduced Focus a natural and integral part of business activities. environmental impact from Vasakronan’s Vasakronan is positioned at the forefront and and suppliers transportation aims to set an example for other property com­ • Installation of solar photovoltaic panels panies. The company has tied parts of its funding • Environmental certification of properties to green funding (refer to page 32 for more • Preparation and review of a sustainability information), which sets stringent requirements report on Vasakronan’s sustainability work. Global climate change is leading to higher Vasakronan’s single largest asset comprises • Follow research and development in Impact temperatures, extreme weather conditions properties. Climate change poses new demands sustainability Likelihood and raised water levels. For property on Vasakronan’s properties, which the company • Review of the entire portfolio to identify companies, this means increased risk of has to address when making investments. If the where any risk of a major impact exists and Priority property damage due to flooding, of company does not work proactively and monitor to prepare action plans Focus buildings/material not coping with the new climate issues, there is considerable risk that, in • Risk analysis for new production and weather conditions or temperature changes. the future, some properties will be unusable and/ preventive measures or the cost of rectifying the damage will be high. VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Clear structure provides control Vasakronan’s corporate governance efforts are based on clearly formulated goals and strategies as well as sound values. Vasakronan AB is a public limited company. Important external regulations: Important internal regulations: In view of the general interest in the compa• The Swedish Companies Act • The Articles of Association ny’s operations, and since the company’s • Accounting policies, legislation • The Rules of Procedure for the Board bonds are listed on the Stockholm stock and recommendations of Directors and committees, and the exchange, the Swedish Corporate Gover• Nasdaq Stockholm Rule Book CEO’s Instructions nance Code has been applied. Clear internal for Issuers • Internal guidelines and policies that structures and processes also ensure that • The EU Market Abuse Regulation (MAR) cover all Vasakronan’s employees and operations are conducted efficiently and • The Swedish Corporate Governance Code are characterised by business values such • Global Compact as a finance policy, decision-making and appropriately. delegation processes, an anti-corruption policy, an environmental policy and a Our framework Code of Conduct Corporate governance at Vasakronan is • Framework for green bonds based on both internal and external rules and regulations. The Board of Directors Deviations from the Code As a consequence of its small group of owners, Vasakronan deviates from the Code in two ways: the Nomihas adopted policy documents based on the nation Committee proposals for Board members and notices of general meetings or minutes from general values that ought to characterise operations, meetings are not published on the company’s website. None of the members of the Nomination Commitin order to guide employees at Vasakronan. tee are independent in relation to the owners. Governance structure Appoints Nomination Committee Election of auditor Shareholders through Nomination 5 Auditor 1 2 General Meeting Committee Reviews the company’s Proposes Board of annual report, accounting Elects Board Directors and auditors for coming year and reporting of Directors 3 Board of Directors Audit and Remuneration 4 Committees Goals, strategies, responsibility for the company’s organisation and administration CEO and Steering group 6 Group Management for internal control Support for the CEO, tasked with developing the work on corporate governance, internal control and risk. 7 68 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 1  Shareholders through 2 Nomination Committee Board is to comprise at least three and at most General Meeting ten members, excluding any employee repreThe task of the Nomination Committee is to sentatives. The owners can, but do not need Vasakronan is owned in equal shares by the present proposals regarding: to be, represented on the Board. In addition to First, Second, Third and Fourth AP funds. • Election of Board members and Chairman the owner representatives, the ambition of Shareholders exercise their influence through of the Board. the owners is that the Board of Directors also participation in the Annual General Meetings • Fees for the Board of Directors and contain members who are independent in (AGMs), which are the highest decision-makmembers of the Board committees. relation to the company and the owners. The ing body. Under the Articles of Association, • Auditors and auditor’s fees. independent members will supplement the the AGM of shareholders must be held within • Changes to the rules regarding the Board with specific industry competence. At six months of the end of the financial year. The Nomination Committee. the AGM on 3 May 2017, eight members were Companies Act and the Articles of Associare-elected and one new member (Ann-Sofi tion regulate what is to be resolved at the The Nomination Committee consists of one Danielsson) was elected. The CEO is not a AGM. Extraordinary general meetings are representative from each of the owners, who member of the Board, but is present at all held if any of the owners so request, or if the are appointed in accordance with the instrucBoard meetings. Board of Directors considers there is reason tions for the Nomination Committee as to do so. adopted by the AGM. The Nomination ComTasks and responsibilities of the Board The tasks of the AGM include: mittee met three times before the 2018 AGM. The overall task of the Board is to be respon­ • Adopting the income statement and In the Committee’s work on producing prosible for organisation and administration of balance sheet. posals for Board members, an equal gender operations, and financial reporting. It also • Discharging the Board members and CEO distribution must be taken into account, and decides on the company’s strategy, estabfrom liability. that the Board in general should be characterlishes financial, social, and environmental • Resolving on the proposed distribution of ised by diversity based on competence, experi­targets, and is responsible for establishing profit. ence and background. The Nomination Comefficient and appropriate systems for gover• Resolving on fees for the members of the mittee has studied the internal evaluation of nance, internal control and risk management. Board and the committees, as well as the the work of the Board, the Chairman’s account The work is regulated through rules of proceauditors. of the work of the Board and the company’s dure that are established at the statutory • Electing Board members, members of the strategy, and interviewed individual Board Board meeting every year. These rules include Audit and Remuneration committees, and members as part of its work. The goal of the instructions on the Board’s areas of respon­ auditors. Committee is to propose a composition of sibility and limitations in relation to the com• Establishing principles for remuneration Board members that complement each other mittees and the CEO. and other employment terms and as regards experience, personalities and The Chairman of the Board monitors the conditions for senior executives. knowledge, in order to thereby create the best Board’s performance of its tasks. The Chairvalue for Vasakronan. No fees were paid to the man also monitors operations in dialogue with The latest AGM was held on 3 May 2017 at Nomination Committee in 2017. the CEO and is responsible for ensuring the Vasakronan’s head office in Stockholm. All other members receive the information necshares were represented and the auditors 3 essary to maintain a high level of quality in disBoard of Directors were present. cussions and decisions. The Chairman is also Composition of the Board responsible for evaluating the work of both The Articles of Association stipulate that the the Board and the CEO. Composition of the Board ATTENDANCE Indep. of Indep. of Board and Committee Board Audit Remuner­ation Elected company major owners fees, KSEK meetings Committee Committee Mats Wäppling 2010 Yes Yes 695 10/10 4/4 3/3 Jan-Olof Backman 2011 Yes Yes 260 10/10 Ann-Sofi Danielsson1) 2017 Yes Yes 130 7/8 2/2 Niklas Ekvall 2016 No No No remuneration 10/10 Eva Halvarsson 2006 No No No remuneration 10/10 4/4 Kerstin Hessius 2004 No No No remuneration 10/10 Christel Kinning 2014 Yes Yes 260 9/10 Roly Lydahl 2007 Yes Yes 320 10/10 4/4 Johan Magnusson 2008 No No No remuneration 10/10 3/3 1) Elected May 2017. VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 69 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Governance structure Scheduled Board meeting Scheduled Board meeting Report from CEO, information on current issues Report from CEO, decisions on strategic plan, in sustainability, focus area: HR. Dec Jan report from auditors, decisions on year-end report, report from Audit and Remuneration Committees and Scheduled Board Meeting Nov Feb Compliance Officer, review of risk inventory. Report from CEO, decisions on Q3 interim report, Q4 Q1 report from Audit and Remuneration Committees. Extraordinary Board Meeting Oct Mar Approval of Annual Report. Extraordinary Board Meeting Resolutions on Prospectus for MTN programme and dividend policy. Sep Q3 Q2 Apr Scheduled Board Meeting Report from CEO, decisions on Q1 interim report, report from Audit and Remuneration Committees, review Aug May of and decisions on investments in major projects. Scheduled Board Meeting Report from CEO, decisions Jul Jun Statutory Board Meeting on Q2 interim report, review Decisions on authorised signatories, establishment of Rules of and decisions on of Procedure for the Board of Directors, the Audit and Remuinvestment in major projects, neration Committees, and the Instructions for the CEO. report from Audit CommitExtraordinary Board Meeting Scheduled Board Meeting tee, focus area: Technical Decision on sale of Kungsängen Report from CEO, decision Annual General Meeting Operations & Development 37:13 in Uppsala. on acquisition of Seaside, focus Ratification of income statement and balance sheet, decisions Unit. area: region Uppsala. on appropriation of profit and discharge of Board and CEO from liability, establishment of remuneration for Board and auditor, election of Board and auditor. Work of the Board of Directors in 2017 tory. Issues of strategy and risk management Nomination Committee with all Board memThe work of the Board of Directors follows an are always high on the agenda. Over the last bers. The purpose of the evaluation is to annual cycle of scheduled meetings on fixed year, focus has been on trends in the propensure that the Board is focused on the dates, adjusted for such matters as the Board erty and retail industries and their impact on correct areas, that the Board has the correct needing to adopt the financial reporting. Vasakronan, on the work in major new build competence and that it is correctly comThe CEO, CFO and General Counsel (in and redevelopment projects in Vasakronan posed. The results of the evaluation are used the capacity of the secretary of the Board) and on IT security issues. The Board also held as the basis for the Nomination Committee’s attended the scheduled meetings. Other a strategy conference together with the work on bringing up new candidates for the persons from the organisation such as Management Group, the purpose of which Board of Directors. regional Senior Vice Presidents and SVPs was to provide a basis for the company’s busifor Finance and Property Development ness planing and also to provide the opportuRemuneration to the Board participate as needed, presenting reports on nity for deeper study in areas of current The AGM passes resolutions on remuneraparticular cases. Vasakronan’s Compliance importance for Vasakronan. The meeting tion to the Board. Board fees are not paid to Officer (the company’s General Counsel) also provided the Board of Directors and the members who are employed by any of the also reports annually to the Board on cases Management Group with the opportunity to owners. For the period until and including the that have come in to the company’s whisteget to know each other. 2018 General Meeting, the AGM resolved blower function. The auditors were present at the Board that the Chairman will receive SEK 640,000 The Board meetings follow a fixed agenda meeting held in February where the year-end and the other independent members SEK on which the CEO’s information on general report was adopted. 260,000 in fees. For the Audit Committee, operations are a standing point. In cases Three extraordinary Board meetings were it was resolved that a fee to its Chairman of where committee meetings have been held, held during the year, at which decisions were SEK 60,000 and to independent members the chairpersons of the respective committaken on the approval of the Annual Report, SEK 25,000 would be paid, and a fee of SEK tees also report on their work. the dividend policy and the sale of properties. 30,000 to the Remuneration Committee. Meetings in addition to the scheduled Remuneration can be paid as a fee against Board meetings are also held as needed, for Evaluation of the Board of Directors invoice, provided that it is cost-neutral for example when a business decision requires The Rules of Procedure state that the Board the company and that a special agreement the approval of the Board. of Directors must conduct an annual evaluais signed between the Board member and In total, the Board had seven scheduled tion of its own work. In 2017, this was conthe company. meetings in 2017, one of which was statuducted through interviews conducted the 70 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 4 mation about the orientation, scope and responsibility are regulated in a rules of proThe committees results of the audit. This take place through cedure established by the Board and consists In order to enhance the efficiency of its work, the Committee studying the auditor’s written primarily of: the Board has established an Audit Commitreporting and the auditor being present at • Preparing the work of the Board of Directee and a Remuneration Committee. The pricertain Committee meetings. tors on remuneration for senior executives mary task of these committees is to prepare For 2017, the Audit Committee consisted and in the profit-sharing programme for the decisions of the Board in these two areas. of Rolf Lydahl, who was also the chairman; other employees. Eva Halvarsson, Mats Wäppling and Ann-Sofi • Monitor and evaluate compliance with the Audit Committee Danielsson, who was elected to the Commit“Guidelines for Terms of Employment for The Board of Directors has appointed an tee in June 2017. All members have the comSenior Executives in state-owned CompaAudit Committee consisting of four Board petence in accounting, which is required nies” that Vasakronan is to comply with. As members. The Committee’s areas of responunder the Annual Accounts Act. regards remuneration and other terms of sibility are regulated in the rules of procedure The Committee held four meetings during employment for company management, established by the Board. The overall responthe year. The company’s auditor was present refer to Point 6 below. sibilities of the Audit Committee include: at three of them to report on the audit. In • Preparing the work of the Board on quality addition to this, the Committee primarily For 2017, the Remuneration Committee assurance of the financial reporting, which discussed the company’s financial statements consisted of Mats Wäppling, who was also in turn includes addressing material and the work of the Management Group on the Chairman, and Johan Magnusson. During accounting issues. risk and internal control. The work of the the year, the Committee held three meetings • Monitoring the work of company manageCommittee was also evaluated at the meetat which issues of remuneration for senior ment on internal control, tax management ing in April. The CEO, the CFO and SVP for executives and principles for profit-sharing and issues of risk and corporate goverGroup Control (the secretary of the commitfor other employees were primarily discussed. nance issues. tee) participated in the meetings. At least The work of the Committee was also evalu• Evaluating the audit work and preparing once each year, the Committee meets with ated at the meeting in January. The CEO and the election of an auditor. the auditor without the participation of comthe SVP for Human Resources, who is the • Issuing guidelines concerning the advance pany management. secretary of the Committee, parti­cipated in approval of non-audit related services perall the meetings and the company’s auditor formed by the elected external auditor. Remuneration Committee submitted their report from the review of The Board of Directors has appointed a remuneration for senior executives at the The Audit Committee meets with the auditor Remuneration Committee consisting of two meeting in May. on a continual basis in order to obtain inforBoard members. The Committee’s areas of Organisation CEO Business development Property investments Business support Property development Region Gothenburg Region Öresund in Stockholm Technical Operations Region Stockholm Region Uppsala & Development VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 71 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 5 External audit issues. Nine meetings were held in 2017. At ciently and sustainably, that external reporting four of them, the interim reports and operamaintains a good level of quality, and that appliIn accordance with the Articles of Associational monitoring were discussed. Two of the cable laws and regulations are observed. tion, the general meeting must appoint at meetings are longer strategy meetings. One Planning, governance and monitoring of least one and at most two authorised public strategy meeting is held in the spring, and the operations follows the organisational strucaccountants with an equal number of depufocus is on the trends and operating environture, with a clear delegation of responsibilities. If an auditing company is appointed as ment factors that impact the company. The ties and authorisations. The business planauditor, deputies will not be appointed. other strategy meeting is held in the autumn, ning conducted every year creates clear, The auditor is elected for one year at a time. and the strategic portion of the business plan well-supported plans for how operations are The Board of Directors has decided that the is developed with focus areas and key issues to be pursued in all sections. Business planselection of an auditor will be preceded at for operations. ning starts with the Management Group’s least once every four years by a procurement Vasakronan’s operations are organised in strategy days in the spring and concludes to be prepared by the Audit Committee. four regions, with a special unit for property with the Board of Directors deciding on the In addition to issuing the Auditors’ Report, development in Stockholm. Technical Operaplan at its December meeting. In between, the selected auditor examines the annual tions & Development are organised sepabusiness plans are developed for both underaccounts, the consolidated financial staterately, with central support functions and lying units and for the company as a whole. ments and accounting records, the Board’s local staffing. As support for the organisaThe plans formulate both shortand longand the CEO’s administration of the company tion, there are central units for property term financial, environmental, and societal and the annual accounts of the subsidiaries. investments and business support, which goals. The business plan is thereafter moniThe audit will take place in accordance with included finance, communications and IT, tored continually during the subsequent year. the Annual Accounts Act, international auditlegal and HR. A Head of CSR has been A risk inventory and risk assessment are ing standards and generally accepted auditappointed to govern and monitor the compaconducted every year prior to business ing principles in Sweden. ny’s work on sustainability topics. planning, and the identified material risks At the 2017 AGM, Pricewaterhouse­ The Annual Meeting passes resolutions on are managed in the business plans for the Coopers was elected as auditor for the ­coming principles of remuneration for the CEO and units. The work on risk management is year, with Helena Ehrenborg as Auditor in the Management Group. Salaries and other described in more detail on pages 64–67. Charge. In addition, Daniel Algotsson was benefits for the Management Group, includA framework of guidelines, policies and elected as auditor. More information about ing the CEO, consist only of fixed salaries instructions established by the Board of the auditors can be found on Page 74. Inforwith no variable remunerations. In addition, Directors and the CEO govern the organisamation about the auditors’ fees can be found Vasakronan applies the Government’s tion and its employees for the purpose of in Note 7 on Page 95. “Guidelines for Terms of Employment for ensuring long-term value creation. The Senior Executives in state-owned Compaframework is to be followed by all employees, 6 nies” as regards remuneration and other and monitoring occurs annually. CEO and Management Group terms of employment for company manageAs support for the CEO, a special steering The CEO is appointed by the Board of Direcment. The company can, however, deviate group has been established in order to tors and is responsible for daily operations in from the guidelines if there is reason to do so. develop the work on corporate gover­nance, Vasakronan, in accordance with the Board’s Vasakronan deviates from the Government’s internal control and risk. In addition instructions established each year. The CEO guidelines in two aspects. The CEO’s period to the CEO, the group consists of the General is responsible for keeping the Board continuof notice totals twelve months instead of the Counsel, the CFO and the SVP for Group ally updated on operations and ensures that six indicated by the guidelines, and remuneraControl. This takes place in close the Board is provided with the necessary tion for the Management Group, exclusive of collaboration with the Audit Committee, basis for decisions in order to take wellremuneration for the CEO, is not recognised which is responsible for risk work, and founded decisions. Fredrik Wirdenius has at the individual level in the Annual Report. internal control is continually tested and been the CEO of Vasakronan since 2008. evaluated. Since existing structures for The CEO has formed a Management 7 evaluation and monitoring have so far been Governance and control Group that, in addition to the CEO, consists deemed sufficient to provide a basis for of twelve directly subordinate Senior Vice The Board of Directors is responsible for the evaluation by the Board, no special unit for Presidents; refer to the presentation on Page company having satisfactory and relevant risk internal auditing has been established. The 75. The Management Group meets regularly management and internal control. The purpose decision is, however, taken up annually for in order to handle Group-wide and strategic is to ensure that operations are pursued effire-examination. 72 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Internal control of financial reporting This report was prepared in accordance with Based on the steering documents that conand that laws and external requirements are the Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish cern accounting and financial reporting, the observed. Corporate Governance Code, and is limited CEO is responsible for formulating internal to describing how internal control regarding processes and for establishing policies and Information and communication financial reporting is organised. Vasakronan’s instructions. Employees’ understanding of Vasakronan’s goals for internal control regarding financial The CFO is responsible for guidelines for risk situations is an important part of the reporting are to make it relevant and efficient, financial reporting and ensuring that they work of internal control. Awareness of the that it results in reliable reports, and that it are prepared in accordance with applicable risks in the financial reporting is created ensures that relevant laws and reg­ulations accounting standards and the legal and listing through discussion and dialogue with are observed. The report contains no staterequirements in force. employees being a natural element both in ments on how well internal control functioned annual business and operations planning during the past financial year, and it has not Risk assessment and in routine work. been audited by the company’s auditors. As part of business and operations planning, This communication is facilitated by a Vasakronan annually conducts an overall risk centralised finance function, with which Control environment evaluation. Risks in all the company’s key proemployees are in close contact on a daily The basis for internal control in Vasakronan cesses are then evaluated based on likelihood basis. Guidelines and instruction of essential consists of a control environment with a clear and impact. For more detailed information on importance for financial reporting are rouorganisation, clear decision-making paths the company’s risk evaluation process, refer tinely updated and communicated to the and a clear allocation of responsibilities. The to page 64. In addition, risks are continually employees concerned. All the routine Board of Directors of Vasakronan has overall assessed based on the company’s income descriptions and tools needed are available responsibility for internal control of financial statement and balance sheet, where every on Vasakronan’s intranet together with reporting. The Board annually ratifies a numitem is evaluated based on its existence, Group-wide policies and instructions. ber of steering documents such as the Rules appraisal and completeness. of Procedure for the Board of Directors, Risks linked to tax, legal issues or other Monitoring of internal control instructions for the CEO, and financial policy non-current transactions are evaluated regThe Board of Directors of Vasakronan has in order to establish and clarify the allocation ularly for preventive purposes. These risks overall responsibility for monitoring internal of responsibilities and authorisations in the are described separately on pages 65–67 control. The Audit Committee has particular organisation. The Board has also appointed in the Annual Report. Risks are built on manresponsibility for preparing quality assurance an Audit Committee with particular responagement’s best assessment of impact and by the Board of the financial reporting. Monisibility for preparing quality assurance by the likelihood. The risks in the financial reporting toring of the financial reporting takes place Board of the financial reporting as well as are routinely discussed with the company’s continually through the controls and analyses monitoring the work of company manageauditor. performed by the Board of Directors, the ment on internal control. The control enviAudit Committee, management and the ronment also encompasses the culture and Control activities finance function. These controls and analyses values that both the Board and company Control activities are formulated based on also capture the need for measures or proposmanagement communicate and work from as the risk assessments. At Vasakronan, there als for improvements. Monitoring also takes conveyed by such documents as Vasakronan’s are controls built into all key processes place through the audit performed by the Code of Conduct, which is ratified yearly by through standardised system solutions, company’s external auditors. The observathe Board of Directors. A whistle-blower ­documented and well-established routines tions from this audit are reported to the function has been established to which the and a clear allocation of responsibilities in a Board of Directors, the Audit Committee company’s employees or other stakeholders centralised financial function. Control activiand company management as well as to the can turn with suspicions of improper conduct ties comprise a mix of preventive and moniemployees concerned. or crime. A Compliance Officer (Vasakronan’s toring functions that can be both manual The company’s external auditors regularly General Counsel) is tasked with managing and automatic. report back on the results of their audit to the issues of improper conduct and deficient The financial reporting process is constantly CFO and to the Audit Committee. compliance with regulations in the company. reviewed. The finance function has a clear Reporting to the Board of Directors takes responsibility for adapting the process as place annually. needed to ensure quality in the reporting VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 73 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board of Directors and auditors Mats Wäppling Kerstin Hessius Chairman of the Board, chairman of the Board member since 2004. Remuneration Committee and member of Born: 1958 the Audit Committee since 2014. Board Education: Master of Business Administration and Economics member since 2010. Other assignments: CEO, Third National Born: 1956 Pension Fund. Education: Civil Engineer. Board member of Hemsö, Trenum, Other assignments: Own operations. Handelsbanken, SVEDAB and Öresund Pandox, Vesper, PKM Invest, Nordic Modular Konsortiet. Group, Campus X and Assemblin. Previous experience: Chairman of the Previous experience: Executive positions in Stockholm Stock Exchange, executive Sweco, Skanska and NCC. positions at Östgöta Enskilda Bank Alfred Independent: Independent in relation to the Berg. Chairman of Finansmarknadsrådet. owners, the company and company Independent: Owner representative. management. Mats Wäppling Jan-Olof Backman Jan-Olof Backman Christel Kinning Board member since 2014. Board member since 2011. Born: 1962 Born: 1961 Education: Finance and marketing Education: Civil Engineer. Other assignments: Own operations. Board Other assignments: Own operations. Board member of Stadium, Reima, Zoundindustries, assignments at Microsystemation, Logent and Venue Retail Group, Björn Borg and Hope. 24Storage. Previous experience: CEO of Polarn O. Pyret, Previous experience: Executive positions in CEO of RNB Retail and Brands and executive Coor Service Management, McKinsey & positions at Kellermann Scandinavia. Company and Byggnads AB O. Tjärnberg. Independent: Independent in relation to the Independent: Independent in relation to the owners, the company and company owners, the company and company management. management. Ann-Sofi Danielsson Rolf Lydahl Board member since 2007, Chairman of the Board member since 2017. Ann-Sofi Danielsson Niklas Ekvall Born: 1959 Audit Committee since 2011. Education: Master of Business Administration Born: 1945 and Economics Education: Master of Business Administration Other assignments: CFO and Head of IR at and Economics Bonava. Board member of Pandox AB Other assignments: Own operations. and Bulten AB. Board member of Atlasmuren. Previous experience: CFO at NCC AB. Previous experience: CEO of Probo, deputy Board member of RNB Retail and Brands AB. CEO of Nordstjernan, executive positions at Independent: Independent in relation to the Retriva and representative of Credit Suisse. owners, the company and company Independent: Independent in relation to the management. owners, the company and company management. Niklas Ekvall Johan Magnusson Board member since 2016. Born: 1963 Board member and member of the Education: Lecturer in Finance, Remuneration Committee since 2008. Ph.D. Financial Economics and M.Sc Industrial Born: 1959 Eva Halvarsson Kerstin Hessius Engineering Education: Graduate in Economics Other assignments: CEO of the First Swedish Other assignments: CEO, Fourth National Pension Fund. National Pension Fund. Board member of the Hans Dalborg Stiftelse Board member of Willhem för Bankoch Finansforskning and the KVA Previous experience: Executive positions Investment Committee. at SEB Wealth Management, SEB Private Previous experience: CEO of Nordea Banking and ABB Investment Management. Investment Management; deputy CEO, Third Independent: Owner representative. National Pension Fund; executive positions in Nordea, Carnegie and Chairman of the Board Mats Wäppling has Handelsbanken. declined re-election. Ahead of the General Independent: Owner representative. Meeting on 3 May 2018, the proposal of the Nomination Committee is that Ulrika Francke be elected to the Board as its new Chairman. Eva Halvarsson Board member since 2006 and member of the Audit Committee since 2008. AUDITORS Born: 1962 Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers Education: Master of Business Administration Christel Kinning Rolf Lydahl and Economics Helena Ehrenborg Other assignments: CEO, Second National Auditor in charge Pension Fund. Born: 1965 Board member of UN-PRI, the Swedish Royal Other important assignments: Auditor at Opera, IWF and FinansKompetensCentrum. Pandox, Jernhusen, HSB and Akelius. Previous experience: Tax auditor and head of State ownership administration. Independent: Owner representative. Daniel Algotsson Authorised Public Accountant Born: 1982 Other important assignments: Auditor at Avida Finans, FCG Fonder, Mangold and Proventus. Per Uhlén Stepped down from the Board at the 2017 AGM Johan Magnusson 74 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Senior executives Fredrik Wirdenius Kristina CEO Born: 1961 Pettersson Post SVP, Gothenburg Region Employed: 2008 Born: 1964 Joined Management Group: 2008 Employed: 1993 Education: Civil Engineer. Joined Management Group: 2011 Previous experience: Skanska Education: Civil Engineer. Other assignments: Board Previous experience: assignments at Scandic Hotels and Byggnadsstyrelsen. RICS Sweden. Other assignments: Board member of Nordstans Samfällighet, Trophi Ronald Bäckrud Fastighets AB and CMB Chalmers. SVP, Stockholm Region Born: 1958 Johanna Skogestig Employed: 1995 Joined Management Group: 2008 SVP, CIO Fredrik Wirdenius Ronald Bäckrud Sheila Florell Born: 1974 Education: Civil Engineer. Employed: 2015 Previous experience: J&W, Joined Management Group: 2015 Vattenbyggnadsbyrån, Skandia and Education: Civil Engineer. Arne Johnson Förvaltning. Previous experience: AP Other assignments: Board member Fastigheter, Sveafastigheter and of Byggherrarna. Areim Other assignments: Board Sheila Florell member of Fastighets AB Regio. SVP, General Counsel Born: 1965 Employed: 2005 Anna Stenkil SVP, Öresund Region Joined Management Group: 2006 Born: 1968 Education: B.Law and estate Employed: 2011 agent exam. Joined Management Group: 2016 Previous experience: If Education: Economist Skadeförsäkring and Association of Swedish Real Estate Agents. Previous experience: Proffice, Newsec, Wihlborgs. Jan-Erik Hellman Christer Nerlich Anna Nyberg Other assignments: Board Other assignments: Board member assignments at SSM Holding. of Fastigheter and Ideon Open. Jan-Erik Hellman Cecilia Söderström SVP, Uppsala Region SVP, Human Resources Born: 1975 Born: 1962 Employed: 2010 Employed: 2008 Joined Management Group: 2017 Joined Management Group: 2008 Education: Civil Engineer. Education: Social worker Other assignments: Board Previous experience: Svenska Spel assignments at Citysamverkan AB and Ericsson. Previous experience: JLL, ICA Other assignments: Board member Fastigheter. of Almega Fastighetsarbetsgivarna. Christer Nerlich Per Thiberg SVP, CFO Born: 1961 SVP, Business development Born: 1959 Kristina Pettersson Post Johanna Skogestig Anna Stenkil Employed: 1995 Employed: 2002 Joined Management Group: 1998 Joined Management Group: 2010 Education: Master of Business Education: Civil Engineer. Administration and Economics Previous experience: JM and Previous experience: Newsec and Newsec. FastighetsRenting. Other assignments: Board assignments at Akademiska Hus. Nicklas Walldan SVP, Technical Operations & Anna Nyberg Development SVP, Property development Born: 1971 Employed: 2001 Stockholm Joined Management Group: 2008 Born: 1973 Education: Civil Engineer. Employed: 2007 Previous experience: Tyréns. Joined Management Group: 2015 Other assignments: Board member Education: Civil Engineer. of Svensk Byggtjänst and Previous experience: Hufvudstaden, Ericsson, Dalkia and Samhällsbyggnadslänken at KTH Cecilia Söderström Per Thiberg Nicklas Walldan Royal University of Technology. Stadshypotek. Peter Östman SVP, Corporate Communications Born: 1961 Employed: 1998 Joined Management Group: 1998 Education: Master of Business Administration and Economics Previous experience: Storstaden. Peter Östman VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 75 ADMINISTRATION REPORT OTHER INFORMATION Other information Personnel Sustainability reporting At 31 December 2017, the number of employees was 349 (339). In accordance with Chapter 6, Section 11 of the Annual Accounts Act, Vasakronan promtes the diversity of society in the composition of its Vasakronan has chosen to prepare its sustainability report separately personnel. All employees and job applicants will be treated equally, from its Annual Report. The Sustainability Report can be found on and no discrimination will be accepted. Further information related to pages 114–126 in this printed document. staff composition can be found on page 123 of this printed document. Appropriation of profit A dividend of SEK 4 billion has been proposed to the General Meeting. Distribution of women and men The Board finds that the proposed dividend is justifiable in terms of the assessment criteria stipulated in Chapter 17, Section 3, second All employees Management Group Board of Directors and third paragraphs of the Swedish Companies Act regarding operations, scope and risks as well as consolidation requirements, liquidity and general position. Refer to page 108. Events after the balance-sheet date In addition to the proposed dividend in accordance with the above as well as page 109 and Note 35, no significant events occurred after the balance-sheet date that impact the assessment of Vasakronan’s financial position. Women, 42% (40) Women, 46% (46) Women, 44% (33) Future performance Men, 58% (60) Men, 54% (54) Men, 56% (67) The assessment for 2018 is for the rental market to remain strong, with continued strong demand for office premises in good locations. This means excellent prerequisites for improving net operating income and a slightly higher occupancy rate. The targets for 2018 are an increase in net operating income in comparable property holdings of 6% and an occupancy rate of not less than 93.5% at year end. The healthy rental market also creates favourable prerequisites for the continued development of Vasakronan’s property holdings. Planning of additional projects is in progress, and the assessment is that approximately SEK 3 billion will be invested in 2018. 76 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 “Helix,” a stylised strand of DNA rising towards the sky, like all the thoughts and ideas that fly within the walls of the building, is the first thing that greets visitors to the Hub at Uppsala Science Park. Artist Monika Grymala worked for a year on the piece, which was delivered in 35 parts and weights 2.9 tons. VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 77 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Consolidated income statement Amounts in SEK million 2017 2016 Note Rental revenue 6,490 6,251 4, 5 Operating expenses –662 –681 Repairs and maintenance –110 –105 Property administration –331 –300 7 Property tax –544 –544 Ground rents –165 –162 Total property expenses –1,812 –1,792 6 Net operating income 4,678 4,459 Central administration –97 –87 6, 7 Result from participations in joint ventures –3 –3 Interest income 2 10 11 Interest expense –1,167 –1,162 12 Profit before value changes and tax 3,413 3,217 Change in value of investment properties 7,973 12,056 13 Change in value of financial instruments 468 –764 15 Divested/impaired goodwill –26 –18 18 Profit before tax 11,828 14,491 Current tax –95 0 17 Deferred tax –2,464 –3,019 17 Profit for the year 9,269 11,472 Other comprehensive income Items that may be reclassified1) Cash-flow hedges – 17 Income tax on cash-flow hedges – –4 Items that may not be reclassified2) Pensions, revaluation –14 –89 29 Restriction for surplus in pension plan with asset cap 3 16 29 Income tax on pensions 2 16 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax –9 –44 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR3) 9,260 11,428 Key metrics Surplus ratio, % 72.1 71.3 Interest coverage ratio, multiple 3.9 3.8 1) Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss. 2) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss. 3) Since there are no minority interests, the entire profit is attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders. The absence of any potential shares means there is no dilutive effect. 78 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ADMINISTRATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comments on the consolidated income statement Rental revenue Rental revenue increased during the year to SEK 6,490 Even distribution of rents to maturity million (6,251). In comparable property holdings, the No. of Annual rent, increase was 5% and was mainly attributable to higher gross contracts SEK m % of total rents from new lettings contracted and from renegotiated 2018 1,349 1,142 17 leases. 2019 958 1,167 18 New lettings corresponding to 167,000 sq. m. (140,000) 2020 830 1,120 17 and annual rent of SEK 613 million (475) were contracted, of ≥2021 1,146 2,865 43 which 18% (17) impacted on revenue in 2017. Of the year’s Total 4,283 6,294 95 new lettings, 23% (5) were attributable to new construction Residential 1,168 99 1 projects. Notice of termination was received during the Garage – 245 4 period (tenant will be vacating) corresponding to annual Total 5,451 6,638 100 rent of SEK 446 million (414), whereby net lettings Maturity structure for contracted rent. amounted to SEK 167 (61) million. Renegotiations and lease extensions during the year corresponded to annual rent of SEK 1,036 million (807), Widely distributed over many tenants resulting in an increase on the previous rent payable of Share in % 10.2% (10.6). Of all the contracts up for renegotiation over Swedish Police Authority 3 the last 12 months, 64% (76) of the tenants decided to Ericsson 3 extend their contracts. The change between the years is H&M 2 attributable to SEB having moved out of Sergelhuset in Swedish Prison and Probation Service 2 Stockholm. Försäkringskassan (Social Insurance Agency) 2 Contracted rent at the end of the year amounted to SEK Swedish National Courts Administration 1 6,638 million (6,481) and the average remaining maturity Åhléns 1 was 4.2 years (4.3). At year end, the occupancy rate was Ramböll 1 93.1% (94.2). Of total vacancies, 2.5 percentage points (0.4) Sony Mobile 1 were attributable to ongoing projects and 0.3 percentage KPMG 1 points (0.3) to vacant development properties. When SEB Total 17 vacated Sergelhuset, the negative impact on the occupancy Largest tenants, share of contracted rent rate was 1.4 percentage points. Rising rental revenue Stable occupancy rate Public sector comprises largest share of tenants SEK m SEK/m² % 7,000 5,000 95 6,000 4,000 93 5,000 3,000 91 4,000 2,000 89 3,000 1,000 87 Public sector, 24% Finance, 5% 2,000 0 85 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Services, 21% Telecom, 4% Consumer goods, 18% Industry, 3% ­ Rental revenue, SEK m IT, 8% Other, 17% Rental revenue SEK/sq. m. Breakdown by sector, January–December At 31 December share of contracted rent VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADMINISTRATION REPORT Property expenses Administration Property expenses amounted to SEK 1,812 million Property administration costs were SEK 331 million (ex­pense: 1,792) for the period. For comparable property (expense: 300) and central administration costs were SEK holdings, the increase in property expenses was 2.1% (5). 97 (expense: 87) million. The changes were primarily attri­ The increase was primarily due to higher property adminisbutable to higher personnel costs. The number of employtration costs. ees during the year increased by 10. The portfolio’s energy performance improved to 100 kWh/sq. m. (110) at year end. Net interest Net interest expense deteriorated slightly to SEK 1,165 Net operating income million (expense: 1,152) due to a larger loan portfolio during Net operating income increased during the period to SEK the period. The average interest rate for loans and deriva4,678 million (4,459). For comparable property holdings, tives decreased to 1.7% (2.0) at the end of the period. the increase in net operating income was almost 6.0% (3). The average fixed-interest tenor increased to 4.5 years The surplus ratio was 72% (71). (4.3), primarily due to the acquisition of new, extended The assessment for 2018 is for the rental market to interest-rate derivatives during the year. The proportion of remain strong. This means excellent prerequisites for loans with fixed-interest maturities within 1 year was 41% improvingMkr net operating income in comparable % property (45) and fixed-interest maturities in 5 years or more 5000 100 holdings and a slightly higher occupancy rate. The targets amounted to 43% (42) of interest-bearing liabilities. for 20184000 are an increase in net operating income 80 in com­ The interest coverage ratio increased to a multiple of parable property holdings of 6% and an occupancy rate of 3.9 (3.8) as a result of improved net operating income. 3000 60 not less than 93.5% at year end. The policy for the interest coverage ratio does not permit 2000 40 it falling below a multiple of 1.9. 1000 20 Sensitivity 0 analysis 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Change Impact on profit before tax, SEK m Economic occupancy rate +/–1% +/–75 Ggr Rental revenue +/–1% +/–65 4 Price change for renegotiated leases terminating in 2018 +/–1% +/–11 Property expenses 3 +/–1% –/+18 Net interest with current fixed-interest tenors and changed interest +/–1 percentage point –/+211 Value of interest-rate derivatives if average interest rates change 2 +/–1 percentage point +/–1,742 Market value of properties1) +/–1% +/–1,269 1) The market value is in turn impacted by other factors, refer to the sensitivity analysis on page 93. 1 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 High surplus ratio Improved interest coverage ratio SEK m % Multiple 5,000 100 4 4,000 80 3 3,000 60 2 2,000 40 1 1,000 20 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Net operating income, SEK m Surplus ratio, % January–December January–December 80 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ADMINISTRATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Profit before value changes and tax issued at a fixed rate. The value change in derivatives was Profit before value changes and tax was SEK 3,413 million SEK 468 million (negative: 764), which was due to higher (3,217), up 6.1%. The increase was due to higher net opera­ long-term interest rates during the year. Vasakronan opted ting income. for early redemption of interest-rate derivatives for a nominal value of SEK 3,200 million (2,900) during the year. Change in value of investment properties With that, a previously recognised loss of SEK 359 million At 31 December 2017, the entire property portfolio had (loss: 519) was realised. At the same time, new interest-rate been valued by external appraisers Cushman & Wakefield derivatives were acquired with longer maturities. or Forum Fastighetsekonomi. Altogether, the change in the property value amounted to Tax SEK 7,973 million (12,056), which corresponded to a 6.9% The Group reported a total tax expense of SEK 2,559 million (11.6) increase in value. The increase was primarily attribut(expense: 3,019). Of the tax expense for the period, SEK 95 able to rising market rents, particularly in the Stockholm million (0) was current tax and SEK 2,464 million (3,019) was portfolio, which rose 8.5%. deferred tax resulting from temporary differences primarily On average, the yield requirement for the portfolio was attributable to investment properties and financial instru4.5%, compared to 4.6% for corresponding properties at ments. The effective tax rate amounted to 21.6% (20.8) the end of 2016. during the period. Vasakronan has a tax policy that has been established Change in value of financial instruments by the Board to ensure that tax issues are managed in a Derivatives are primarily used to adjust the maturity strucsocietally responsible way. For more information on Vasa­ ture in the loan portfolio and to hedge borrowings in NOK. kro­nan’s tax policy, please see Vasakronan’s website and The nominal value of the derivative portfolio at the end of the section on GRI. the period was SEK 63,727 million (52,781). The increase At the end of the period, Vasakronan was not involved in was mainly attributable to currency hedges on borrowings any tax litigation. in NOK and an adjustment to fixed-interest tenors on bonds Change in value by region Change in value, by category Contribution to Contribution to change in value, change in value, Change in value, % percentage points Change in value, % percentage points Stockholm 8.5 5.5 Property management 6.6 5.7 Gothenburg 4.9 0.9 Development properties 7.9 0.9 Öresund 0.2 0.0 Transactions – 0.3 Uppsala 8.4 0.5 Total Vasakronan 6.9 Total Vasakronan 6.9 Factors impacting value1) Value change in the total portfolio Value impact, % % Yield requirement 2.1 15 Market rents 4.8 12 Total 6.9 1) The increase in value was also due to investments and other factors impacting value that 9 have been allocated proportionally across yield requirements and market rents. 6 3 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Consolidated balance sheet Amounts in SEK million 2017 2016 Note ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets 2,145 2,171 18 Property, plant and equipment (PPE) Investment properties 126,875 115,922 4, 19 Equipment 46 54 20 126,921 115,976 Financial assets Shares and participations in joint ventures 368 372 22 Derivatives 242 423 32 Other non-current receivables 313 58 23 923 853 Total non-current assets 129,989 119,000 Current assets Accounts receivable 20 31 24 Receivables from joint ventures 1 111 Current tax assets – 15 Derivatives 33 35 32 Other current receivables, prepaid expenses and accrued income 817 717 25 Cash and cash equivalents 1,423 2,147 26 Total current assets 2,294 3,056 TOTAL ASSETS 132,283 122,056 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 4,000 4,000 Other contributed capital 4,227 4,227 Retained earnings 43,150 37,890 Total equity 51,377 46,117 Non-current liabilities Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 44,711 39,334 27 Deferred tax liability 16,824 14,362 17 Derivatives 2,699 3,383 32 Other non-current liabilities 55 198 28 Provision for pensions 86 80 29 Total non-current liabilities 64,375 57,357 Current liabilities Current interest-bearing liabilities 13,710 15,906 27 Accounts payable 124 132 Liabilities joint ventures 17 – Current tax liabilities 80 – Derivatives 3 – 32 Other current liabilities, accrued expenses and deferred income 2,597 2,544 30 Total current liabilities 16,531 18,582 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 132,283 122,056 Key metrics Net interest-bearing liabilities, SEK m 56,998 53,093 Equity/assets ratio, % 39 38 LTV, % 45 46 82 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ADMINISTRATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comments on the consolidated balance sheet Intangible assets pancy rate for major projects was 44% (72) at the end of the Intangible assets primarily consist of goodwill. Goodwill has period. Several major projects with a low initial occupancy arisen from the recognition of deferred tax on property at rate are in the start-up phase, including Sergelhuset and the nominal tax rate on the date of the business combinaPlatinan. The strong rental market allows projects to be tion, while the tax rate applied when calculating the purstarted at attractive locations without all of the premises chase price for the acquisition was lower than the nominal needing to have been let by the project start date. rate. At 31 December 2017, goodwill was SEK 2,045 million During the quarter, work began on the detailed develop(2,071), and the decline was primarily due to impairment ment plan encompassing the Nattugglan property, comprisof goodwill and the sale of properties. ing a total area of 15,000 sq. m., and which is located at The remaining portion of intangible assets comprised the Medborgarplatsen in Södermalm. The investment amounts value of the Vasakronan brand, which amounted to SEK 100 to an estimated SEK 800 million and the property is million (100). ex­pected to be completed by mid-2021. A lease has been signed with Tyréns, and the occupancy rate 80% when Investment properties construction started. Construction on Priorn 5 in Malmö At 31 December 2017, based on external appraisals the started when the detailed development plan entered force. estimated market value of Vasakronan’s property portfolio An agreement was signed with COWI and Region Skåne, was SEK 126,875 million compared with SEK 115,922 milwhich means that 47% was already leased at the start of lion at year-end 2016. The change in value during the period construction. was SEK 7,973 million (12,056) and the remaining change in During the quarter, Hubben at Uppsala Science Park and the market value comprised net investments. Refer to Note Nöten 5 at Solna Strand were completed. Both properties 13 on page 97 for more detailed disclosures. were fully leased at the time of completion. Vasakronan has set high goals for environmental certification of its property portfolio. It aims to eventually obtain Higher property values certification for all of its properties and at 31 December 2017, 84% (77) of the portfolio had environmental certifiSEK m 2017 2016 cation. Opening balance, 1 January 115,922 103,894 Investments 2,543 2,035 Property projects Acquisitions, consideration 1,049 58 Ongoing property projects have a total investment volume Sales, consideration –612 –2,121 of SEK 9,397 million (3,423), of which SEK 2,663 million Change in value 7,973 12,056 (2,061) had been capitalised as of 31 December. The occuClosing balance, 31 December 126,875 115,922 Large investments in property projects Total Share Estimated Environ­ invesments, Capitalised, capitalised, Premises completion Occupancy mental Location Property SEK m SEK m % area, sq. m. date rate, %1 certification Stockholm Sergelhuset 3,100 480 15 62,000 Dec 2021 4 LEED Gothenburg Platinan 1,800 252 14 35,500 Dec 2020 54 LEED Stockholm Nattugglan, block 2 800 31 4 15,000 June 2021 80 LEED Malmö Priorn 5 580 41 7 13,200 Dec 2019 47 LEED Uppsala Kronåsen 1:1 Hubben 485 475 98 12,850 Dec 2017 100 LEED Uppsala Kronåsen 1:1 Celsius 420 18 4 10,150 Dec 2020 82 LEED Stockholm, Frösunda Hilton 7 390 303 78 11,000 Jan 2019 2 LEED Stockholm Styrpinnen 15 190 25 13 3,850 June 2019 0 LEED Gothenburg Drivhuset 190 153 80 12,200 April 2018 64 SGBC2) Stockholm Part of Nöten 5 184 181 98 4,400 Nov 2017 100 LEED Gothenburg Part of Läppstiftet 175 147 84 8,800 June 2018 84 LEED2) Gothenburg Bohusgatan 114 23 20 5,400 Dec 2018 100 LEED Total major property projects 8,428 2,129 25 44 Other projects 969 534 Total 9,397 2,663 1) Calculated based on area. 2) Pertains to the property’s prior certification. The project pertains to part of the property and separate certification of the project will not be carried out. VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADMINISTRATION REPORT Deferred tax to SEK 8.0 billion (5.2). During the period, unsecured green Deferred tax is calculated using a nominal rate of 22% on loan agreements were signed for a total of SEK 4.3 billion differences between the carrying amount and tax base of (0.5). The percentage of green funding consisting of green assets and liabilities. At 31 December 2017, the deferred bonds and green loans1) increased during the period to 20% tax liability was SEK 16,824 million (14,362) and pertained (10) of the total loan portfolio. primarily to investment properties. The main reason for The subscription commitment from the First, Second, the increase was the higher market value of the properties. Third and Fourth Swedish National Pension Funds, whereby, at Vasakronan’s request, there is an undertaking Liabilities, and cash and cash equivalents to purchase commercial paper, amounts to SEK 18 billion, Interest-bearing liabilities, net of cash and cash equivalents, with a notice period of two years. Cash and cash equivalents increased to SEK 56,998 million (53,093), primarily due to of SEK 1,423 million (2,147), the unutilised credit facility of dividends distributed during the year. The average loan-­toSEK 18,000 million (18,000) and the unutilised portion of maturity increased to 3.8 years (3.4) and the average the EIB loan of SEK 1,370 million (–) together correspond to loan-to-maturity taking into consideration unutilised credit 152% (127) of loans maturing over the next 12 months or all commitments increased to 4.4 years (3.9). The proportion loan maturities through July 2019. of commercial paper fell to 12% (17) of the total loan port­ Credit margins in the Swedish bond market have steadily folio. The proportion of loans maturing within the next fallen over the year and access to capital is assessed as 12 months decreased to 23% (29), due to decreased combeing very good in both the banking and capital markets. mercial paper borrowing. The percentage of loans maturing 1) A loan where the liquidity goes to investments that help lower energy use and reduce enviin 5 years or more increased to 27% (16) of interest-bearing ronmental impact. liabilities, which is attributable to newly acquired loans with longer maturities. Vasakronan strives to diversify borrowing by allocating across several different sources of funding. At the end of Diversified funding with healthy reserves the period, the share of capital market financing was 68% Amount SEK m Loan limit utilised Share, % (72) and the share of bank financing was 32% (28). The aim Commercial paper 20,000 6,948 12 is to increase the share of unsecured bank financing which, MTNs 50,0001) 17,652 30 during the year, increased to 6% (1) of the total loan port­ Green MTNs 8,035 14 folio. During the year, Vasakronan issued bonds for SEK Inflation-linked MTNs 450 1 10.3 billion (8.0) in the Swedish capital market, as well as NOK MTNs 6,6602) 11 for NOK 2.8 billion (2.9) in the Norwegian capital market. This makes Vasakronan the largest issuer in the Swedish Secured bank loans 15,290 15,290 26 capital market. Secured bank loans of SEK 3.2 billion (4.6) Nordic Investment Bank (NIB) 2,790 2,790 5 were obtained and at year end, bank loans outstanding European Investment Bank (EIB) 1,9663) 596 1 secured against mortgage deeds amounted to 12% (13) Subscription commitment 18,000 of the Group’s total assets. The treasury policy states that Total 58,421 100 collateralised loans must not exceed 20% of total assets. 1) Joint loan limit for EUR, SEK and NOK. 2) The amount corresponds to NOK 6,650 million and is fully hedged. Total green bonds outstanding increased during the period 3) The amount corresponds to EUR 200 million. The average fixed-interest tenor increased to 4.5 years (4.3) and the loan-to-maturity increased to 3.8 years (3.4). Fixed-interest Loan-to-maturity Maturity date SEK m Share, % SEK m Share, % 0–1 year 24,148 41 13,7101) 23 1–2 years 1,530 3 11,686 20 2–3 years 2,314 4 6,774 12 3–4 years 3,690 6 6,318 11 4–5 years 1,989 3 4,320 7 5 years or more 24,750 43 15,613 27 Total 58,421 100 58,421 100 1) The subscription commitment from owners of SEK 18,000 million, unutilised loan commitments from the EIB of SEK 1,370 million plus cash and cash equivalents of SEK 1,423 million corresponded to 152 percent of loans maturing in the next 12 months. 84 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated statement of changes in equity Other contriOther Retained Total Amounts in SEK million Share capital buted capital reserves earnings equity Equity, opening balance at 1 Jan 2016 4,000 4,227 –13 33,031 41,245 Cash-flow hedges, after tax – – 13 – 13 Profit for the year – – – 11,472 11,472 Other comprehensive income – – – –57 –57 Comprehensive income for the year – – 13 11,415 11,428 Dividends – – – –4,500 –4,500 Group contribution paid – – – –2,058 –2,058 Tax effect of Group contribution paid – – – 2 2 Equity, closing balance at 31 Dec 2016 4,000 4,227 – 37,890 46,117 Equity, opening balance at 1 Jan 2017 4,000 4,227 – 37,890 46,117 Profit for the year – – – 9,269 9,269 Other comprehensive income – – – –9 –9 Comprehensive income for the year – – – 9,260 9,260 Dividends – – – –4,000 –4,000 Equity, closing balance at 31 Dec 2017 4,000 4,227 – 43,150 51,377 % 40 % 35 50 30 Equity 40 25 20 Equity increased during the year to SEK 51,377 million 30 15 (46,117) due to positive comprehensive income of SEK 9,269 10 million 20 (11,472). The equity/assets ratio was 39% (38) and 5 the10LTV was 45% (46). 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Lowered LTV Strengthened solvency % % 60 40 50 35 30 40 25 30 20 20 15 10 10 5 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 At 31 December At 31 December VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED CASH-FLOW STATEMENT Consolidated cash-flow statement Amounts in SEK million 2017 2016 Note Operating activities Profit before value changes and tax 3,413 3,217 Adjustment for non-cash items 11 7 33 Net interest 1,165 1,152 Interest paid –1,193 –1,201 Interest received 2 10 Taxes paid –15 –48 Cash flow before changes in working capital 3,383 3,137 Increase (–)/decrease (+) in operating receivables –233 9 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in operating liabilities –39 293 Cash flow from operating activities 3,111 3,439 Investing activities Investments in existing property –2,543 –2,035 19 Property acquisitions –1,049 –58 19 Property divestments 612 2,121 Other PPE, net –5 –11 Other financial assets, net – 6 Cash flow from investing activities –2,985 23 Cash flow after investing activities 126 3,462 Financing activities Dividends and Group contributions –4,000 –7,382 35 Raised debt: interest-bearing liabilities 19,193 16,993 Repayment of debt: interest-bearing liabilities –15,684 –12,708 Redemption of financial instruments –359 –519 Cash flow from financing activities –850 –3,616 Cash flow for the period –724 –154 Opening balance, cash and cash equivalents 2,147 2,301 Cash flow for the period –724 –154 Closing balance, cash and cash equivalents 1,423 2,147 26 86 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ADMINISTRATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comments to the consolidated cash-flow statement Cash flow from operating activities before changes in work3,616). In total, cash and cash equivalents declined SEK 724 ing capital improved SEK 246 million to SEK 3,383 million million (decrease: 154) and was SEK 1,423 million (2,147) (3,137). The improvement was primarily attributable to at the end of the period. higher net operating income. Cash flow from working capital deteriorated by SEK 574 million, which was mainly due to increased deposits to cover margin calls on currency derivaStable cash flow from tives outstanding. Due to the above, cash flow from operating operating activities activities after changes in working capital declined to SEK SEK m 3,111 million (3,439). 4,000 Investments in existing properties increased during the 3,000 period to SEK 2,543 million (2,035) due to major investments in projects. Furthermore, due to property acquisitions and 2,000 fewer property sales, an outflow of SEK 670 ­million (inflow: 1,000 2,063) was charged to cash flow. Cash flow after investing activities thus amounted to SEK 126 million (3,462). 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 In total, net borrowing for the year amounted to SEK 3,150 million (4,285). Dividends paid to owners of SEK 4,000 milCash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital lion (7,382) impacted cash flow from financing activities, Cash flow after investing activities January–December which amounted to an outflow of SEK 850 million (outflow: Property divestments Property Location Buyer Purchase price, SEK m Transfer date Swedish Transport Part of Skytteholm 2:24 Stockholm Administration 4 23 Jan 2017 Part of Gullbergsvass 1:16, 16:1 and 3:3 Gothenburg Gothenburg municipality 170 31 Mar 2017 Benzelius 1 Lund Hemsö 150 1 Jun 2017 Kungsängen 37:1 Uppsala Klövern 285 2 Oct 2017 Part of Telefonfabriken 1 Stockholm HSB 32 21 Nov 2017 Total property value 641 Acquisition-related costs, such as stamp duty and other transaction costs, as well as deduction for deferred tax –29 Total purchase price 612 Property acquisitions Property Location Seller Purchase price, SEK m Transfer date Hammarby Gård 12 Stockholm Skanska 9001) 1 Dec 2017 Solna Järva 2:28, 2:35, 2:36 Solna Järvastaden 1492) 19 Dec 2017 Total property value 1,049 1) Net after deduction for deferred tax. 2) Acquisitions from associated companies. An agreement was signed concerning resale to an external party with vacancy in 2018. VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent Company financial statements INCOME STATEMENT BALANCE SHEET Amounts in SEK million 2017 2016 Note Amounts in SEK million 2017 2016 Note Net sales 453 423 ASSETS Operating expenses –565 –525 7–10 Non-current assets Capital gain on sales – 1 13 Equipment 19 25 20 EBIT –112 –101 Shares and participations in subsidiaries 30,610 30,759 21 Receivables from subsidiaries 9,196 9,771 Financial items Shares and participations in joint ventures 1 1 22 Profit from participations in subsidiaries 3,500 10,796 14 Deferred tax assets 246 478 17 Result from participations in joint ventures 0 0 Derivatives 242 423 32 Interest income 57 70 11 Other non-current receivables 309 54 23 Interest expense –1,184 –1,189 12 Total non-current assets 40,623 41,511 Profit before value changes and tax 2,261 9,576 Current assets Change in value of financial instruments 468 –764 15 Accounts receivable 0 0 24 Appropriations –142 – 16 Receivables from subsidiaries 29,897 28,326 Profit before tax 2,587 8,812 Receivables from joint ventures 150 110 Current tax assets – 15 Tax –326 74 17 Derivatives 33 35 32 Profit for the year 2,261 8,886 Other current receivables, prepaid expenses and accrued income 396 298 25 STATEMENT OF Cash and cash equivalents 1,420 2,146 26 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Total current assets 31,896 30,930 Items that may be reclassified Cash-flow hedges – 17 TOTAL ASSETS 72,519 72,441 Income tax on cash-flow hedges – –4 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax – 13 Total comprehensive income for the year 2,261 8,899 CHANGE IN EQUITY Retained Total Amounts in SEK million Share capital1 ­earnings equity Equity, opening balance at 1 Jan 2016 4,000 4,596 8,596 Cash-flow hedges, after tax – 13 13 Profit for the year – 8,886 8,886 Total comprehensive income – 8,899 8,899 Dividends – –4,500 –4,500 Group contribution paid – –2,058 –2,058 Tax effect of Group contribution paid – 2 2 Equity, closing balance at 31 Dec 2016 4,000 6,939 10,939 Equity, opening balance at 1 Jan 2017 4,000 6,939 10,939 Profit for the year – 2,261 2,261 Total comprehensive income – 2,261 2,261 Dividends – –4,000 –4,000 Equity, closing balance at 31 Dec 2017 4,000 5,200 9,200 1) 40,000,000 shares with a quotient value of SEK 100 per share. 88 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BALANCE SHEET CASH-FLOW STATEMENT Amounts in SEK million 2017 2016 Note Amounts in SEK million 2017 2016 Note EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Operating activities Equity Profit before value changes and tax 2,261 9,576 Restricted equity Add back of financial income Share capital 4,000 4,000 and expenses, net –2,373 –9,677 4,000 4,000 Adjustment for non-cash items 27 9 33 Unrestricted equity Interest paid –1,180 –1,187 Retained earnings 2,939 –1,947 Interest received 57 70 Profit for the year 2,261 8,886 Taxes paid –15 –47 5,200 6,939 Cash flow before changes in working capital Total equity 9,200 10,939 –1,223 –1,256 Untaxed reserves 186 44 16 Increase (–)/decrease (+) in operating receivables –5,915 4,394 Non-current liabilities Increase (+)/decrease (–) in operating liabilities –859 –1,822 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 44,711 39,334 27 Cash flow from Liabilities to subsidiaries – 100 operating activities –7,997 1,316 Derivatives 2,699 3,383 32 Other non-current liabilities 54 158 28 Investing activities Provision for pensions 3 4 Acquisitions of equipment –7 –6 Total non-current liabilities 47,467 42,979 Divestments of equipment 4 3 Acquisition of shares in subsidiaries – 0 Current liabilities Divestment of shares in subsidiaries – 1 Current interest-bearing liabilities 13,710 15,906 27 Dividends received from subsidiaries 8,124 2,148 Accounts payable 4 6 Cash flow from Current tax liabilities 80 – investing activities 8,121 2,146 Liabilities to subsidiaries 1,415 2,041 Cash flow after Derivatives 3 – 32 investing activities 124 3,462 Other current liabilities, accrued expenses and deferred income 454 526 30 Financing activities Total current liabilities 15,666 18,479 Dividends and Group contributions to Parent Company –4,000 –7,382 35 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 72,519 72,441 Raised debt: interest-bearing liabilities 19,193 16,993 Repayment of debt: interest-bearing liabilities –15,684 –12,708 Redemption of financial instruments –359 –519 Parent Company Cash flow from The operations of the Parent Company, Vasakronan AB financing activities –850 –3,616 (publ), consist of Group-wide functions and providing an Cash flow for the period –726 –154 organisation for the management of properties owned by subsidiaries. The Parent Company does not directly own Opening balance, any properties. cash and cash ­equivalents 2,146 2,300 The Parent Company’s revenue for the period was Cash flow for the period –726 –154 SEK 453 million (423), which primarily consists of the Closing balance, cash and cash ­equivalents 1,420 2,146 26 Parent Company’s invoices to the subsidiaries for services rendered. The change in the value of financial instruments was SEK 468 million (negative: 764), which was due to higher long-term interest rates, see page 81. Profit before tax was SEK 2,587 million (8,812). Closing cash and cash equivalents amounted to SEK 1,420 million (2,146). VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Notes NOTE 1 General information Company is exposed to, or is entitled to, variable returns from its investment, and can also affect the returns from the subsidiary by means of its influence. Vasakronan AB (publ), corporate registration number 556061-4603, Initial recognition of Group companies in the consolidated financial is the Parent Company of the Vasakronan Group and is domiciled in statements follows the acquisition method. Any surplus comprising the Stockholm. The address of its registered office is Mäster Samuelsgatan 56, difference between compensation paid and the fair value of the Group’s Box 30074, 104 25 Stockholm, Sweden. Vasakronan AB is owned by share of identifiable acquired net assets is recognised as goodwill. Vasakronan Holding AB, corporate registration number 556650-4196, Group companies are fully consolidated from the date on which control which is owned in turn in equal shares by the First, Second, Third and is transferred to the Group, and they are deconsolidated from the date Fourth Swedish national pension funds. that control ceases. Intra-Group transactions, balances, and any unrealThe Group’s operations comprise the ownership, management and ised gains and losses arising from intra-Group transactions are eliminated development of properties with the aim of providing owners with a high in preparing the consolidated financial statements. and stable, long-term return. The Parent Company Vasakronan AB has When the acquisition of a Group company does not pertain to a busipersonnel employed to manage and administer the Group’s properties. ness combination, but instead pertains to an asset acquisition in the form The Parent Company’s assets mainly comprise shares and participations of investment properties, the cost is allocated across the net acquired in the companies that own the properties. assets in the acquisition analysis. Note 3.2 includes a description of The annual accounts and consolidated accounts were approved by Vasakronan’s criteria for business combinations and asset acquisitions. the Board for publication on 21 March 2018 and will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting for adoption on 3 May 2018. 2.3.2 Joint ventures Through partnership agreements with one or more parties, Vasakronan shares controlling influence over other companies, which are known as NOTE 2 S  ummary of important accounting and joint arrangements. All joint arrangements are classified as joint ventures since the agreement terms or the entities’ legal forms entitle the particivaluation policies pants to the net assets of the related arrangement. Holdings in joint ventures are recognised using the equity method, The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance which means that the consolidated carrying amount of the holding is with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted adjusted with Vasakronan’s share of profit for the year and any dividends by the EU together with the interpretations issued by the IFRS Interprereceived. Accordingly, the Group’s share of joint ventures’ annual earnings tations Committee (IFRIC) as determined on 31 December 2017. Moreis included in the consolidated income statement. over, the consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant When losses in a joint venture exceed the Group’s share, the Group to the Swedish Annual Accounts Act through application of Swedish does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1, Supplementary made payments on behalf of the joint venture. Accounting Rules for Corporate Groups. The Parent Company applies Intre-Group gains and losses as a result of transactions with these the same accounting policies as the Group with the exceptions and supcompanies are eliminated in relationship to the Group’s holding. Where plements stipulated in the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recomthe accounting policies of joint ventures do not agree with those of the mendation RFR 2, Accounting for Legal Entities. This means that the Group, adjustments have been made so that joint ventures’ accounting IFRS are applied together with the deviations presented below in the policies correspond with the consolidated accounting policies. Parent Company’s accounting policies section. The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these 2.4 Segment reporting consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies were Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the interconsistently applied for all years presented, unless otherwise stated. nal reporting provided to the Group management and the chief operating IAS 7 has impacted disclosures pertaining to the cash-flow statement. decision-maker. The above are responsible for allocating resources and No other IFRS changes that entered force in 2017 have had any material assessing the performance of the operating segments. Vasakronan has impact on the Group’s financial statements. determined that the chief operating decision-maker (CODM) is the CEO of the Parent Company and the Group’s management collectively 2.1 Basis of preparation of the consolidated and as the Management Group. Parent Company financial statements Business activities have been organised according to the geographic The Parent Company’s functional currency is Swedish krona (SEK). regions of Stockholm, Gothenburg, Uppsala and Öresund. These regions SEK is also the presentation currency for the Parent Company and the thus represent the four operating segments used for reporting purposes. Group. All amounts are stated in SEK millions, unless otherwise stated. Amounts pertain to the 1 January to 31 December period for income­2.5 Revenue, income and expenses statement items and 31 December for balance-sheet items. 2.5.1 Rental revenue The consolidated financial statements have been prepared applying Lease agreements are classified as operating leases in accordance with a historical cost convention, except for the measurement of investment Note 2.6 below. The Group’s revenue primarily consists of rental reveproperties, and certain financial assets and liabilities, which were meanue and additional rental charges. Rental revenue including additional sured at fair value. charges are invoiced in advance and allocated over a straight line so that The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or only the portion of the rents that fall due during the period are recognised areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolias revenue. When applicable, recognised revenue is reduced by the cost dated financial statements are disclosed in more detail in Note 3. of incentives. For lease agreements with reduced rent over a specified period, larger amounts are allocated in a straight line over the term of 2.2 Classification the agreement. Non-current assets and non-current liabilities comprise amounts that Surrender premia paid by tenants in conjunction with vacating leases are expected to be recovered or paid more than 12 months after the prior to lease expiry are recognised as revenue in conjunction with the balance-sheet date. Current assets and current liabilities comprise termination of the agreement with the tenant and when no commitments amounts that are expected to be recovered or paid within 12 months remain from Vasakronan, which generally arises on vacation of the after the balance-sheet date. premises. Rental revenue includes amounts invoiced to tenants for utility expenses, property tax and other expenses, when Vasakronan has not 2.3 Consolidated accounts acted as the tenant’s representative. 2.3.1 Group and subsidiaries Group companies are all entities over which Vasakronan exercises a 2.5.2 Administration costs controlling influence. Subsidiaries are companies owned directly by The Group’s administration costs are divided into property administraVasakronan AB (publ). A “controlling influence” entails that the Parent tion and central administration. Property administration is included in 90 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the Group’s net operating income. Central administration comprises 2.9 Equipment costs at the Group level that are not directly related to property manEquipment mainly comprises office equipment and vehicles, which are agement, such as the costs associated with the Group management, recognised at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment Group-wide support functions, financing and central marketing. losses. Equipment is depreciated using the straight-line method over a five-year period. Residaul values are assumed to be negligible and are 2.5.3 Income from property sales therefore not taken into consideration. Depreciation is calculated from Property sales are recognised on the date of transfer, unless the risks the time the asset is taken into use. and benefits associated with the property were transferred to the buyer at an earlier date. An assessment of whether or not risks and benefits 2.10 Impairment have been transferred is conducted for each divestment. By definition, goodwill has an indefinite useful life and the Group’s brand has also been assessed as having an indefinite useful life. Such assets are 2.5.4 Financial income and expenses not subject to amortisation. Instead, their values are tested annually or Financial income and expenses are recognised in the period in which on the indication of a decline in value for impairment. Goodwill arising they arise. Interest income on receivables and interest expenses on liaon acquisitions that are not considered as asset acquisitions (see Note bilities are calculated using the effective interest method. The effective 3.2) is tested for each property or balance-sheet item for which goodwill interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts future cash payments or was allocated at the acquisition date, which is the lowest level monitored receipts throughout the fixed-interest tenor to the carrying amount of by the management. the financial asset or financial liability. Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever an indication arises that the carrying amount may not be 2.6 Leases recoverable. Leases in which all significant risks and benefits of ownership are retained An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Under this basis, all of the carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable Group’s lease agreements are classified as operating leases. Properties amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and leased out under operating leases are included in investment properties. value in use. See Note 2.5.1 for the accounting policy relating to rental revenue. Investment properties are measured continuously at fair value Payments made under operating leases, where Vasakronan is the through profit or loss, and are therefore not encompassed by the above lessee, are charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the policy. A need for impairment can arise for the Parent Company’s shares period of the lease. in subsidiaries if the carrying amount is higher than the respective subsidiary’s consolidated value, see 2.16.1 for more information. 2.7 Intangible assets 2.7.1 Goodwill 2.11 Financial instruments Intangible assets primarily consist of goodwill. Goodwill comprises the Financial instruments reported in the balance sheet include the following difference between any consideration paid and the fair value of the net assets: cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, receivables from assets acquired. In the Group, this mainly pertains to the difference joint ventures and derivatives; as well as the following liabilities: accounts between nominal tax and the calculated tax applied for the acquisition, payable, borrowings and derivatives. With the exception of the categories when the acquisition comprises a business combination. of financial instruments and liabilities that are recognised at fair value in Goodwill has been allocated to the respective properties acquired. profit or loss, financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value Impairment testing is conducted annually to ensure the carrying amount with an addition for transaction costs. Thereafter, recognition differs allocated across the acquired properties does not exceed the recoverable depending on how the financial instruments are classified below. amount. When a property is sold, or alternatively if a need for impairment 2.11.1 Cash and cash equivalents arises, goodwill attributable to the property is eliminated and recognised Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with as “Divested/impaired goodwill,” refer to Note 18 for more information. banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less. Cash and cash equivalents are recognised at nomi2.7.2 Other intangible assets nal amounts. In addition to goodwill, the Group’s intangible assets include brands acquired through business combinations, which were valued at fair value 2.11.2 Accounts receivable at the acquisition date. The value of the brand is tested annually, or on Accounts receivable are initially recognised at fair value and thereafter the indication of a decline in value, to identify any need for impairment at amortised cost less any provision for impairment. Accounts receivable and is recognised at cost less the accumulated impairments. are impaired when there is evidence that the Group will not receive payment. The size of the provision is dictated by the difference between the 2.8 Investment properties asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash All properties in the Group are classified as investment properties on flows. Any impairment is recognised as an expense in profit or loss. the basis that they are held to generate rental revenue and capital appreciation. On initial recognition, investment property is recognised 2.11.3 Liabilities at cost, including directly attributable transaction costs. Borrowings are recognised at amortised cost, net of transaction costs. Thereafter, the properties are recognised at fair value on each Any difference between the amount received and the redemption value, reporting date. for example in the form of premiums or discounts, is recognised in the Fair value is primarily based on prices in an active market and comprofit or loss allocated over the tenor of the loan. Borrowings are classiprises the amount at which an asset could be transferred between fied as current liabilities if the Group has an unconditional right to defer knowledgeable, willing parties. To establish the properties’ fair value at payment of the obligation for up to 12 months after the balance-sheet each reporting date, market valuations are conducted for all properties. date. Accounts payable have short expected due dates and are measured Changes in the fair value of investment properties are recognised as at nominal amounts. value changes in profit or loss. The term investment properties includes land and buildings, land 2.11.4 Derivatives improvements, building and land installations, and ongoing works. Vasakronan uses derivatives to achieve the desired fixed-interest tenors Further information regarding the fair values of investment properties and to limit the company’s interest risk, currency risk and price risk for is disclosed in Note 13. electricity. Derivatives may only be used for risk management within the Subsequent expenditure is capitalised when it is probable that future framework of the financial policy and the electricity trading policy. Deriveconomic benefits associated with the expenditure will flow to the ative contracts entered into currently comprise interest rate swaps, Group, that is, when the expenditure adds value. Other repairs and currency swaps, swaptions and electricity forwards. maintenance costs are expensed when incurred. Derivatives are recognised in the balance sheet at the contract date In the case of new construction, extensions or redevelopments, and are measured on an ongoing basis at fair value. Changes in fair value interest expense during the production period is capitalised in accorof all derivatives are recognised in profit or loss as a change in value. dance with IAS 23 Borrowing Costs, see Note 12. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES 2.11.5 Fair value measurement 2.15 Forthcoming standards The fair value of financial instruments traded on an active market is New standards and interpretations that enter force for financial years based on market valuations obtained from current market data. The bid beginning after 1 January 2017 have not been applied in preparing this price is used for financial assets and the put price for financial liabilities. report. The new standards and interpretations are expected to have the The fair value of derivatives is calculated as the present value of estimated following impact on the consolidated financial statements: future cash flows. The fair value of financial liabilities is calculated by disIFRS 9 will be applied by the Group for financial years starting counting future contracted cash flows at the current market interest rate. 1 January 2018. In accordance with the standard’s transition rules, the The nominal values of accounts receivable and accounts payable, in Group will not restate comparative figures for the 2017 financial year. In other words, less any estimated credits, are assumed to correspond to autumn 2017, an analysis and valuation were carried out of the Group’s their fair values. financial instruments. The assessment is that the new classification and Disclosures pertaining to the fair value of financial assets and liabilities measurement rules will not have any material impact on the Group’s are available in Note 32. financial position at the transition date. Nor will the new impairment model, which is based on expected credit losses instead of on incurred 2.12 Employee compensation credit loss events, have any material impact since, historically, credit Remuneration of employees is in the form of salaries, paid holiday, paid losses have been low and, given the risk nature of the receivables, these sick leave, etc., and other benefits as well as pensions. are expected to remain low going forward. IFRS 15 will be applied by the Group for financial years starting 2.12.1 Post-employment benefits 1 January 2018. The comparative figures for 2017 will not be restated. The Group operates both defined-benefit and defined-contribution The effects of a transition to IFRS 15 were analysed in autumn 2017. pension plans. A defined-contribution plan is a pension plan under which The Group’s revenue is essentially rental revenue, which is recognised Vasakronan pays fixed contributions into a separate legal entity, thereby pursuant to IAS 17 Leases. Other revenue is not a significant amount discharging its obligation to the employee. Defined-contribution plans and is assessed as only leading to expanded disclosure requirements. are recognised as costs in the period to which the premiums paid pertain. In respect of property sales and assuming customary contractual condiDefined-benefit pension plans guarantee the amount the employee tions, these are recognised on the date of taking possession and are not will receive in post-employment benefits on retirement. The commitment adjudged to be affected by IFRS 15. Consequently, the transition to recognised for the defined-benefit obligation is calculated by indepenIFRS 15 will have no effect on consolidated equity. dent actuaries at the present value of future disbursements by using the IFRS 16 Leases applies from 1 January 2019 and replaces IAS 17 interest rate on high-quality mortgage bonds with corresponding Leases and the related interpretations IFRIC 4, SIC-15 and SIC-27. maturities to the term of the actual pension obligation. The calculation For lessees, the standard will no longer distinguish between operating of the obligation is also based on a number of other factors such as age, and financial leases. Lessor accounting remains essentially unchanged. salary and period of service. IFRS 16 will impact the consolidated accounting for leases where the Actuarial gains and losses as a result of experience-based adjustments company is the lessee. Among other things, the Group’s ground rent and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in other comprehenagreements will be recognised in the balance sheet and thus increase sive income in the period in which they arise. total assets. The income statement will be impacted, since the Group will have increased financial expenses and reduced leasing fees in operating 2.13 Taxes profit. The assessment is that the introduction of the standard will have The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. limited impact on the financial statements, since the Group is primarily Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it a lessor. The effects will be quantified in 2018. For further information relates to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income or about the Group’s obligations pertaining to ground rent agreements, equity — in which case, the tax is also recognised in other comprehenrefer to Note 6. sive income or equity. There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group. 2.13.1 Current tax The current income tax charge is calculated on the taxable income for the 2.16 Parent Company accounting policies period. Taxable income differs from profit, in that it has been adjusted for The Parent Company has prepared its annual accounts in conformity non-taxable income and non-deductible items. Current tax is tax that is with the Annual Accounts Act and the Recommendations of the Swedish to be paid or received in the current year adjusted with any current tax Financial Reporting Board in RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities. attributable to previous periods. The Parent Company applies the same policies as the Group with the exceptions and additions set out below. The Parent Company has 2.13.2 Deferred tax applied the same policies as last year. Deferred tax is recognised according to the balance sheet method, which means that deferred tax assets and tax liabilities are recognised 2.16.1 Subsidiaries in the balance sheet for all temporary differences that arise between Shares in subsidiaries are recognised in the Parent Company using the the carrying amount and the tax base of an asset or liability. However, cost method. Carrying amounts are tested each quarter against the deferred tax is not recognised if the temporary difference arises from subsidiaries’ equity. Where the carrying amount exceeds the consolithe initial recognition of assets or liabilities in an asset acquisition. dated fair value of the subsidiaries, impairment is charged to profit or Deferred income tax assets pertaining to deductible temporary differloss. Investment properties are measured at fair value when calculating ences and tax losses are recognised only to the extent that it is probable the consolidated value, refer to Note 2.8. Where an earlier impairment that future taxable profit will be available against which the amounts is no longer justified, it is reversed. can be utilised. Deferred income tax is calculated based on tax rates and tax laws that 2.16.2 Revenue have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance-sheet date Dividends are recognised when the entitlement to receive payment is and, which are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is considered certain. Income from the sale of subsidiaries is recognised realised or the deferred tax liability is settled. when the risks and benefits of the holding in the subsidiary have transferred to the buyer. 2.14 Provisions A provision is reported in the balance sheet when the Group has an 2.16.3 Group contributions present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and it Vasakronan equates Group contributions paid to the owner Vasakronan is likely that an outflow of financial resources will be required to settle Holding AB with dividends and recognises these in equity. Group contrithe obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. butions received and paid from and to subsidiaries are recognised as Provisions are classified as current liabilities if the Group is entitled to profit from participations in subsidiaries in profit or loss. defer payment of the obligation for up to 12 months after the balance-­ sheet date, otherwise provisions are classified as non-current liabilities. 92 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 3 Critical judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally 3.2 Criteria for business combinations and asset acquisitions accepted accounting principles requires that the management and Board When a company is acquired, the acquisition meets the criteria for either make judgements and assumptions that affect the amounts recognised a business combination or an asset acquisition. A transaction qualifies as for assets, liabilities, income and expenses, as well as other information an asset acquisition if it pertains to properties, with or without leases, but disclosed. These judgements are based on experience and the various excluding an organisation and the administrative processes required for assumptions that are considered reasonable by the management and property management. Other acquisitions are business combinations. the Board in view of the prevailing circumstances. The actual results The management determines for each acquisition which criteria have may deviate from these estimates and assessments should the circumbeen met. The assessment is that all acquisitions in 2017 and 2016 were stances and conditions change. The following assessments are those asset acquisitions. deemed most significant in preparing the company’s financial reports. 3.3 Recoverable amount for goodwill 3.1 Fair value of investment properties Goodwill arises on the difference between the nominal and the calcuInvestment properties are recognised at fair value, which is determined lated tax applied for business combinations. by the management based on the properties’ market values. Accordingly, The value of goodwill is tested each quarter to ensure the carrying significant assessments have been made with regard to the cost of capital amount allocated across the acquired properties does not exceed the and yield requirements. These assessments are based on the valuers’ recoverable amount. The recoverable amount for goodwill is impacted experience-based assessments of market return requirements for comby assessments made by the management, where assessments of the parable properties. Cash flow projections for operating, maintenance market value of deferred tax have the greatest impact. These assessand administration costs are based on actual costs but also on experiments are primarily made by taking into account observable market ence from comparable properties. Future investments have been data for completed transactions. When establishing the fair value for assessed based on actual requirements. The market valuation section goodwill at the end of 2017, the assessment was that when marked-toon page 97 contains more detailed information on assessments and market deferred tax averaged 6.6% (5.5). assumptions. Yield requirements on valuation at 31 Dec 2017, % Valuation assumptions at 31 Dec 2017, weighted average Lowest–Highest Average Inflation assumption 2.0% Central Stockholm 3.55–5.40 4.24 Cost of capital — cash flow 6.25% Stockholm’s inner suburbs 4.30–7.50 5.34 Cost of capital — residual value 6.49% Gothenburg 3.90–5.00 4.63 Yield — residual value 4.48% Malmö 4.10–5.50 5.03 Long-term vacancy rate 4.76% Lund 4.10–5.90 5.57 Operating and maintenance costs, year 1 SEK 404/sq. m. Uppsala 4.80–6.15 5.41 Investments, year 1 SEK 1,033/sq. m. Market rent (at zero vacancies) SEK 3,031/sq. m. Sensitivity analysis — market values Factors impacting value Value impact, % Value impact, SEK m Yield requirement and cost of capital +1 percentage point –17.6 –22,352 Yield requirement and cost of capital –1 percentage point 27.7 35,197 Market rents +/– SEK/50 sq. m. +/–1.9 +/–2,422 Operating and maintenance costs +/– SEK/25 sq. m. –/+1.0 –/+1,211 Long-term vacancy rate +1/– percentage point –/+1.1 –/+1,423 The above sensitivity analysis only shows the effects of changing one isolated factor. Many of the factors are affected by the same underlying changes and could impact each other. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES NOTE 4 Segment reporting – Group Vasakronan’s segment allocation comprises the following geographies: and costs are assessed as Group-wide and are therefore not allocated Stockholm, Gothenburg, Öresund and Uppsala. This allocation correby segment. The balance-sheet items, investment properties and goodsponds with the internal reporting structure. will, are broken down to their respective segments. Other assets, and The allocation of results by segment down to net operating income equity and liabilities are assessed as largely Group-wide and, accordlevel. Thereafter, only the change in value of investment properties and ingly, are not allocated. divested/impaired goodwill is broken down by segment. Other revenue Stockholm Gothenburg Öresund Uppsala Group-wide Total Income statement 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rental revenue 4,026 3,840 1,246 1,205 755 756 463 450 – – 6,490 6,251 Operating expenses –387 –399 –99 –102 –114 –119 –62 –61 – – –662 –681 Repairs and maintenance –64 –64 –14 –15 –17 –15 –15 –11 – – –110 –105 Property administration –167 –151 –67 –60 –58 –52 –39 –37 – – –331 –300 Property tax –358 –357 –100 –98 –60 –62 –26 –27 – – –544 –544 Ground rents –148 –153 –9 –2 –8 –7 0 0 – – –165 –162 Property expenses –1,124 –1,124 –289 –277 –257 –255 –142 –136 – – –1,812 –1,792 Net operating income 2,902 2,716 957 928 498 501 321 314 – – 4,678 4,459 Central administration – – – – – – – – –97 –87 –97 –87 Result from participations in joint ventures – – – – – – – – –3 –3 –3 –3 Interest income – – – – – – – – 2 10 2 10 Interest expense – – – – – – – – –1,167 –1,162 –1,167 –1,162 Profit before value changes and tax 3,413 3,217 Change in value of investment properties 6,325 8,472 1,067 2,106 20 924 561 554 – – 7,973 12,056 Change in value of financial instruments – – – – – – – – 468 –764 468 –764 Divested/impaired goodwill – –13 –16 –4 –4 –1 –6 – – – –26 –18 Profit before tax 11,828 14,491 Stockholm Gothenburg Öresund Uppsala Group-wide Total Balance sheet 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Investment properties 82,978 74,299 23,688 22,147 12,667 12,605 7,542 6,871 – – 126,875 115,922 of which, investments during the year 1,339 1,169 644 423 182 158 378 285 – – 2,543 2,035 of which, acquisitions/sales during the year 1,016 –1,960 –170 0 –141 –50 –267 –53 – – 438 –2,063 Goodwill 1,083 1,083 446 461 436 441 80 86 – – 2,045 2,071 Other assets – – – – – – – – 3,363 4,063 3,363 4,063 Total assets 84,061 75,382 24,134 22,608 13,103 13,046 7,622 6,957 3,363 4,063 132,283 122,056 With the exception of development properties, no properties were entirely vacant in 2017 and 2016. Rental revenue also includes rental revenue from sold properties. 94 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 5 Rental revenue NOTE 7 Administration Change in the Group’s rental revenue between 2016 and 2017 Group 2017 2016 Rental revenue as per income statement, 2016 6,251 Personnel costs –285 –257 Change in comparable property holdings 245 Procured services –49 –41 Plus development properties –2 IT –45 –41 Plus acquired properties 4 Marketing –14 –15 Less sold properties –8 Depreciation, equipment –11 –11 Rental revenue as per income statement, 2017 6,490 Other –24 –22 Total rental revenue was SEK 6,490 million, of which SEK 46 million (36) Total –428 –387 comprised turnover rent. Lease portfolio expiry structure Recognised in profit or loss: No. of contracts Annual rent, SEK m Property administration –331 –300 Expires within 1 year1) 2,517 1,241 Central administration –97 –87 2019 958 1,167 Total –428 –387 2020 830 1,120 The operations of the Parent Company, consist of Group-wide functions 2021 394 734 and providing an organisation for the management of properties owned 2022 174 573 by other Group companies. The property management costs are invoiced to the property owning companies as property administration. More than 5 years 578 1,803 Other Parent Company costs pertain to central administration that is Total 5,451 6,638 not directly related to property management, such as the costs associated with the Group management, property investments, financing and 1) Of which, 1,168 residential leases with annual rents amounting to SEK 98 million. central marketing. At year end, the average term for the lease portfolio was 4.2 years (4.3). Auditors’ fees Of contracted rents, 95% (95) pertained to commercial leases and 5% Group/ (5) to leases for residential and parking facilities. There are some 4,300 Parent Company commercial leases (4,200) allocated across tenants in a number of differ2017 2016 ent industries, of which public sector tenants account for 24% (24) of contracted rents. No single tenant accounts for more than 3% of rental PwC revenue. For the purpose of reducing credit loss exposure, the credit Audit engagement 1.1 1.4 ratings of tenants are checked in the case of new lettings and on an Audit activities other than ongoing basis over lease periods, and in some cases, collateral is required. the audit engagement 0.1 0.1 All leases are classified as operating leases. Tax advice 0.1 0.2 Other services – 0.4 NOTE 6 Expenses allocated by category Ernst & Young Audit engagement – 0.0 Group Audit activities other than 2017 2016 the audit engagement – 0.1 Repairs and maintenance –110 –105 Tax advice – 0.0 Property tax –544 –544 Other services – 0.0 Ground rents –165 –162 Total 1.3 2.2 Other direct property expenses –657 –677 Personnel costs –391 –350 The costs for the audit of Vasakronan Holding AB and other Group companies is defrayed by Vasakronan AB and, accordingly, the Parent Depreciation –16 –16 Company’s audit costs are the same as those for the Group. Other external expenses –26 –25 Total –1,909 –1,879 NOTE 8 Average number of employees Recognised in profit or loss: 2017 2016 Property expenses –1,812 –1,792 Number of Of whom, Number of Of whom, Central administration –97 –87 employees women employees women Total –1,909 –1,879 Parent Company 345 41% 338 39% Group 345 338 Group All of the group’s staff are employed by the Parent Company, Ground rent agreements 2017 2016 Vasakronan AB. Expires <1 year 4 11 >1 year but <5 years 6 44 >5 years 1,104 774 Total 1,114 829 Ground rent agreements in subsidiaries are the Group’s only operating leases where Vasakronan is the lessee. Expected outcomes have been forecast for ongoing negotiations. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES NOTE 9 Salaries, other benefits and social security costs Group Parent Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Senior executives1) 29 28 29 28 Other employees 193 183 193 183 Total salaries and benefits 222 211 222 211 Pension costs 70 55 70 55 Social security costs 90 84 90 84 Total 382 350 382 350 2017 Basic salary/Board Senior executives, SEK 000 and committee fees1) Other benefits2) Pension costs Total Chairman of the Board: Mats Wäppling 695 – – 695 Board member: Jan-Olof Backman 260 – – 260 Board Member: Ann-Sofi Danielsson3) 130 – – 130 Board member: Christel Kinning 260 – – 260 Board member: Rolf Lydahl 320 – – 320 Board Member: Per Uhlén4) 125 – – 125 Chief Executive Officer: Fredrik Wirdenius 6,130 57 1,800 7,987 Other senior executives (12) 21,494 367 9,352 31,213 Total 29,414 424 11,152 40,990 2016 Basic salary/Board Senior executives, SEK 000 and committee fees1) Other benefits2) Pension costs Total Chairman of the Board: Mats Wäppling 680 – – 680 Board member; Jan-Olof Backman 250 – – 250 Board member: Christel Kinning 250 – – 250 Board member: Rolf Lydahl 310 – – 310 Board Member: Per Uhlén 250 – – 250 Chief Executive Officer: Fredrik Wirdenius 5,836 51 1,684 7,571 Other senior executives (12) 20,810 411 9,015 30,236 Total 28,386 462 10,699 39,547 1) Remuneration to employees pertains to remuneration paid in 2017, while remuneration to the Board pertains to Board fees as adopted by the AGM. 2) Other benefits pertain primarily to costs for group health insurance and group life insurance. 3) Ann-Sofi Danielsson was elected to the Board at the May 2017 AGM. Board fees amount to SEK 260,000 per year and Audit Committee fees to SEK 25,000 per year. 4) Pertains to fees paid in 2017. Per Uhlén stepped down from the Board in conjunction with the May 2017 AGM. Salaries and other benefits Pensions Salaries and other benefits for the CEO and other senior executives The pension rights of salaried employees are covered pursuant to the BTP consist only of fixed salaries. Other senior executives refers to the 12 pension plan (the occupational pension plan for Swedish bank employees). individuals who, together with the CEO, comprise the Management The pension plan is financed through payments to SPP. According to Group, refer to page 75. a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board UFR 10, this Fees to the Chairman and Board members are payable as per the comprises a multi-employer defined-benefit plan. Vasakronan applies resolution of the AGM, which means, inter alia, that Board members IAS 19 Employee Benefits for reporting these defined-benefit pensions, employed by the Swedish national pension funds or Vasakronan do not refer to the accounting policies on page 92. Other employees are covreceive any fees. No Board members received any fees other than ered by defined-contribution pension solutions with AMF. Board and committee fees. Board members have the right to invoice The CEO’s employment contract extends until he reaches the age of their fees through a company with an additional amount corresponding 62. The pension terms and conditions are defined-benefit and adhere to to the social security expenses and VAT with the proviso that fiscal the terms and conditions of the BTP plan, and calculated based on a penconditions allow and that the result is cost-neutral for Vasakronan. sion age of 65. Moreover, during the contracted employment period, a supplementary and defined-contribution pension provision is made. Variable compensation Should the provision amount to less than 30% of pensionable monthly Variable compensation is payable to all employees except the CEO and salary, a supplementary payment is made up to 30%. Settlement should other senior executives. For 2017, variable compensation was based be carried out by the end of February, the year after the settlement year. on targets for earnings, customer satisfaction and occupancy rate, and Other senior executives have a pension solution in the form of the could result in a maximum outcome of two months’ salary. A provision BTP plan, and what is known as the “10-pointer solution” for individuals has been made in the annual accounts for an estimated outcome correwith an annual income in excess of ten income base amounts. The retiresponding to one month’s salary and was established on an individual ment age is 65 for other senior executives. basis in Q1 2018. Variable compensation for the 2016 financial year was distributed during the year and was also capped at two months’ salary. Notice period and severance pay The average outcome corresponded to 1.3 months’ salary. The CEO must give notice of six months, unless notice is served by the company, in which case the notice period is 12 months. In the event that notice is given by the company, the CEO will receive severance pay corresponding to 12 months’ salary. If the CEO receives remuneration 96 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS from other employment, the severance pay is reduced by a corresponding amount. If the employment is terminated by the CEO, no severance NOTE 12 Interest expense pay is due. In the case of other senior executives, employment is subject to a Parent mutual notice period of six months. If employment is terminated by the Group Company company, the senior executive is entitled to severance pay of 12 months’ 2017 2016 2017 2016 salary, unless the executive is more than 50 at the time, in which case Interest expense –1,122 –1,135 –1,122 –1,134 severance pay will amount to 18 months’ salary. If the executive receives remuneration from other employment, the severance pay is reduced by Other financial expenses –92 –84 –62 –55 a corresponding amount. If the employment is terminated by the senior Capitalised interest 47 57 – – executive, no severance pay is due. Total –1,167 –1,162 –1,184 –1,189 Gender breakdown of Board members and senior executives In the case of new construction, extensions or redevelopments, the interest 2017 2016 expense during the production period is capitalised. The average interest No. on Of No. on Of rate for the loan portfolio over the period is used for capitalising interest balance-­ whom, balance-­ whom, expense. In 2017, the average interest rate was 1.89% (2.02). sheet date women sheet date women Other financial expenses mainly comprised costs pertaining to the Board members 9 4 9 3 subscription commitment and stamp duty on mortgage deeds. Senior executives 13 6 13 6 Senior executives refers to the CEO and the 12 (12) individuals who, NOTE 13 Change in value of together with the CEO, comprise the company’s Management Group. investment properties NOTE 10 Intra-Group transactions 2017 Group 2016 Development properties 1,000 1,399 Of the Parent Company’s purchases during the financial year, 12% (17) Transactions 346 461 pertained to purchases from Group companies. Intra-Group costs mainly comprised rent. Investment properties: Of the Parent Company’s sales during the financial year, 97% (96) Changed yield requirement 2,841 5,554 pertained to purchases from Group companies. Intra-Group revenue Change in market rents 5,425 6,714 comprises the property management costs invoiced on by the Parent Company to the property-owning Group companies. Changed assumptions pertaining to investments and other value-impacting factors –1,639 –2,072 Change in value of investment properties 7,973 12,056 NOTE 11 Interest income The properties sold in 2017 are detailed on page 87. The total rental value for properties sold in 2017 was SEK 36 million. During the year, Parent the Parent Company conducted no sales (SEK 1 million) of properties Group Company in a corporate wrapper. 2017 2016 2017 2016 For more information, please refer to the sensitivity analysis on Interest income 2 3 2 2 page 80. Other financial income 0 0 0 0 Interest income from Parent Company – 7 – 7 Interest income from subsidiaries – – 55 61 Total 2 10 57 70 Valuation methods Vasakronan recognises its properties at fair value in the balance sheet. Rental inflows are calculated based on existing property leases until the These fair values correspond to the properties’ market values, refer to end of the contract. Property leases with rents payable assessed as being Note 19. Each quarter, Vasakronan therefore measures property values at market rates have been assumed to be extended under unchanged with the aim of identifying the assessed market value. Changes in market terms after the end of the current contract period, while other rents for values are recognised as value changes in profit or loss. premises have been adjusted to assessed market rent levels. For resiVasakronan applies IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement for investment dential properties, rent trends over the calculation horizon have been properties, which entails using a three-level hierarchy. Level 1 — Means assumed to rise in pace with assumed inflation rates. that there are quoted prices on active markets for identical assets or Projections for operating, maintenance and administration costs are liabilities, and which were available to the company at the time of valuabased on actual costs as well as on experience from comparable propertion. Level 2 — Inputs other than level 1 that are directly or indirectly ties, and have been prepared with consideration for the use, age and the observable for the asset or liability. Level 3 — Unobservable inputs for the maintenance status of the object. Investments have been assessed asset or liability. At Vasakronan, investment properties are recognised based on actual requirements. The external valuers inspect each propat fair value in accordance with level 3 above. erty every three years. The properties have been measured using the same valuation princiThe cost of capital and requirements for yields are based on the valuples since 1997. The valuation process is governed by a valuation policy ers’ experience-based assessments of market return requirements for under which all properties are valued by external parties at year end and comparable properties, see Note 3. As decision data, the valuation commid year, and valued internally at the end of the first and third quarters. panies have been able to use all applicable property leases, information External valuations are conducted pursuant to the RICS Red Book. In about vacant premises, actual operating and maintenance costs, and parallel with the external valuations, an internal control of the reasonableplanned investments. Historic outcomes and forecasts for 2017 were ness of these valuations is carried out. In 2017, the external valuations also used. were conducted by Cushman & Wakefield or Forum Fastighetsekonomi. If an agreement has been signed regarding the sale of a property, the The market values are assessed using a yield-based valuation method agreed property value is used as the market value in the next quarterly that utilises cash-flow statements with a horizon of at least ten years. accounts. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES NOTE 14 Profit from participations in subsidiaries NOTE 16 Appropriations and untaxed reserves Parent Company Parent Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Group contributions received and paid 1,734 917 Appropriations Dividends from participations in subsidiaries 1,124 9,148 Provision to tax allocation reserve –142 – Profit from participations in subsidiaries 661 730 Total –142 – Impairment and reversal of impairment in participations in subsidiaries –19 1 Untaxed reserves Total 3,500 10,796 Tax allocation reserve, 2015 fiscal year 44 44 Profit from participations in subsidiaries pertains to earnings generated Tax allocation reserve, 2017 fiscal year 142 – by general and limited partnerships owned by Vasakronan AB. Total 186 44 NOTE 15 Change in value of financial instruments Parent Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Interest-rate derivatives 824 –262 824 –262 Settlement of hedged borrowings – –1 – –1 Dissolution of hedging reserve – –9 – –9 Early settlement of derivatives –359 –519 –359 –519 Valuation allowances for foreign currency loans 160 80 160 80 Valuation allowances for currency derivatives –160 –80 –160 –80 Electricity derivatives 3 27 3 27 Total 468 –764 468 –764 Hedge accounting for derivatives is no longer applied from 2011. The remaining hedging reserve in equity of SEK 9 million was dissolved in 2016. 98 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 17 Tax Group Parent Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Recognised profit before tax 11,828 14,491 2,587 8,812 Tax on profit according to current tax rate, 22.0% –2,602 –3,188 –569 –1,939 Tax attributable to previous fiscal years 0 1 0 Tax effect of: Non-taxable sale of subsidiaries 52 175 – 0 Divested goodwill –6 –4 – – Non-taxable dividend – – 247 2,013 Impairment of participations – – –4 0 Other non-taxable income/non-deductible costs –2 –2 0 0 Other adjustments –1 –1 0 0 Tax expense recognised –2,559 –3,019 –326 74 Effective tax rate, Group, % 21.6% 20.8% Group Parent Company Tax on profit for the year 2017 2016 2017 2016 Current tax –95 0 –94 –1 Deferred tax –2,464 –3,019 –232 75 Total tax on profit for the year –2,559 –3,019 –326 74 Deferred tax recognised in profit or loss Group Parent Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Derivatives –182 54 –182 54 Investment properties –2,223 –3,093 –18 –11 Untaxed reserves –22 –4 – – Tax losses –36 26 –32 32 Other temporary differences –1 –2 – – Total deferred tax recognised in profit or loss –2,464 –3,019 –232 75 Deferred tax recognised in the balance sheet Group Parent Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Derivatives –480 –662 –480 –662 Investment properties 17,247 15,024 234 216 Untaxed reserves 53 31 – – Tax losses –1 –37 – –32 Other temporary differences 5 6 – – Total deferred tax 16,824 14,362 –246 –478 The deferred tax liability on derivatives, properties and other items (NNNAV), the fair value is calculated at 30% of the nominal tax rate of pertains to the difference between fiscal and recognised residual values. 22%, in other words 6.6%, which results in deferred tax of SEK 4,933 Deferred tax assets are recognised for fiscal deficits, which amounted million. For more guidance, refer to the key metrics on page 133 and to SEK 5 million (167) at year end. All tax liabilities are expected to fall the definition for NNNAV on page 134. due after 12 months. Current and deferred tax for 2017 has been calculated based on a Current and deferred tax for 2017 has been calculated based on a nominal tax rate of 22%. nominal tax rate of 22%. Under the applicable regulations, deferred tax is to be taken into conGross change in deferred tax sideration for temporary differences pertaining to all assets and liabilities Parent on the balance sheet, with the exception of temporary differences on Group Company properties included in asset acquisitions. In this case, differences at the 2017 2016 2017 2016 acquisition date should not be taken into consideration when calculating Opening balance 14,362 11,356 –478 –407 deferred tax. At 31 December 2017, temporary differences on properties from asset acquisitions amounted to negative SEK 2,770 million Deferred tax recognised in profit (negative: 2,285), which resulted in total deferred tax of 21%. or loss 2,464 3,019 232 –75 The deferred tax liability in the balance sheet is calculated based on Deferred tax recognised in equity –2 –12 – 4 the nominal tax rate. A market valuation of the deferred tax liability Deferred tax, other – –1 – – would probably result in a lower value than the carrying amount in the Closing balance 16,824 14,362 –246 –478 balance sheet. When calculating the EPRA triple net asset value VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES NOTE 18 Intangible assets NOTE 20 Equipment Group Parent Goodwill 2017 2016 Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Opening balance 2,071 2,088 Cost Divested/impaired goodwill –26 –18 Opening balance 122 116 70 70 Closing balance 2,045 2,071 Acquisitions 10 14 7 6 Sales and disposals –8 –8 –7 –6 Group Other intangible assets 2017 2016 Closing balance 124 122 70 70 Opening balance 100 100 Closing balance 100 100 Depreciation Opening depreciation –68 –58 –45 –38 Closing balance intangible assets 2,145 2,171 Depreciation for the year –16 –16 –11 –11 Sales and disposals 6 6 5 4 The Group’s goodwill mainly arose from business acquisitions performed by Vasakronan and is recognised in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Closing balance –78 –68 –51 –45 Combinations. Goodwill is impairment tested each quarter to ensure the carrying amount allocated across the properties does not exceed the Closing balance, equipment 46 54 19 25 recoverable amount. Goodwill decreased SEK 11 million (15) in conjunction with the sale of properties and companies in 2017. The remaining Equipment comprises mainly vehicles and office equipment. SEK 15 million (3) pertained to the impairment of goodwill down to fair value, refer to Note 3.3. It is not possible to reverse a previously recognised impairment loss in a later period. The Group’s other intangible assets comprise the brands acquired by Vasakronan through business combinations, and were valued at fair value at the acquisition date. NOTE 19 Investment properties Group Fair value 2017 2016 Opening balance 115,922 103,894 Investments 2,543 2,035 Acquisitions, consideration 1,049 58 Sales, consideration –612 –2,121 Change in value 7,973 12,056 Closing balance 126,875 115,922 Fiscal values 45,708 45,347 Fair values correspond to the properties’ market values. The external valuations conducted as of 31 December 2017 encompassed all of the properties. Page 97 includes a more detailed description of the valuation approach, and page 93 describes the valuation assumptions. The Group has contractual undertakings that in each instance exceed SEK 75 million and which have not been recognised in the balance sheet. These undertakings pertain partly to investments in property projects regarding the construction of new buildings or extensive redevelopment of existing buildings, and partly to agreed property acquisitions. Group Fair value 2017 2016 Capital expenditure investment properties 6,286 1,178 Acquisitions – 78 100 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 21 Shares and participations in subsidiaries Parent Company 2017 2016 Opening balance 30,698 30,758 Shareholders’ contributions – 55 Settlement of earnings shares –69 134 Sales 0 –250 Impairment –19 – Reversed impairment – 1 Closing balance 30,610 30,698 Of which, assets 30,610 30,759 Of which, liabilities – –61 Carrying amount Shares/ Share of in Parent Company Companies in the Vasakronan AB Group Corp. Reg. No. Reg. office participations1) equity, %2) 2017 2016 Civitas Holding AB 556459-9164 Stockholm 2,750,000 100 24,685 24,685 Vasakronan Fastigheter AB 556474-0123 Stockholm 4,000,000 100 – – Vasakronan Holdingfastigheter AB 556611-6850 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Inom Vallgraven 22:3 AB 556879-7012 Gothenburg 500 100 – – Vasakronan Malmöfastigheter AB 556376-7267 Stockholm 3,601,125 100 – – Handelsbolaget Gotic 969622-2844 Trelleborg 100 100 – – Fastighets AB Luxor 556059-7139 Stockholm 2,000 100 – – Vasakronan IC AB 556497-7279 Stockholm 100,050 100 – – Vasakronan Vattenled AB 556577-9088 Malmö 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Lundafastigheter AB 556137-8562 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Ankarspik 111 AB 559073-2151 Stockholm 500 100 – – Mabrabo AB 556339-0227 Stockholm 10,000 100 – – Vasakronan Kista Science Tower AB 556649-8043 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Kymlinge Utvecklings AB 556647-7583 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Kista Science Tower KB 969660-7820 Stockholm 100 100 – – Vasakronan Uppsalafastigheter AB 556651-1092 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Kungspinnen I AB 556701-4278 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Frösunda Hus I AB 556704-9183 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Frösunda Hus II AB 556704-9175 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Frösunda Hus III AB 556704-6213 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Priorinnan AB 556675-2423 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Ängen AB 556637-3550 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Hakberget AB 556745-5695 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Trähus AB 556715-4850 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Regndroppen 1 AB 559010-6000 Stockholm 500 100 – – Vasakronan Hammarby Gård 12 AB 556766-4007 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Fastighetsutveckling AB 556532-9108 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Järvatorget AB 556548-5546 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Utvecklings AB 556611-6900 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Ullevifastigheter Holding AB 556718-7884 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Ullevifastigheter AB 556718-6704 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Ullevi Park Holding 1 i Göteborg AB 556718-6688 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Ullevi Park 1 i Göteborg AB 556718-6621 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Skånegatan AB 556870-5791 Stockholm 500 100 – – Vasakronan Hekla AB 559088-2196 Stockholm 500 100 – – Vasakronan Hekla Fastigheter AB 559091-2340 Stockholm 500 100 – – Vasakronan Markholding AB 556675-1771 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Fastighet 3 DPL 4 AB 556767-7520 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Diktaren 1 AB 556943-7584 Stockholm 500 100 – – Ankarspik 41 AB 556761-8763 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Ankarspik 91 AB 556991-2420 Stockholm 500 100 – – 1) Pertains to the Group’s total number of shares and participations. 2) Pertains to the Group’s total share of equity. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Carrying amount Shares/ Share of in Parent Company Companies in the Vasakronan AB Group Corp. Reg. No. Reg. office participations1) equity, %2) 2017 2016 Fastighets AB Gesimsen Grön 556011-7698 Stockholm 23,526,807 100 1,778 1,778 Fastighets AB Svava 556268-6658 Uppsala 500,000 100 – – Vasakronan Uppsala City AB 556057-0896 Uppsala 75,000 100 – – Aktiebolaget Nepos 556238-9105 Stockholm 10,000 100 – – Uppsala Science City AB 556250-5346 Uppsala 300,000 100 – – Uppsala Science Park KB 916512-8126 Uppsala 200 100 – – AP Fastigheter AB 556417-5858 Stockholm 100,000 100 593 593 Vasakronan Ankarspik 47 AB 556772-0676 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Ankarspik 94 AB 559016-1245 Stockholm 500 100 – – Ankarspik 95 AB 559016-1120 Stockholm 500 100 – – Ankarspik 96 AB 559016-1476 Stockholm 500 100 – – Ankarspik 97 AB 559016-1351 Stockholm 500 100 – – Ankarspik 98 AB 559016-1559 Stockholm 500 100 – – Ankarspik 99 AB 559016-1450 Stockholm 500 100 – – Ankarspik 100 AB 559016-1427 Stockholm 500 100 – – Fastighets AB Skjutsgossen nr 8 & Co KB 916502-7971 Stockholm 105 100 471 557 Fastighets Aktiebolaget Telefonfabriken 556577-4535 Stockholm 1,000 100 322 322 Nisseshus Nr 1 HB 916587-3424 Stockholm – 100 315 388 KB Positionen 2 969666-7485 Stockholm 1,000 100 278 278 RTB Reval KB 969635-4886 Stockholm 200 100 – – Vasakronan Bassängkajen AB 556696-1362 Stockholm 1,000 100 214 214 Fastighets Aktiebolaget Bodega 556031-4246 Stockholm 3,000 100 213 213 Fastighets AB Gesimsen 556482-7318 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – KB Radio Östra 916625-7007 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Inom Vallgraven 22:16 AB 556865-4163 Stockholm 500 100 180 180 Förvaltningsbolaget Alvikshus HB 916501-8004 Stockholm – 100 173 165 Allmänna Pensionsfondens Fastighets nr 63 KB 969646-7522 Stockholm 200 100 172 173 Vasakronan Magasinet 1 AB 556692-9146 Stockholm 1,000 100 151 151 Position Stockholm AB 556577-3818 Stockholm 1,000 100 120 120 Vasakronan Värtan Exploatering AB 556984-3963 Stockholm 500 100 – – Vasakronan Heden 22:19 AB 556859-5291 Stockholm 500 100 113 113 Vasakronan Nordstaden 10:20 AB 556865-4205 Stockholm 500 100 99 99 Ankarskruv 1 AB 556339-0839 Stockholm 1,000 100 98 98 KB Inom Vallgraven 22:15 Göteborg 916445-7039 Stockholm 200 100 – – Agilia Förvaltnings AB 556651-1852 Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Arkaden Göteborg KB 969646-3448 Stockholm 200 100 – – Allmänna Pensionsfondens Fastighets nr 53 KB 969646-3836 Stockholm 200 100 – – Vasakronan Kaninen 32 AB 556740-3612 Stockholm 1,000 100 97 97 AB Studentskrapan 556611-6868 Stockholm 1,000 100 95 95 Vasakronan Stapelbädden 3 AB 556740-2614 Stockholm 500 100 75 75 Allmänna Pensionsfondens Fastighets nr 12 KB 969646-4016 Stockholm 200 100 64 53 Allmänna Pensionsfondens Fastighets AB 556355-6835 Stockholm 501,000 100 60 60 Vasakronan Inom Vallgraven 20:14 AB 556865-4361 Stockholm 500 100 59 59 Vasakronan Nordstaden 21:1 AB 556875-2918 Stockholm 500 100 52 52 Vasakronan Jungmannen 1 AB 556646-7089 Stockholm 1,000 100 50 50 Fastighetsbolaget Brödtorget & Co KB 989200-4418 Stockholm 100 100 49 50 Vasakronan Kaninen 30 AB 556740-3604 Stockholm 1,000 100 15 15 Vasakronan Gårda 18:23 Kommanditbolag 916635-8946 Stockholm 1,000 100 12 –61 Gotic AB 556708-2101 Stockholm 100,000 100 0 13 Vasakronan Nedo AB 556772-2805 Stockholm 1,000 100 0 7 Vasakronan Blåmannen AB 556825-9302 Stockholm 500 100 3 3 Nacka Strand Förvaltnings Aktiebolag 556034-9150 Stockholm 20,000 100 2 2 Vasakronan Starkströmmarna AB 556771-7920 Stockholm 1,000 100 2 1 Allmänna Pensionsfondens Fastighets nr 59 KB 969646-4032 Stockholm 200 100 – – Ankarspik 17 AB 556761-8961 Stockholm 1,000 100 0 0 Ankarspik 113 AB 556870-5783 Stockholm 500 100 0 0 Vasakronan Stockholmsstuten AB 556820-7798 Stockholm 500 100 0 0 TOTAL 30,610 30,698 1) Pertains to the Group’s total number of shares and participations. 2) Pertains to the Group’s total share of equity. 102 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 22 Shares and participations in joint ventures Group Parent Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Opening balance 372 381 1 0 Settlement of earnings shares –4 –9 0 1 Contributed capital 0 0 0 0 Closing balance 368 372 1 1 Shares/ Joint ventures Corp. Reg. No. Reg. office Share of equity, % participations Carrying amount Järvastaden AB 556611-6884 Solna 50 500 287 Ursvik Exploaterings AB 556611-6892 Stockholm 50 5,000 80 Stora Ursvik KB 969679-3182 Stockholm 50 50 0 Värtan Fastigheter AB 556678-0267 Stockholm 50 1,000 0 Värtan Fastigheter KB 969601-0793 Stockholm 50 1 1 Ideon AB 559033-2598 Lund 33 166 0 Total 368 Järvastaden AB is jointly owned with Skanska, and Ursvik Exploaterings AB/Stora Ursvik KB are jointly owned with Bonava. These companies pursue the long-term development of development rights located at Järvafältet. Värtan Fastigheter AB/Värtan Fastigheter KB are joint property development ventures in Värtahamnen and are owned together with Fabege. Ideon AB is jointly owned together with Fastighets AB Briggen and Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB for marketing and collaboration between the parties regarding the Ideon Science Park in Lund. NOTE 25 Other current receivables, NOTE 23 Non-current receivables prepaid expenses and accrued income Parent Parent Group Company Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Deposits, CSAs 255 – 255 – Accrued interest income 107 73 107 73 Other non-current receivables 58 58 54 54 Accrued rent discounts 126 118 – – Total 313 58 309 54 Deposit account 231 193 231 193 To manage its exposure to counterparty risk, the Group has entered into Prepaid financing costs 84 111 – – credit support annexes (CSAs) to International Swaps and Derivatives VAT adjustment 20 26 – – Association (ISDA) agreements. These annexes are mutual and entail Prepaid operating expenses 11 34 – – both parties undertaking to post cash collateral for deficit values in derivative contracts outstanding. As of 31 December 2017, the Group Other items 238 162 58 32 has posted SEK 255 million (–) as collateral for such deficit positions. Total 817 717 396 298 Deposits for surplus values are detailed in Note 28. At 31 December 2017, no deposits had been posted. Carrying amounts correspond with fair values since the payment periods are short. NOTE 24 Accounts receivable NOTE 26 Cash and cash equivalents Parent Cash and cash equivalents amounted to SEK 1,423 million (2,147) and Group Company comprised cash bank balances. Short-term investments of cash and cash 2017 2016 2017 2016 equivalents were made with counterparties with high credit ratings and, Tenant receivables 48 71 0 0 therefore, low risk. The Parent Company’s cash and cash equivalents totalled SEK 1,420 Provision for doubtful receivables –28 –40 0 0 million (2,146). Total 20 31 0 0 The carrying amount of accounts receivable corresponds with the fair value. Since the payment period for accounts receivable is short, the fair value is the same as amortised cost. The Group reported losses of SEK 4 million (8) for the impairment of tenant receivables. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES NOTE 27 Interest-bearing liabilities Goals for financial operations Interest-rate risk Owning and developing properties is a capital-intensive business. Changes in market interest rates and credit margins can influence Vasakronan’s capital is provided through a balanced mix of loans and borrowing expenses. The fixed-interest structure must be chosen to limit equity, with an LTV of 45% at year end and an equity/assets ratio of 39%. the effects of changes in market conditions and the average fixed-­interest Interest expense is Vasakronan’s largest expense item and it is strategitenor may not be less than one year or exceed six years. One method of cally important for the company, irrespective of market conditions, to measuring interest-rate risk is through the interest coverage ratio which, always be able to access cost-effective financing. The goal of our treapursuant to the financial policy, should always exceed 1.9 times. sury activities is to secure our financing needs at the lowest possible Refer to the sensitivity analysis on page 80 for more information cost within the frameworks and restrictions set by the financial policy. about interest-rate risk. Financial policy Credit risk Vasakronan’s financial policy sets goals and governing principles, and Liquidity management and using financial derivatives entail a risk of the allocates responsibilities across treasury operations. The financial policy counterparty not meeting its obligations. One way to limit credit risk is regulates the risk mandate and the principles for calculating, reporting, spread the risk across multiple counterparties. To further reduce risk, following up and controlling financial risks. The financial policy is evaluthe financial policy stipulates that derivative contracts may only be ated on an ongoing basis and adopted each year by the Board. entered into with counterparties that have a lowest credit rating of A– To ensure the efficient management and control of the company’s on Standard & Poor’s scale. Moreover, ISDA agreements are required financial risks and to be able to utilise economies of scale, all financial that allow offsetting of payables and receivables from the same counteroperations are conducted by a central finance function. The policy govparty to thereby reduce the risk even further. Cash and cash equivalents erning authorisations means that a transaction may not be conducted and may only be placed with counterparties that have a credit rating of at registered by the same person as the one who checks and settles payment least A– on Standard & Poor’s rating scale or with companies that are for the transaction. Authority to conclude business transactions is regustate or municipality owned. Moreover, investments of cash and cash lated through powers of attorney with the respective counterparty. equivalents must not have tenors in excess of six months. Financial risks and reporting Currency risk Through its financial operations, the company is exposed to financing All currency risk must be eliminated for foreign currency borrowings. risk, interest-rate risk, credit risk and currency risk. These risks are To eliminate currency risk Vasakronan uses cross currency swaps that defined in the financial policy and the effects are limited though restricsecure the exchange rate for interest payments and loan repayments of tions set for the respective risk exposures. Compliance is ensured foreign currency loans. At 31 December 2017, borrowing in foreign curthrough quarterly reporting to the Board. rency amounted to NOK 6,650 million (3,900). Financing risk Terms and conditions The risk of increased costs for refinancing or new borrowing is considerVasakronan’s agreements for commercial paper, bonds and bank loans ably limited through diversified financing sources, with specific condicontain a change of control covenant that allows lenders to terminate the tions that can be utilised in different market conditions. Financing risk is loan for repayment unless the First, Second, Third and Fourth Swedish also limited since the average remaining tenors for interest-bearing lianational pension funds collectively or separately own at least 51% of bilities may not be less than two years. Vasakronan has always good Vasakronan. Moreover, the bank loan agreements also contain a covenant access to the capital market and banking market irrespective of market specifying that the interest coverage ratio may not fall below a multiple conditions. of 1.5. Agreements for unsecured loans also include covenants stating that the LTV may not exceed 65%. Refer also to the financing section on page 32. MATURITY STRUCTURE Group Parent Company Loan-to-maturity Fixed-interest Loan-to-maturity Fixed-interest structure maturity structure structure maturity structure Year of maturity 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 1 13,710 15,906 24,148 24,719 13,710 15,906 24,148 24,719 2 11,686 12,862 1,530 –35 11,686 12,862 1,530 –35 3 6,774 8,121 2,314 1,729 6,774 8,121 2,314 1,729 4 6,318 3,801 3,690 2,009 6,318 3,801 3,690 2,009 5 4,320 5,640 1,989 3,468 4,320 5,640 1,989 3,468 6 4,450 900 2,300 3,100 4,450 900 2,300 3,100 7 451 1,721 3,800 4,300 451 1,721 3,800 4,300 8 1,000 – 4,700 3,800 1,000 – 4,700 3,800 9 1,742 – 2,100 4,700 1,742 – 2,100 4,700 >9 years 7,970 6,289 11,850 7,450 7,970 6,289 11,850 7,450 Total 58,421 55,240 58,421 55,240 58,421 55,240 58,421 55,240 2017 2016 2017 2016 Interest-bearing liabilities with floating interest1) 25,349 20,123 25,349 20,123 Interest-bearing liabilities with fixed-interest1) 33,072 35,117 33,072 35,117 Total 58,421 55,240 58,421 55,240 1) Including derivates. Floating interest pertains to fixed-interest tenors of not more than three months. Information about utilised loan limits, fixed-interest terms and credit commitments is available in the comments to the balance sheet on page 84. 104 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL RISKS Outcome Financing risk Policy 31 Dec 2017 Loan-to-maturity min. 2 years 3.8 years Loans maturing, 12 months max. 40% 23% Credit commitments and cash/loans maturing 12 months min. 100% 152% Interest-rate risk Interest coverage ratio at least 1.9x 3.9x Fixed-interest 1–6 years 4.5 years Fixed-interest maturity within 12 months max. 70% 41% Credit risk Counterpart’s rating at least A– met Currency risk Currency exposure not permitted met The outcomes at 31 December 2017 and 2016 were within the restrictions set by the financial policy. NOTE 28 Other non-current liabilities Group Parent Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Deposits, CSAs – 44 – 44 Other non-current liabilities 55 154 54 114 Total 55 198 54 158 To manage its exposure to counterparty risk, the Group has entered into credit support annexes (CSAs) to International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) agreements. These annexes are mutual and entail both parties undertaking to post cash collateral for surplus values in derivative contracts outstanding. As of 31 December 2017, the Group has not received any such deposits as no such surplus values exist. Deposits for deficit values are detailed in Note 23. NOTE 29 Provision for pensions The Group has both defined-contribution and defined-benefit pension pational pension plan (ITP) which is secured through insurance with plans. The defined-contribution plans comprise the BTPK and ITPK Alecta. This is recognised, however, in accordance with the Swedish occupational pension plans and primarily relates to retirement, disability Financial Reporting Board’s statement UFR10, as a defined-contribution and survivors’ pensions. pension. The obligation in Alecta has been agreed previously and no The defined-benefit pension plans consist of BTP, which is secured new premiums or fees were paid. At the end of the financial year, Alecta through insurance with SPP, as well as a number of retirement and survihad a consolidation ratio of 154 (148). vors’ obligations secured with Skandia. The defined-benefit pension Under IAS 19, all defined-benefit pension rights are vested on a plans also include mainly retirement, disability and survivors’ pensions. straight-line basis over the period of employment. This means that the In addition to these defined-benefit pension plans, defined-benefit penpension costs in the consolidated income statement consist of an estision obligations include those taken over from Byggnadsstyrelsen when mated value which could differ from the actual paid-up pension premiVasakronan was founded in 1993. These obligations are administered ums recognised in the Parent Company. The present value of pension by the National Government Employee Pensions Board (SPV) and have obligations and the fair value of plan assets are recognised net in the mainly been secured with KPA. Vasakronan has a defined-benefit occuconsolidated balance sheet. Group Parent Company Pension costs in the income statement 2017 2016 2017 2016 Pension costs, defined-contribution 54 39 32 18 Pension costs, defined-benefit 12 7 39 37 Separate payroll tax on pension costs 16 13 17 15 Total pension costs in the income statement 82 59 88 70 Of which recognised as property administration 66 48 Of which recognised as central administration 16 11 Pension costs in other comprehensive income, excl. tax Actuarial gains(–)/losses(+), incl. payroll tax 14 89 Restriction for surplus in pension plan with asset cap, incl. payroll tax –3 –16 Total pension costs in other comprehensive income, excl. tax 11 73 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Group Net debt defined-benefit pensions, Group 2017 2016 Change in the defined-benefit obligation Present value of the pension obligation, opening balance 401 333 Pension rights vested through service1) 10 7 Interest on pension obligation1) 10 11 Pension disbursements –20 –20 Actuarial gains(–)/losses(+) on pension obligations2) 18 70 Present value of the obligation, closing balance3) 419 419 401 401 Change in plan assets Fair value of plan assets, opening balance –359 –353 Interest income1) –9 –12 Paid-in premiums –16 –16 Pension disbursements 20 20 Return on plan assets excluding interest income2) –6 2 Fair value of plan assets, closing balance –370 –370 –359 –359 Restriction for surplus in pension plan with asset cap 17 19 Other pension obligations 3 3 Separate payroll tax on net pension debt 17 16 Net debt, defined-benefit pensions 86 80 1) Recognised in profit or loss. 2) Recognised in other comprehensive income. 3) Expected weighted-average duration for the obligation’s present value at 31 December 2017 is 16.95 years (16.50). The plan assets mainly comprise shares, interest-bearing securities and Net actuarial gains and losses after tax amounted to SEK 9 million (57) participations in funds. and were recognised in other comprehensive income under the alternaThe difference between the actual and the expected return amounted tive rule in IAS 19. to SEK 6 million (2) and was recognised as the return on plan assets The Group’s payments to defined-benefit plans are expected to excluding interest income. amount to SEK 21 million in 2018. Actuarial and financial assumptions (%): Group 2017 2016 Discount rate 2.2 2.4 Inflation 2.0 2.0 Expected annual wage growth 3.5 3.5 Expected annual increase in pension disbursements 2.0 2.0 Expected annual increase in income base amount 3.0 3.0 The discount rate assumption has the largest impact on the size of the would, for example, result in a SEK 63 million change in the present pension obligation. A 1 percentage point change in the discount rate value of the pension obligation. NOTE 30 Other current liabilities, accrued NOTE 31 pledged assets and expenses and deferred income contingent liabilities Parent Parent Group Company Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Prepaid rental revenue 1,140 1,204 – – Property deeds 15,455 16,830 None None Accrued interest expense 294 318 294 318 Contingent liabilities 287 287 502 504 Accrued expenses for ongoing projects 290 194 – – Property deeds are pledged as collateral for the Group’s interest-­ VAT 181 220 10 8 bearing liabilities. Deposits 231 193 2 – Vasakronan is a limited partner in Stora Ursvik KB and its responsibility for the company’s undertakings is limited to an amount equivalent Accrued operating expenses 41 44 – – to the invested capital of SEK 46 million (46). The Parent Company’s Property tax 45 57 – – contingent liabilities of SEK 502 million (504) pertain to liabilities at the Vacation pay, social security Group’s general and limited partnerships in which the parent company expenses and employee is a partner. withholding taxes 45 42 45 42 For the Järvastaden AB joint venture, Vasakronan has issued surety of SEK 241 million (241) for the performance of the implementation Other items 330 272 103 158 agreement with Svenska Kraftnät. Total 2,597 2,544 454 526 106 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 32 Supplementary disclosures for financial assets and liabilities Derivatives Derivatives in the consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets Derivatives are used primarily to adjust the fixed-interest structure in Recognised as financial assets 2017 2016 the loan portfolio. Moreover, currency derivatives are used to eliminate all currency exposure on loans in foreign currencies, but also to eliminate Interest-rate swaps 246 338 the risk of inflation when borrowing through inflation-linked bonds. Currency swaps 23 117 Derivatives are also used to secure forward prices for future electricity Electricity derivatives 6 3 consumption. All derivatives are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet. When Total 275 458 the derivative value can be derived from quoted prices from counterRecognised as financial liabilities 2017 2016 parties, the derivative belongs to level 2 of the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 13. Fair value is based on discounting future cash flows for each Interest-rate swaps –2,388 –3,305 maturity at market interest rates. Currency swaps –311 –56 All derivatives are subject to ISDA agreements. Derivatives under Swaptions –3 –22 CSAs totalled a negative SEK 255 million (positive: 44) at the end of 2017. To reflect counterparty risk, Vasakronan adjusts derivatives to fair Total –2,702 –3,383 value through the CVA (Credit Value Adjustment) and DVA (Debt Value Net Derivatives –2,427 –2,925 Adjustment) components. The CVA shows the Vasakronan’s credit risk in the event of the counterparty defaulting while the DVA reflects the company’s own risk of default. Calculation of the valuation adjustment is based on the expected exposure, probability of default and recovery rates for exposed credits. Classification of financial instruments, Group Derivatives, Loans and no hedge accounting accounts receivable Total carrying amount Fair value Financial assets 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Cash and cash equivalents – – 1,423 2,147 1,423 2,147 1,423 2,147 Derivatives 275 458 – – 275 458 275 458 Deposits, CSAs – – 255 – 255 – 255 – Accounts receivable – – 20 31 20 31 20 31 Total 275 458 1,698 2,178 1,973 2,636 1,973 2,636 Derivatives, no hedge accounting Financial liabilities Total carrying amount Fair value Financial liabilities 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Bonds – – 32,797 30,117 32,797 30,117 33,087 30,155 Bank loans – – 18,676 15,917 18,676 15,917 18,836 16,014 Commercial paper – – 6,948 9,206 6,948 9,206 6,948 9,207 Derivatives 2,702 3,383 – – 2,702 3,383 2,702 3,383 Deposits, CSAs – – – 44 – 44 – 44 Accounts payable – – 124 132 124 132 124 132 Total 2,702 3,383 58,545 55,416 61,247 58,799 61,697 58,935 Derivatives valued at fair value in the balance sheet and other financial results in a lower interest rate than that contracted for the loan. instruments at amortised cost. For interest-bearing liabilities, which Recognition at fair value would therefore increase the Group’s interest-­ consist of bonds, bank loans and commercial paper, fair values differ bearing liabilities by SEK 450 million and reduce equity by SEK 351 million. from the recognised amortised cost. Fair value is established using the Surplus/deficit values for foreign currency loans are recognised against current yield curve along with a borrowing margin, which currently surplus/deficit values for derivatives. Liquidity risk – maturity analysis Group 2017 2016 0–1 year 1–2 years 2–5 years >5 years 0–1 year 1–2 years 2–5 years >5 years Bonds –6,035 –9,906 –14,331 –3,806 –7,095 –9,232 –13,609 –1,412 Bank loans –1,105 –2,163 –4,989 –11,173 –84 –3,980 –4,513 –7,533 Commercial paper –6,945 – – – –9,205 – – – Interest-rate derivatives –508 –538 –1,587 –1,345 –637 –658 –2,025 –1,732 Currency derivatives — inflows 103 100 243 186 56 56 140 114 Currency derivatives — outflows –22 –23 –61 –41 –11 –11 –34 –30 Accounts payable –124 – – – –132 – – – Total –14,636 –12,530 –20,725 –16,179 –17,108 –13,825 –20,041 –10,593 The figures pertain to future undiscounted cash flows for financial loans and derivatives have been used to estimate future cash flows for liabilities, including interest, allocated over the time remaining until the all liabilities. The closing exchange rate has been used for currency contractual maturity date. The closing interest rates for the respective derivatives. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Summary of liabilities arising from financing activities — Group Other non-cash Cash flows adjustments Exchange-rate SEK m CB 2016 Loan repayments New borrowings differences CB 2017 Commercial paper 9,206 –2,258 – – 6,948 MTN programme 26,007 –1 0,025 10,155 – 26,137 NOK MTNs 4,109 – 2,880 –329 6,660 Secured bank loans 15,473 –3,400 3,217 – 15,290 Unsecured bank loans 445 – 2,941 – 3,386 Total liabilities from financing activities 55,240 –15,684 19,193 –329 58,421 The exchange-rate difference on foreign currency loans is recognised at the closing exchange rate. This has no effect on cash flow and is eliminated through currency interest-rate derivatives. NOTE 33 Adjustment for non-cash items Group Parent Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 15 16 30 10 Estimated defined-benefit pension costs –5 –11 –1 1 Sales/discontinuation of Group companies – – – –1 Equipment sales –2 –1 –2 –1 Result from participations in joint ventures 3 3 0 0 Total 11 7 27 9 NOTE 34 Related parties Related parties Transactions Parent Company An ordinary dividend of SEK 4,000 million was paid to the Parent Company. Parent Company The First and Third Swedish national pension funds lease premises under market terms and conditions. Vasakronan shareholders has a subscription commitment from the First, Second, Third and Fourth Swedish national pension funds for its commercial paper, refer to page 32. At the end of 2017, the Third Swedish National Pension Fund had bond holdings with Vasakronan of SEK 165 million. Board of Directors Refer to Note 9 for details of remuneration. No Board member has participated directly or indirectly in any business transaction with Vasakronan. The Board is presented on page 74. Management Group Refer to Note 9 for details of remuneration. No senior executive has participated directly or indirectly in any business transaction with Vasakronan. The management are presented on page 75. Subsidiaries Specified in Note 21 Group companies Specified in notes 10 and 21. Joint ventures Specified in Note 22. NOTE 35 Dividend per share NOTE 36 Events after the balance-sheet date The dividend distributed in 2017 for the previous year amounted to In addition to the proposed dividend pursuant to Note 35, no significant SEK 4,000 million (SEK 100.00 per share). events occurred after the balance-sheet date that impact the assessment At the AGM on 3 May 2018, the Board will propose a dividend of SEK of Vasakronan’s financial position. 4,000 million (4,000), corresponding to SEK 100.00 (100.00) per share. 108 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 PROPOSED APPROPRIATION OF PROFITS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Proposed appropriation of profits The consolidated income statement and balance sheet and the Parent Company’s income statement and balance sheet will be subject to adoption by the AGM on 3 May 2018. The following profit is at the disposal of the AGM: The Board proposes that the earnings be appropriated as follows: Retained earnings SEK 2,939,191,532 Dividend to shareholders, SEK 100 per share SEK 4,000,000,000 Profit for the year SEK 2,260,694,868 To be carried forward SEK 1,199,886,400 Total SEK 5,199,886,400 Total SEK 5,199,886,400 A dividend of SEK 4 billion has been proposed to the General Meeting. The Board finds that the proposed dividend is justifiable in terms of the assessment criteria stipulated in Chapter 17, Section 3, second and third paragraphs of the Swedish Companies Act regarding operations, scope and risks as well as consolidation requirements, liquidity and general position. The Board and CEO affirm that the consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU and provide a fair and accurate overview of the Group’s financial position and results. The annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and provide a fair and accurate overview of the Parent Company’s financial position and results. The Administration Report for the Group and Parent Company provides a fair and accurate overview of the Group and Parent Company’s operations, position and results, and describes material risks and uncertainties faced by the Parent Company and the companies included in the Group. Stockholm 21 March 2018 Mats Wäppling Jan-Olof Backman Ann-Sofi Danielsson Chairman of the Board Board Member Board Member Niklas Ekvall Eva Halvarsson Kerstin Hessius Board Member Board Member Board Member Christel Kinning Rolf Lydahl Johan Magnusson Board Member Board Member Board Member Fredrik Wirdenius Chief Executive Officer Our Auditors’ Report was submitted on 21 March 2018 Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Helena Ehrenborg Daniel Algotsson Authorised Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant Lead partner VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AUDITORS’ REPORT Auditors’ report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Vasakronan AB (publ), corporate identity number 556061-4603 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants Opinions in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsiWe have audited the annual accounts and consolidated bilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes accounts of Vasakronan AB (publ) for the year 2017 except that, based on the best of my (our) knowledge and belief, no for the corporate governance statement on pages 68–75. The prohibited services referred to in the Audit Regulation annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the company (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited are included on pages 63 –67 and 76 –109 in this document. company or, where applicable, its parent company or its In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in controlled companies within the EU. accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is in all material respects, the financial position of parent comsufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. pany as of 31 December 2017 and its financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with the Audit scope Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been Vasakronan is the leading property company in Sweden with prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and investment properties valued at SEK 126.9 billion. The compresent fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of pany’s strategy is to manage and develop commercial investthe group as of 31 December 2017 and their financial performent properties in Stockholm, Gothenburg, Uppsala, Malmö mance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance and Lund. with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as Our audit has a group approach which includes audits of adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. Our opinall the significant investment properties within the group. ions do not cover the corporate governance statement on This group approach means that the significant business pages 68–75. The statutory administration report is consisprocesses for the financial reporting in the group, such as tent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolirental income, purchasing, payroll and valuation process are dated accounts. audited centrally from a group perspective even though We therefore recommend that the general meeting of legally the investment properties are in several legal entities. shareholders adopts the income statement and balance As 96% of the group assets consist of investment properties sheet for the parent company and the group. that are valued at fair value, the audit’s main focus is to evalOur opinions in this report on the annual accounts and uate if the Annual Report reflects the investment properties’ consolidated accounts are consistent with the content of book value according to the company’s valuation principles the additional report that has been submitted to the parent and that these principles are according to IFRS. company’s audit committee in accordance with the Audit We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessRegulation (537/2014) Article 11. ing the risks of material misstatement in the consolidated financial statements. In particular, we considered where manBasis for opinions agement made subjective judgements: for example, in respect We conducted our audit in accordance with International of fair value of investment properties that involved making Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing assumptions and considering future events that are inherently standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those stanuncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of dards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities management override of internal controls, including among section. We are independent of the parent company and the other matters consideration of whether there was evidence Our audit approach Materiality Overall group materiality: SEK 660 million, corresponding to 0.5% of the group’s Materiality total assets. Scope Scope Our audit has a group approach. In this approach, we focus on the central business processes and on the audit of the valuation of investment properties from a group perspective. The overall purpose of the audit is to evaluate that Vasakronan’s financial statements have been prepared and presented according to IFRS. Key audit matter Key audit matter Valuation of investment properties. 110 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 AUDITORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to Overall group SEK 660 million fraud. We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform materiality sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the conHow we determined A threshold representing 0.5% of the Group’s total assets. solidated financial statements as a whole, taking into account this level the structure of Vasakronan, the accounting processes and Rational for the We chose total assets as the benchmark controls, and the industry in which the group operates. due to the fact that, in our view, this is materiality benchmark the benchmark against which the perforapplied mance of a group, over time, is most comMateriality monly measured. We have chosen 0.5% of total assets and this is a generally The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of accepted benchmark and is in our view materiality. An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assuran acceptable overall materiality level. ance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report They are considered material if individually or in aggregate, to them misstatements identified during our audit above they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic SEK 50 million as well as misstatements below that amount decisions of users taken on the basis of the consolidated that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. financial statements. Based on our professional judgement, we determined Key audit matter certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in overall group materiality for the consolidated financial stateour professional judgment, were of most significance in our ments as a whole as set out in the table below. These, together audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts for with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the 2017. These matters were addressed in the context of our scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements not provide a separate opinion on these matters. as a whole. KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER Valuation of investment properties Amongst other things, our audit has focused on the company’s internal control and We refer to the Administration Report and the description of the Vasakronan quality assurance as regards the externally executed valuations as at 31 December group’s summary of important accounting and valuation principles in Note 2, 2017. The audit team, including our valuation specialists, have obtained copies of as well as referring to Note 13, Change in value of investment properties. and examined a selection of the valuation reports and have ensured that the valuaAs at 31 December 2017, the value of the investment properties totaled SEK 126.9 tions comply with Vasakronan’s guidelines for valuations and with the correct valuabillion. Investment properties comprise a significant portion of the balance sheet tion methods. and the valuation of these properties is inherently subjective and is the object of The external valuers’ work is based on the same calculation model as applied by company management’s judgements as regards, for example, the location of the Vasakronan, which implies that the company’s quality assurance of the external valuspecific property, its condition and future rental income. Valuation objects incurring ations is facilitated. We have assessed the external valuers’ competence and experia major degree of uncertainty in terms of their market value assessment are comence and have also studied the groups’ valuation agreements with the external prised of ongoing development properties. valuers to determine if there are any circumstances in the agreements which could The valuation of all of the investment properties is executed at the end of each year impact the valuers’ objectivity or if there are any limitations to their work. and every six months by external valuers, Cushman & Wakefield and Forum Fastig­ In addition, we have tested, on a sample basis, company management’s input data hetsekonomi. At the end of the other quarters, the properties are valued internally. registered in the valuation models and taken from the company’s systems. This was The valuations are executed on the basis of The Royal Institute of Chartered Surveydone to ensure that the information for the investment property valuations applied ors’ (RICS’) valuation standards and processes which are based on an adopted, estabin the external valuations is correct and fair. lished valuation policy. In addition, Vasakronan has an internal process for the quality We have had meetings with the individuals responsible for the valuations in which assurance of the external valuations as at year end and after the first six months of the important assumptions and judgments have been discussed. Our work has focused financial year. These internal quality assurance processes include an analysis and conon the largest investment properties in the portfolio, development properties and trol of the data taken from the company’s systems and registered in the valuation on the properties incurring the largest variations in value compared with previous models as regards, for example, rental levels, surface area, vacancy levels and also quarters. We have assessed the applied yield requirements used by the external includes an overall analysis of the value development of each property. These valuations valuers by comparing the estimated intervals of the expected yield requirements are assessed both centrally and in consultation with the respective property managers. and thresholds with the available market data for the current markets. We have also In determining the fair value of the properties, the valuers consider current informaassessed the reasonableness of other assumptions which are not directly comparation regarding the specific property, such as the rental agreements in place, rental ble based on available public data. In the case the assumptions and parameters have income and operating costs. In order to achieve a final valuation, the valuers apply been outside our initial expectation, these deviations have been discussed with assumptions and undertake judgements on future yields, net operating expenses representatives of the company and additional audit evidence has been obtained and estimated market rents, and these assumptions and judgments are impacted by as support for the applied assumptions. the yield requirements in place and by comparable market tranasactions. The valuations are based on assessments and incur, inherently, a degree of uncertainty. The significance of the estimations and judgments applied in establishing the fair Based on our audit, it is our assessment that the assumptions applied by Vasakronan value of the investment properties, together with the fact that the amounts are are within a reasonable interval. Based on our audit, we have not identified any significant, implies that the valuation of the investment properties comprises a significant observations to report to the Audit Committee. Key Audit Matter in the audit. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AUDITORS’ REPORT Other information than the annual accounts Auditor’s responsibility and consolidated accounts Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about This document also contains other information than the whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as annual accounts and consolidated accounts and is found a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due on pages 1–61, 114 –125, 127–129, 131–137. The Board to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that of Directors and the CEO are responsible for this other includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level information. of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing accounts does not cover this other information and we do standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstatenot express any form of assurance conclusion regarding this ment when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or other information. error and are considered material if, individually or in the In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these information identified above and consider whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. information is materially inconsistent with the annual A further description of our responsibility for the audit accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts is availalso take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in able on the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditor’s website the audit and assess whether the information otherwise www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This appears to be materially misstated. description is part of the auditors’ report. If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude that there is a material misstatement of Report on other legal and regulatory requirements this other information, we are required to report that fact. Opinions We have nothing to report in this regard. In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we have also audited the administration Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the CEO of the Board of Directors and the CEO of Vasakronan AB The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are (publ) for the year 2017 and the proposed appropriations responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts and of the company’s profit or loss. consolidated accounts and that they give a fair presentation We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, concernthat the profit be appropriated in accordance with the proing the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as posal in the statutory administration report and that the adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and theCEO are members of the Board of Directors and the CEO be disalso responsible for such internal control as they determine charged from liability for the financial year. is necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material misBasis for opinions statement, whether due to fraud or error. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities accounts, the Board of Directors and the CEO are responsiunder those standards are further described in the Auditor’s ble for the assessment of the company’s and the group’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, as company and the group in accordance with professional applicable, matters related to going concern and using the ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulgoing concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis filled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these of accounting is however not applied if the Board of Direcrequirements. tors and the CEO intends to liquidate the company, to cease We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the CEO things oversee the company’s financial reporting process. The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for 112 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 AUDITORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At the prorevisorns­ansvar. This description is part of the auditors’ posal of a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether report. the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements which the company's and the group’s type of operations, The auditor’s examination of the corporate size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s and governance statement the group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate and position in general. governance statement on pages 68 –75 has been prepared The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. organisation and the administration of the company’s affairs. Our examination of the corporate governance statement This includes among other things continuous assessment of is conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard the company’s and the group’s financial situation and ensurRevU 16 The auditor’s examination of the corporate govering that the company's organisation is designed so that the nance statement. This means that our examination of the accounting, management of assets and the company’s financorporate governance statement is different and substancial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. tially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance The CEO shall manage the ongoing administration according with International Standards on Auditing and generally to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the among other matters take measures that are necessary to examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law and opinions. handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the secAuditor’s responsibility ond paragraph points 2–6 of the Annual Accounts Act and Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are and thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of consolidated accounts and are in accordance with the assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors Annual Accounts Act. or the CEO in any material respect: • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB was elected auditor which could give rise to liability to the company, or of Vasakronan AB by the general meeting of the sharehold• in any other way has acted in contravention of the Compaers on the 3 May 2017 and has been the company’s auditor nies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Assosince the 28 April 2016. ciation. Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed approStockholm 21 March 2018 priations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always Helena Ehrenborg Daniel Algotsson detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to Authorised Public Accountant Authorised Public the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the Lead partner Accountant company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the administration is available on the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors’ website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/ VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 113 SUSTAINABILITY About Vasakronan’s sustainability report 2017 Vasakronan’s sustainability report follows the Global Reporting The sustainability report covers the Parent Company and all wholly Initiative (GRI) guidelines and, as of 2017, is prepared in accordance owned subsidiaries. Joint venture companies co-owned by Vasakronan with the GRI Standards: Core option. Vasakronan’s ambition is to run are not covered, and are not considered to constitute a significant its entire business in a sustainable manner. Consequently, reporting part of operations. Nor does the sustainability report cover operaof our sustainability agenda has been integrated into the company’s tions controlled by individual tenants or suppliers. annual report. The GRI index contains references to where the inforSurveying and analysing the expectations of our stakeholders is mation can be found in the annual report. In individual cases, all of the a prerequisite for attaining our goals and creating sustainable value. information the GRI framework requires could not be reported. That is why we are in continual dialogue with our most important These exceptions are presented in the GRI index on page 115. stakeholders. Additionally, a workshop was conducted in 2017 in Information on boundaries, responsibility, monitoring and goverwhich some 30 representatives distributed among the various stakenance for each material sustainability topic is available (or can be holder categories took part. The purpose of the workshop was to found) in the sustainability notes on pages 117–125. The information identify which sustainability topics stakeholders expect Vasakronan is described in accordance with Standard 103, and all standards used to report on. The results of the dialogue with our stakeholders formed were published in 2016. the basis for the materiality analysis conducted during the year. In A transition from the fourth edition (GRI G4) to GRI Standards took total, twelve sustainability topics — three of which were new for 2017 place in 2017. In addition to GRI Standards, Vasakronan has chosen to — were deemed significant enough to report on. For more informarecognise the sector-specific indicators that were previously recognised tion on the stakeholder dialogue and the materiality analysis, see in accordance with GRI G4. pages 8–9 and 11. Part of the information submitted pursuant to Chapter 6, Section Planning, governance and monitoring of sustainability efforts 11 of the Annual Accounts Act is described in other sections of the follow the organisational structure, with a clear delegation of responannual report. A description of the company’s business model can be sibilities and authorisations through a management system consisting found on page 10, and information on Vasakronan’s risk management of policies, guidelines, general measurable targets and detailed action can be found on pages 64–67. plans. In addition, there is also a number of external laws, guidelines The sustainability report is produced once per year, and 2017 was and regulations including the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. its ninth year of publication. The report is reviewed in summary by Work on implementing them in strategies, objectives and action Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB, and their limited assurance plans is under way. report can be found on page 126. The UN’s Sustainable Development Goals The images in color show those UN Sustainable Development Goals considered to be significant in Vasakronan’s operations. 114 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 SUSTAINABILITY GRI Standard number Disclosure name Page reference UN goals Comments 102-1 Name of the organisation. Front cover of the Annual Report 102-2 Primary brands, products, and services. Page 1 102-3 Location of the organisation’s headquarters. Note 1, page 90 102-4 Number of countries where the organisation operates. Vasakronan conducts operations only in Sweden. 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form. Inside front cover; Note 1, page 90 102-6 Markets served by the organisation. Inside front cover 102-7 Scale of the organisation. Pages 32–34, 41; Note 8, page 95 102-8 Total number of employees by employment contract Page 123 (permanent and temporary), and by gender. 102-9 A description of the organisation’s supply chain. Page 122 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation’s size, structure, No significant changes during the year. ownership, or supply chain. 102-11 Whether and how the organisation applies the Precautionary The precautionary principle forms the Principle or approach. basis of how environmental work is designed. 102-12 A list of external guidelines endorsed by the organisation. Page 68 102-13 Membership of associations. Page 23 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker. Pages 4–7 102-16 A description of the organisation’s values, principles, standards, Pages 10 and 23 and norms of behaviour. 102-18 Report on the governance structure of the organisation. Pages 68–75 102-40 List of stakeholder groups. Pages 9 and 11 102-41 Percentage of total employees covered by collective Page 123 bargaining agreements. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders. Page 8 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement. Page 9 102-44 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Pages 8–9 and 11 engagement. 102-45 Organisation structure, entities, business areas, subsidiaries and Note 21, page 101 joint ventures. 102-46 The process for defining the materiality analysis. Pages 8–9 102-47 List of material topics. Pages 8–9 and 116 102-48 The effect of any restatements of information given in previous No corrections have been made to reports, and the reasons for such restatements. previous reports. 102-49 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the list Employee’s health and safety, access to of material topics and topic Boundaries. public transportation and local services, and safety and security are new material areas as of 2017. 102-50 Reporting period. Cover; Note 2, page 90 102-51 Date of most recent report. The report for 2016 was published in March 2017. 102-52 Reporting cycle. Published annually in connection with the release of the Annual Report. 102-53 The contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Anna Denell, Head of Sustainability 102-54 The reporting level pursuant to the GRI Standards. Page 114 102-55 A table, which specifies each of the GRI Standards used and lists Page 115 all disclosures included in the report. 102-56 A description of the organisation’s policy and current practice with Page 114 regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pages 117–125 103-2 The management approach and its contents Pages 117–125 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 117–125 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 115 SUSTAINABILITY Material topic Indicator Page reference UN goals Comments Economic topics Economic performance 201-1, Direct economic value generated and distributed Page 117 17 Fiscal management1) – Page 117 Anti-corruption 205-3, Number of confirmed incidents of corruption Pages 22–23 and 117 16 and actions taken Environment Materials 301-1, Materials used by weight. Pages 12, 26 and 118 3, 6, 8, 12 The amount of material in new construction is based on actual measurements. Information on the amount of material in major renovation projects is not available, and are therefore estimated. Work is under way on being able to gather this information over the long term. Energy 302-1, Energy consumption within the organisation. Pages 12, 18 and 118 7 CRE1, Building energy intensity. Water1 303-1, Water withdrawal by source. CRE2, Page 119 Building water intensity. Emissions 305-1, Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions. Pages 12, 20 and 119 11, 12, 13 305-2, Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions. 305-3, Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions. CRE3, Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from buildings. Effluents and waste 306-2, Waste by type and disposal method. Pages 12, 26 and 121 11, 12 The amount of waste from tenants is based is based partly on estimations owing to absence of data. Work is under way on being able to gather this information over the long term. Product labeling, CRE8, Type and number of sustainability certification Pages 12, 18 and 122 7, 12 environment1) Supplier environmental 308-1, New suppliers that were screened using Pages 22 and 122 12 assessment environmental criteria. Social Occupational health 403-2, Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Pages 12, 23 and 124 3, 8 Owing to few accidents, injury rates are and safety diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of not reported; neither are details concernwork-related fatalities. ing the cases in question in consideration of the employees’ personal integrity. Diversity and equal 405-1, Composition of the Board of Directors, management Pages 74–75; Note 8, 5, 8, 10 opportunity and other employees according to age and gender. page 95 and page 123 Supplier social assessment 414-1, Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Pages 22 and 124 8 using social criteria. Customer health and safety 416-A, Measures taken to maintain a high level of safety Pages 22, 24, 26 and 125 5, 11, 16 and security in and around properties. Public transportation and Measures taken to create opportunities for public Pages 20 and 125 9, 11 local services transportation to and from our properties and proximity to local services. Customer satisfaction Results of customer surveys. Pages 22 and 125 1) Areas that have not been prioritised in the materiality analysis but are still deemed important to report on based on stakeholder wishes. 116 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 SUSTAINABILITY Financial responsibility 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Taking financial responsibility for our operations and having stable, sound finances are Taxes fundamental conditions for succeeding in the assignment from our owners regarding Tax is a statutory expense in our operations that affects the return, and at the same long-term, stable returns. This is also important so that we can act with a long-term time it is also a responsibility issue that can impact the company’s reputation and horizon and be able to meet the financial expectations of our other stakeholders. standing. Tax is defined as income tax, VAT, property tax, stamp duty, advertising tax and withholding tax. The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for managing Boundaries taxes. The Board of Directors has established a tax policy to ensure tax issues are The reporting covers only the economic value created at Vasakronan. The value is managed in alignment with fulfilling the requirement of achieving a high return, and impacted partly by factors under Vasakronan’s control but also by external factors of the company meeting the requirements set for being a responsible societal actor. such as market conditions and interest rates, as well as our owners’ decisions about For more information on the company’s tax policy, visit www.vasakronan.se. the dividend. Vasakronan’s operations are conducted only in Sweden. Country-by-country reporting of taxes paid is therefore not applicable. Vasakronan is not currently the Responsibility and monitoring subject of any tax cases. More information about recorded taxes can be found in Vasakronan’s CEO and Management Group have overall responsibility for steering Note 17 on Page 99. operations toward the financial targets. The outcome is monitored on a quarterly basis in connection with interim reports and through internal steering parameters Donations and sponsorship established for the operations. During the year, voluntary contributions and investments in the community in the form of gifts and donations were presented to various organisations. The two largest Governance and objectives contributions in 2017 totaled SEK 750,000. The overall financial objective is a return that, in relation to risk, is greater than the return our owners could obtain from other comparable investment alternatives. The overall financial objective is a total yield of at least 6.5% per year. In addition, 205-3 Number of confirmed incidents of corruption the total yield must be at least 0.5 percentage points higher than the outcome for and actions taken the rest of the industry, measured as the average according to the IPD Swedish Property Index (excluding Vasakronan). The average outcome is evaluated over rolling ten-year periods, together with monitoring and analysis of the outcome for Corruption in the Swedish property and construction industries, in which a large each individual year. In addition, a number of key financial indicators are set for the amount of products and services is sold every year, is regarded as being widespread coming year. These are monitored on a quarterly basis in connection with internal and extensive. We must therefore have a working method that eliminates the risk of review and in the quarterly reports to the Board of Directors. For more information, corruption in all situations. see pages 12–13. Boundaries Outcomes Anti-corruption efforts pertain firstly to the work we are carrying out to prevent Detailed information on Vasakronan’s financial position can be found in the compacorruption within the company, but we also place demands on our suppliers having ny’s financial reports on pages 78–89. The economic value created totaled SEK 17.5 a systematic working method to counteract corruption. billion (19.6) in 2017 and comprises rental revenue, investments and changes in the values of properties. The remaining value totaled SEK 7.1 billion (6.4). The value Responsibility and monitoring distributed to the owners pertains to the dividend presented to the owners, which The efforts toward counteracting corruption and bribery are being led by the is also to be regarded as a value to the public. The “Public sector” item includes propcompany’s General Counsel in the capacity of Compliance Officer. Violations are not erty tax, ground rent and VAT. In 2017, property tax was an expense of SEK 544 milacceptable and may result in disciplinary measures, termination or legal proceedings. lion (expense: 544), of which SEK 497 million (487) was invoiced to tenants. There is also a whistle-blower function to make it easier for employees and those outside the company to report suspicions of corruption or other impropriety. Economic value distributed Governance and objectives Internally, operating activities are governed by policies and guidelines for purchasing, communication, equal treatment and the environment, among other factors. Our policies, routines, and training work together with our Code of Conduct to counteract all forms of corruption and improprieties, and all of Vasakronan’s employees and Owners, 39% (55) suppliers are expected to comply with internal regulations as well as with the laws in Suppliers, 32% (21) force. All policies are available on the intranet, and the organisation is monitored Public sector, 16% (13) continually to ensure compliance. Creditors, 12% (9) Outcomes Employees, 2% (2) No suspicions of corruption were reported in 2017. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 117 SUSTAINABILITY Environmental responsibility 301-1 Materials used by weight. 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation CRE 1 Building energy intensity Large amounts of materials are used in new construction, major renovations and leasehold improvements of properties. The material used in our projects give rise to Nearly 40% of society’s energy consumption is attributable to the property sector. The major environmental impact when they are produced, and in addition they generate work on decreasing our energy consumption and only using renewable energy sources considerable transportation needs. That is why it is important to reduce the amount is therefore an important environmental question. Low energy consumption is also a of material used and to use renewable raw materials, and recycled or reused material precondition for environmentally certifying buildings with high ratings, something that to much greater extents. In addition, we need to ensure that the materials used do is in demand by many tenants and is a prerequisite for financing with green bonds. not contain hazardous substances that are spread into indoor environments or into ecosystems outside our buildings. That is why all the material built into our buildings Boundaries is always evaluated and documented. The Byggvarubedömningen criteria are As a property owner, Vasakronan has an opportunity to impact energy consumption applied in this work. in properties, for example through the investments made in technical systems and in the climate shells of the properties. Another part of the impact comes from tenants, Boundaries and is determined by what type of operations they conduct and what preferences The reporting covers only the material used in new construction and major renovathey have as regards indoor climate, for example. tion projects, as well as leasehold improvements. The reporting covers energy consumption in all properties in the holdings, and The impact lies primarily with our suppliers, since they are the ones purchasing fuel used in vehicles owned by Vasakronan. Only building-related energy consumpand using the materials when they perform services for us. The materials Vasakronan tion is reported (i.e. energy that goes to heating, air conditioning and the building’s purchases and uses internally — office and consumables, as well as construction electrical needs). Tenants’ own electricity consumption is not reported, but an material for operational and maintenance work, for example — have been deemed annual estimate is made in order to report emissions in Scope 3 attributable to this non material. energy consumption as well. Responsibility and monitoring Responsibility and monitoring The Regional SVPs are responsible for the materials used in project development. The technical organisation is responsible for the energy consumption of the existing This responsibility covers how much, and what type, of material is used and for using properties and the choice of energy type. The regions are responsible for energy the Byggvaruvbedömning criteria in all projects. consumption in project operations. Used materials are monitored in connection with the project being completed. Energy consumption is monitored on a monthly basis at the property, regional, Used material per square meter, the proportion of renewable and non-renewable and company level via an energy monitoring system in which all the values measured raw materials, and the proportion of recycled material are then all compiled. The are recorded and processed. Energy consumption for new build and redevelopment proportion of reused material is also monitored. This monitoring is performed on is monitored against planned values in connection with a project being completed. a quarterly basis by the respective regions. Governance and objectives Governance and objectives The energy efforts are governed by the company’s energy strategy and environThe environmental intensity of the project is governed by the environmental certificamental policy. For major new construction projects, the objective is to come in at tion chosen, and the “Miljöprogram för stora respektive små projekt” (Environmental least 25% under the BBR requirements (Boverket regulations for new construcProgram for Large and Small Projects) internal steering document. All planners and tion). For major renovations not covered by the BBR requirements, the objective is contractors are to comply with the Environmental Program, which indicates that we to halve energy consumption compared with prior to the redevelopment. are to economise on materials, use materials that are possible to reuse or recycle, and Reducing energy consumption in existing buildings also requires close collaboraconstruct for preventive purposes so that great flexibility can be achieved and the tion with our tenants. In green leases, which Vasakronan developed in 2010, there is need for future redevelopment thereby decreases. Environmental certification of the a clause on collaboration around reduced energy consumption. Since 2017, this project also steers towards reduced use of materials and a larger proportion of reused clause and a few additional clauses from the green lease, have been worked into our and recycled material. The Environmental Program also prescribes using the Byggvaru­ standard agreements. bedömningen criteria for selecting and documenting construction goods, which are The company’s business plan contains annual goals for how much energy conchecked both during internal audits and during supplier audits. The requirement for sumption is to be reduced. For 2017, the goal was that energy performance would using the Byggvarubedömningen criteria is also found in the majority of lease agreedecrease 3% over the year; see further information on page 12. ments, which is important since tenants sometimes renovate under their own manVasakronan purchases electricity only from renewable resources (water and agement. Prior to 2017, a goal was set for all new build and redevelopment projects wind power), and in all our agreements with suppliers of district heating and district begun during the year to report their use of materials. A similar goal is in place for 2018. cooling there are requirements for the supply of renewable and/or climate neutral energy. Outcomes A total of three projects were completed during the year: one new build and two Outcomes redevelopments. The use of materials in the new build was based on actual measurements over the course of the entire project. Reporting was done using a web-based tool that all contractors and subcontractors had access to. The use, for example, of Energy consumption concrete, reinforcement, steel and wood are based on the actual amounts reported. GWh 2017 2016 For more complex material — fixtures and distribution boards, for example — estimations were made and an extra increment for waste was included in the estimate. Cooling 38 49 Used material in new construction during the year totaled 17,819 tons, equivaProperty electricity 86 99 lent to 1,018 kg/sq. m., where the surface area is based on the gross area of the projHeating 159 164 ect. Of the material used, 2% consisted of renewable raw material and the remaining 98% consisted of non-renewable raw material. Of the non-renewable material, 8% Vehicle fuel consumption 0 0 consisted of recyclable material. 2017 was the first year that the use of material was based on actual measurement; comparable figures for previous years are therefore absent. The use of material in the redevelopment projects completed during the year was based on an estimation from total investment. The estimation shows that in 2017, Vasakronan purchased construction material for approximately SEK 706 million (475). The increase compared with previous years is explained by a larger number of projects completed during the year. The use of material in leasehold improvements is also based on an estimate, and during the year totaled SEK 387 million (370). The audits conducted during the year show that the Byggvarubedömningen criteria were used in all major projects. 118 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 SUSTAINABILITY Responsibility and monitoring Energy intensity The technical organisation has primary responsibility for the water use of the existing properties. The regions are responsible for designing all new construction and kWh/m² redevelopment so that their water use is low. Water-saving equipment is selected 150 during planning — low flush lavatories and low flow fixtures, for example — and any landscaping adjacent to the buildings are planned so that they do not need to be irri120 128 124 gated. Water use is monitored on a monthly basis at the property, regional, and com112 110 pany level via an operations monitoring system in which all the values measured are 90 100 recorded and processed. 60 Governance and objectives Water use is governed by the company’s environmental policy, and is included as 30 a requirement in environmental certification. 0 Outcomes 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 The total amount of water consumed during 2017 totaled 1,211,187 cubic meters (1,159,000), equivalent to a water intensity of 0.5 m3/m2 per year (0.5). In 2017, energy intensity totaled on average 100 kWh/m2 per year (110). This is 305-1 – 305-3 and CRE 3 Direct and indirect emissions an improvement of nearly 9% compared with the previous year. The decrease is explainable by additional energy investments and milder weather during the year. Buildings use a great deal of energy in the management phase, which can give rise to The fuel used during the year consists primarily of gasoline and diesel, and pertains greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, operations generate emissions from own to fuel in company-owned vehicles. Fuel consumption is not included in energy vehicles, business travel and commuting. Operations also generate large amounts intensity data, but in the climate calculations (Scope 1). For definitions of energy of indirect emissions in the form of use of materials, waste and transportation in intensity and temperate area, refer to page 134. connection with project development. In 2017, an additional 12 solar photovoltaic systems were put into operation in property portfolio; in total, 2,060 MWh (940) of electrical energy was produced in Boundaries our solar photovoltaic systems. A total of 49 solar photovoltaic systems (37) were Climate impact within our own organisation is marginal, since we do not have our in operation at year end and these are estimated to generate a total of 3,200 MWh own central heating boilers in the properties and since the majority of vehicles we each year. The installations are located throughout the entire property portfolio; own are electric cars. What we can largely impact is energy consumption in the Stockholm has the most with 23 installations followed by Uppsala with 13, Öresund properties as well as what type of energy we choose to supply our buildings with. with 8 and Gothenburg with 5. Owing to low average energy consumption and agreements on renewable and/or climate-neutral energy, the emissions we can affect ourselves have already been decreased drastically. We have therefore chosen to focus our work on emissions 303-1 Water withdrawal by source that occur outside our own organisation. The emissions outside the organisation CRE 2 Building water intensity we are primarily trying to reduce are emissions arising from tenants’ own electricity contracts, the consumption of materials in new construction and and major renovaWater consumption is an important issue from a global perspective. Over the last few tions, and transportation to and from our construction projects. years, access to drinking water has been restricted even in certain parts of Sweden. Reporting covers emissions attributable to the aspects regarded as material Vasakronan uses water from municipal systems, and even though no shortages have based on size and the possibility of having an influence. yet arisen in the locations where we operate, we are working continually on monitoring and on cost-efficient measures to reduce consumption. Low water use is a preconResponsibility and monitoring dition for environmentally certifying buildings with high ratings. The responsibility for energy consumption, waste and use of materials forms the basis for the responsibility for emissions. In addition, company management is Boundaries responsible for creating the conditions and guidelines for reducing emissions from As a property owner, we have a great opportunity to impact the amount of water employees’ business travel and commutes. used in our buildings, since we are the ones who decide and make investments in Monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions under the GHG protocol is conducted technical systems. The overall impact however is determined by our tenants, the annually, and in 2017 the calculations were performed by the consultants 2050 AB. type of operations they conduct and how they choose to act. The reporting covers water use in all properties. It does not cover any water use Governance and objectives where the tenant appears as the subscriber. Prior to 2017, the company had an operating goal of reducing emissions from commuting and business travel by 10%. For more information, refer to page 12. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 119 SUSTAINABILITY Outcomes Compilation of total greenhouse gas emissions, 2006 and 2013–2017 Vasakronan has been calculating its climate emissions since 2006, which is therefore tion, and that the proportion of property electricity not purchased via Vasakronan used as the base year for the calculations. For purposes of comparison, the emissions has decreased. for 2006 have been adjusted so that AP Fastigheter’s emissions are also included. In Scope 3, part of the report is based on actual data and part on standard values. Since the base year, emissions have decreased by approximately 97% (comparable Emissions from the production and distribution of energy fuel decreased during the emissions, i.e. Scope 1, Scope 2 and emissions from air travel). The tremendous year. These emissions are based on actual data, and the decrease is explained by the decrease is due to reduced energy consumption and a transition to renewable or fact that as of 2017, Vasakronan purchases electricity only from wind and water climate-neutral energy sources. Over the past few years, a gradual improvement of power. Of the emissions in Scope 3 that are largely built on standard values, emissions input data — as well as amended accounting principles — have led to an increase in from project activities have increased. This is mainly due to increased project volume the scope of which emissions are included in the calculations. Since 2012, the calcu(transportation in construction projects excepted, where the basis for calculation lations relate not only to emissions of carbon dioxide but to all gases that impact the has changed). The reason that emissions from tenants’ own use of electricity has climate. All amounts in the table below refer to tons, if not otherwise stated. decreased is that the assumption of how much electricity the tenants consume has During the year Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions decreased 24%. The largest changed. decreases took place in the categories of district cooling and electricity, and are due Vasakronan performs climate compensation for the remaining direct emissions — to such factors as reduced energy consumption. Another explanation is that one of as well as certain indirect emissions — by purchasing shares in compensation projects. the suppliers of district cooling has switched over to green electricity in its producBase year 20061) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Scope 1 Oil 3,335 19 14 0 0 0 Own vehicles 67 13 19 11 21 20 Private vehicles used for business and service vehicles 236 23 21 2 16 11 Refrigerants – 944 555 371 2808) 256 Total 3,638 999 609 384 317 287 Scope 2 District heating 25,740 183 267 187 189 182 District cooling 606 232 229 179 121 4 Electricity2) 30 863 2,404 626 415 314 Total 26,376 1,278 2,900 992 725 500 Climate compensated Scope 3 emissions Air travel 303 120 92 201 118 130 Rail travel – 0 0 0 0 0 Taxis – 8 6 0 6 6 Hotels – 3 4 4 7 2 Commutes – 221 232 181 157 159 Production and distribution of vehicle fuels (in Scope 1) – 9 12 3 9 7 Production and distribution of energy fuels (in Scope 1 and 2)3) – 1,261 1,282 1,131 1,451 862 Total 303 1,622 1,629 1,521 1,748 1,166 Other Scope 3 emissions4) Waste from tenants – – 880 2,523 1,727 1,840 Waste in construction projects5) – – 670 598 1,157 1,795 Transportation in construction projects5) – – 1,279 1,853 1,013 596 Materials in construction projects5,7) – – 40,321 59,031 30,175 37,602 Electricity consumed by tenants6) – – – 85,576 54,621 36,600 Total – – 43,150 149,581 88,693 78,433 Sum total of compensated emissions – 3,898 5,137 2,896 2,791 1,954 Sum total of emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3) 30,318 3,898 48,287 152,477 91,484 80,387 Emissions intensity, Scope 1 and 2 (kg per lettable sq. m.) 8.14 0.89 1.4 0.55 0.38 0.32 Emissions intensity, Scope 1 and 2 (after climate compensation) 8.14 0 0 0 0 0 1) Including AP Fastigheter’s emissions before the merger with Vasakronan. Only Scope 1, 2 and air travel, and only CO2. 2) As of 2012, temporary agreements without certificate of origin are included. 3) This category includes emissions that occur upstream of production of water power, wind power, biopower, other power, district heating and district cooling and the extraction, refinement and distribution of oil. 4) New categories since 2014 for waste, materials and transportation and since 2015 for tenants’ electricity use. 5) Emissions for entire construction projects, for projects concluded during the reporting year. 6) Electricity procured by tenants themselves. 7) As of 2016, new methods are applied for calculating emissions from leasehold improvements. The equivalent emissions for 2015 have been re-calculated using the same method. However, corrections further back in time have not been made. 8) The figures have been corrected compared to the report for 2016. 120 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 SUSTAINABILITY 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Large amounts of waste arise in new construction and major renovation projects, Tenant waste and project waste are monitored annually in connection with preparing and a large portion of that waste currently goes to incineration or landfill. In addithe sustainability and impact reports. The project waste monitored pertains to projtion, there is a national target that by 2020, 70% of all construction and demolition ects that were concluded during the current year. waste is to be reused or the material is to be recycled. We also take care of large amounts of waste from our tenants’ operations, and Governance and objectives often we are the ones who determine how well the waste is sorted since we are The EU waste hierarchy governs our working method as regards waste. The goal is responsible for the space and equipment used for sorting waste at the property. to minimise landfill and incineration and to increase the proportion that is recycled or reused. Vasakronan’s long-term goal is that neither our own nor our tenants’ Boundaries operations will generate waste that cannot be recycled or reused. Most of our influence is exercised outside the organisation at our construction conTo reach this long-term goal, Vasakronan will collaborate with customers and tractors, who do the work in our construction projects, and at our tenants when suppliers to: they conduct operations at our properties. The waste that arises owing to our own 1. Reduce the amount of waste through good resource management. administrative operations is not deemed to be material in relation to the waste from 2. Create conditions for reuse of waste. project development and tenant waste. 3. Manage waste so that it goes from being waste to being a new resource. Reporting covers the tenant waste that we help our tenants take care of, but not 4. Hazardous waste that arises will be properly taken care of. any waste for which the tenant is responsible for removal — certain types of hazardous waste, for example. Since we are tenants at our own properties, this also covers All new construction and major renovation projects will have waste minimising our own waste from operations. Project waste includes the waste that arises in workshops for the purpose of decreasing the amount of waste and setting a tangible direct connection with construction production at the construction work site. efficiency enhancement goal for the project. Prior to 2017, the company was set a goal to increase the amount of reused material in project development, and to Responsibility and monitoring reduce waste generated by projects by 5%. For more information on objectives and In administration, the technical organisation is responsible for meeting waste targets. target fulfilment, refer to page 12. In project operations, the regional SVPs are responsible for meeting our targets. Outcomes Tenant waste, 2017 Tenant waste, 2016 Tons Tons 6,000 6,000 5,000 5,000 4,970 4,974 4,000 4,000 3,000 3,390 3,000 3,093 2,000 2,000 1,532 1,464 1,000 1,000 158 39 12 180 30 0 0 Recycling Energy recycling/incineration Recycling Energy recycling/incineration Composting/biogas production Landfill Hazardous waste Composting/biogas production Landfill Hazardous waste Destruction without heat production Project waste, 2017 Project waste, 2016 Tons Tons 3,000 3,000 2,517 2,000 2,000 2,047 1,632 1,000 1,138 1,000 733 675 59 59 0 0 Recycling Energy recycling Landfill Hazardous waste Recycling Energy recycling Landfill Hazardous waste Reporting the amount of waste generated by us and our tenants is built partly on In project waste, there are detailed statistics from the major projects. Information estimates. Part of the waste in the category of tenant waste (‘household’ waste or about how much waste arises in smaller projects — the “fit outs” — is most often comparable thereto) may only be collected by contractors appointed by the respecnonexistent. The waste originating from this type of project has therefore been tive municipalities. It is often difficult, and sometimes even impossible, to get inforestimated by calculating a key metric per krona expended, based on a smaller mation from the municipalities on how much waste is collected in the respective number of reference projects with actual information. properties. Portions of the waste have therefore been estimated, based on key metrics per square metre from the actual information that could be obtained. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 121 SUSTAINABILITY CRE8 Number of sustainability certified buildings 102-9 A description of the organisation’s supply chain 308-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Environmental certification of both existing buildings and new construction projusing social criteria ects is important from several perspectives. It is proof from a third party that our properties have low environmental impact, which means we can meet our tenants’ In order to successfully conduct our operations, we need to engage suppliers of growing environmental requirements. Environmental certification for our buildings various types. Each purchase must be conducted with professional correctness, is also a prerequisite for our financing with green bonds. objectivity and honesty while observing good business practice. Additionally, purchasing must take place through competitive procurements where suppliers and Boundaries tenders are assessed and prioritised based on how well they meet the requirements Many aspects are assessed when environmentally certifying buildings, and we do not set, taking into consideration competence and efforts toward quality, sustainability, always have a complete right of disposition over some of them. We in the organisation, and health and safety as well as risk function, performance, design and price. Since a however, are always the ones taking decisions on which buildings will be certified, large part of our environmental impact arises in the supply chain, assessing suppliers which certification will be chosen and which rating we will have as an objective. based on how they conduct their environmental work is of great importance. Reporting covers all properties. Boundaries Responsibility and monitoring We ourselves are the ones who determine which demands we will place on our Responsibility for environmentally certifying our new construction and major renosuppliers. Whether the demands are met is determined by our suppliers. vation projects lies with the regional SVPs; responsibility for existing buildings lies Reporting covers the supplier agreements signed by the purchasing department. with the Technical Operations & Development Unit. Responsibility and monitoring Governance and objectives The work on signing agreements with our suppliers is managed by a central purchasThe environmental intensity of the project is governed by the environmental certi­ ing division. The Purchasing Director reports to the SVP for Technical Operations fication chosen, and the “Miljöprogram för stora respektive små projekt” (Environ­ & Development. The purchasing division is responsible for purchases meeting strict mental Program for Large and Small Projects) internal policy document. requirements for quality and sustainability and that they take place at the lowest Vasakronan’s long-term goal is that all our properties will be environmentally possible cost, and for procurement of new suppliers. Prior to every tender, an evalucertified, which is why plans are produced annually for which existing properties ation of potential suppliers is conducted based on several criteria. The purchasing will be certified or, where necessary, recertified. The environmental program for division continually monitors the proportion of new suppliers who have signed the the project indicates that all projects are to be certified under LEED, with the goal Code of Conduct for suppliers. Vasakronan works continually to reduce the number of reaching Platinum certification. Information on the choice of certification and the of suppliers engaged and to have all supplier agreements managed directly by the level set as a goal must also be indicated in the memoranda of decision produced for purchasing division. the respective projects. For 2017, the goal was to further increase the proportion of environmental Governance and objectives certifications. Environmental requirements for our suppliers — environmental programs for large and small projects, for example — are placed in specific appendices to the agreement. Outcomes General environmental requirements are summarised in our environmental policy At the end of 2017, 84% (77) of our property portfolio was environmentally certified. and in our Code of Conduct for suppliers. The agreements with new suppliers Vasakronan counts only BREEAM, LEED and Miljöbyggnad as approved (or valid) always include the Code of Conduct for Vasakronan’s suppliers; as of 2017, all new certifications. framework and service agreement suppliers will be evaluated as regards the environment, working conditions and human rights. Audits are conducted to check that our suppliers are living up to their commitEnvironmental certifications ments in the Code and additional specifications, if any. Selection for audit takes into % consideration how much we buy from the supplier, as well as particular risks and 100 focus areas. 80 84 Outcomes 77 The total number of suppliers engaged directly by Vasakronan totals approximately 71 60 2,600. In turn, these suppliers often have subcontractors. The number of subcontractors is difficult to estimate, since the number of subcontractors per supplier 40 44 varies drastically. The suppliers that are primarily engaged are: • Contractors (mainly construction contractors) 20 • Consultants (technical consultants and architects, for example) 5 • Energy suppliers (electricity, district heating and district cooling) 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 • Service suppliers Share of total area. Since Vasakronan conducts operations exclusively in Sweden, our suppliers most often are also based in Sweden. Area, thousand sq. m. Share, % Vasakronan’s Code of Conduct for suppliers is applied to all new supplier agreeBREEAM Excellent 28 1 ments, and is now included in 100% of the supplier agreements signed by the purchasing division. LEED Platinum 114 6 In 2017, a total of three major supplier audits (ten) were conducted. In addition LEED Gold 1,503 74 to these, nine smaller supplier audits (seven) were conducted in connection with LEED Silver 275 13 contract meetings and personnel checks at office cleaning suppliers. The outcomes of these audits show that our suppliers satisfy our environmental requirements. LEED Certified 103 5 Miljöbyggnad Bronze 12 1 2,036 100 To the extent the property is environmentally certified under several systems, it has been counted as LEED certified in the table above. 122 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 SUSTAINABILITY Societal responsibility 102-8 Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), and by gender 405-1 Composition of the Board of Directors, management and other employees according to age and gender We want to be a company that reflects the society we operate in, and we believe we around equal treatment are summarised in an equal treatment policy that clearly will be more successful if we avoid entirely too homogeneous groups, since groups explains that all the company’s operations must be free from discrimination and with a more heterogeneous composition are often more innovative, solving problems harassment. In addition, there is an internal Code of Conduct for employees and more efficiently. board members. Prior to 2017, a target was set for the entire operation that all employees should Boundaries know how to prevent discrimination and harassment. Targets for increasing the The impact occurs only within our own organisation in connection with recruitment number of employees with non-Swedish backgrounds were also set. See more inforof new employees. Reporting covers only individuals employed at Vasakronan, and mation on objectives and target fulfilment on page 12. not individuals who perform work under conditions similar to employment. Outcomes Responsibility and monitoring At 31 December 2017, the number of employees was 349 (339), of which 343 (334) The work on diversity and equal treatment is managed by the company’s HR Director, were permanent employees and the remainder on time-limited contracts. One but responsibility for creating groups marked by diversity and for no employees employee in the organisation had a part-time contract. All employees are covered being discriminated against lies with the respective directors. by collective agreements. Of these employees, 274 (262) were salaried employees Any cases of discrimination are captured via any of the following channels: and 75 (77) were employed under a collective agreement. employee surveys, immediate supervisors, the HR division, union parties, the comAt the end of the year, 157 consultants were employed in operations. Of these, pany’s Compliance Officer or our external whistle-blower function. the equivalent of 70% were hired in as external project managers in new construcTo ensure that no unreasonable differences in pay occur at Vasakronan, wage tion and major renovatiosn projects. Other consultants were hired primarily as surveys are conducted annually, in collaboration with an external party so as to replacements for existing personnel, for example in connection with parental leave achieve the greatest objectivity possible. or sick leave. In addition to the consultants hired in, contractors are engaged for project operations. As the extent of these contractors varies markedly over time, Governance and objectives no estimates have been made of their proportions. All employees and job applicants will be treated equally, and no discrimination is perFrom the latest wage survey, it emerged that there was a 2.0% (0.6) difference in missible. Women and men must be given equal opportunities for development and salaries that favored men. This will be taken into consideration and adjusted during advancement, as well as equal pay for equal work. The purpose and goal of efforts the 2018 salary review. Age distribution Form of employment Share of employees with a non-Swedish background, 2017 % 50 47 40 35 36 36 30 27 20 18 14 10 11 8 <29, 7% (7) 4 Salaried employees, men, 39% (40) 0 Stockholm Gothenburg Öresund Uppsala Total 30–49, 53% (54) Salaried employees, women, 40% (37) >50, 40% (39) Collective agreements, men, 19% (21) Collective agreements, women, 2% (2) Vasakronan 2017 Population, aged 20–67 Share of employees with a foreign background in Vasakronan 2017 compared Age distribution among all employees. All employees. with non-Swedish background in the population (20–67) in the same locations. Source: SCB Distribution, women and men Share of employees with a non-Swedish background, 2016 % 50 All employees Management Group Board 46 40 34 35 35 30 26 20 16 10 13 11 4 5 0 Stockholm Göteborg Öresund Uppsala Totalt Women, 42% (40) Women, 46% (46) Women, 44% (33) Vasakronan 2016 Population, aged 20–67 Men, 58% (60) Men, 54% (54) Men, 56% (67) Share of employees with a foreign background in Vasakronan 2016 compared with non-Swedish background in the population (20–67) in the same locations. Source: SCB VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 123 SUSTAINABILITY 414-1 Percentage of new suppliers Reporting covers sick leave and accidents concerning persons employed at Vasakronan. There is also an ambition to report accidents at our construction that were screened using social criteria work sites. A uniform system for this reporting currently does not exist, but will be introduced. In order to successfully conduct our operations, we need to engage suppliers of various types. Each purchase must be conducted with professional correctness, Responsibility and monitoring objectivity and honesty while observing good business practice. Additionally, purThe HR Director is responsible for providing access to measures that promote chasing must take place through competitive procurements where suppliers and health and the opportunity for rehabilitation. The respective directors are responsitenders are assessed and prioritised based on how well they meet the requirements ble for reviewing employees’ work situations, since a portion of sick leave is related set, taking into consideration competence and efforts toward quality, sustainability, to burnout syndrome. and health and safety as well as risk function, performance, design and price. The regional SVPs are responsible for the company’s project development, and thereby for the working environment for the contractors operating at our construcBoundaries tion work sites. The equivalent responsibility for operation and maintenance conWe ourselves are the ones who determine which demands we will place on our suptracts lies with Technical Operations & Development. pliers. Whether the demands are met is determined by our suppliers. Monitoring of sick leave and long term illness absence is conducted monthly, over Reporting covers the supplier agreements signed by the purchasing department. a rolling twelve months. The number of workplace accidents is monitored on a yearly basis. Responsibility and monitoring The work on signing agreements with our suppliers is managed by a central purchasGovernance and objectives ing division. Technical Operations & Development. The purchasing division is Great emphasis is placed on activities that promote health, such as preventing workresponsible for purchases meeting strict requirements for quality and sustainability place accidents and rehabilitating people on long-term sick leave. Vasakronan offers and that they take place at the lowest possible cost, and for procurement of new health insurance to all its employees. suppliers. Prior to every tender, an evaluation of potential suppliers is conducted Incidents and accidents are reported in the “Kris och incidenter” (Crisis and incident) based on several criteria. tool, which currently covers only Vasakronan’s employees. The purchasing division continually monitors the proportion of new suppliers who As regards the contractors operating on our construction work sites, requirements have signed the Code of Conduct for suppliers. A number of agreements are not signed for work environment and safety are set in our contractor agreements. by the purchasing division, however, which is why it is difficult to estimate how many In addition, work is in progress on improving the routine for reporting accidents; agreements and suppliers have the relevant societal requirements in their confor 2018, it is part of a company-wide goal. Refer to page 13. tracts. Vasakronan works continually to reduce the number of suppliers engaged and to have all supplier agreements managed directly by the purchasing division. Outcomes Total sick leave in 2017 amounted to 3.1% (3.3); the distribution by region and gender Governance and objectives is shown in the diagram below. In 2017, a total of four accidents were reported, of Through its Code of Conduct for suppliers, Vasakronan places demands on its supwhich two resulted in absentee days. The number of absentee days as a consequence pliers regarding such aspects as working conditions and human rights. The agreeof accidents totaled 15. The accidents reported pertain only to the company’s ments with new suppliers always include the “Code of Conduct for Vasakronan’s employees. Contractor accidents are not included in the outcome. suppliers;” as of 2017, all new framework and service agreement suppliers will be evaluated as regards the environment, working conditions and human rights. To reinforce the opportunity for employees or external parties to anonymously report Sick leave 2017 suspicions of breeches of laws and regulations regarding working conditions or % human rights, there is a whistle-blower function. Vasakronan’s Compliance Officer 6 (who is also the General Counsel) receives and investigates the reports that come 6.0 in. Since 2015, there has also been an external whistle-blower function to provide 5 the opportunity for reporting suspicions of any impropriety to an external party. 4.9 Audits are conducted to check that our suppliers are living up to their commitments 4 in the Code and additional specifications, if any. Selection for audit takes into consideration how much we buy from the supplier, as well as particular risks and focus areas. 3 3.0 2 2.5 Outcomes Vasakronan’s Code of Conduct for suppliers is applied to all new supplier agree1 1.2 1.4 1.1 ments, and is now included in 100% of the supplier agreements signed by the pur0.6 chasing division. 0 In 2017, a total of three major supplier audits (ten) were conducted. In addition Stockholm Gothenburg Öresund Uppsala to these, nine smaller supplier audits (seven) were conducted in connection with contract meetings and personnel checks at office cleaning suppliers. The outcomes Women Men  of these audits show that our suppliers satisfy our societal requirements. No suspicions of deviations from laws or regulations regarding working conditions or human rights were reported in 2017. Sick leave 2016 % 7 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, 6 6.4 occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 5.6 and number of work-related fatalities 5 4 The health and safety of our employees is of the greatest importance, since sick 3 3.4 leave leads both to direct costs in the form of sick pay and to indirect costs in the 2.7 form of loss of output. 2 1.7 1.6 1 1.5 Boundaries 1.1 The impact on employees’ health occurs within the organisation owing to the fact 0 that it is the employers’ responsibility to ensure a good working environment and Stockholm Gothenburg Öresund Uppsala offer activities promoting health. The greatest impact from the perspective of accidents occurs at the construction work sites in our project activities. Women Men 124 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 SUSTAINABILITY 416-A Measures taken to maintain a high level Measures taken to increase accessibility of safety and security in and around properties to public transportation and local services It is important for everyone to feel safe and secure in their local surroundings. As As a property owner, being able to offer premises with good connections to public employers, our tenants want to ensure that their employees have a safe workplace transportation and proximity to various types of societal services is important. and a safe commute. It facilitates daily life for our tenants and contributes to reduced climate impact. Boundaries Boundaries Impact occurs within the organisation as a result of the fact that this indicator perImpact occurs within the organisation as a result of the fact that this indicator pertains tains to measures we ourselves have taken. to measures we ourselves have taken. Reporting covers only the measures Vasakronan takes. Reporting covers only the measures Vasakronan takes. Responsibility and monitoring Responsibility and monitoring The responsibility for ensuring that routine safety in and around the properties is The organisations for project development in the respective regions are responsible maintained lies with Technical Operations & Development. for creating conditions during the planning phase for a mix of different operations In connection with project development, responsibility lies with the respective in the property. The transaction division is responsible for including access to public regions for taking action at the start, during the planning of new build and redeveltransportation and local services as a part of the due diligence performed in connecopment projects. tion with a potential acquisition. The regions are responsible for ongoing dialogue with municipalities and public transportation companies regarding factors such as Governance and objectives frequency and locations of stops. Vasakronan continually takes measures to create a safe, secure environment in and Monitoring of the effect of the measures occurs in continual dialogue with our around our properties. An important part of this work is creating a mix of offices, tenants. retail and leisure, thereby creating a more lively environment during the evenings as well. In addition, measures are taken to increase lighting in darker areas such as Governance and objectives parking lots or garages, or in the area around our development sites. Other meaWe work continually on ensuring that the properties we own are located so that sures include pruning trees and bushes to create better visibility, maintaining alarms public transportation is already good, or where there are plans to expand it. We are and introducing passageway systems. also working actively on trying to improve public transportation with regard to freVasakronan’s long-term objective is for the design of our properties to contribute quency and locations of stops. to the safety, security and health of our tenants. For 2018, the goal is to carry out at Many of our properties are located in city centres where the level of local services least 50 measures to create security in our properties and our new development is already high. We also own properties in more peripheral locations, where we work projects. actively on ensuring that there is a varied offering of restaurants and cafés, gyms, hairdressers and other types of services that our customers demand in proximity to Outcomes their workplaces. We also offer access to dry cleaners and shoemakers in many of In its redevelopment of Sergelhuset, which began during the year, Vasakronan our properties. focused right from the design phase on having the area perceived as being secure and safe. Malmskillnadsgatan will transform from what was a dark back street that people Outcomes avoided at night to a central inner-city street with a dynamic and vibrant city life. In Gothenburg, Vasakronan — in partnership with a number of other property Part of this work included planning restaurants, outdoor dining and shops at owners — initiated a dialogue with Västtrafik during the year on improving public street level, and residences higher up in the buildings that are felt to create movement transportation. and security around the clock. Another part was removing unsafe alleys, dark sections An additional restaurant and a conference section opened in Uppsala Science Park and narrow staircases in the area. during the year, to increase the service offering for the approximately 140 companies In 2017, Vasakronan joined forces with the Swedish Property Federation to initiate and government agencies operating in the area. In Gothenburg, a restaurant has certification of three areas in Gothenburg in accordance with the Purple Flag stanopened up on the bottom floor of the Bohusgatan property, which had previously dard. Purple Flag is an accreditation process that identifies places that have successbeen closed to the street. A gym opened up in the Mobile Height Center in Lund fully worked to improve safety and access, and that offer a diverse selection also at during the year. night. The areas chosen for certification are Fredstan, Nordstan and Lilla Bommen. In Kista, we focused during the year on improving existing lighting in the area and supplementing it with new lighting in dark areas and parking lots. In partnership Customer satisfaction with the City of Stockholm, we have also reviewed lighting in Grönlandsparken and pruned trees and bushes to provide better visibility and thus better security in the To succeed at the task of a high level of return over the long term, a high level of park. customer satisfaction is a must. The more satisfied the customers, the greater their loyalty towards us. Boundaries The results of customer surveys pertain to our own evaluation of our tenants’ satisfaction. Responsibility and monitoring Customer initiatives are managed by the company’s four regions, and the regional SVPs have overall responsibility for customer satisfaction. Customer surveys are conducted regularly to monitor how well customer initiatives are working and to identify areas for improvement. This occurs primarily through Vasakronan’s own customer survey, Tyck om Vasakronan, which is conducted at the beginning of every year, and also using event-governed customer surveys. Governance and objectives To have satisfied customers, good customer relations are needed. This work includes routines for communication, meetings and surveys for monitoring. Outcomes The latest survey was conducted at the beginning of 2018, where the outcome was a score of 76 (77) for offices and 75 (75) for retail. The scale of the survey is from 1 to 100, where a score of at least 80 corresponds to a grade of Very good. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 125 SUSTAINABILITY Auditor’s limited assurance report on Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report and statement regarding the statutory Sustainability Report To Vasakronan AB, Corp. ID. 556061-4603 Introduction The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Control) We have been engaged by the Board of Directors and CEO of Vasa­ and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control kronan AB (“Vasakronan”) to undertake a limited assurance engageincluding documented policies and procedures regarding compliance ment of Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report for the year 2017. The with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal scope of the Sustainability Report, which also constitutes the compaand regulatory requirements. We are independent of Vasakronan in ny’s statutory sustainability report, is defined on accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and page 114 in the Annual Report. have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and The limited assurance procedures performed and the examination the CEO for the Sustainability Report according to RevR 12 do not enable us to obtain assurance that we The Board of Directors and the CEO are responsible for the preparawould become aware of all significant matters that might be identified tion of the Sustainability Report in accordance with the applicable criin an audit. Consequently, the conclusion based on a limited assurance teria and the Annual Accounts Act. The criteria are defined on page engagement and an examination according to RevR 12 does not pro114 in the Annual Report and are the parts of the Sustainability vide the same level of assurance as a conclusion based on an audit. Reporting Guidelines (published by The Global Reporting Initiative, Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board of GRI) which are applicable to the Sustainability Report, Directors and the CEO as described above. We consider these criteria as well as the accounting and calculation principles that the company suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. has developed. This responsibility includes the internal control releWe believe that the evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate vant to the preparation of a Sustainability Report that is free from to provide a basis for our conclusions below. material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. Conclusions Responsibilities of the Auditor Based on the limited assurance procedures performed, nothing has Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Report based on the limited assurance procedures we have perReport is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the formed and to express and opinion regarding the Statutory Sustaincriteria defined by the Board of Directors and the CEO. ability Report. A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews Stockholm, 21 March 2018 of Historical Financial Information. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. Our examination regarding the Statutory Sustainability Report has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s accounting standard RevR12 The auditor’s opinion regarding Helena Ehrenborg Fredrik Ljungdahl the statutory sustainability report. A limited assurance engagement and Authorised Public Accountant Expert member of FAR an examination according to RevR 12 is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with ISA and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. 126 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 IMPACT REPORT 31 DECEMBER 2017 Impact Report, Green Bonds Vasakronan issued the world’s first green bond in November 2013, and remains aged to halve our energy consumption since 2009, and by supplying our properties the largest issuer of green bonds in Sweden. In 2017, Vasakronan launched a with renewable or climate-neutral energy we have reduced our carbon dioxide new framework that tightens requirements for new construction and major emissions in Scope 1 and 2 by 97% since 2006. renovation projects financed with green bonds and opens up opportunities for Large amounts of waste arise in new construction and major renovation projects, investments in existing properties. The framework has been reviewed by the and a large portion of that waste currently goes to incineration or landfill. We also Center for International Climate Research (CICERO) and has received the hightake care of large amounts of waste from our tenants’ operations, and often we are est rating, Dark Green. the ones who determine how well the waste is sorted since we are responsible for the space and equipment used for sorting waste at the property. The EU waste hierVasakronan’s total investments approved for financing with green bonds totaled archy governs our work with both types of waste, and the goal is to minimise landfill SEK 14.2 billion (6.2) at the end of 2017. Of these, SEK 13.8 billion (–) comprised and incineration and to increase the proportion that is recycled or reused. investments in existing properties, of which SEK 5.1 billion (4.0) consisted of propWater consumption is an important issue from a global and a local perspective. erties that had previously undergone new construction or redevelopment. InvestVasakronan uses water from municipal systems, and even though no shortages have ment in ongoing projects totaled SEK 0.4 billion (1.2). yet arisen in the locations where we operate, we are working continually on monitorIn 2017, Vasakronan increased the volume of green bonds outstanding by SEK ing and on cost-efficient measures to reduce consumption. Low water use is also a 2.8 billion, and the total amount outstanding at year end was SEK 8.0 billion (5.2), precondition for environmentally certifying buildings with high ratings. equivalent to 14% (9) of the total liabilities. Every year, business planning is carried out around the company that focuses on Properties account for nearly 40% of energy consumption in Sweden. Continuing areas for development and improvement in our operations. Financial, environmenthe work on reducing energy consumption in our properties is therefore self-evident tal, and societal goals are set based on these business plans. For more information on to us. Through investments and close collaboration with our tenants, we have manour environmental goals for 2017 and how well we achieved them, refer to page 12. Improved energy intensity Reduced CO2-emissions kWh/m² Tons 150 4,000 3,600 120 128 124 3,000 112 110 90 100 2,396 2,000 60 1,576 1,000 1,161 30 918 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Pertains to Scope 1 and 2 Larger share of waste recycling Greater focus on water use m3/m2 1.0 0.8 0.6 0.48 0.51 0.4 0.2 Recycling, 49% 0.0 Energy recapture through incineration, 49% 2016 2017 Landfill and hazardous waste, 2% Tenant waste, 2017 Water intensity VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 127 IMPACT REPORT 31 DECEMBER 2017 Criteria under the framework As a basis for the selection of assets that can be financed with green bonds, there is a framework that has been reviewed by the Center for International Climate Research Approved investment amount (CICERO), a Norwegian climate research fund. In 2017, Vasakronan launched a new green bonds, 31 Dec 2017, SEK m framework that also facilitates investments in existing properties. The criteria to be met for financing an existing property is that the building must be certified according Accrued investments in ongoing projects 407 to LEED for existing buildings on a Gold level or higher and have an energy intensity below 100 kWh/m2 per year. Existing properties 13,824 As a result of the new framework, the level for financing new construction and – of which previously new construction and major renovation 5,102 major renovation projects was also raised. These must be certified according to Total approved investment amount 14,231 LEED for new construction on a Platinum level, or BREEAM-SE on an Outstanding level, and have an energy performance 25% below the National Board of Housing, Volume outstanding, green bonds 8,035 Building and Planning’s guidelines (BBR requirements). The framework and CICERemaining approved investment amounts 6,196 RO’s report can be found at www.vasakronan.se. Vasakronan has a special account for transactions attributable to the issue of green bonds. If the approved investment amount is less than the outstanding amount of green bonds, Vasakronan has undertaken to place a corresponding amount in this special account. At year end, the approved investment amount exceeded the outstanding amount of green bonds, and the account balance was therefore zero. Ongoing new construction and major renovation forming basis for investment Energy Energy performance (F), intensity BBR2) , Property Location Certification kWh/m2 kWh/m2 Waste, kg/m2 Materials, kg/m2 Kronåsen 1:1 (Hubben)1) Uppsala LEED Platinum (F) 30 115 38 1,018 Hilton 71) Stockholm LEED Platinum (F) 50 80 – – Kronåsen 1:1 (Celsius) Uppsala LEED Platinum (F) 51 96 – – 1) The project is financed in part by green bank loans via the NIB. See page 33 for more information. 2) Maximum permitted energy intensity under National Board of Housing, Building and Planning guidelines. (F) = Forecast Waste and materials are not reported for the Hilton 7 and Kronåsen 1:1 projects, as these were not complete as of 31 December 2017. Existing properties forming basis for investment Energy performance, Water intensity, Property Location Certification kWh/m2 m3/m2 Emissions, kg/m2 Heden 22:19 Gothenburg LEED Gold 64 0.2 0.0 Heden 42:4 Gothenburg LEED Gold 69 0.8 0.0 In Vallgraven 11:6 Gothenburg LEED Gold 67 0.6 0.0 Gullbergsvass 1:16 Gothenburg LEED Gold 60 0.3 0.0 Magnus Stenbock 4 Malmö LEED Gold 86 0.2 0.7 Nereus 1 Malmö LEED Platinum 72 0.2 0.6 Riga 2 Stockholm LEED Gold 46 0.3 0.0 Hekla 1 Stockholm LEED Gold 53 0.3 0.0 Albydal 3 Stockholm LEED Gold 65 0.2 0.0 Tre Vapen Stockholm LEED Gold 85 0.3 0.0 Dragarbrunn 24:5 Uppsala LEED Gold 86 0.5 0.0 Modemet 1, Hus 81) Stockholm LEED Platinum 29 0.4 0.0 Rosenborg 31) Stockholm LEED Platinum 48 0.3 0.0 Uggleborg 121) Stockholm LEED Platinum 63 0.4 0.0 1) Properties that underwent new construction or redevelopment, and were financed over the course of the project in accordance with the criteria for new build and redevelopment projects. After the project was finished, the property was reclassified to the existing properties category. As of 31 December 2017, these properties comprised SEK 5.1 billion out of a total SEK 13.8 billion. For further information, see Other information. Other information The Impact Report has been prepared in accordance with the guidelines in the The emissions reported for existing properties pertains to emissions attributable to framework for green bonds. The framework was produced in accordance with energy consumption in buildings with the type of purchased energy taken into conthe Green Bond Principles, and has been reviewed by CICERO, the independent sideration. “Tenant electricity” is not included in energy intensity and the emission climate and environmental research institute. The framework is available at calculations. The Existing properties category includes properties that previously www.vasakronan.se. The environmental data reported was produced in accordance underwent new construction or redevelopment, and were financed over the course with the same principles and methods as the Sustainability Report and is shown on of the project in accordance with the criteria for new construction and major renovapage 114. tion projects. In connection with the completion of new construction and major renoInvestments in new construction and major renovation projects corresponded to vation, an evaluation was conducted against the criteria set for investment in existing the amount that as of the balance-sheet date had been invested in the property. properties. Reclassifying a property from new construction and major renovation Existing properties are recognised at market value. The market value is updated projects to the category for existing properties requires that the new construction mid-year and at the end of the year in connection with external evaluations being and major renovation is reported to the Board of Directors, that final certification has performed. Reporting of market value and amount invested follows the accounting been obtained and that energy intensity has been measured over at least a rolling policies indicated in Note 13 on page 97. twelve-month period. 128 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 IMPACT REPORT 31 DECEMBER 2017 Hubben, designed by White Arkitekter, is approximately 13,000 sq. m. and is located in HUBBEN Uppsala Science Park. The building New build contains a restaurant, offices, laboratories and conference rooms, and the tenants moved in during November 2017. A few examples of environmental measures taken during the project: • Major focus on reducing the amount of construction waste. When the project was completed, we could verify that waste per square metre produced amounted to 38 kg, of which none went to landfill. • Solar photovoltaic cells on the roof • Energy efficient installations • All construction material assessed according to Byggvarubedömningen criteria Klara C is an office building with conference facilities and several restaurants in central Stockholm. The property is approximately KLARA C Redevelopment 35,000 sq. m. and was built in 1931. From 2014 to 2017, the building underwent a major redevelopment. This included replacing windows and modernising technical installations, which led to a drastic reduction in energy consumption. To reduce the amount of construction waste, a number of the interior fixtures and fittings were reused in other buildings. When the project was completed, we could verify that waste per square metre redeveloped amounted to 33 kg, of which around 1% went to landfill. The project attained Platinum-level LEED certification, the highest certification level, in 2017. Läppstiftet is an office building in Gothenburg covering approximately LÄPPSTIFTET 32,000 sq. m. The building Existing property was constructed between 1986 and 1989, and has been owned by Vasakronan since 2001. Over the years, a number of measures were taken to reduce the building’s energy consumption, and at the end of 2017 the property had an energy intensity of 60 kWh/sq. m. per year. Läppstiftet was one of Vasakronan’s first existing properties to be certified under LEED (Existing Buildings: Operations and Maintenance). VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 129 IMPACT REPORT 31 DECEMBER 2017 Independent Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Vasakronan’s Green Bond Impact Report To Vasakronan AB, Corp. ID 556061-4603 Introduction including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance We have been engaged by the Board of Directors and CEO of Vasa­ with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal kronan AB (“Vasakronan”) to undertake a limited assurance engageand regulatory requirements. We are independent of Vasakronan in ment of Vasakronan’s Green Bond Impact Report (“the Impact accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and Report”) for the year 2017. The Impact Report is comprised of pages have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with 127–129 in the Annual Report. these requirements. The limited assurance procedures performed do not enable us to Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and obtain such a level of assurance that we would become aware of all the CEO for the Impact Report significant matters that might be identified in an audit. Consequently, The Board of Directors and the CEO are responsible for the preparathe conclusion based on a limited assurance engagement does not tion of the Impact Report in accordance with the applicable criteria, as provide the same level of assurance as a conclusion based on an audit. explained on page 128 of the Annual Report and consists of the parts Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board of of Vasakronan’s Green Bond Framework which are applicable to the Directors and the CEO as described above. We consider these criteria Impact Report, as well as the accounting and calculation principles suitable for the preparation of the Impact Report. that the Company has developed. This responsibility includes the We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and internal control relevant to the preparation of an Impact Report that is appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. Conclusion Responsibilities of the Auditor Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Impact Report nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed. Impact Report is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance We have conducted our limited assurance engagement in accorwith the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and the CEO. dance with ISAE 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Impact Report, and applying analytical and Stockholm, 21 March 2018 other limited assurance procedures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature from, and are less in Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement conducted in accordance with ISA, and other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Control) Helena Ehrenborg Fredrik Ljungdahl and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control Authorised Public Accountant Expert member of FAR 130 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 QUARTERLY OVERVIEW Quarterly overview Amounts in SEK million Q4 2017 Q3 2017 Q2 2017 Q1 2017 INCOME STATEMENTS Net sales 1,654 1,590 1,629 1,617 Operating expenses and property administration –269 –218 –239 –267 Maintenance costs –28 –23 –30 –29 Property tax –134 –139 –135 –136 Ground rents –44 –42 –39 –40 Net operating income 1,179 1,168 1,186 1,145 Central administration –28 –23 –24 –22 Result from participations in joint ventures –1 0 –1 –1 Net interest –291 –295 –296 –283 Profit before value changes and tax 859 850 865 839 Change in value of investment properties 2,311 957 3,887 818 Change in value of financial instruments –67 132 283 120 Divested/impaired goodwill –20 – –6 – Profit before tax 3,083 1,939 5,029 1,777 Tax –647 –427 –1,094 –391 Profit for the period 2,436 1,512 3,935 1,386 BALANCE SHEETS Investment properties 126,875 122,999 121,403 117,037 Equity 51,377 48,950 47,438 47,503 Interest-bearing liabilities 58,421 59,058 58,956 55,181 Total assets 132,283 130,195 128,394 123,960 KEY METRICS Property-related information Closing area, thousand sq. m. 2,430 2,420 2,420 2,427 Closing number of properties 179 178 178 179 Closing market value of property, SEK m 126,875 122,999 121,403 117,037 Net investments, SEK m 1,566 639 478 297 Closing economic occupancy rate, % 93.1 92.7 94.1 93.9 Surplus ratio, % 71.3 73.5 72.8 70.8 Financial metrics Closing average interest rate, % 1.7 1.8 1.9 1.9 Closing remaining average fixed-interest tenor, years 4.5 3.9 4.1 4.2 Interest coverage ratio for the period, multiple 4.0 3.9 3.9 4.0 Closing equity/assets ratio, % 39 38 37 38 Other metrics Closing number of employees 349 348 343 338 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 131 FIVE-YEAR OVERVIEW Five-year overview Amounts in SEK million 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 INCOME STATEMENT Rental revenue 6,490 6,251 6,009 5,899 6,032 Operating expenses and property administration –993 –981 –998 –982 –1,017 Maintenance costs –110 –105 –106 –112 –113 Property tax –544 –544 –474 –492 –492 Ground rents –165 –162 –157 –141 –131 Net operating income 4,678 4,459 4,274 4,172 4,279 Central administration –97 –87 –88 –93 –87 Result from participations in joint ventures –3 –3 –1 –1 0 Net interest –1,165 –1,152 –1,121 –1,256 –1,503 Profit before value changes and tax 3,413 3,217 3,064 2,822 2,689 Change in value of investment properties 7,973 12,056 10,212 3,519 1,952 Unrealised change in value of financial instruments 468 –764 598 –2,956 1,151 Divested/impaired goodwill –26 –18 –71 –21 –51 Profit before tax 11,828 14,491 13,803 3,364 5,741 Tax –2,559 –3,019 –2,859 –642 –923 Profit for the year 9,269 11,472 10,944 2,722 4,818 BALANCE SHEETS Investment properties 126,875 115,922 103,894 91,889 87,145 Equity 51,377 46,117 41,245 35,094 36,357 Interest-bearing liabilities 58,421 55,240 50,750 46,839 45,274 Total assets 132,283 122,056 109,786 97,184 93,242 KEY METRICS Property-related information Closing area, thousand sq. m. 2,430 2,426 2,509 2,509 2,562 Closing number of properties 179 179 180 185 192 Closing number of apartments 1,168 1,161 1,164 1,163 1,168 Closing market value of property, SEK m 126,875 115,922 103,894 91,889 87,145 Closing market value, SEK/sq. m 52,212 47,783 41,409 36,624 34,014 Net investments, SEK m –2,980 –28 1,753 1,243 1,119 Acquisitions, SEK m 1,049 58 916 4 1,690 Divestments, SEK m –612 –2,121 –1,387 –1,574 –2,988 Investments in projects, SEK m 2,543 2,035 2,224 2,813 2,417 Closing rental value, SEK m 7,190 6,949 6,783 6,621 6,557 Closing economic occupancy rate, % 93.1 94.2 92.6 92.0 93.4 Closing surplus ratio, % 72.1 71.3 71.1 70.7 70.9 Environmental certification of properties, share of total area, % 84 77 71 44 5 Energy intensity on closing date, kWh/m2 1) 100 110 112 124 128 Yield, total holdings, % 3.9 4.1 4.5 4.7 5.1 Value change in the total portfolio, %1) 6.9 11.7 11.1 4.2 2.5 Total yield, total holdings, % 11.0 16.3 16.0 9.1 7.7 1) Outcome in accordance with IPD Swedish Property Index. 132 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 FIVE-YEAR OVERVIEW Amounts in SEK million 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Financial metrics Closing average interest rate, % 1.7 2.0 2.1 3.3 3.0 Closing remaining average fixed-interest tenor, years 4.5 4.3 4.3 5.1 4.2 Closing interest coverage ratio, multiple 3.9 3.8 3.7 3.2 2.8 Closing equity/assets ratio, % 39 38 38 36 39 Closing NAV, SEK m1) 68,581 61,333 53,416 44,852 42,502 Closing NNNAV, SEK m2) 60,872 55,083 47,927 39,225 39,640 Closing debt/equity ratio, multiple 1.1 1.2 1.2 1.3 1.2 Return on equity, % 19.0 26.3 28.7 7.6 14.0 Cash flow metrics Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital, SEK m 3,383 3,137 2,855 2,789 2,600 Cash flow from operating activities, SEK m 3,111 3,439 3,210 2,902 2,802 Cash flow from investing activities, SEK m –2,985 23 –1,775 –1,273 –1,146 Cash flow from financing activities, SEK m –850 –3,616 –891 –2,442 –702 Cash flow for the year, SEK m –724 –154 544 –813 954 Other metrics Average number of employees 345 338 348 356 345 Closing number of employees 349 339 346 353 353 Basis for key metrics 1) NAV, SEK m Equity 51,377 46,117 41,245 35,094 36,357 Add back goodwill –2,045 –2,071 –2,088 –2,159 –2,180 Add back derivatives 2,426 2,925 2,903 3,385 466 Add back recognised deferred tax 16,824 14,362 11,356 8,532 7,859 68,581 61,333 53,416 44,852 42,502 2) NNNAV, SEK m Equity 51,377 46,117 41,245 35,094 36,357 Add back goodwill –2,045 –2,071 –2,088 –2,159 –2,180 Add back recognised deferred tax 16,824 14,362 11,356 8,532 7,859 Deferred tax at fair value –4,9333) –3,2194) –2,5334) –1,6724) –1,9974) Adjustment of interest-bearing liabilities to fair value –351 –106 –53 –570 –399 60,872 55,083 47,927 39,225 39,640 3) Calculated on the basis of a 30% current tax rate, i.e. 6.6% 4) Calculated on the basis of a 25% current tax rate, i.e. 5.5% VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 133 DEFINITIONS Definitions Area, sq. m. Average loan-to-maturity, years Lettable area, not including garages and parking The volume-weighted remaining maturity on spaces on the closing date. interest-bearing liabilities and derivatives on the closing date. Intended as an indication of Return on equity, % the company’s financial risk. Earnings after tax divided by the average of opening and closing equity. Intended as an indiAverage interest rate, % cation of the return on equity. The volume-weighted interest rate on interest-bearing liabilities and derivatives on the Loan-to-value (LTV) ratio, % closing date. Intended as an indication of the Net interest-bearing liabilities divided by investcompany’s cost of capital. ment properties on the closing date. Intended as an indication of the company’s financial risk. Average fixed-interest tenor, years The volume-weighted remaining maturity on Central administration, SEK m fixed-interest rates on interest-bearing liabiliCosts at the Group level that are not directly ties and derivatives on the closing date. related to property management, such as costs Intended as an indication of the company’s associated with the Group management team, interest-rate risk. property investments, financing and central marketing. Average remaining term to maturity, years The total contract value of commercial facilities Yield, total holdings, % divided by contracted rent for commercial Net operating income as a percentage of the facilities. sum of the properties’ opening market value, plus half of the year’s investments and less half Rental value, SEK m of net operating income during the year. CalcuContracted rent plus the assessed market rent lated according to the same method as the IPD for vacant premises. Swedish Property Index and pertains to the entire property portfolio including projects and Investments in existing projects, SEK m transactions. Intended as an indication of the Investments in ongoing projects. Intended as an return on current earnings from the properties. indication of the company’s investment volume. Net operating income, SEK m Comparable property holdings Rental revenue less operating expenses, repairs Properties included in holdings during the entire and maintenance, property administration, reporting period, and during the entire compariproperty tax and ground rent. Intended as an son period. Properties that were classified as indication of the current earnings in property development properties, or that were acquired management activities. or sold during the reporting period or comparison period are not included. Energy performance, kWh/sq. m. The annual total for energy consumption, Contracted rent, SEK m adjusted to the level of a normal year, from Total annual rent from contracts in effect as of heating, comfort cooling and property electricthe closing date. ity, divided by the temperate area. Reported energy performance also includes some tenant Cash and cash equivalents, SEK m electricity and process cooling which, for techCash and bank balances, along with current nical reasons, is not possible to remove from investments with maturities of less than three the calculation. months. Intended as an indication of the com­ pany’s liquidity. Property category The primary use of the property based on rental Environmental certification, % revenue. Total area of properties that have obtained certification in accordance with BREEAM, FFO/net debt, % LEED or Miljöbyggnad, divided by the area for Cash flow from operating activities before the entire property portfolio, on the closing change in working capital for the last 12 months date. divided by average interest-bearing liabilities, net. It measures the portion of the company’s NAV (Net asset value), SEK m net liabilities that can be paid by its cash flow Equity, adding back goodwill, derivatives and from operating activities. deferred tax. Intended as an alternative calculation of equity; see derivation on page 133. 134 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 DEFINITIONS NNNAV (Triple net asset value), SEK m Temperate area, sq. m. Equity adding back goodwill, adjustment of Indoor area for all floors of a building that are interest-bearing liabilities to fair value and heated to more than 10°C. adjustment of recognised deferred tax to fair value, on the basis of a 25% current tax rate. Total yield, total holdings, % Recognised equity adding back goodwill and the Sum total of yield and change in value, including fair value of loans, and adjusted for estimated projects and transactions. Calculated according actual deferred tax. Calculated on the basis of a to the same method as the IPD Swedish Prop25% current tax rate. Intended as an alternative erty Index. Intended as an indication of the calculation of equity; see derivation on page 133. return on total assets. Net investments, SEK m Total contract value, SEK m The purchase price for acquisition of property, Contracted rent multiplied by the period of along with investments in property projects, maturity of the leases. less the consideration received from property divestment. Intended as an indication of capital Economic occupancy rate, % invested in properties. Contracted rent divided by the rental value on the balance-sheet date. Net lettings, SEK m Contracted rent for new lettings during the Value change in the total portfolio, % period less contracted rent for leases where Value change in SEK, divided by market value notice of termination for move-out was received for the entire property portfolio (i.e. including during the period. projects and transactions at the start of the period). In the five-year overview, the value Profit before value changes and tax, SEK m change is reported according to the same Net operating income less central administration, method as the IPD Swedish Property Index. profit (loss) from participations in joint ventures Intended as an indication of the value change and net interest. Intended as an indication of in the property portfolio. current earnings in the operations. Annual rent, SEK m Net interest-bearing liabilities, SEK m Base annual rent plus indexation and suppleInterest-bearing liabilities less cash and cash ments. equivalents. Intended as an indication of the company’s financial risk. Surplus ratio, % Net operating income divided by rental reveNet interest, SEK m nue. Intended as an indication of the current Interest income less interest expenses. earnings in property management activities. Interest coverage ratio, multiple Net operating income plus central administration and profit (loss) from participations in joint ventures divided by net interest. Intended as an indication of the company’s sensitivity to fluctuations in interest rates. Debt/equity ratio, multiple Interest-bearing liabilities divided by equity. Intended as an indication of the company’s financial risk. Equity/assets ratio, % Equity divided by total assets on the closing date. Intended as an indication of the company’s financial stability. Capital employed, SEK m Total assets less non-interest-bearing liabilities. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 135 Addresses and website VASAKRONAN AB REGION GOTHENBURG REGION ÖRESUND Box 30074, SE-104 25 Stockholm Box 11264, SE-404 26 Gothenburg Box 334, SE-201 23 Malmö Street address: Street address: Götgatan 15 Street address: Rådmansgatan 16 Mäster Samuelsgatan 56 Tel: +46 31 743 42 00 Tel: +46 40 691 71 00 Tel: +46 8 566 20 500 REGION STOCKHOLM REGION UPPSALA CORP. REG. NO. Box 30074, SE-104 25 Stockholm Box 1050, SE-751 40 Uppsala 556061-4603 Street address: Street address: Mäster Samuelsgatan 56 Dragarbrunnsgatan 38 WEBSITE Tel: +46 8 566 20 500 Tel: +46 18 489 20 00 www.vasakronan.se 136 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 017 Financial Calendar Production REPORTS Vasakronan and Intellecta Corporate. Interim report Jan–Mar 2018 3 May 2018 Photo: Linus Flodin, Anders Fredriksen, Åke Mid-year report Jan–Jun 2018 11 July 2018 Gunnarsson, Mikael Gustavsen, Gustav Kaiser, Interim report Jan–Sep 2018 8 November 2018 Patrick Miller, Choke Nygren, Martin Olson and Year-end report 2018 31 January 2019 Peter Westrup. Annual Report 2018 March 2019 Vision images: EGA, Marge, TMWR and White Printing: BrandFactory AB 2018. ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Annual General Meeting  3 May 2018 In July 2017, Vasakronan acquired the newly built office building Sthlm Seaside in Hammarby Sjöstad — a strategic acquisition in an expansive area that will soon be considered part of central Stockholm. The total area is 12,500 sq. m. of office space and it is on Hammarby kaj. Address: Box 30074, SE 104 25 Stockholm Street address: Mäster Samuelsgatan 56 Tel: +46 8 566 20 500, Fax +46 8 566 20 501 www.vasakronan.se Corp. Reg. No. 556061-4603
