Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Statutory Report cf. Danish Financial Statements Act sections 99 (a) and (b) and UK Modern Slavery Act 0 Table of Contents Company profile 2 CEO statement – the year at a glance 3 Approach to corporate responsibility 4 Empowering people 5 Product development and safety 6 Supporting beyond expectations 7 Fighting for better care 9 Community engagement 10 Acting respectfully 11 Code of Conduct and compliance 12 People development and diversity 13 Health and safety 15 Supply chain responsibility 16 UK Modern Slavery Act 17 Minimising our footprint 18 Sustainable material consumption 19 Energy use and climate impacts 20 Stakeholder engagement and materiality 21 Scope of reporting and data collection 22 Independent practitioner’s limited assurance report on selected environmental, social and governance 23 data for 2017/18 Environment, social and governance (ESG) data 25 About this report This report presents Coloplast’s management of key social and environmental responsibilities, and contains management’s review hereof as well as full data disclosures. Topics covered are based on Coloplast’s assessment of risks to society and the most recent materiality assessment. For more about materiality and scope of reporting, please see page 21 and 22. Together with Coloplast’s own ambitions, targets and challenges, this report includes general trends in the health care industry, changes in key demographic groups worldwide, and more. These trends are based on Coloplast’s own assessments of external events and the UN Sustainable Development Goals. In addition, this report constitutes the statutory report cf. Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99a and 99b. The report is published annually together with the Coloplast Annual Report, and covers the financial year 2017/18, from 1 October 2017 to 30 September 2018. This report also functions as the Communication On Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact as well as Coloplast’s statement on the UK Modern Slavery Act. 1 Company profile Coloplast develops and markets products and services that make life easier for people with very private and personal medical conditions within Ostomy Care, Continence Care, Wound & Skin Care and Interventional Urology. Business model Coloplast produces, markets and sells products and services globally, and in most markets the products are eligible for reimbursement from local healthcare authorities. Coloplast supplies products to hospitals and institutions, as well as wholesalers and pharmacies. In selected markets, Coloplast is also a direct supplier to users. Coloplast employs around 12,000 people and operates globally with sales subsidiaries in more than 40 countries. There are production sites in Denmark, Hungary, the United States, China and France. Risks to society Coloplast is mindful of the risks posed towards society such as, but not limited to, labour and human rights in our direct operations and in our supply chain, fraud among distributors and environmental strains from our production. Coloplast has policies in place for relevant risks on these four topics, which are addressed throughout this report. The policies are published along with this report on Coloplast.com. For more on risk, please see page 22. Our four business areas Ostomy Care products are for people whose bowel has been rerouted through the abdominal wall. Examples of conditions, which could require this procedure include colorectal cancer, bladder cancer and inflammatory bowel disease. Continence Care is about helping people manage their bladder and bowel conditions. Examples of conditions, which affect continence include spinal cord injuries, Spina Bifida and Multiple Sclerosis. Wound & Skin Care is the treatment of wounds that are difficult to heal, while skin care products are used for prevention and treatment of damaged or at-risk skin. Examples of conditions with wounds which are difficult to heal include leg ulcers, diabetic foot ulcers, and pressure ulcers. Interventional Urology is the treatment of medical issues related to the urinary system, the male reproductive system and female pelvic health. Examples of these conditions include urinary incontinence, erectile dysfunction, enlarged prostate and pelvic organ prolapse. Sales performance by business area Sales performance by region DKK million DKK million 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 12 mths 12 mths 12 mths 12 mths Ostomy Care 6,643 6,291 European markets 9,941 9,394 Continence Care 5,926 5,543 Other developed markets 3,791 3,642 Interventional Urology 1,740 1,641 Emerging markets 2,717 2,582 Wound & Skin Care 2,140 2,143 Other matters 0 -90 Other matters 0 -90 Net revenue 16,449 15,528 Net revenue 16,449 15,528 2 CEO Statement – the year at a glance We lead our industry because we live our mission Responding to radical challenges and our values. One of our values is ‘respect and Some challenges are big and need a radical responsibility’, so to us it is a pre-requisite for doing solution. Climate change and plastic waste are two business that we act upon our responsibility to such challenges. society. And, as a leader of our industry that While we have already reduced greenhouse gas obligation becomes even stronger. emissions per product by 50% over the last ten Responsibility is a dynamic concept, so we can years, we are shifting gear to meet the important always improve. We improve our responsibility by challenge of climate change. We have therefore always optimising existing efforts and by listening committed ourselves to using 100% renewable and responding. electricity at all our sites by 2019. This will effectively reduce our greenhouse gas emissions Optimising existing efforts per product by more than 60% compared to For several years, we’ve been reporting on the 2016/17-levels and we will exceed the scientific representation of gender in management. In target per the Paris-accord. general, we have a balanced representation, however, in top management we have an Regarding plastic waste, we are committed to underrepresentation of women. Last year, we took reducing as much as possible. At our own sites, we a deep-dive into the reasons why, and this year work to optimise recycling coverage of production we’ve have taken significant steps to creating a waste with a target of 35% by 2020. As a more inclusive leadership culture with the purpose manufacturer of single-use medical devices our of ensuring equal opportunities for all employees. responsibility also extends to the end cycle of the products. However, our sphere of influence is Inclusion and diversity is not a quick fix. We are limited. There are very limited feasible alternatives implementing many projects to improve, but one to using plastics in medical devices due to the need project has been profound to me. I’ve engaged my for hygiene and quality. We are following whole management team to challenge our technological developments closely. We conduct unconscious biases, and we will challenge the rest life-cycle assessments as part of developing of the organisation as well. Every human being has products, and this is the primary method for us to unconscious biases, they help us navigate in our influence future waste, and we are working to lives. However, they are also automatic, and some introduce more recycled materials in our packaging. we need to challenge, for example when hiring or evaluating talent in the organisation. Continued commitment Another important step we have taken this year is We have been committed to the UN Global on personal safety. Last year, we set an ambition to Compact since 2002, and we are also committed to reduce our injury rate. Although we’ve never had a contributing to the success of the Sustainable fatality in our operations, we have too many Development Goals (SDGs) through collaboration accidents. Especially since our production is largely wherever relevant low-risk. Most of the accidents that occur are due to This report discusses our progress and challenges unsafe behaviour. So, this year we have related to our corporate responsibility. And, with implemented a set of safety behaviours globally this report, we reconfirm our commitment to the that we’re raising awareness about. UN Global Compact principles as well as commit to In addition, we have made revisions and moving forward together to reach the SDGs. improvements to our Code of Conduct, called Coloplast BEST, to keep us updated with regulation and best practices. As a company that is increasing Lars Rasmussen, direct-to-consumer activities, our standards on how to interact with patients and patient organisations President and CEO have been elaborated. Both in terms of respecting the boundary between clinical expertise and our own product expertise, but also in terms of handling data privacy. 3 Approach to corporate responsibility Our values in action Governance of corporate responsibility Respect and responsibility is a guiding principle at Coloplast’s corporate responsibility is anchored Coloplast and at the heart of the Coloplast culture. within the Executive Management and Board of Corporate responsibility is Coloplast’s values in Directors. The Board of Directors approves the action and Coloplast welcomes the broader content of this report, and Executive Management responsibility that comes with being a marketmakes most policy decisions within the field, leader – responsibility to our users, to clinicians, to typically after consultation with senior management our employees, to business partners, to society, to of key line and staff functions. The Audit Committee the environment and to our shareholders. is responsible for overseeing compliance with our Code of Conduct. Since 2002, Coloplast has been committed to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact on human Coloplast prefers that corporate responsibility rights, labour rights, environment and antiactivities are embedded within and executed by the corruption. Coloplast works systematically to relevant business units. The business units with integrate the ten principles throughout its formal responsibility for the content in this report operations. In addition, Coloplast works to are Corporate Compliance, Global Operations, contribute to relevant UN Sustainable Development Global Quality, Corporate Procurement, Corporate Goals (SDGs) by enhancing positive impacts where HR, Corporate Communications, Medical Affairs and possible. Public Affairs. Coloplast manages its corporate responsibility A Corporate Responsibility Manager within the efforts through three aspirations described in details Corporate Communications department is throughout this report: responsible for coordinating this work and for 1. Empowering people communicating with stakeholders. 2. Acting respectfully 3. Minimising our footprint UN Global SDGs Coloplast aspiration Key targets Status Compact impacted Empowering people, Reduce phthalate use by 44% by 2018 Achieved Human rights p. 5-10 Approve new Access to Healthcare On track projects annually Acting respectfully, All white-collar employees trained in On track Human and p. 11-17 Code of Conduct Labour Rights, Reduce injuries by 33% by 2020 Not on track Anticompared to 2016/17-level corruption Increase share of women in top On track management year over year All raw material suppliers screened for Achieved human and labour rights Minimising our Continuously reduce energy use per On track Environment footprint, product p. 18-20 All electricity use from renewable sources On track by 2018/19 Reduce goods transported by air to Not achieved 2.3% by 2018 Increase recycling rate of production On track waste to 35% by 2020 4 Empowering people Today, we are witnessing a demographic development that sees the world’s elderly population grow. We are also seeing our industry affected by the rise of the healthcare consumer, cost pressure from payers and increasingly consolidated and sophisticated channels. This puts more pressure on healthcare systems and could limit access to innovative treatment. Coloplast is committed to helping address the structural changes faced by healthcare systems and society, and to fulfil our part of the objective shared with clinicians and users to achieve better health outcomes. In addition, people with intimate healthcare needs face significant barriers to realising their human rights including the right to an adequate standard of living, the right to work and education, and to take part in cultural life. Coloplast is strongly committed to contributing to removing the barriers for realising such human rights and support the fundamental right to health. Coloplast contributes to better health outcomes and the fundamental right to health by innovating safe products, supporting beyond expectations, fighting for better care and community engagement. These contributions are driven by Coloplast’s growth strategy LEAD20 and its focus on challenging the industry through a user-focused market approach as well as delivering superior products and innovation. Through Coloplast’s contributions, Coloplast strives to empower people to live the life they want. Whether that is to enjoy their social lives, to progress in their careers or to explore their passions. Management approach Topic Our responsibility  Initiatives Product development and safety, Translating user insights, technical breakthroughs  Raising the bar through clinically superior p. 6 and design thinking into products that redefine care innovation and set new standards for safe product composition.  Removing substances of concern  Reducing phthalates  Animal testing Supporting beyond expectations, Anticipating needs and taking actions that exceed  Coloplast Care p. 7 the expectations of users and healthcare providers,  Fewer days with wounds both in person and on the phone, creating a  Education and training for clinicians community of support.  Ethical marketing practices  Data privacy  Fighting for better care, Building sustainable partnerships that improve  Building health alliances p. 9 framework conditions and raise standards of care for Access to Healthcare people with intimate health care needs.  Responsible advocacy Community engagement, Being an active member of the local communities  Donations p. 10 Coloplast operates in through activities that  Responsible tax management empower people and motivate employees.  Empowering refugees 5 Empowering people Product development and safety as well as on Coloplast.com. In addition, Coloplast Coloplast is committed to investing in innovation has completed REACH registration for substances because innovative products benefit users and used or imported above one tonnes a year. healthcare systems alike. At the same time, the safety and quality of our products is crucial to Coloplast prefers to proactively remove substances Coloplast’s mission. of concern. Through a structured monitoring process of changes in science and technology, Raising the bar through clinically superior Coloplast is able to identify opportunities and risks innovation early on and proactively substitute relevant Coloplast’s mission is to make life easier for people substances. The results are reported quarterly to with intimate health care needs. This mission management. translates into focused value propositions across Coloplast’s four business areas that guide Reducing Phthalates Coloplast’s innovation management: Progress 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Target Reduction in 50% 46% 20% 0% 44% by  Ostomy Care: reduce the burden of leakage total 2018 consumption of phthalates  Continence Care: reduce the burden of bladder management Phthalates are commonly used to make PVC  Wound & Skin Care: fewer days with wounds plastics more flexible and durable. In the medical device industry, phthalates are used to soften  Interventional Urology: empower surgeons to products like catheters and urine bags. Although do more Coloplast products are safe to use, Coloplast recognises that there are concerns about the use of The cornerstone of Coloplast’s value propositions is phthalates. Coloplast has therefore adopted a to deliver superior products that make a real precautionary approach and limits the use of difference for our users. Coloplast is committed to phthalates in products. This is an area where raising the standard of care through clinically Coloplast leads by example and offers phthalatesuperior products and innovation. Therefore, free alternatives to 97% of our product range Coloplast is investing to strengthen R&D capabilities containing classified phthalates. Coloplast also within digital healthcare, device technologies and works to reduce the use of phthalates in the existing clinical trials and value documentation. portfolio, and Coloplast has exceeded the target to reduce the absolute use of phthalates by 44% by A stronger clinical performance will enable 2018. Coloplast is currently reviewing how to best Coloplast to document the evidence of the reduce phthalate consumption going forward. For products’ overall clinical outcome and value of the more information, please see our official phthalates treatments to the benefit of our users and society. A policy on Coloplast.com. first step is within Ostomy Care, where SenSura® Mio Concave solves an unmet healthcare need for Animal testing people with outward body profiles, and two Animal testing is a standard method for multicentre randomized clinical trials showed a documenting the safety of medical devices. By superior body fit, better comfort and better quality having a precise account of the composition of of lifea). With the addition of a concave solution, the Coloplast products, animal testing can sometimes SenSura® Mio platform now addresses all body be avoided. However, in some cases animal testing shapes with different solutions. is necessary due to legal requirements and safety assessments. All animal tests used by Coloplast are Removing substances of concern performed by contract laboratories, which Coloplast All Coloplast products are safe for intended use and audits for compliance with our Animal Testing Coloplast adopts a proactive approach in scouting Policy. Coloplast has previously audited our main for alternative substances. Coloplast is mindful of animal test suppliers, and found no nonthe materials and substances used in products and compliances. This year, Coloplast used 1,541 complies with international and local regulations animals for testing in relation to pre-clinical safety and standards, including EU’s chemicals legislation documentation. Coloplast does not use transgenic “Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of animals in testing. For more information on Chemicals”, also known as REACH. According to Coloplast’s approach to animal testing, please read REACH, Coloplast informs users directly about the our Animal Testing Policy available on products containing substances listed on the Coloplast.com Candidate list of Substances of Very High Concern a) Source: clinicialtrials.gov NCT number: NCT02675634 and NCT number: NCT02362360 6 Empowering people Supporting beyond expectations Fewer days with wounds Today, more and more people want a say in their Accurate and timely wound assessment is care. They are searching for answers to make important to ensure correct identification of informed choices and take control of their recovery. underlying conditions and for developing a plan of This transformation from passive patient to active care to address patient, wound and skin problems consumer is redefining healthcare. that impact healing. In collaboration with clinicians from around the world, Coloplast has developed the Coloplast’s ambition is to anticipate the needs and Triangle of Wound Assessment to support our users take actions that exceed the expectations of users in having fewer days with wounds. The Triangle of and healthcare providers, both in person Wound Assessment is a holistic wound assessment and on the phone, creating a community framework, introducing an intuitive way to assess of support. For example, Coloplast has launched the and manage all three areas of the wound: the WheelmateTM app, which is created to help wound bed, the wound edge and the periwound wheelchair users find accessible toilets and parking skin. Read more on spaces anytime and anywhere. The goal is to triangleofwoundassessment.com enable and encourage people to go out more and feel comfortable exploring new places. Education and training for clinicians Through the educational programmes, Coloplast® Coloplast works to develop tools and services that Professional and Coloplast HEAL, Coloplast works contribute to better health outcomes. For example, to support the healthcare community through the Coloplast® Care programme has been proven knowledge sharing and education. to reduce 30-day ostomy re-admissions by 30% and emergency rooms visits by 45% in the United  Coloplast Professional provides nurses and Statesb) contributing not only to better health clinical specialist with development outcomes, but also potential savings for the United opportunities, such as training, networking States healthcare system. events and advisory boards. Besides creating opportunities for clinicians to broaden their Through the Coloplast Care program and direct-toexpertise and connect with peers, through consumer initiatives, Coloplast has more than 1 courses and educational events, the close million users in our database across more than 30 cooperation with clinicians shapes the products, countries. services and education that Coloplast develops. By sharing their insights with our scientists, Coloplast Care engineers, designers, and other experts, they With the dialogue programme, Coloplast Care, ensure priorities are aligned. Today, more than Coloplast actively seeks to increase retention 850 ostomy and continence care nurses from among users and to improve both products and more than 20 countries are involved in our education for users and clinicians. international advisory boards. The Coloplast Care programme is global, and is  Coloplast HEAL is a global medical educational available for all users regardless of whether they programme for healthcare professionals working use Coloplast products. Through straight-forward with wounds. The programme aims to increase advice and support, the programme guides people the knowledge of modern wound healing to an easier life by providing tips on how to take principles and improve the standard of care for control of bladder or ostomy-related issues. The wound patients around the world. It is part of programme also offers people support in navigating Coloplast’s ongoing dedication to wound care the sometimes complex healthcare and education and support. The educational courses reimbursement system in terms of gaining access to have been developed in partnership with needed products. international wound care experts, and the content is peer-reviewed and endorsed by The Coloplast Care programme has been coEWMA (European Wound Management developed with our international nurse advisory Association). The courses are available as eboards and the programme’s content and call learning modules in the HEAL online training protocol has been clinically validated. Among users, centre and as live educational seminars. So far, the programme has been received positively where Coloplast HEAL have trained more than 26,000 83%c) expressed feeling an improved quality of life clinicians in 15 countries. through their participation. Ethical marketing practices Coloplast respects the boundary between the clinical expertise of clinicians and our own product expertise. Our dialogue with users is focused on b) Rojanasarot, S., The Impact of a Readily Available, Post-Discharge Support Program for Ostomy Surgery Patients on Preventable Health Care Utilization, published in Jan/Feb 2018 JWOCN. c) Coloplast Market Study 2013. Data on file. 7 Empowering people product and lifestyle issues, and not on medical support. This is Coloplast’s promise to clinicians. To ensure that this boundary is respected, our staff are trained by clinicians, and our specialists who speak on the phone use assessment tools developed by our medical marketing team that have been endorsed by global and national advisory healthcare boards. Coloplast will recommend solutions within our own portfolio and clearly advise patients to contact their clinician if they wish to undertake a major appliance change. Coloplast therefore always recommends listening to the advice of the healthcare professionals. Data privacy By pursuing online activities targeted at users, Coloplast is collecting and handling more personal data. Users trust Coloplast with information about their personal life, and it is a priority for Coloplast to treat this data with the utmost respect and confidentiality. Many countries have legislation in place obligating companies to handle personal data securely. Coloplast handles and protects the data in accordance with national law – and with the same approach across our company. Internal audits and third party audits are used to ensure secure and reliable data handling. In May 2018, the new EU Regulation on Protection of Personal Data (GDPR) entered into effect. To ensure compliance with GDPR, Coloplast has established and updated policies and procedures, and created a data privacy governance structure. Coloplast is certified according to ISO 27001 on information security and has further facilitated awareness and training about data privacy via internal announcements, e-learning, and dedicated intranet sites as well as training sessions for relevant employees. Coloplast has appointed a Data Protection Officer to head up efforts within the field of data privacy. The Data Protection Officer is fully dedicated to focus on data privacy, and is supported by local privacy representatives from our subsidiaries. The Data Protection Officer reports to Coloplast management on a regular basis, and is engaging with representatives of important group functions in a Data Privacy Board. In addition, the efforts and status on data privacy is reported annually to the Audit Committee. 8 Empowering people Fighting for better care Access to healthcare Globally, societies are facing the significant healthcare challenge of an increased prevalence of Progress 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 people living with a chronic disease and an ageing Number of approved 52 46 36 30 population living a life with chronic conditions. Access to Healthcare projects (cumulative) Diseases are often in “competition” for public and political awareness as well as for prioritisation of the healthcare resources. All parties in the healthcare Access to Healthcare, Coloplast’s corporate sector have a shared interest in improving the partnership programme, is committed to improving outcome of health interventions – but with different conditions for people who need care in the areas of needs and roles. ostomy, continence and wound care. Established in 2007, the programme has so far supported 52 As a market leader, it is Coloplast’s responsibility to projects in more than 10 countries. The programme work for better framework conditions for people is part of Coloplast’s continued efforts to raise living with chronic intimate healthcare needs. standards of care with a yearly spend of up to DKK 5 million. Coloplast works to build stronger health alliances with patient organisations, as well as raise the Sustained and sustainable dialogue with our standards of intimate healthcare through the partners is pivotal to the success of Access to Access to Healthcare programme. Healthcare projects, and all projects are created in collaboration with local stakeholders. Building health alliances Access to Healthcare projects bring together People with intimate healthcare needs require practitioners, users, non-governmental personalised solutions. For example, people with an organisations, and other public and private partners ostomy can have different body shapes, which to: influence the care they need and products they use.  empower users Additionally, many users confront significant taboos  train practitioners associated with their chronic conditions. Many daily  advocate for better care challenges are difficult to discuss, even with friends and family – bathroom routines, leakage issues, Access to Healthcare projects also support the odorous wounds that will not heal, or their long-term ambitions of Coloplast by bringing us difficulties associated with going out in public for closer to users and helping us gain new or deeper extended periods of time. insights into the needs of other stakeholders, including health care practitioners, civil society and Consequently, patient organisations for people with policy makers. intimate healthcare needs are often very focused on raising awareness of the challenges associated Examples of previous projects include raising with their chronic conditions. However, patient awareness about continence care in Brazil, organisations do not necessarily have the right educating clinicians in Mexico and creating wound capabilities and competencies to raise their voice care centres of excellence in China. For more about and create awareness on their life conditions or Access to Healthcare, please visit Coloplast.com. demand patient access. Responsible advocacy By engaging with patient organisations in health Coloplast also works in partnership with many alliances, Coloplast can together with the patient different external stakeholders to share our views organisations create awareness on the need for on the issues that affect our industry, clinicians and focusing more on quality of life for the person living the rights of users. with intimate healthcare challenges. Together, we can secure patient access to more personalised Coloplast conducts advocacy both directly as a health innovation and help the transition from company and in coordination with external patient to person by giving them the chance to live partners, including national and regional industry a self-reliant life with a self-managed chronic associations. Our work is guided by the principles condition. outlined in our Code of Conduct, Coloplast BEST, which emphasises respect for transparency and When engaging with patient organisations, integrity in our stakeholder relations. To read Coloplast builds trusted alliances based on Coloplast BEST, please visit Coloplast.com. transparency and interdependence. 9 Empowering people Community engagement Respecting local cultures, regulations and customs Within these principles, Coloplast will pursue tax is important to Coloplast. Coloplast wants to opportunities if they arise and will proactively obtain contribute to the local communities in which the knowledge in order to have a competitive effective company operates. Either through donations, tax rate and avoid double taxation. With increased involving local NGOs or inclusion at the work place. focus on tax management, Coloplast has made its In light of this, Coloplast also considers tax tax policy publicly available on Coloplast.com. For management to be an important part of community more on taxes paid this financial year, please read engagement as taxes contribute to value the Annual Report. generation. Empowering refugees Donations According to the UN, the current refugee crisis is To ensure that our donations are meaningful and the worst humanitarian crisis since World War II. As benefit both the local community and Coloplast as a member of the global community, and based on much as possible, Coloplast has a policy on appeals from the UN, Coloplast wants to contribute donations, which leverages cash and product to solving this crisis. donations. Coloplast wants to focus donations on activities that either seek to empower our users, Coloplast has previously donated cash to the support the local community, or engage our Danish Refugee Council, and has pledged to take employees. For example, Coloplast has a corporate refugees into internships within Europe. The length partnership with the Danish Cancer Society in of internships may vary from one to three months Denmark, and have this year also supported per individual needs. The aim is to empower some employees’ participation in Team Rynkeby, a charity of the many people fleeing to Europe by facilitating cycling event that raise funds for children with integration and resettlement through the cancer. In the UK, Coloplast supports the Sue Ryder workplace. Since the initiative started, Coloplast has Thorpe Hall Hospice and have raised more than facilitated 19 internships in Denmark and Sweden. £20,000 in the last year. Coloplast will continue to provide internships when relevant and support in other relevant ways. The policy on donations is based on Eucomed Guidelines for grants and WHO’s guidelines for donating medical equipment. Read the policy in full on Coloplast.com. Responsible tax management Coloplast sees taxes as an important part of the business as respecting local tax laws and regulations are important to Coloplast's reputation and brand. ln addition, taxes contribute to the economic value generation in the countries where Coloplast operates. The Coloplast tax contribution includes corporate income tax, employee taxes, indirect taxes, property taxes, custom duties, excise duties, and other indirect taxes ln Coloplast, taxes are paid where business activities generate value in accordance with internationally accepted standards. Coloplast does not allow commercial needs to override compliance with applicable laws, nor base commercial activities on tax avoidance schemes. To ensure this, Coloplast maintains an open dialogue with local tax authorities and bases tax decisions on our commercial strategy. 10 Acting respectfully Coloplast employs around 12,000 people, operates in more than 40 countries, and has distributors, dealers and suppliers on a global scale. Acting respectfully towards people and local customs is fundamental to Coloplast. In line with Coloplast values, Coloplast supports Human and Labour Rights and works against corruption in all its forms. Coloplast engages in ongoing dialogue with employees and proactively informs of the rights of freedom of association at all production sites. In addition, Coloplast has established work councils with employee representatives at all production sites. Relevant human rights issues in our direct operations include nondiscrimination, health and safety. Due to the skills needed to operate as well as the placement of Coloplast production, forced labour and child labour are not considered material topics to focus on within Coloplast’s direct operations. To ensure Coloplast is acting respectfully, Coloplast works to ensure compliance with our Code of Conduct, reduce occupational injuries, as well as create an inclusive leadership culture. However, Coloplast is aware that this may be different when it comes to suppliers. That is why Coloplast works systematically to only approve suppliers in compliance with our Code of Conduct. In cases of non-compliance, Coloplast seeks to improve conditions through dialogue. Management approach Topic Our responsibility  Initiatives Code of Conduct and compliance, Ensuring that all our employees and business  Coloplast BEST – our Code of Conduct p. 12 partners are aware of our business ethical  Continuous training efforts standards and collaborating to continuously  Distributor handling maintain and develop good compliance practices.  Bribery risk assessment  Ethics hotline People development and diversity, Offering all employees equal opportunities for  Leadership development p. 13 development as well as a working environment that  On-boarding for success is engaging and motivating.  Removing barriers for personal development  Inclusion and diversity  Gender representation in management  Gender representation in Board of Directors  Health and safety, p. 15 Offering healthy and safe working conditions.  Reducing occupational injury  Reducing repetitive work Offering healthy choices  OHSAS 18001  Supply chain responsibly, p. 16 Improving standards with our suppliers or finding  Screening potential suppliers alternative suppliers. Monitoring existing suppliers Improving local conditions  UK Modern Slavery Act  11 Acting respectfully Code of Conduct and compliance activities as part of on-boarding new employees as Coloplast sells products in more than 140 countries, well as develop new formats targeted employees in and business cultures vary around the world. In high risk parts of the organisation to support our navigating such different business cultures, culture of integrity. Coloplast abides by national and international laws as well as specific requirements for our industry Distributor handling through our well-established Code of Conduct and Coloplast has dedicated resources to conduct risk compliance setup. assessments and due diligence and to formulate action plans for compliance improvements where Coloplast BEST – our Code of Conduct needed. Coloplast’s has implemented a system with The Coloplast Business Ethical Standards (Coloplast an external partner to manage our integrity and BEST) is our Code of Conduct and our guide leading compliance risks related to our close distributors. the way to global excellence when it comes to operating an ethical company. Coloplast runs the process transparently with the distributors through dialogue about the compliance Coloplast emphasises employees’ ability to use good situation in their market and on our Global judgement and common sense at all times, rather Distributor Code of Conduct, which sets forth than learning a set of rules by heart. That is why Coloplast’s expectations to a distributor. Coloplast BEST is value-based rather than rulebased and has the ambition of installing a Bribery risk assessment compliance mind-set throughout the organisation. To continuously create a better understanding of All Coloplast employees (including board members, where specific attention is needed, Coloplast’s executives, officers, directors and managers) are Corporate Business Ethics and Compliance unit required to follow Coloplast BEST. performs bribery risk assessment on an on-going basis. The risk assessments are performed internally This year, Coloplast BEST has undergone a review together with the relevant business units to ensure to ensure compliance to updated regulation and complete overview of the business and its risks. industry codes. As a company that is increasing direct-to-consumer activities, Coloplast is During the previous financial year, Coloplast’s focus committed to having high standards for working was within sales and marketing operations, whereas with users and organisations both in terms of this year’s focus has been within Coloplast’s Global respecting the boundary between clinical expertise Operations unit. To mention a few of the outcomes and our own product expertise, and in terms of of the risk assessment, Coloplast has initiated handling data privacy. Coloplast has elaborated the implementation of local compliance programmes as standards on data privacy and information security well as developing and conducting more targeted to provide additional guidance to support and tailored training programmes for employees employees when handling personal data. Finally, and distributors. Coloplast will monitor and review Coloplast has also included a policy on moneyprocess and controls on an on-going basis. laundering. Ethics hotline During the next financial year, Coloplast will be Coloplast has a global and independent Ethics rolling out the updated Coloplast BEST through eHotline, which enables employees and others to learning and other training activities for all whitereport breaches of our Code of Conduct. This year, collar employees. To read Coloplast BEST, please Coloplast has rolled out an app to all employee visit Coloplast.com. mobile devices, making it easier to report misconduct. All cases reported are followed up Continuous training efforts internally by a committee of senior management. Progress 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Target The outcome is reported to the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. White-collar 99% 95% 96% 94% 100% employees In 2017/18, Coloplast has received a total of 18 trained in our Code of Conduct cases, 13 of which have been within the scope of the hotline, i.e. relating to the topics and subjects that may be reported via the hotline. Most cases Training in Coloplast BEST is mandatory for all reported have been related to conflicts of interest white-collar employees. All current employees have or fraud against Coloplast. All relevant cases have received the opportunity for face-to-face training been investigated and followed up with appropriate followed up by a test and certification. In addition to remediation and sanctions up to termination of training all white-collar employees in the updated contract. Coloplast BEST, Coloplast will continue its training 12 Acting respectfully People development and diversity launched Coloplast Originals, a global onboarding Striving to be the best medical device company in programme targeted white collar employees. The the world requires that our leaders and people programme includes a pre-boarding option which constantly grow and develop their skills and new employees can access as soon as they receive competencies. their contract. This way new employees can start learning about Coloplast before their first working Coloplast believes that personal development day. When employees start their job, they are should be respectful to individual motivational automatically assigned the mandatory onboarding drivers and without the hindrance of culturally and have access to the optional learning. Coloplast related barriers. Originals is a self-guided and blended-learning programme designed to confirm the new employee Employee engagement in their choice of Coloplast, establish close Coloplast measures employee engagement bicollaboration with the manager from the beginning, annually through a global survey among all enable Coloplast networking capabilities as well as employees. For the third consecutive time, there clarify responsibilities, expectations and career has been a 93% response rate with an engagement perspective. Coloplast Originals has been launched level of 74. This is in the top quartile when in the Nordic countries, USA, The Netherlands, UK, benchmarked to other companies, and indicates a Portugal and Poland. During the financial year high level of engagement. As Coloplast is a growing 2018/19, the programme will be rolled out globally, company, this is considered an achievement based including an estimated 1,200 new employees on the number of new employees who have joined yearly. Coloplast in recent years. Removing barriers for personal development Leadership and talent development Coloplast wants every employee’s career To support the LEAD20 growth ambition, Coloplast development to be without the hindrance of has the target to hire 2 out of 3 managers from culturally related barriers. Coloplast expects mutual within. The preference for existing employees will respect among our employees, and Coloplast does ensure a continuous development of the great not tolerate discrimination or harassment of any leadership talent already among us. This year, more kind. than 66% of leadership positions were filled by internal candidates. Coloplast emphasises fairness and transparency when reviewing employees’ performance and Coloplast uses a global approach to assess and potential. To ensure this, Coloplast annually develop leadership potential. To ensure leaders conducts a People Review and Development have the right capabilities, all internally promoted process for all white-collar employees globally, and first-time leaders attend the mandatory ‘New selected blue-collar employees Manager’-programme. For senior leaders, Coloplast also provides development and has, over the last During the People Review process, managers take two years, rolled out a leadership programme for all time to reflect on their employees’ past directors that gives a broader business performance and future potential. Employees are understanding. During the coming financial year, asked to provide their reflections of their own Coloplast will be rolling out a programme for top achievements and development needs that are management. relevant to their role and future aspirations. The People Review process includes a calibration of To attract the best leadership talent, Coloplast has performance and potential with functional implemented a Global Graduate Programme for top managers, thus ensuring that reflections and students with a potential and drive for leadership. insights come from other colleagues and peers. The Through the programme, Coloplast annually strong culture of feedback in Coloplast is further recruits top-performing students within finance, strengthened by the continuous seeking of marketing, supply chain management and feedback from key stakeholders to ensure the engineering. The programme spans over three development of the employees’ potential. The years, and is active in China, France, Germany, inputs are taken into the discussions between the Denmark, the US and the UK. employee and manager to focus on performance and development of potential in an ongoing On-boarding for success dialogue As a growing company, Coloplast will be onboarding more people, and therefore Coloplast Inclusion and diversity focuses on onboarding successfully to reduce time Coloplast wants every employee to feel they belong to performance. To support this, Coloplast has to the organisation and to experience that they have equal opportunities to pursue a career, no 13 Acting respectfully matter their gender, age, race, nationality, ethnicity, According to the Danish Financial Statements Act, sexual orientation or physical disability. It is part of section 99b, Coloplast defines other management Coloplast’s DNA to respect and empower the levels as all positions at or above manager level. individual and Coloplast believes it improves our With 41% female managers at this level, Coloplast business, innovation, and engagement both short maintains an equal distribution between men and term and long term. women in management. Coloplast is committed to develop an inclusive Even though Coloplast’s primary focus is gender we organisation and leadership culture, where people also support other smaller diversity initiatives such bring their differences to work each day, fulfil their as licensing a cultural diversity online learning tool potential, and have a strong sense of belonging that allows all 12,000 Coloplast employees to because – and not in spite of – their differences. develop their cultural awareness and global mindset. The initiative is anchored in a steering group consisting of middle and senior management Gender representation among Board of Directors including the group CEO. During this financial year, Coloplast aims for its Board of Directors to consist Coloplast has trained all senior management teams of the best qualified individuals. With 2 out of 6 on inclusive leadership behaviours and unconscious shareholder-elected Board members being women bias. Additionally, Coloplast has also developed new at the end of 2018, an equal gender representation guidelines in the internal people review process that has been achieved in line with the Board’s target further supports a fair and un-biased performance and in compliance with the Danish Financial review process. Statements Act, section 99b. Gender representation in management Coloplast recognises that all diversity factors are important. However, Coloplast cannot solve them all at once, so a balanced representation of gender in our leadership is the first focus during the coming years and is the first out of many steps on the diversity journey. Progress 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Target Share of 41% 42% 41% 43% Above female 40% managers in total Share of 20% 14% 15% 13% Year-onfemale top year managers increase Coloplast’s quantitative goal is to have a year-onyear increase of female leaders in top management until a balanced representation is reached. Top management is defined as manager at the level of Vice President and above. The development in share of female leaders in top management shows that Coloplast already has a strong leadership pipeline of female talents. To further boost this development, Coloplast has implemented a head-hunter policy where the shortlist presented should include a diversified pool of candidates and with a minimum of 30% of one gender in HQ and globally integrated gender in our succession planning. This following year, Coloplast will be implementing a sponsoring programme to showcase female leadership talent further, and roll out a role model campaign. 14 Acting respectfully Health and safety Progress 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Target Lost-time injury frequency1) 4.3 4.5 4.1 4.4 3.0 by 2020 1) Number of injuries resulting in absence from work of more than eight hours per one million working hours Providing a safe and healthy work environment for Offering healthy choices employees is a core value for Coloplast. In general, Through the Coloplast Life programme, Coloplast operations work in Coloplast is relatively low-risk provides different options to make healthy choices compared to other industries, and Coloplast has as easy as possible for employees. For example, this never had a fatal workplace injury. could be local activities such as “Bike to Work” and running clubs after work. Reducing occupational injury It is Coloplast’s target to reduce the lost-time injury Last year, Coloplast launched an eight-week ‘Life in rate to 3.0 by 2020. This corresponds to a 33% Colours’-campaign to promote physical and mental reduction compared to 2016/17 level. well-being across the Danish sites with more than 700 participants. The campaign resulted in a The most common injuries for both whiteand bluereduction in stress and an improvement in health collar employees are behaviour-based, such as measured in body age years. stumbling and falling. Safety is everybody’s responsibility in Coloplast, both managers and Free medical screenings and health checks have employees. To support the reduction target, been offered at Coloplast’s Nyírbátor site in Coloplast is therefore strengthening the safety Hungary. In addition, an annual campaign is held in culture by enforcing three safety behaviours across Coloplast UK to promote health and wellbeing all production sites: among more than 500 employees across the UK sites.  You see it, you own it  Think twice Coloplast Life also focuses on preventing stress on a  Dare to care local basis. For example, Coloplast has a stress policy including professional stress-counselling in In addition, special attention is given to all minor and Denmark. ‘near-miss accidents’ to help identify and solve problems early and minimise potential future risks. OHSAS 18001 Other initiatives to reduce occupational injuries Coloplast’s health and safety management system include sharing best practices between sites and is certified according to Occupational Health and increasing focus on safety specifications before new Safety management standard, OHSAS 18001. This machine orders are finalised. is a tool to ensure that sites adhere to the same rules globally and continuously improve their Reducing repetitive work performance. Today, this management system Coloplast emphasises an ergonomically correct covers 92% of Coloplast employees in production, workplace layout whenever manual labour is distribution centres and Coloplast headquarters in required in production. Therefore, Coloplast Denmark. systematically works to reduce repetitive work and reduce the strain from unavoidable repetitive workplaces. Coloplast has developed a system for measuring this type of work, which enables improvements and accurate tracking of progress. Since 2008, Coloplast has more than halved the amount of stations considered to require ‘high’ and ‘very high’ repetitive work. When these stations are unavoidable, Coloplast aims to limit the amount of time the employees spend on high repetitive workplaces by rotating them to workstations without high repetitive work. 15 Acting respectfully Supply chain responsibility with Coloplast’s Code of Conduct or a corrective Through standardised auditing in the approval action plan, the Decision Board is contacted to process for new supplies, Coloplast ensures that the review whether or not to continue to do business ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact with the supplier and help to improve the supplier’s are integrated into procurement decisions. The standards. Coloplast is reviewing the current setup purpose is to reduce risks of complicity as well as to implement a systematic monitoring process. improve local conditions with suppliers through dialogue. Improving local conditions In cases where suppliers may be unsure of how to The programme is anchored within Corporate implement improvements, local Coloplast teams Procurement and is overseen by a Decision Board provide advice regarding cost-efficient best made up of senior representatives from Global practices that comply with local regulations. Operations, Corporate Procurement, Corporate Suppliers usually respond positively and implement Quality, Global Environment, Health & Safety and recommendations. However, when necessary, Corporate Responsibility. Coloplast has terminated cooperation. Coloplast does not provide financial support to help suppliers Screening potential suppliers implement changes. For new suppliers, Coloplast explains our standards on human rights, labour rights, environmental From the start of the programme until the end of impact, as well as corruption. This information is the 2017/18 financial year, Coloplast has also included in the final contract with the supplier. reclassified a total of 30 current suppliers to a lower In high-risk countries, all potential raw material risk category after making Coloplast-requested suppliers are audited by external partners’ improvements. according to local regulations, Coloplast’s Code of Conduct and the United Nations Global Compact Principles. If an issue is identified, Coloplast and the supplier then agree on any necessary improvements, which form the basis for an action plan and provides the means for dialogue. Depending on the level of any non-compliance found, the Decision Board considers whether to go ahead and do business with the supplier and help to improve the supplier’s standards. The Decision Board reviews the audit report according to local regulations, Coloplast’s Code of Conduct, the United Nations Global Compact Principles, and considers factors such as the nature of the relationship with the supplier and history of cooperation. Through this approval process, Coloplast maps relevant risks and ensures on-boarding of suppliers that are willing to improve local conditions together if necessary. Coloplast has audited 100% of suppliers within scope. This financial year, Coloplast has performed 3 social audits to follow-up on supplier compliance with Coloplast standards. Monitoring existing suppliers Coloplast monitors existing suppliers for compliance through adverse feedback (i.e. change in ownership or expansion of site) and site visits. This process usually takes place with the Coloplast procurement team in the markets where the supplier operates. If the Coloplast procurement teams identify a supplier that is in non-compliance 16 Acting respectfully UK Modern Slavery Act non-compliance Coloplast seeks dialogue to As stated in our Code of Conduct “Coloplast BEST”, improve conditions. Coloplast supports, respects and protects internationally recognised human rights including Due diligence processes: As part of our evaluation labour rights as made operational with the United on prospective suppliers, Coloplast actively conduct Nations Guiding Principles on Business & Human due diligence and audits of existing raw materials Rights and as framed in the United Nations Global suppliers and screen new suppliers for compliance Compact, which Coloplast has been a member of with human rights and labour rights. For other since 2002. suppliers Coloplast has implemented a human rights and compliance due diligence process for both Our commitment to human rights, which covers selected existing and new supplier in some countries areas such as forced labour, slavery, child labour, and is now working to extend the process to the sex trafficking, workplace abuse and human rest of the organisation. trafficking, is outlined in our Human Rights Policy, available on Coloplast.com. Audits: Coloplast audits all new raw material suppliers in high risk countries, and selects a number Coloplast expects employees to avoid and mitigate of existing suppliers throughout the year for social all negative human rights impacts and to inform, audits and reviews their compliance. through our management system or grievance mechanisms, any breach of this expectation or Training: Coloplast provides training for new and doubts that our expectations are being met. existing employees on our Code of Conduct as well as other polices. Going forward, Coloplast will Coloplast expects its business partners and all other strengthen training on human trafficking and strategic partners to understand and address our slavery, particularly with respect to mitigating risks expectations related to human rights and to inform within the supply chain, to employees who have employees of Coloplast or through Coloplast’s direct responsibility for supply chain management. grievance mechanism if expectations are not being met. Results: Through Coloplast’s supply chain responsibility programme, Coloplast has successfully Risk assessment: Due to the nature of Coloplast standardised monitoring and compliance for raw production and the skills needed to operate, the risk material suppliers. 30 suppliers have made of forced labour and child labour are not considered significant improvements as a result of due diligence material within Coloplast’s direct operations. procedures since the programmes start. In the same Coloplast is aware that this may be different when it period Coloplast has terminated contracts with 9 comes to suppliers. That is why Coloplast works suppliers due to non-compliance. For other systematically to only approve suppliers in suppliers, the implementation of the due diligence compliance with our Code of Conduct. In cases of process has generally increased the standard among some suppliers and has resulted in the termination and replacement of suppliers. 17 Minimising our footprint Minimising our footprint Over the coming years, Coloplast expects to grow 7-9% annually. This means that Coloplast will be helping more people with intimate healthcare needs. It also means increased production output and, consequently, increased impact on the environment. However, Coloplast remains committed to minimising our environmental footprint while growing. The largest impacts of Coloplast’s environmental footprint consists of raw materials, energy, business travels and transportation of goods. Coloplast uses very limited amounts of water for production, whereas the use of raw materials constitutes Coloplast’s single largest environmental impact. For example, approximately 40% of Coloplast’s total greenhouse gas emissions stem from raw materials. To minimise the environmental footprint, Coloplast works towards a more sustainable material consumption as well as reducing energy use and climate impacts. Coloplast will be lowering greenhouse gas emissions from energy use significantly over the coming years exceeding scientific based targets. Besides energy use, Coloplast has the highest span of control on materials used. That is why Coloplast is working towards sustainable material consumption by optimising waste and recycling capabilities in existing production processes. Management approach Topic Our responsibility  Initiatives Sustainable material Avoiding harmful materials and utilising raw materials with Life-cycle assessments consumption, p. 19 lower environmental impact and improving waste Raw material use and waste management systems and recycling Disposal Water management ISO14001 Energy use and climate Minimising the impact from energy consumption and go Improving energy efficiency impacts, p. 20 further with less Using energy from renewable sources Transportation of goods Expanding production 18 Minimising our footprint Sustainable material consumption Progress 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Target Production waste per product produced 81 86 82 78 Continuous reduction (indexed relative to 2008/09) Recycling rate of production waste 33% 31% 31% 31% 35% by 2020 Life-cycle assessments Disposal The primary method used by Coloplast to address Because most of Coloplast’s products are environmental challenges is the incorporation of contaminated after use, they must be disposed of eco-design principles when developing products and properly due to risk of infection. This means that processes. This means: Coloplast’s products are incinerated or sent to a landfill after disposal. However, most of our product  Utilising raw materials with lower environmental packaging is designed so that it can be recycled. impact When chlorinated plastic materials, e.g. PVC and  Improving waste management systems and PVdC, are incinerated their emissions are harmful to recycling the environment. These plastic materials are commonly used in medical devices due to their  Minimising the use of energy required in unique technical properties. Coloplast recognises production this environmental concern and only uses PVC or PVdC in new products when their technical Life cycle assessments therefore guide Coloplast’s properties are strictly necessary for product environmental efforts, covering everything from raw performance. For more information, please see our materials to waste management, energy official PVC/PVdC policy on Coloplast.com. consumption, disposal and transportation of goods. Water management Raw material use and waste Coloplast uses very limited amounts of water for The amount of waste generated per product has production. Whenever water is used, our focus is to decreased by 19% since 2008/09. Coloplast has the reduce. ambition to continuously reduce the amount of production waste generated per produced unit. In Only one of our production sites is placed in a river recent years, this target has been challenged by ecosystem with scarcity issues, our site in Mankato additional development activities and additional US, where Coloplast is especially attentive to water tests. The improved performance this year can be use. At our other sites, water is primarily used for explained by implementing new production sanitation purposes and gardening. technologies. ISO14001 In addition to optimising our use of raw material, Our environmental management system is certified Coloplast has set a target to increase the recycling on the internationally acknowledged ISO14001 rate of production waste to 35% by the end of environmental certification scheme. Today, nine out 2020. Coloplast continuously works together with of nine production sites including our corporate waste handling companies to identify the optimal headquarters are certified according to the ISO way of recycling waste. The increase this year is 14001 standard. driven by improved waste sorting across multiples sites and ongoing dialogue with local waste handlers. 19 Minimising our footprint Energy use and climate impacts Progress 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Target Energy use per product produced 58 62 59 57 Continuous reduction (indexed relative to 2008/09) Renewable electricity consumption at all 50% 0% 0% 0% 100% by 2019 sites Goods transported by air 10.7% 5.4% 3.9% 2.3% 3% Improving energy efficiency Coloplast has an ambition to continuously reduce Coloplast works to mitigate emissions from energy used per product produced. In combination transportation of goods by substituting air with sea with using energy from renewable sources, this is and ground transportation whenever possible. the most efficient way Coloplast can reduce climate Shipping goods via air transportation emits up to related impacts from production. This year’s energy 200 times more greenhouse gases on a given reductions stem from contributions across most of distance compared to shipping goods by sea. To Coloplast’s sites. For example, from the new factory facilitate this substitution, Coloplast has set a in Tatabanya that reduces energy per product by reduction target for how products are transported more than 30 percent compared to the older to a maximum of 2.3% air transportation by Tatabanya factory. 2017/18. However, Coloplast did not reach this target due to pressure on the supply chain, and To encourage more environmentally responsible increased growth. production, Coloplast allows investments that result in a significant environmental improvement, to have Coloplast users are often very dependent on a return on investment of up to five years – twice as receiving a stable and adequate supply of products. long as regular investments. In case of any extraordinary events in supply chain, Coloplast will therefore prioritise users’ needs for Using energy from renewable sources products and, if needed, ship products by air to To support SDG 13 of taking urgent action to ensure that products reach users in time. combat climate change, Coloplast is purchasing renewable energy certificates for electricity Going forward, Coloplast will work with a long-term consumption at all production sites. ambition of getting back to previous standards and reduce the use of airfreight to 3%. Electricity accounts for more than 60% of total energy consumption in production. The ambition is Expanding production that all electrical consumption in all production sites Whenever building new factories, Coloplast adheres and in HQ is from renewable sources in 2018/19. to the LEED silver standard for environmental This will effectively mean that Coloplast by will performance. However, Coloplast does not seek exceed a scientific target per the Paris Accord. By certification according to LEED standards due to the end of this financial year, Coloplast has the costs associated. achieved a 50% coverage of electricity use. Coloplast has acquired a plot in Costa Rica Transportation of goods to establish a new production facility by the end of Transportation of goods accounts for 2020. The new facility will be designed to fulfil the approximately 23% of Coloplast’s greenhouse gas LEED silver standards and will be using energy emissions. With Coloplast’s growth rates, the need efficiency technology. for transportation will increase going forward and, consequently, the total greenhouse gas emission from transportation of goods will also increase. 20 Stakeholder engagement and materiality  Employees. Coloplast communicates to Stakeholder engagement employees on a daily basis through the Coloplast’s main stakeholders include shareholders, Coloplast intranet “Connect”, and holds users, clinicians, employees, business partners, and information meetings 4 to 6 times a year that society in general. Identification of material issues is are broadcasted globally within the company. In based on discussions with internal and external 2015 Coloplast surveyed more than 1,500 stakeholders. employees on sustainability, and in addition, Coloplast conducts global engagement surveys Coloplast has ongoing dialogue with its stakeholders bi-annually. through different channels, and used these for the purpose of the latest materiality assessment: Materiality and risks The topics covered by the Corporate Responsibility  Shareholders. An Investor Relations Unit Report include issues material to Coloplast as well facilitates dialogue with shareholders on a as stakeholders. Coloplast conducts materiality regular basis. For more information, please visit assessments bi-annually. Last year, the materiality coloplast.com/investor_relations. assessment was updated focusing on our users’ opinion. More than 1,400 users were surveyed.  Users. Coloplast conducts annual satisfaction surveys, which target users in over ten The materiality assessment was performed by countries. Furthermore, Coloplast engages with Coloplast and the material topics were originally users through our dialogue programme, selected based on input from employees working Coloplast® Care, which aims to help users by with corporate responsibility issues from Coloplast providing needed guidance and support. A/S as well as Coloplast subsidiaries and validated by key external stakeholders.  Clinicians. Coloplast works with clinicians on advisory boards by engaging in semi-annual The selected topics represented also addresses the focus group meetings. This year, Coloplast held areas where Coloplast pose a potential risk towards more than 20 meetings involving around 850 stakeholders and society. That’s why, Coloplast also clinicians. included the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) when revisiting the topics during the latest  Society. Coloplast has incorporated the UN materiality assessment in 2017. Also, by Sustainable Development Goals into the incorporating the SDGs into our materiality materiality assessment to reflect the world assessment, Coloplast is committing to take these community’s priorities. In addition, Coloplast into account when prioritising activities and works with relevant societal organisations communication with our stakeholder groups. through the Access to Healthcare partnershipprogramme, and maintains a sustained Coloplast works to incorporate the findings of the dialogue through regular updates on health materiality assessment into our decision process care progress and challenges in local when prioritising activities and use them to guide communities. Coloplast also engages external our communication with our stakeholder groups. stakeholders through our public affairs work, The decision to purchase renewable energy where Coloplast seeks to maintain high certificates is one example hereof (see page 20 for standards of professionalism and transparency. more). Materiality assessment 2017 Improving access to Responsible Sustainable high quality healthcare Removing sourcing of material hazardous chemicals High Importance to stakeholders products consumption Achieving gender Ethical marketing Renewable energy & equality practices energy efficiency Ethical pre-and Having a safe and clinical trials healthy work place for Medium Protecting employees Water Human Rights management Transparent tax management Sponsoring Low community charities Low Medium High Importance to Coloplast 21 Scope of reporting and data collection Scope of reporting This report constitutes the statutory report cf. Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99a and 99b regarding social responsibility and the underrepresented gender. The report is published annually together with the Coloplast Annual Report and covers the financial year 2017/18, from 1 October 2017 to 30 September 2018. In addition, this report also functions as the Communication On Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact as well as Coloplast’s statement under Section 54 of the UK’s Modern Slavery Act 2015 and California Transparency in Supply Chain Act. The aim of the report is to present complex issues in simple language, while including the data needed for specialist use. Coloplast follows Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 to determine content and quality in terms of materiality, but does not apply specific GRI-disclosures. This report is intended for shareholders and analysts. It is a presentation of Coloplast activities in the field of corporate responsibility, as well as the challenges Coloplast faces. Unless otherwise noted, the data and reporting include the entire Coloplast organisation, i.e. production sites, distribution centres, administration, sales and representative offices. Third parties, such as distributors, are not included in the reporting, except for the Code of Conduct and Compliance chapter where Coloplast has expanded the programme to distribution channels as well. Suppliers are only included in the specific reporting on our supply chain responsibility programme. Reporting references to §99a Topic Risk Policy Due Dilligence KPIs Employment conditions Page 11, 13-15 Page 13-15 Page 13-15 Page 13-15 Human rights Page 11 & 16 Page 16 Page 16 Page 16 Anti-corruption Page 11 & 12 Page 12 Page 12 Page 12 Environment and climate Page 18 Page 18 Page 19-20 Page 19-20 Data collection Data is generated by respective business owners and consolidated and controlled by the Corporate Responsibility function for this report. In some cases, data from earlier financial years has been corrected, which can result in updates to figures in previous years’ reports. In case of material changes to previous figures, a note to that effect is provided in the text or in the accounting policy. For this report, a materiality level at 5% or above is applied for changes in previous figures. To continue improving our reporting, there may be times when data has been restructured for a more precise representation. Whenever data presented includes estimations, Coloplast applies rounding up/down to improve readability. Coloplast is working together with PricewaterhouseCoopers on assurance of selected data. The selection of data is based on Coloplast’s materiality assessment. 22 Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report on selected environmental, social and governance data for 2017/18 To the stakeholders of Coloplast A/S We have been engaged by Coloplast A/S to obtain limited assurance on the selected environmental, social and governance (ESG) data regarding Energy and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions, Anti-corruption, Product Safety and Lost Time Injury Frequency as stated on pages 26-29 in the Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18. Management’s responsibility Management of Coloplast A/S is responsible for preparation of the ESG data in scope and for stating data in accordance with the criteria on pages 26-29. The responsibility includes the design, implementation and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation of the ESG data that is free of material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. Furthermore, Management is responsible for stating GHG emissions data in accordance with the GHG Protocol, namely the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard and the GHG Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. The criteria stated on pages 26-29 define the reporting scope for the selected ESG data in scope, including Coloplast’s GHG Emissions data. Greenhouse Gas quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty because of incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine emissions factors and the values needed to combine emissions of different gases. Our Independence and Quality Control We have complied with the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which includes independence and other requirements founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. PwC applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Our responsibility Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the selected ESG data regarding Energy and GHG Emissions, Anti-corruption, Product Safety and Lost Time Injury Frequency as stated on pages 26-29 based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with International Standards on Assurance Engagements 3000, Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE 3000). Furthermore, with respect to the GHG emissions data stated on pages 26-27, our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained when conducting our assurance engagement in accordance with Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements (ISAE 3410). Both standards are issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board, and both standards require that we plan and perform this engagement to obtain limited assurance whether the subject matter is prepared in accordance with the stated criteria and is free from material misstatement. A multidisciplinary team including assurance practitioners and engineers conducted this engagement. A limited assurance engagement undertaken in accordance with ISAE 3000 and 3410 involves assessing the suitability, in the circumstances of Coloplast A/S, of defined criteria as stated on pages 26-29 as well as use of the GHG Protocol as the basis for the preparation of the GHG emissions. In addition, it involves assessing the risks of material misstatement whether due to fraud or error, responding to the assessed risks as necessary in the circumstances, and evaluating the overall presentation of the selected ESG data in scope. The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgement and comprised inquiries regarding applied registration systems and procedures, assessment of the selected ESG data in scope, including data used to prepare the GHG emissions data for 2017/18, and assessment of underlying documentation, including assessment of whether the scope of 2017/18 GHG emissions data comply with defined accounting principles and the GHG Protocol. During our work, we have conducted interviews with key individuals at Coloplast A/S responsible for data registration and data consolidation. 23 The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we express a limited assurance conclusion. Limited assurance conclusion Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention causing us not to believe that the 2017/18 ESG data in scope regarding Energy and GHG Emissions, Anti-corruption, Product Safety and Lost Time Injury Frequency as stated on pages 26-29 have been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the applied criteria stated on pages 26-29. Furthermore, nothing has come to our attention causing us not to believe that the 2017/18 GHG emissions data stated on pages 26-27 has been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GHG Protocol. Hellerup, November 1 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab CVR-no. 33 77 12 31 Mogens Nørgaard Mogensen Kim Tromholt State-authorised public accountant State-authorised public accountant 24 Environmental, social and governance (ESG) data Environmental performance data Waste (Not part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2017/18 Accounting policy Total waste is based on weighted amounts from the production sites, distribution centres and corporate headquarters. Waste recycled covers waste recycled by external waste handling companies. Waste per unit produced is converted to index values (2008/2009=100). Percentage of recycling coverage is relative to total waste generation. Unit 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Waste total Tonnes 13,770 13,015 11,803 11,288 ...of which goes to hazardous waste handling Tonnes 601 496 533 554 ...of which goes to landfills Tonnes 1,042 934 816 647 ...of which goes to incineration Tonnes 7,629 7,488 6,749 6,542 ...of which is recycled Tonnes 4,498 4,098 3,706 3,546 Waste per units produced Index 81 86 82 78 ...recycling coverage % 33 31 31 31 Water (Not part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2017/18 Accounting policy Total water use includes production sites, global distribution centres and corporate headquarters. All water use is delivered and treated by local municipalities. Coloplast only receives water from significantly affected water sources at our US operations in Minneapolis and Mankato (Minnesota), which are both located in the Mississippi estuary. Unit 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Water use total m3 258,171 292,235 298,130 254,535 Water sources significantly affected Number 1 1 1 1 Spills (significant / insignificant) Number 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 25 Energy (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2017/18) Accounting policy Data on energy consumption is obtained from invoiced data from our utility providers and/or from readings of meters. Total energy per unit produced is indexed values (2008/2009=100) Unit 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Scope 1 / direct energy MWh 51,806 52,058 46,237 42,858 ...of which natural gas MWh 51.791 52,032 46,219 42,735 ...of which coal or fuel distilled from crude oil MWh 15 25 18 124 Scope 2 / indirect energy MWh 106,193 96,814 91,211 88,077 ...of which electricity MWh 105,198 96,105 90,273 87,139 ...of which is from renewable sources % 50 ...of which district heating and cooling MWh 944 710 938 938 Scope 1 + 2 / total energy use, direct and indirect MWh 157,999 148,872 137,448 130,935 …of which renewable energy % 33 …per number of units produced Index 58 62 59 57 GHG emissions (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2017/18) Accounting policy Coloplast has adopted the Greenhouse Gas Protocol as the basis for our greenhouse gas (GHG) accounting principles. All emissions stemming from minimum 80% of the economic spend within a single reporting category are accounted for. In cases where we do not cover the full spend (Scope 3), Coloplast has extrapolated data to cover 100%. Scope 1 and 2: Direct emissions, direct and indirect energy consumption Direct and indirect energy consumption is a major source of GHG emissions in Coloplast, whereas VOC emissions are very low due to our efficient air cleaning systems. Data for Scope 1 and 2 emissions covers all Coloplast production facilities (Denmark, Hungary, France, US and China), headquarters (Denmark and US) and global distribution centres (Germany, Hungary and US). New sites are included in the reporting on the date of takeover from the developer (owned sites) or by the first day of occupancy (leased/rented sites). GHG emissions from leased and rented sales offices and small local warehouses (reported as Scope 3 emissions). Data on VOCs is measured consumption handled in air cleaning systems. Consumption of HFC gasses is obtained from invoices. Emissions from power consumption are based on International Energy Agency country specific GHG emission factors, not including production and transmission losses. Emission per unit produced is based on electrical consumption including renewable energy certificates. Total emissions per EBIT is based on EBIT before special items and converted to indexed values (2008/2009=100) Scope 3: Other indirect GHG emissions Coloplast has limited Scope 3 reporting to include seven categories relevant to our operations: 1. Transportation of goods: Covers all distribution internally in Coloplast, as well as distribution of finished goods from warehouses to customers in Emerging Markets. For air transportation, a radiative forcing index of 2.7 is applied in the calculation of GHG emissions. 26 GHG emissions, continued (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2017/18) 2. Business travels: Based on yearly GHG emission reporting from Coloplast's global travel agent for business air travel, which this year accounts for 60% of total business air travel costs. As of 2015/16, the remaining has been extrapolated to ensure completeness of data. In addition, emission reporting from our main car rental supplier have been included from this year and onwards. For air travels, a radiative forcing index of 2.7 is applied in the calculation of GHG emissions. 3. Leased company cars: Covers all leased company cars in Coloplast. 4. Raw materials: Covers all ingoing raw materials registered in Coloplast’s production data management system. Does not include OEM/contract manufactured goods, production equipment and other capital goods, processing aids and other supporting materials. 5. Energy consumption in sales offices, subsidiaries and local/regional warehouses: Covers all sales offices, subsidiaries and regional warehouses, which primarily are leased. 6. Fluorinated hydrocarbons in products: Covers all products produced in the given reporting year in Coloplast's product portfolio containing HFC gases. 7. Custom manufacturing: Covers GHG emissions from outsourced custom manufacturing production (OEM manufacturing), e.g. finished goods produced by external suppliers under the Coloplast brand. For complete definition of the seven categories and what is left out of scope 3, please see the GHG accounting principles in full on Coloplast.com. Unit 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Scope 1 / direct energy Tonnes CO2e 10,700 11,500 9,500 9,000 ...of which natural gas Tonnes CO2e 10,400 10,400 9,200 8,500 ...of which coal or fuel distilled from crude oil Tonnes CO2e 4 7 5 33 ...of which VOCs and HFC gasses Tonnes CO2e 270 1,100 210 450 Scope 2 / indirect energy Tonnes CO2e 16,600 30,800 29,800 30,600 ...of which electricity: Including renewable energy certificates Tonnes CO2e 16,600 30,800 29,800 30,600 Excluding renewable energy certificates Tonnes CO2e 33,100 30,800 29,800 30,600 ...of which district heating and cooling Tonnes CO2e 9 6 8 8 Scope 1 + 2 / total emissions, direct and indirect Tonnes CO2e 1) 27,300 42,300 39,300 39,700 ...per number of units produced Index 28 49 48 48 ...per EBIT Index 15 23 23 24 Scope 3 / other relevant indirect emissions Tonnes CO2e 213,900 176,600 159,000 136,300 …of which transportation of goods Tonnes CO2e 2) 53,300 33,000 27,600 18,300 …of which business travels Tonnes CO2e 44,200 3) 33,400 24,300 15,100 ...of which leased company cars Tonnes CO2e 10,400 10,200 10,100 10,300 ...of which OEM Manufacturing Tonnes CO2e 7,400 9,100 9,100 8,000 …of which sales offices and subsidiaries Tonnes CO2e 4,100 3,800 3,700 3,600 …of which fluorinated hydrocarbons in products Tonnes CO2e 0 0 0 1,600 …of which raw materials in products Tonnes CO2e 94,500 86,900 84,100 79,400 1) The decrease is due to the use of renewable electricity, please see page 20 for more. 2) The increase is due to pressure on supply chain and increased growth, please see page 20 for more. 3) Figures for 16/17 have been restated due to updated input from our travel agent. Previous figure reported was 26,000. 27 Social performance data Anti-corruption (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2017/18) Accounting policy White-collar employees trained in Code of Conduct accounts for the percentage of active white-collar employees at the end of the accounting year, who have either completed an e-learning module or received face-to-face training and completed a test in our Code of Conduct. Only employees that have been with Coloplast for more than 45 days is in scope for reporting Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour covers legal actions initiated under national or international laws designed primarily for the purpose of regulating anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, or monopoly practices pending or completed during the reporting period. Cases submitted accounts for cases that have been submitted to ethics hotline and evaluated if within scope. The scope of relevant cases for the ethics hotline includes violations of all topics covered by our Code of Conduct, Coloplast BEST. Only cases within scope of topics and subjects reported via the hotline are followed through. This does not mean that the cases are necessarily substantiated. Unit 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 White-collar employees trained in Code of Conduct % 99 95 96 94 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour Number 0 0 0 0 Cases submitted to the ethics hotline Number 18 11 9 9 ...of which within scope Number 13 8 8 6 Product safety (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2017/18) Accounting policy Coloplast monitors phthalate consumption based on the estimated average phthalate concentration per produced item times the quantity of sold items relative to 2013/14. Product samples are not included. Number of animals used for testing accounts for all animals used for testing as part of tests performed by contract laboratories on behalf of Coloplast. Coloplast conducts no animal tests internally. ‘Rodents’ are mice, rats and guinea pigs. ‘Other’ animals are rabbits, pigs and dogs. Unit 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 1) 1) Reduction in phthalate consumption % 50 46 20 0 Animal testing Number 1,541 1,576 1,490 295 … of which rodents Number 1,364 1,380 1,332 250 … of which other animals Number 177 196 158 45 1) The figures have been restated due to a calculation error resulting in higher than expected reduction. 28 Employees (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2017/18) Accounting policy Occupational injuries are measured as the number of injuries resulting in absence from work of more than one day per one million working hours. Reporting scope includes Coloplast employees, including temporary workers. Unit 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Occupational injuries and accidents Injuries and accidents, all employees LTI freq. 4.3 4.5 4.1 4.4 29 Employees, continued (Not part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2017/18) Accounting policy Employee headcount includes all active full time and part time contracts. European markets include: UK, Germany, France, the Nordics, Benelux, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, Spain plus production in Denmark and Hungary. Other developed markets include: USA, Canada, Japan and Australia plus production in USA. Emerging markets include countries not listed in the other categories for all remaining markets in Americas, Asia, Africa, Europe and Oceania plus production in China. Managers include all positions at or above Manager level. Top management includes Executive Management, Senior Vice Presidents, and Vice President positions. Repetitive work is measured as the percentage of workplaces in Coloplast production in Denmark, Hungary, US and China according to the degree of repetitive work. All figures are annual averages based on quarterly figures. No/low – no or low degree of repetitive work. Medium – repetitive work with 0-2 aggregating factors, High – repetitive work with 3-4 aggregating factors. Very high – repetitive work with 5 or more aggregating factors. Coloplast conducts the employee engagement survey biannually. Unit 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Employee headcount Number 11,738 10,905 10,275 9,706 ....blue-collar Number 5,316 5,061 4,725 4,466 ....white-collar Number 6,422 5,844 5,550 5,240 Regions European markets Number 7,622 7,256 6,687 6,271 Other developed markets Number 1,157 987 920 860 Emerging markets Number 2,927 2,662 2,668 2,575 Gender diversity Female employees total % 63 63 63 65 Female managers % 41 42 41 43 Female top managers % 20 14 15 13 Attraction, recruitment and retention Manager positions filled by internal candidates % 66 57 64 47 Age distribution total Employees aged < 30 % 20 21 26 24 Employees aged 30-50 % 62 62 58 61 Employees aged > 50 % 18 17 16 15 Repetitive work ...No/low % 50.9 48.1 48.1 42.5 ...Medium % 35.9 33.7 33.1 35.2 …High % 11.6 16.3 16.9 20.6 ...Very high % 1.6 1.9 1.9 1.7 Employee engagement ...Response rate Index 93 93 ...Engagement index Index 74 74 30 Certifications (Not part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2017/18) Accounting policy Coloplast currently has nine production sites including the corporate headquarters (Thisted, Mørdrup, Humlebæk, Tatabanya, Nyírbátor, Zhuhai, Mankato, West River Road/Minneapolis, and Sarlat) and nine distribution sites (Hamburg, Atlanta, Marietta, Champlan, Kungsbacka, Bologna, Madrid, Lognes, Peterborough and Tatabanya) within scope of certification to ISO 9001, ISO 13845 and OHSAS 18001. None of the distribution sites will be certified according to ISO14001 due to their low environmental impact. Site visits accounts for the total duration in days of quality or environment, health and safety visits by the authorities worldwide for all Coloplast locations. Unit 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Production and distribution sites (total) Number 18 18 13 13 ISO 9001 / ISO 13485 Number 18 18 13 13 ISO 14001 Number 9 9 8 8 OHSAS 18001 Number 10 10 10 10 1) Site visits Days 107 86 74 86 1) The increase in site visit days from authorities stem from Coloplast being certified to the new MDSAP-model covering requirements from Australia, Brazil, Canada, Japan and the United States. Governance performance data Governance (Not part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2017/18 The attendance rate is measured as number of meetings attended per member divided by total number of meetings times number of members. Unit 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Attendance Rate at Board Meetings % 95 98 93 94 Attendance Rate at Audit Committee Meetings % 100 100 100 100 31 The Coloplast story begins back in 1954. Elise Sørensen is a nurse. Her sister Thora has just had an ostomy operation and is afraid to go out in public, fearing that her stoma might leak. Listening to her sister’s problems, Elise conceives the idea of the world’s first adhesive ostomy bag. Based on Elise’s idea, Aage Louis-Hansen, a civil engineer and plastics manufacturer, and his wife Johanne Louis-Hansen, a trained nurse, created the ostomy bag. A bag that does not leak, giving Thora – and thousands of people like her – the chance to live the life they want. A simple solution that makes a difference. Today, our business includes Ostomy Care, Continence Care, Wound & Skin Care and Interventional Urology. We operate globally and employ about 12,000 employees. Our mission Making life easier for people with intimate healthcare needs Our values Closeness... to better understand Passion... to make a difference Respect and responsibility... to guide us Our vision Setting the global standard for listening and responding Coloplast develops products and services that make life easier for people with very personal and private medical conditions. Working closely with the people Coloplast A/S who use our products, we create solutions that are sensitive to their special needs. We call this intimate healthcare. Our business includes ostomy care, Holtedam 1 continence care, wound and skin care and interventional urology. We operate globally and employ about 12,000 employees. 3050 Humlebaek The Coloplast logo is a registered trademark of Coloplast A/S. © 2018-11. Denmark All rights reserved Coloplast A/S, 3050 Humlebaek, Denmark. Company registration (CVR) No. 69 74 99 17
