EFG Hermes February 21, 2018 EFG HERMES Communication on Progress Submitted to the United Nations Global Compact 2|P a g e Communication on Progress Introduction When EFG Hermes joined Four intrinsic values have Global Compact Network the United Nations Global underpinned our firm’s Egypt (GCNE). This Compact (UNGC) in 2011, it strategy since its founding Communication on was with the firm belief that in 1984: Integrity, Progress (CoP) report the business community Leadership, Value Creation provides an overview of must adopt practices that and Commitment. It is our activities undertaken by not only produce business commitment to these EFG Hermes to uphold the results but also contribute values that has set us apart Ten Principles of the UNGC actively to a more from our competitors by on human rights, labour, the sustainable and inclusive nurturing a culture of environment and antiglobal market and help mindfulness and inclusion corruption and presents build prosperous, vibrant and allowing us to fulfil our EFG Hermes policies and communities. social purpose: ‘Leveraging progress in each area. our financial expertise and Page Over the past seven years, capitalizing on our human Human Rights 2 we have succeeded in talent to create sustainable Labour 5 transforming our business value for our stakeholders culture and integrating Environment 7 and the communities we sustainability policies into Anti-corruption 9 serve.’ our organizational structure Measurement of while simultaneously EFG Hermes is proud to Progress/Outcomes 11 enabling economic growth continue to be an active and delivering attractive participant in the UNGC and results for our shareholders. a founding member of the 3|P a g e Human Rights EFG Hermes’ goal is to uphold the UNGC principles on human rights by engaging with stakeholders and committing to policies that minimize risk on human rights issues and improve living standards in the communities where it operates. PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Spotlight on… NAGA’ EL FAWAL AND EL empowerment. The decision infrastructure suffers from a DEIR VILLAGE INTEGRATED to focus on infrastructural, shortage of healthcare DEVELOPMENT PROJECT educational and economic facilities and providers. challenges reflects the In November of 2017, The The Fund will pursue a Foundation’s holistic apEFG Hermes Foundation and focused investment strategy proach to sustainable the Sawiris Foundation for by investing in established development and its Social Development joined North Africa-based healthcommitment to providing forces in a dynamic care companies with solid basic human rights for partnership to realize an growth prospects, and a underprivileged areas. integrated sustainable strong commitment to development in Naga’ El environmental, social and RX HEALTHCARE FUND Fawal and El Deir Village, governance (ESG) best Esna, Luxor (Upper Egypt). In 2017, EFG Hermes launched practices. the Rx Healthcare Fund The village lies in an area with (under establishment) to high rates of poverty and capitalize on the rapidly unemployment, limited growing demand for access to healthcare, poor affordable, high-quality housing conditions, inhealthcare services across adequate infrastructure, and the African continent. few opportunities for Historically, Africa has had to economic independence. bear more than 25% of the The EGP 53 million project global infectious disease aims to improve the lives of burden. Non-communicable approximately 60,000 underdiseases, primarily cardioprivileged citizens through vascular disease and investments in infrastructure diabetes, are also on the rise. development, educational Furthermore, the continent’s opportunities and economic underdeveloped healthcare 4|P a g e Policy & Progress Review – Human Rights Policies/Actions Progress EFG Hermes Continued commitment to our four core values of integrity, leadership, value values creation and commitment. Commitment to Continued support for the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Department sustainability as the lead EFG Hermes division responsible for the advancement of sustainability issues within EFG Hermes. Over 90% of employees have participated in mandatory sustainability training. Release of the third annual sustainability report (SR) covering 2016 and preparation of the fourth annual SR to be issued in March 2018. Stakeholder Continuing internal awareness campaigns to highlight sustainable engagement development issues and promote the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Published 24 collaterals for CSR initiatives on multiple assets (Facebook, Twitter, Portal, Screens, LinkedIn, etc.) with a total estimated reach of approximately 400,000 different people YTD. Raised the profile of CSR activities in the media through securing high-profile interviews at the launch of the EFG Foundation’s Al-Makhzan village integrated development project including a 1-page profile and interview with the head of the CSR department. Promotion of sustainability measures within the investment and finance industry through membership in the Sustainability Advisory Committee (SAC) of the Egyptian Stock Exchange (EGX) and the Global Compact Network Egypt GCNE. Employee Participation by employees in voluntary activities promoting sustainability engagement including competitions, blood drives, fundraising activities, community development initiatives, and social media engagement. Accessible EFG Hermes continues to provide microfinance solutions through its financing subsidiary Tanmeyah Microenterprise Services, Egypt’s leading private-sector microfinance provider. Tanmeyah offers comprehensive microfinance solutions to owners of very small businesses across Egypt who would otherwise have no access to the banking sector. Tanmeyah is also an active participant in local community engagement projects, particularly those that further the development of human capital and help create jobs. The company has contributed to the establishment of vocational training workshops that teach carpentry and pottery to community members with special needs, so they can obtain the skills necessary to establish income-generating projects. EFG Hermes also launched its state-of-the-art Fintech solution under the brand name ‘valU’, offering Egyptian consumers payment-on-instalment programmes as part of the firm’s continuing efforts to ensure equitable access to financing throughout the country. Corporate The launch of the EFG Foundation’s EGP 53 million Naga’ El Fawal and El Deir citizenship Village integrated development project in partnership with the Sawiris Foundation for Social Development. Literacy eradication training, using the Montessori method for trainers at Naga’ El Fawal and El Deir Village to economically empower residents in collaboration with the MOVE Foundation for Children with Cerebral Palsy. 5|P a g e Policies/Actions Progress The EFG Hermes The EFG Hermes Employee Handbook clearly sets out employee rights in Employee terms of conditions of employment, performance management, leave Handbook entitlements, recruitment, and employment termination procedures. It is available to all employees on the company intranet. The EFG Hermes The EFG Hermes Code of Conduct defines a clear set of standards for business Code of Conduct conduct of employees and is available to all employees on the intranet. The EFG Hermes The EFG Supplier Code of Conduct requires suppliers to uphold sustainability Supplier Code of beliefs shared by EFG Hermes and all applicable laws regarding labour and Conduct human rights, health and safety, environmental protection and ethics practices whenever they make products or perform services for EFG Hermes. To date it has been signed by 56% of suppliers. 6|P a g e Labour EFG Hermes upholds the UNGC principles on labour with a clearly defined set of policies and a commitment to investing in the professional development and well-being of its employees. PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. PRINCIPLE 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. PRINCIPLE 5: The effective abolition of child labour. PRINCIPLE 6: Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Spotlight on…Cultivating leadership Competition among finana compelling and comcial institutions in the region petitive financial market. Fast Facts is high. At EFG Hermes, we The Academy will be continuously search for innovative ideas to attract, develop and retain talent at launched in 2018 and will provide high-quality online learning experiences 41% all levels of our operation. Year-on-year increase in training tailored to help our opportunities available to In 2017, we significantly employees harness their employees in 2017. increased our training ambition and drive the budget to establish the growth of our firm whether Academy, a cutting edge online platform professional development for they are analysts starting their careers or top executives shaping the firm’s 38 % Year-on-year increase in the available to employees at all future. number of interns in2017. levels. The Academy is designed to help our employees take charge of their professional development and equip them with the skills they need to navigate a fast-paced work environment, progress in their career paths, and realize their full potential in 7|P a g e Policy & Progress Review – Labour Policies/Actions Progress Career A 41% increase in training opportunities available to employees (482 development opportunities in 2017 vs. 340 in 2016). programmes An increase in training budget to prepare for the launch of the Academy, EFG Hermes’ online platform for professional development. The percentage of untrained employees dropped by 4% in 2017 vs. 2016. A 38% increase in the intake of interns for the Experiential Learning Programme across EFG Hermes offices. An overall increase in the number of training hour by 2.5%, including virtual and in-class courses. New-hire training sessions have been extended to regional offices. Policies to ensure Policies to prevent discrimination by nationality. workplace ‘Know Your Employee’ Policy. diversity and fair recruitment practices Employee An on-line portal to provide new hires with vital information ranging from engagement minor details such as the dress code, to more important matters such as policies regulatory requirements and policies. The EFG Hermes Connect app designed to streamline processes such as requesting vacations and HR letters, checking official holidays and pay days and provides access to all internal announcements and other important information. Upgrading of the system to automate travel workflows starting from requesting the business trip, getting approvals and digital settlement of employee expenses. The system will also be integrated with EFG Connect to allow employee to request business trip remotely. ‘Whistle-blowing’ Policy. The ‘Voice It’ programme is an online tool for employees at all levels across the firm to communicate innovative ideas and voice complaints anonymously and discreetly. Wellbeing, safety The ‘Fit-for-Life’ programme supervised by a certified fitness trainer and and health nutritionist. policies On-site gym facilities. Encouragement of employees to participate in team activities such as the World Health Day in-house fitness tournaments and the Bloomberg Square Mile Relay in Dubai. Organization of cultural activities such as book fairs and handicraft exhibitions. Medical and Life Grant policies for all employees. 8|P a g e Environment EFG Hermes is committed to upholding the UNGC principles on the environment by minimizing the environmental risk surrounding our operation and investments. PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility PRINCIPLE 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Spotlight on…the ESG policy In 2017, we are proud to The implementation of ESG Recognition: announce the launch of our considerations in EFG ESG Policy. As a leading Hermes varies across our responsible financial business lines. Specific Best Sustainable institution, EFG Hermes guidelines have been Financial Provider understands that ESG issues developed for the Private The European’s Global can affect investment Equity, Asset Management, Banking & Finance Awards performance and expose us Investment Banking and to potential investment Research business lines due Best Practices in risks. We believe that to the significant impact of Sustainability embracing ESG issues will ESG factors on their Better Business, Better not only make us better activities. World – MENA global citizens, but it will Business & Sustainable EFG Hermes also believes also make us more sensitive Development Commission that engagement with to strategic future investee companies and scenarios, and betterFTSE4Good Emerging initiating dialogue on ESG equipped to meet comissues is in line with our Index petitive challenges and objective of proactively One of only six MENA keep pace with global constituents managing ESG factors and growth. Integrating ESG acting as sustainability factors within investment ambassadors within our processes is no longer a field. luxury; it is a necessity. 9|P a g e Policy & Progress Review – Environment Policies/Actions Progress Responsible A commitment to the United Nations Principles for Responsible investing Investment (UNPRIs) in Q1 2018. The Vortex Renewable Energy platform, one of the largest renewable energy-focused investment managers in Europe, currently manages 822 MW in net capacity of solar PV and onshore wind assets across the United Kingdom, France, Spain, Belgium and Portugal, and is on track to achieve its target of 1.5 to 2 GW of net installed capacity within the coming years. The platform supplies c.400,000 households with clean electricity annually, while continuing to generate higher than budgeted financial results and attractive returns to investors. EFG Hermes Finance continues to offer Egypt’s only alternative energy lease finance solution which provides agri-business with access to financing for renewable energy solutions. Environmental, Launch of the EFG Hermes’ Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Social and policy. Governance In line with the UNPRI requirements for reporting and the Egyptian Policy Exchange (EGX) model guidance for reporting on ESG performance, EFG Hermes aims to be transparent about its ESG activities and has made the EFG Hermes ESG summary policy available on its website and internal portal. Disclosures on EFG Hermes ESG integration efforts are made on an annual basis in the sustainability report. Energy Gradual migration to clean energy solutions by installation of solar panels conservation at the Egypt HQ with a capacity of 24KW which is equal to 2% of current electric consumption. Promotion of Felsekka, EFG Hermes’ carpooling initiative via the sustainability competition to encourage our employees to reduce their carbon footprint. Ride numbers increased exponentially since the programme launch in 2016 (7 rides in 2016 vs 137 rides in 2017). Green IT Replacement of the legacy core switch in KSA with 40% energy savings. Increase in the VM footprint of the KSA data centre to reduce power consumption. 100% virtual servers in Kenya and the UAE Boulevard. Discontinuation of legacy storage in an Egypt data centre reducing overall power consumptions. Increase in the virtual environment by 2%. Migration of 70% of EFG Hermes staff across the firm into cloud-based solutions. Safe disposal of all e-waste via certified companies in Egypt and the UAE. Resource EFG HR Connect has minimized the use of paper by providing employees Management virtual access to internal documents such as CEO Notes, leave requests and approvals, latest corporate news, etc. This system will totally replace paper work being used in all EFG offices in all regions to reduce waste and increase savings. Installation of new recycling bins and continued recycling practices across all EFG conferences at events. 10 | P a g e Anti-corruption To uphold the UNGC principles on anticorruption, EFG Hermes takes an energetic, proactive approach to corporate governance, compliance, auditing and risk management. PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Spotlight on…Business Continuity EFG Hermes is committed ensure that EFG Hermes to protecting its employees, and its clients are provided clients and their assets at all with the most beneficial Certification: times, whether during recovery plan to their needs. emergencies or significant EFG Hermes also uses business disruptions. In satellite technology as an 2017, EFG Hermes launched alternate communication its Business Continuity Plan channel with other offices in (BCP) to facilitate the the region when regular management of any internet and leased line incident that might services are interrupted. potentially harm our employees or damage our The Business Continuity premises while providing a Team is responsible for the reasonable, but not coordination and response absolute, assurance of procedures in the event of a business continuity in the disruption or possible event of a disruption to the disruption to normal firm’s normal operations. operations. Liaison with regulatory authorities is a The firm undergoes annual key aspect of their disaster recovery drills responsibilities. designed to ensure computing systems and On 4 January 2017, British networks are built with Standards Institution (BSI) sufficient redundancies. The EFG Hermes became the firm also requires all first Investment Bank in business units to conduct an Middle East and North annual exercise to ensure Africa certified by BSI for that personnel can be compliance with ISO contacted at any time. In 22301:2012 requirements. addition, BCPs are tested throughout the year to 11 | P a g e Policy & Progress Review – Anti-corruption Policies/Actions Progress Corporate In 2017, EFG Hermes announced a comprehensive corporate governance restructure in the wake of its sale of its stake in Credit Libanais, signalling the end of the 2013 – 2016 strategic plan and the achievement of all goals set out by the Board of Directors in conjunction with the management team. The new management structure is designed to streamline operations, increase efficiency and help in the achievement of the new 2017 – 2020 strategic plan. The new structure has been disclosed to all stakeholders and ratified by the Board of Directors. Policies on: All policies are available to employees on the intranet. Code of 100% of the workforce have signed and acknowledged the Code of Conduct Conduct. Staff Dealing An orientation package is available to give all trainees and newly Group hired employees a comprehensive view of all policies and Compliance operations. Information Disclosure Whistleblowing Mandatory anti92.59% of the workforce took the anti-money laundering and money 95.84% the anti-fraud training in 2017. laundering and Rigorous due diligence processes. anti-fraud courses Internal audit, Strong internal control and risk management culture to ensure the compliance and alignment of business to management’s strategic goals. risk management Internal Audit renewed its commitment to monitor, assess and, policies where possible, strengthen business and support functions’ sustainability efforts, including integration of the ESG policy in its standard procedures. EFG Hermes is the first MENA investment bank to receive ISO22301 certification from the British Standards Institute for its commitment to business continuity management. Inclusion of EFG Hermes on the FTSE4Good Emerging Index, a market-leading tool for investors that wish to align their portfolios with their values, or seek to invest in companies based on their management of ESG risks and demonstration of leading management practices Cybersecurity The IT Department continued the implementation of its cybersecurity plan and has completed its third round of information security awareness for employees. International best practices are followed in the operation of all EFG Hermes data centres. 12 | P a g e Measurement of Progress and Outcomes In our push to initiate a new merchant banking model and pursue more expansion opportunities in emerging and frontier markets, we are acutely aware of the need for the highest levels of transparency, accountability and integrity. EFG Hermes upholds a strict culture of compliance, auditing and risk management that allows it to manage the rules and regulations of multiple authorities and regulators in Egypt, Jordan, the US, Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries and beyond to our new frontier markets such as Pakistan, Bangladesh and Kenya. Our Auditing, Compliance, Risk and Human Resource Departments continuously monitor and evaluate performance against KPIs, benchmarks and policies. As the Firm moves to incorporate ESG best practices into every facet of the operation, the scope of our audit has expanded to include close monitoring of progress and outcomes related to sustainability KPIs. These stricter measures are designed to ensure that sustainability commitments and all applicable laws regarding labour, human rights, the environment and anti-corruption practices are met across all business lines, subsidiaries and markets. 13 | P a g e
