2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Contents Section Page CEO statement 3 About Us 4 Our Markets 5 GHD Around the World 6 Achievements & awards 7 Support for the UNGC & SDGs 8 Sustainability Policy 9 Managing our risk profile 10-13 Demonstrating good governance 14-16 Developing our people 17-18 Contributing to our world positively 19-21 Assisting our clients to be more sustainable 22-23 Chief Executive Officer Statement “GHD supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals for 2030. The challenges facing the population and our planet require innovative thinking and bold actions. Through our professional services, we will assist our clients on this mission, whilst also acting in a manner that aligns our own operations to the 17 Goals that affect us most.” – Ashley Wright, CEO Ashley Wright CEO Welcome to GHD’s 2017 Sustainability Report. Our annual Sustainability Report is our UNGC Communication The report provides an overview of Sustainability related on Progress. You will find the icon below throughout this Report. performance for the period from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017 It indicates where we are providing information on our progress and serves to demonstrate our support of the 10 principles of in implementing the United Nations Global Compact principles the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). and Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s). While we delivered progress across a number of identified We recognise GHD’s core values of Safety, Teamwork, Respect focus areas throughout the year, I am pleased to see volunteer and Integrity are key business assets and critical factors in our hours for internal programs and community skilled volunteering continued success. All of GHD’s people strive to maintain the programs has again prominently featured throughout our global standard of ethical behaviour expected by our client, suppliers operations. The associated social impact of this effort and and shareholders. many of our other activities can be found in the case studies We will continue to refine our sustainability efforts across throughout this report. Highlights from this year include our work our business, in an effort to ensure that our programs are as on improving diversity and inclusion, the GHD in the Community, effective and efficient as possible in delivering value to the and health and safety performance. communities we support. GHD is committed to making the Global Compact and Full copies of GHD’s Annual Review and Sustainability Report its principles part of our strategy, culture and day-to-day are available on ghd.com. operations. It is our intent to continue our engagement in Your feedback is greatly appreciated. We invite our readers to collaborative projects that advance the broader development share comments, suggestions and thoughts on this report by goals of the United Nations and aid the communities in which emailing news@ghd.com we work. Yours faithfully Ashley Wright CEO GHD 2017 Sustainability Report | 3 About us Why we exist GHD’s purpose is to create lasting community benefit. Together with our clients, and united by our core calues of Safety, Teamwork, Respect and integrity, we aim to make a difference by how we operate, what we deliver and who we are. Founded in 1928, GHD has been creating lasting benefit for communities around the world for nearly 90 years. How we operate GHD is a global organisation rich in diversity of thought, background, skills and experience. Our connected global network enables us to operate across the world and deliver services locally, for the benefit of our clients. We continually empower our people to deliver greater responsiveness to our clients, and encourage them to adopt personal accountability and ethical behaviour, role modelled by our leaders. This financial year, we grew to 9000 people across 200 offices. What we do GHD provides engineering, architecture, environmental, advisory and construction services around the world to private and public sector clients of all sizes. We deliver services seamlessly across geographies, markets and clients, connecting the knowledge, skill and experience of our people with innovative practices, technical capabilities and advanced systems. In 2017, we delivered more than 39,000 projects for 11,800+ clients. Who we are We are proudly 100 percent owned by our employees, giving them the opportunity to build their stake in the company and pass it on to the next generation. Our employee-owned status is a powerful point of differentiation and helps drive our passion and accountability in how we serve our clients, deliver projects, and pursue new opportunities. GHD 2017 Sustainability Report | 4 Our markets Water To fully address the challenges and exploit the opportunities in the water sector, it is vital to take an integrated management approach. GHD goes beyond the planning, design and delivery of water, wastewater, stormwater and alternative water sources, to consider the impacts of climate change, population growth, infrastructure, urbanisation, financial risk and uncertainty, the regulatory environment, stakeholder engagement, and new and emerging technologies. Energy & Resources The issues underpinning energy and resources today and in the future for industry, business and communities involve a complex array of factors, including digitisation, automation, productivity and capital efficiency. We understand these issues and their impacts, and work with clients to deliver solutions that are appropriate for the project, business, location and outcomes. Environment We help our clients investigate, plan, develop, design, build, maintaina nd improve the natural, built and social environment in an economically viable, environmentally responsible and socially acceptable way. From supporting clients in approvals and permitting, to contaminated land remediation and redevelopment, we have earned a reputation for excellence by offering integrated, practical and innovative solutions. Property & Buildings Through integrated design and successful delivery, GHD has become a respected leader in the built environment. We deliver seamless solutions that incorporate planning, economics, engineering and project management to help maximise return on investment. Our designs incorporate inspiration, flair, enthusiasm and aesthetic function. Our project management and delivery approach is well organised, planned, managed and controlled. Transportation With growing populations, increasing urbanisation, the demand for more mobility, ageing infrastructure, new technologies and pressure for greater return on investment, owners and operators of transportation assets are seeking new ways to solve current and emerging issues. At GHD, we understand these challenges and seek to deliver tailored, innovative solutions that improve return on investment for asset owners; advance safety, sustainability and the use of smart technologies; and make a valuable contribution to communities. GHD 2017 Sustainability Report | 5 GHD around the world GHD offices Countries and territories in which GHD has delivered projects or operates 200+ AUD1.7 USD1.3 billion 75+ offices 9000+ people 200+ countries 1 connected global billion network revenue revenue* services *FX rate is AUD1.00 = USD0.753. This was GHD’s average USD rate for FY17. 2 | GHD 2017 Annual Review GHD 2017 Annual Review | 3 GHD 2017 Sustainability Report | 6 Achievements & awards Awarding technical excellence Rankings and recognition Achievements People #33 in Top 150 Global Design Firms As part of GHD’s Technical Conference (2017) Engineering news-Record Acushia Burden program, we recognise #32 in Top 200 Environmental Firms 2017 Celebrating Engineering superb client solutions Leadership Awards, Engineers with Technical (2017) Engineering News-Record Australia, Victoria Division Excellence Awards. Best Provider to Mining, Oil & Gas (2017) Beaton Research & Consulting, Barry Hancock In FY2017, the winners were: Australia Client Choice Awards 2017 Professional Engineer of the #19 Australia’s top privately owned Year, Engineers Australia, Newcastle • Dan Copelin A new method of division companies (2017) IBIS World simulating stormwater networks on large urban scales Best Large consultant in Waste Dan Copelin and Edgar (2017-2012) Inside Waste magazine Johnson • Alain Plaisant Novel techniques for data collection and numerical #30 in NCE100 (2017), a list of top 2017 Australia’s Most Innovative modelling for geotechnical site contractors and consultants, New Civil Engineers, Engineers Australia investigations Engineer Damian Drain • Ken Mierzwa Using industryleading habitat restoration and 2017 Conspicuous Service Medal, compensation techniques to Military Division, Australia Day aschieve airport runway safety Honours improvements in an environmentally sensitive and highly regulated area Dawn Negus 2017 Invitation to participate in • Stephen Waldvogel Emergency Canada C3 expedition to celebrate algae toxin action plan for two Canada’s 150th anniversary communities in upstate New York Matthew Munz Global recognition 2017 Young Professional of the Year, Our work on the Ordot Dump Closure in Florida Engineering Society Guam earned the Special Recognition Award at the Bentley Be Inspired Awards Mohammed Ali in London, UK in November 2016. 2017 Life Member, Australasian Sonia Adams, Market Development A panel of distinguished industry experts Australia accepting the Beaton Award Corrosion Association acclaimed the project for “uniquely innovative and visionary achievements”. Rob Knott GHD was engaged by the receiver as 2017 Honorary Fellow, Engineers construction manager for the closure of Australia the dump, including the construction of a network of environmental safeguards. Rob Lowther Collaboration with numerous contractors 2017 Winner Gender Diversity and specialty subcontractors was crucial Champion Award, women in to succesfully delivering this project in a Resources, Tasmania harsh and remote tropical environment. The project was also awarded by the Sean Tucker Construction Management Association 2017 Finalist Gender Diversity of America and the Construction Champion Award, women in Management Association of Korea. Resources, Northern Territory Ordot Dump closure in Guam GHD 2017 Sustainability Report | 7 Illustrative support for the UNGC and SDG’s GHD team protecting biodiversity in New Zealand by removing wilding pines in association with Environment Canterbury The GHD Sustainability Policy provides • Principle 4: Businesses should strategic direction to our achievement of: uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour “Improving human wellbeing • Principle 5: Businesses should without compromising the support and respect the protection local or global environment of internationally proclaimed human over the long term. In an rights organisational context this • Principle 6: Businesses means integrating social, should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of economic and environmental employment and occupation issues into core business processes to achieve • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmentally and socially environmental challenges The introduction of the SDG’s provide responsible operations”. GHD the structure for continual • Principle 8: Businesses should improvement of our Sustainability undertake initiatives to promote approach and identify opportunities to United Nations Global greater environmental responsibility further lift our contribution to the SDGs Compact in partnership with other organisations. • Principle 9: Businesses should GHD has been a signatory to the UN encourage the development and We have mapped the SDGs that we can Global Compact since 2010. The UN diffusion of environmentally friendly most directly help to achieve, against our Global Compact supports companies to technologies material issues in the following table. do business responsibly by aligning their strategies and operations with 10 Principles • Principle 10: Businesses should on human rights, labour, environment and work against corruption in all its Communicating Progress anti-corruption. These include: forms, including extortion and bribery Our annual Sustainability Report is our UNGC Communication on Progress. The • Principle 1: Businesses should following table indicates the connectivity support and respect the protection Sustainable Development between the UNGC 10 Principles, of internationally proclaimed human Goals the SDG’s and the key pillars of our rights Sustainability efforts. Launched in September 2015, the United • Principle 2: Businesses should Nations Sustainable Development Goals make sure they are not complicit in (SDGs) consist of 17 ambitious goals human rights abuses dedicated to improving the wellbeing of present and future generations. • Principle 3: Businesses should The SDGs aim to tackle the world’s uphold the freedom of association most pressing challenges through the and the effective recognition of the promotion of sustainable development right to collective bargaining over the next 15 years. GHD 2017 Sustainability Report | 8 GHD Sustainability Policy 7 8 6 9 s 5 10 y lic UNGC 1 o 4 yP ilit 0P D ab GH stain Su rin EE 1 ci DD 2 pl CC 3 e BB AA tG oa ls en pm o v el De The key pillars codified within our i n able Susta Sustainability Policy include: A B C D E Managing our risk Developing our people Contributing to our Assisting our clients to Demonstrating good profile We connect our people with world positively be more sustainable governance We understand our risk a healthy, safe, diverse and We care by minimising our We create opportunities for We commit to our values appetite and manage our rewarding career path. ecological impact through our clients to enjoy prosperity and policies. This is reflected business to maximise Our people feel valued and resource efficiency and nature and achieve sustainability in the way we manage our opportunities by identifying secure in their workplace. conservation initiatives, and goals with innovative business and interact with and managing material by supporting communities ideas that embrace our our clients and our people. risks to an acceptable level through development sustainability principles. in accordance with a risk initiatives and our GHD in the management framework. Community program. GHD 2017 Sustainability Report | 9 Managing our risk profile Materiality We understand our risk appetite and manage our business to maximise opportunities by identifying and managing material risks to an acceptable level – in accordance with a risk management framework. Geotechnical services being carried out in Canada Materiality Assessment Materiality Matrix Detailed information on each of A materiality assessment assists GHD The analysis is a consolidated list of 23 these risks, as well as the strategies understand the current issues affecting economic, environmental and social implemented to mitigate risk are actively our business and stakeholders. This issues. The engagement phase seeks managed using the GHD Risk Register. comprehensive analysis utilises employee feedback through surveys from our Status is reported to Executive and Board engagement and safety surveys, people (many of whom are shareholders) Risk Committee monthly. shareholder and investor reports, and and clients, which are quantified via risk group risk reports. There are three main assessment and plotted on a Materiality stakeholder groups identifiable: our Matrix. people, our clients and our shareholders. The identified material issues have Our People Undertaking the materiality analysis to been consolidated, providing greater Contribution to world determine what economic, environmental clarity for our efforts going forward. Good governance and social issues are most important to Risk profile This consolidation, led to the creation our business and stakeholders enables Assisting clients of the following pillars that guide our Increasing stakeholder concern GHD to: sustainability efforts. These pillars are • Inform our sustainability strategy and codified within our Sustainability Policy operational programs to develop and include: targeted programs to improve • Managing our risk profile business sustainability • Developing our people • Identify emerging sustainability trends and issues • Contributing to our world positively • Improve internal decision-making • Assisting our clients to be more using risk based thinking sustainable • Respond to expectations of our • Demonstrating good governance Increasing impact on business stakeholders. The materiality assessment consists of 3 phases: ANALYSIS ENGAGEMENT REVIEW: Potential business issues • 5600 employees in People Survey Prioritised items identified in and impacts identified from • 4000 employees in Safety Survey the Materiality Matrix feature internal and external sources in the Board and Executive (shareholder reports, employee • 600 Clients in e-Survey program performance reports. And are engagement surveys, external • Participation in Beaton Research validated by senior management trends, group risk assessments on regular basis. • UNGC regarding performance reporting • Review of peer reporting GHD 2017 Sustainability Report | 10 Managing our risk profile Managing risk profile The General Manager, for Operational Support and Risk to align the continuous Quality Management Support and Risk is responsible for the improvement plans for the framework design, implementation and continuous with the expectations of the Board. improvement of the risk management The company’s activities are shaped by framework. This accountability our management system and culture. extends to the development of the Guided by four governing policies, the GHD risk management culture and principles of Sustainability are embedded GHD’s Quality Management System was the capability of managers and staff in all aspects of our operations and first certified to ISO 9001 in February to identify, understand and treat risk. relayed to new and existing staff through 1993. Since that time it has evolved Delivering this accountability, the our e-learning and induction programs. and improved as GHD has grown and General Manager monitors and reports expanded. on the GHD risk profile in addition to Relevant corporate teams (e.g. Business providing independent assurance on the Services Finance, HSE, Quality etc.) Lloyds Register Quality Assurance effectiveness of key risk management engage with the business to monitor and (LRQA), has been part of GHD’s journey and internal controls in the business to review the implementation of the risk since the beginning and provides the CEO, EMG, the Board and its Risk management framework to identify gaps independent auditing of GHD’s Quality Committee. in the effective management of risk and Management System. GHD’s maturity opportunities to continuously improve the in quality management is illustrated by In addition, the Board Risk Committee framework and its implementation. award of a three year certification cycle. hold annual strategy discussions with the General Manager Operational Health, Safety and Internationally certified Management systems Sustainability Quality policy Integrity policy HSE policy policy Quality manual People manual HSE manual Our goal is to be one brand, renowned Recruitment & onboarding for client service and a culture of safety. Behaviour @ GHD To achieve this goal, we have created a Quality procedures HSE procedures five year GHD HSE Strategic Plan – SAFE Safety @ GHD 1.05.01 Integrity Management You, SAFE Me, SAFE GHD. By regularly Disciplinary actions 1.06.01 Business Risk Management reviewing our achievements against the HSE Strategy’s goals, we will continually 2.01.01 Proposals improve our safety performance. 2.05.01 Supplier engagement 2.06.01 Audits GHD has an internationally certified HSE Management System (OHSAS 18001, AS 4801 and ISO 14001), whereby our HSE Strategy and Management Standards set the following expectations for all GHD Instruction manuals & guidelines people. GHD 2017 Sustainability Report | 11 Managing our risk profile Placeholder Image Integrity Management Human Rights Client satisfaction GHD’s Integrity Management System GHD is committed to upholding human GHD’s strategy to 2020 inspires us (IMS) is integrated within the Management rights, including the protection of children to become the recognised industry System Framework of the GHD and the prevention of human trafficking, leader for client service. A key focus is a governance model. The IMS consists of slavery and forced labour, consistent with commitment to client service excellence the following: international conventions and laws. from all our people. One way we will • Integrity Management Policy: Practical implementation of this measure this is feedback from our clients Commitment of the Board and commitment is provided through GHD’s via our eSurvey process with a set of Executive to ethical business Integrity Management System and questions that reflects our focus on client conduct Quality Management System. These service excellence, and: • Integrity Management Procedure: expectations (along with Quality, HSE and • Improve GHD’s client service and Administrative processes relating wider Integrity requirements) flow down project delivery and building a to monitoring of compliance, to our suppliers through our Supplier business development element to investigating possible breaches, and Registration Scheme. our culture. reporting to management and the Information Security • Demonstrate GHD’s commitment to Board listening to our clients and providing In 2017, we achieved ISO 27001 • Integrity Management Guidelines: certification for our company-wide a medium for clients to provide Policy, principles and rules for our Information Security Management honest and constructive feedback. internal conduct and engagement System. This management system • Encourage direct communication with external stakeholders and public will provide solid governance and a between clients and GHD teams on foundation for our continuous efforts to performance, issues resolution and These Integrity Management Guidelines improve the security of the information improvements. apply to all our people and personnel contracted to work for GHD with respect entrusted to us. To serve our clients who • Implement the ongoing capture and to both how we conduct our internal do not use ISO 27001, we have also sharing of client satisfaction levels business and treat each other, and how certified a special environment to NIST on GHD projects, against specific we engage with external stakeholders. 800-53, Revision 4. Our goals over the performance criteria. next few years see us actively aligning Reporting and investigation of integrity • Provide a reporting mechanism and certifying with other information related matters is facilitated through within our organisation for client security standards in the regions in which GHD’s electronic Incident Reporting we operate, and further embedding satisfaction on individual projects. System and refreshers of these guidelines information security into GHD’s culture. are undertaken every 2 years by all staff. GHD 2017 Sustainability Report | 12 Performance highlights Global Framework SMART Behaviours Client Satisfaction – target = 4.4/5 A major initiative has been finalising a We continue to develop and refine For 2017 we continued our effort to seek global health, safety and environmental our SMART Behaviours Model, which out feedback from our clients around the (HSE) framework. It standardises encourages our people to demonstrate world. definitions and process for many key desired safety behaviours in their The results of our client survey aspects of HSE across all regions of everyday activities. It enables proactive program have been reported and GHD. We have also finalised a new management of safety behaviours in noted by executive management and enterprise wide HSE Strategic Plan, a fair, transparent and repeatable way a plan established to both consolidate Manual and Management Standards. and allows us to identify undesired or identified strengths and also set in place Quality unsafe behaviours, before they create the initiatives to improve in areas requiring catalyst for an incident. improvement. We have completed our recertification audit and LRQA has recommended an Crisis Management upgrade to ISO 9001:2015 (excluding Our emergency response and crisis Client satisfaction ratings 2 North America). This upgrade calls for management processes were tested Overall performance more focus on leadership and risk-based through a number of major events around thinking. Our North American operations the world, including fires, earthquakes, will seek to have their regional quality floods and hurricanes. We continue to system upgraded in FY17. test our response capability to potential Technology business impacting crises through structured case studies to ensure our 86% Last year’s internal Safety Culture Survey business continuity during adverse revealed that our people wanted a more events. effective and efficient way to interact with HSE. As a result, we have developed Anti-Slavery and implemented our new SMARTapp In response to the enacted Modern in Australia and it will rolled out globally Slavery Act 2015, we have developed Team accessibility & responsiveness during 2018. an annual statement for the 2016-17 Positive safety performance financial year, which is published on the GHD’s website. The statement reflects Our focus on leading indicators is our position in the supply chain, is Board strengthening the connection between our approved and our position is reported people and HSE, with Positive Interactions annually. 90% per FTE increasing from 3.62 in 2016 to 5.92 in 2017. This outcome has unfortunately been offset by an increase in the Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) – calculated on 1 Million Hours – 1.13 in 2017 against 0.91 in 2016. Timeliness Safety Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) per Positive Interactions (per employee) 1 million hours worked 3.5 7 87% 3 6 2.5 5 2 4 1.5 3 2. GHD’s client satisfaction ratings are produced from 1 2 our FY17 client eSurvey results in response to our clients’ 0.5 1 satisfaction towards GHD on project deliverables including overall performance, team accessibility & responsiveness, and 0 0 timeliness. For every eSurvey completed by our clients, GHD 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 donates AUD10 to UNICEF. GHD 2017 Sustainability Report | 13 Demonstrating good governance We commit to our values and policies. This is reflected in the way we manage our business and interact with our clients and our people. On behalf of the Board and Executive and expertise, and bring independent The election of both executive and responsibility for the coordination, analysis judgement to bear in decision making. independent non-executive directors is reporting of organisational sustainability The role of the Board is to add value undertaken by GHD shareholders. strategies rests with the Group Manager through furthering the achievement of When appointing new directors, the Health and Safety and Environment, with GHD’s core purpose and it is achieved in Board and its Nominations Committee practical implementation of the strategies four critical areas. the responsibility of General Managers look to ensure that an appropriate responsible for the specific disciplines. 1. Determination of purpose – balance of skills, experience, expertise exploration of and approving GHD’s and diversity is maintained. Governance Structure core purpose, goals and strategy to The GHD Board has ultimate authority achieve these goals. Material Risks and Internal Controls over the company and regards corporate 2. Governance culture – operating GHD has processes to systematically governance as a critical element in within a high performance culture identify, assess and report on both achieving our objectives. Accordingly, the that celebrates debate, thoughtful financial and non-financial business Board has adopted appropriate standards challenge, commitment, candour risks. A strategic and operational Risk and policies and established a number of and trust. This requires effective Report is prepared and analysed by both committees to discharge its duties. The relationships within the board, and management and the Audit and Risk CEO reports directly to the Board. The with management, shareholders and Committee of the Board four times a year. Executive Management Group (EMG) is other stakeholders. The report addresses impacts, risks and the senior management leadership team 3. Accountability – effective opportunities with respect to health and for GHD. The EMG advises the CEO with regard to the effective and efficient demarcation of responsibilities safety, reputation, business practices and functioning of our global organisation. through delegated authorities ethics. and policies, providing informed, Respective corporate teams (e.g. The Board receives regular reports astute and effective oversight Business Services Finance, HSE, Quality, including: risk, corporate responsibility, of management, and ensuring etc.) provide independent, objective HSE, diversity and inclusion, unethical senior management selection and assurance and advisory services on GHD practices and other matters that may succession processes are effective. systems of risk management, internal affect our reputation. 4. Compliance – ensuring the company compliance, and control. is and remains solvent, probity of GHD Board financial reports, compliance with the The Board is made up of eight regulatory environment, operating representatives (of which four are women) ethically, and is operating consistent and together with the CEO have an with its risk management framework. appropriate balance of skills, experience GHD 2017 Sustainability Report | 14 Demonstrating good governance Work on the Elan Valley Aqueduct, UK Board Committees Transparency and Disclosure with Integrity Management The GHD Board Committees (Audit and Our People GHD regards good corporate governance Risk) are responsible for assisting the Effective communication and as a critical element in our business Board in fulfilling its corporate governance collaboration assist GHD to deal with practices and culture. GHD is committed responsibilities, including: change. We use our internal website and to ethical business behaviour. This • Integrity of GHD’s financial reporting emails to deliver important messages. includes both internal conduct, and In addition, “Staff Briefing” sessions our engagement with clients, and the • Compliance with legal and regulatory are presented by senior management community. obligations in our regions on ‘headline’ issues We have an established Integrity • Effectiveness of GHD’s enterprise facing the business – often using video Management System. At its core sits an wide risk management and conferencing. Local office information Integrity Management Policy, and Integrity accountability structures sessions inform our people and location Management Guidelines. The pivotal • Oversight of the independence of specific updates. GHD supports and element of our approach to integrity is external and internal auditors encourages our people to voice their a zero tolerance towards unethical or opinions and concerns as part our unacceptable business conduct. The CEO is responsible for the day-to-day communication strategy. management of GHD, with all powers, Our commitment to ethical business discretions and delegations authorised In 2007, GHD implemented its first behaviour means that: from time to time by the Board. GHD’s independently-managed global employee engagement survey. Every year, the • Compliance with the law is executive management team is the EMG. survey results are shared with our people fundamental, even in the face of The group is chaired by the CEO and and programs are implemented to contrary accepted local business meets monthly to review the performance manage any shortfalls. practices or customs of GHD and make decisions that impact the overall operations of the business. • We compete fairly for our To create a comfortable and motivated commissions based on quality, price work environment, senior leaders are been encouraged to relay key messages and innovative services, not by on strategy and vision to all employees. offering improper benefits to others. GHD 2017 Sustainability Report | 15 Demonstrating good governance Demonstrating good governance • GHD representative may directly • It is expected that our people make or indirectly offer, promise, grant business decisions in the best Performance highlights 2017 or authorise the giving of money or interests of GHD and our clients, and In 2017, GHD confirmed the election anything else of value to client and not based on their personal interests. of directors Denise Anderson and government officials to influence Any potential conflict of interest must Sheryl Cornelius as new Board official action or obtain improper be disclosed Members. Significantly, women advantage. Facilitation fees are not • The safety of our people and those now comprise 50 percent of the acceptable around us is paramount, as is Board. GHD continues to set a clear • All charitable donations must be the protection of the environment standard for cultural, professional transparent and clearly documented from harm. We maintain a working and gender diversity. including the recipient’s identity and environment that is consistent with confirmation that it was used for the GHD’s core values and legislative Engagement People Survey intended purpose. We do not make requirements. We will not tolerate Engaged and empowered people direct political contributions including any abuse of human rights, any form are a fundamental strength of donations to politicians, parties or of discrimination, or the use of child GHD’s organisational culture. In candidates labour the first People Survey conducted • Developing and maintaining client • We foster an open environment in North America following our relationships is fundamental to where all our people can report merged operations, our commitment sustainable business. By nature, any suspected, fraudulent or other to clients and conduction work these relationships can include improper practice without fear of safely were seen by our people as opportunities for entertainment and reprisal two of our greatest strengths and gifts. Gifts and entertainment must engagement levels were pleasingly • We will cooperate fully with external high. In other Regions, Asia Pacific be sufficiently modest so that it could agencies investigating corrupt and the UK/Middle East have not be regarded as attempting to practices within legal parameters continuing high levels of engagement create a business obligation. Gifts and in FY16/17, Australia showed must also comply with applicable marked improvement from previous laws and recognised local customs years in the areas of vision, • All transactions and payments must communication and empowerment. be transparent and able to stand the scrutiny of an audit Integrity We are continuously improving GHD Integrity Management System. In 2017, we refreshed our Integrity Management Guidelines to align with ISO 37001: 2016 and have also deployed a new governance, risk and compliance platform to streamline a number of our existing databases globally. GHD 2017 Sustainability Report | 16 Developing our people Connected global network – We connect our people with a healthy, safe, diverse and rewarding career path. Our people feel valued and secure in their workplace. Andree Maltais, Technologist, GHD At GHD, people are at the heart of our we relate to our clients, both internal and commitment to women in the workforce, success, culture and enduring client external, and our role as a responsible ensuring non-discrimination in personnel relationships. Our connected global corporate citizen. practices and making reasonable network comprises a talented group of A commitment to our Health Safety accommodations for all employees’ professionals who are known for their Environment (HSE) Policy is a hallmark religious observance and practices. technical prowess, business acumen and of GHD’s approach. We embed HSE Relocation or transfer of our people long-term commitment to clients and into every aspect of our operations, (permanent or temporary) is guided by the GHD. and protecting the safety of our people, Relocations @ GHD online portal, access Our 100 percent employee-owned our clients and the communities and to health, education and housing for our business means our people have a vested environments in which we operate. This people and their families is considered interest in delivering and caring for clients. enables us to promote the delivery of our and managed via these processes. Additionally, our flat, regionally-focused cultural objective: ‘Safe You, Safe Me, We measure our people’s engagement operational model provides active Safe GHD’. via the GHD People Survey, which: involvement in shaping the company’s GHD’s Integrity Management direction, growth and success. • Provides our people with an Guidelines establish our behavioural opportunity to voice their opinions To achieve this, we focus on the key expectations and conduct requirements. • Enables identification of areas for elements of a great place to work. That As part of this commitment, we comply is, we aim to create a high performing with the laws of the countries in which we improvement workplace by embedding organisational operate, and promote ethical business • Supplies sufficient information for behaviours, developing our leaders and and personal behaviour consistent with development of group and local investing in our people for today and our core values of Teamwork, Respect action plans tomorrow. and Integrity. GHD maintains a suite of policies which Our Child Protection Statement outline minimum requirements for applies to employees, subcontractors conducting business and the standards and volunteers engaged within the GHD to be upheld by all of our people. group of companies on international Our values of Safety, Teamwork, development assistance projects and Respect and Integrity reflect its implementation facilities. It reaffirms the collective behaviours, values, our commitment to not use – directly or expectations and attitudes of the indirectly – forced labour or child labour. company. They reflect ‘the way things are GHD’s Equal Employment Opportunity done around here’ and determine how Policy illustrates the company’s GHD 2017 Sustainability Report | 17 Performance highlights Performance highlights A Connected Network percent of the business. We have already percent the previous year. This year, we We’re developing initiatives to bring achieved this level of diversity at Board implemented strategies to reinforce our our global network of people together; level, and the overall percentage of female position in the talent market and optimise fostering strong working relationships employees has risen to 31 percent. In our recruitment processes. For example, and facilitating knowledge transfer across Australia, we have been recognised our People Team in the UK worked hard regions and markets. In2018, we will as an Employer of Choice from the in hand with our Young Professionals launch talent exchange programs to Workplace Gender Equality agency for committee to develop a program that allow GHD employees to live and work the third year in a row. In the UK, we highlights the opportunities offered by a in a different country, developing broad have joined WISE, a campaign that aims career at GHD. And in North America, skills and capabilities in new cultural and to increase women’s participation in we streamlined our recruitment strategies business contexts. science, technology, engineering and and identified focus areas that will ensure mathematics. As a global company, we a strong talent pipeline into the future Career opportunities work in culturally diverse regions around the world. In Australia, we launched our Global Leadership We offer our people rewarding careers first Reconciliation Action Plan as a public Looking to the success of the ‘Principal’ with a wide variety of experiences commitment to continue developing and ‘Associate’ organisational framework within their home country and beyond. strong relationships with Indigenous in our North America Region, we are now Our newly launched Cracking Careers Australians. Through our longstanding adopting it across our global business. campaign is helping raise awareness of partnership with CareerTrackers, we offer Our Global Executive Development internal job opportunities globally. internships for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Program equips our leaders with We continue to facilitate a mobile Islander university students, and our high-level strategic skills. We are also workforce to encourage people to seek partnership with organisation Tupu Toa is developing our Future Managers Program new challenges across the GHD network unlocking career opportunities for Maori to help grow our future leaders. of 200+ offices. The introduction of and Pasifika students in New Zealand. a new mitigation support service is Our pursuit of diversity also includes also resulting in enhanced employee initiatives for generational and LGBTI experience for international transfers. inclusion in all our regions. Diversity and inclusion Recruiting the Leaders of Tomorrow As part of our commitment to diversity GHD is the place for talented people to and inclusion, we support, encourage thrive, achieve their career goals, and and empower our people by providing make a lasting impact. Importantly, our an environment where everyone has an intake of graduates continues to provide opportunity to succeed. We’re making a strong pipeline of talent, with 314 progress towards our ‘Strategy to 2020’ graduates. Women made up 38 percent objective of women comprising 40 of our graduate intake, up from 25 GHD 2017 Sustainability Report | 18 Contributing to our world positively We care by minimising our ecological impact through resource efficiency and nature conservation initiatives, and by supporting communities through development initiatives and our GHD in the Community program. Contributing to our world positively Our Sustainability Policy and HSE Policy Focusing on ‘designing for sustainability’, • become a vehicle for direct confirm our commitment to care for the our people apply the GHD Project corporate investment, fundraising health and safety of our people and the Impact Assessment (PIA) process in and volunteering environment. Support is provided through their projects. PIA is a methodology • expand opportunities for our the consistent applications of these used by GHD business development employees to be directly or indirectly policies which are internationally certified and project teams to evaluate the social, involved in GITC activities through GHD’s HSE Management economic and environmental impacts of projects and as a way to brainstorm • raise awareness of GHD corporate System. project improvement strategies. This is responsibility credentials with its The strategic and operational stakeholders also supported by the Environment in implementation of HSE at an Design Guidelines for smaller projects. GHD recognizes and acknowledges organisational level is the responsibility of Coupled with partnerships with industry employees for their personal contribution the Executive Management Group (EMG) organisations, our people maintain the in activities that help promote the key – chaired by the Chief Executive Officer currency of their discipline via structured themes of education, disaster recovery, (CEO). technical forums. Additionally, GHD skilled volunteering, diversity and inclusion GHD contributes to the public makes the ‘best available technology’ and enterprise development. environmental debate through our available to client organisations. involvement with industry associations GHD in the Community (GITC) such as Consult Australia. We interact In 2011, we established the GHD in the with all levels of government in the Community program. GITC provides countries in which we operate on matters funding and resources support for within our sphere of influence. worthwhile activities in the global and Sustainability targets and indicators local communities within which GHD (economic, environmental and social) operates its business. It is designed as they relate to GHD are reported on to promote the ideal that we all like a regular basis through the Executive give back to our communities, in a Reporting System as well as Executive meaningful way, as an organisation and and Operating Centre management as individuals. structures. Generally, the nature of GITC activities The GHD Environmental Stewardship is philanthropic and humanitarian, approach details the environment specific combining the resources of GHD with objectives and targets and the reporting the enthusiasm, commitment and ideas requirements for each. of our people to engage in beneficial opportunities that make a difference GHD influences ‘downstream’ suppliers for less advantaged people within our via procurement processes requirements communities and other worthy causes. including Registration of Subcontractors, and Terms of Engagement. Additionally, The GITC objectives are to: GHD preferences suppliers providing cost • support the execution of high impact GHD collaboration with Habitat for Humanity effective sustainable products. strategic community projects; GHD 2017 Sustainability Report | 19 Performance highlights RedR – In Australia, GHD has Females on GHD Board 50 % 33 % formalised its partnership with RedR, a leading humanitarian 2017 2016 agency for international emergency relief. This enables us to continue the relationship our Employer of choice for Gender people began in 1992 to provide Equality by the WEGA financial assistance and support for corporate activities. As part of the partnership, our people Female workforce 30.6 % 30.3 % have the opportunity to train and pursue humanitarian and disaster 2017 2016 relief roles with RedR. Females in professional & technical roles (Australia) 23.3 % 22.9 % CareerTrackers – During 2017 2016 2017, GHD in Australia continued to provide internship placements and support for Indigenous university students 25,000 The number of face-to-face through our association with and eLearning training activities globally 36,000 CareerTrackers. This assistance 2017 2016 helps them prepare for leadership in the workplace and the community. Today, GHD Committed to the environment – People Survey 84 % 79 % has 18 interns currently gaining experience in a variety of 2017 2016 disciplines across the company. Down MSABI – Our local initiative in Paper consumed (Australia) 25,375 reams 4000 reams Tanzania continues to change 2017 2016 lives. Founded by one of our engineers, MSABI has provided access to safe water and Major offices (>150 employees) sanitation to more than 85,000 with above average environmental ratings 7 out of 9 people and educated more than 350,000 people. As one of MSABI’s strategic partners, we provide financial support and our people act as technical advisors, Commuter Incentive Program (North America) $35,070 donating their time and skills to this respected program. Provided $**** through our GHD in the Community program $370,000 TOTAL RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE 1.13 0.23 (1 million multiplier) (200,000 multiplier) 2017 2017 GHD 2017 Sustainability Report | 20 Performance Highlights Day of Service Partnering with EWB Humanitarian & disaster relief Now in its second year, the Day of GHD has partnered with Engineers Our partnership with RedR Australia Service event in North America is Without Borders (EWB) to help improve enables our people to train and pursue proving to be a tremendous success. the quality of life for disadvantaged humanitarian and disaster relief roles When we launched this initiative, communities around the world. Our in 2017, GHD’s Sooi Li Lee, Mike approximately 300 people provided people get involved in numerous Woods and Chris French assisted with programs supported by EWB Australia more than 1100 hours of volunteer RefR’s Water, Sanitation and Hygiene and EWB USA. Recently, Tom Gillespie service to 33 charities in USA and and Galani Dube were corporate in Emergencies course. GHD also Canada. As part of our GHD in the mentors to 50 university students at supported Tony Cauchi and Jennifer community program, the Day of Service the Humanitarian Design Summit in Spencer to complete the training provides an inspiring example of our Malaysia. Steve Grupico has helped required to join RedR’s roster for people’s compassion, motivation, and design and implement drinking water deployment in emergencies. commitment to make the world better. systems in Peru. Inspiring students Insight into engineering Cycling for health Kate MacDonald, an electrical engineer Our people in the UK are mentoring civil Seventeen GHD people took part in La in Christchurch, New Zealand, has engineering students from the University Boucie cycling challenge, the largest put the pedal to the metal with local of Leeds. As part of the ongoing health promotion event ever held in school pupils, helping them to develop partnership with the university, we Quebec. The 135km course was their ‘Pedal Power’ concept as part welcomed a group of undergraduates to hosted by the Pierre Lavole Challenge of the FutureinTech program. The our Leeds office to show what a day in (Le Grand Defi Pierre Lavole). The students are designing a stationary the life of an engineer is like. Our future organisation supports Quebec schools bike that can generate electricity for plans include conducting site tours in encouraging physical activity and powering laptops and iPads at St for students and helping the university healthy eating amongst children aged Peter’s School. review coursework projects. 6-12 years. GHD 2017 Sustainability Report | 21 Assisting our clients to be more sustainable We create opportunities for our clients to enjoy prosperity and achieve sustainability goals with innovative ideas that embrace our sustainability principles. GHD believes that its most significant Innovation and Excellence Additionally, we secured Australian contribution to sustainability is through Now in its third year, GHD expanded Government grant funding to pilot Smart the projects we work on with our clients. Seeds in a high school. the Smart Seeds program to six cities The range of work we do and the clients where YPs came together to solve real we assist are broad, and we aim for infrastructure challenges. New Technologies outcomes that provide a balance of www.smartseeds.org Our people are imagining the traditional environmental benefits, community delivery of projects across all of our GHD Advisory’s Innovation team is advantages and economic prudence. services, creating new tools for collecting establishing an Innovation Hub for the The two key elements of GHD’s strategy and analysing data, inspecting structures Queensland Government to assist with revolve around leveraging our connected with drones, using spatial technology bringing new ideas to the resources, to improve decision making and rapidly global network to put the best people we engineering and construction sectors – modelling large systems like water have on a project – and a client-service led on a global scale. networks. culture – where we focus on partnering with our clients in the long term. Smart Seeds We are also partnering with technology providers to access a broad range of new With the additional economic challenges Our Smart Seeds program has grown to tools, further improve our technologies encountered on many projects, we are be bigger than ever to support the digital and reduce geographic boundaries. finding clients are increasingly interested innovation priorities of our clients. This For example, GHD people presented at in innovative concepts, which helps to year, we have successfully expanded Autodesk University events in Sydney and increase their overall sustainability. it to the UK for the first time. We have Las Vegas. Also, we have a strong interest in having also offered the program in nine cities in Australia and New Zealand. To provide a common platform, we have sustainability concepts integrated into real progressively developed and rolled out projects. We believe this is the key next This distinctive program brings together iConnect, our new Intranet. The system step in sustainability worldwide: to make young professionals and experienced accelerates knowledge sharing, thanks to changes in what we build and do. mentors from a variety of organisations to an active news feed and discussion tools, GHD’s award-winning Innovation program collaborate across disciplines to develop knowledge communities and extensive is about business growth though innovation skills and tackle complex metadata for improved search and infrastructure challenges facing each city. delivering new ideas, technology and discoverability. business models. Smart Seeds was highly commended at the prestigious Australian Urban Design Connecting Infrastructure Awards in 2017. Led by GHD, this initiative provides asset We have also recently partnered with owners with comprehensive end-to-end local government and business to extend solutions to adapt to digital infrastructure Smart Seeds into the North Queensland and respond to the ways it is changing region of Australia. This project is the fundamental nature of common being co-funded by the Queensland infrastructure assets. Government through the Advancing www.connectinginfrastructure.org Regional Innovation Program. GHD 2017 Sustainability Report | 22 Performance highlights 2017 Healthy Waterways, Australia Battery storage, Australia Hornsdale Wind Farm and Power The Australia Capital Territory (ACT) GHD has helped Horizon Power trial Reserve, Australia Healthy Waterways Initiative will emerging energy storage technology Australia’s first and the world’s largest construct wetlands, bioretention in a microgrid. grid scale lithium ion battery connection systems and ponds and restore select We have provided engineering was constructed at Hornsdale Wind urba creeks to improve water quality procurement and construction Farm in South Australia. in the surrounding lakes and rivers. management services for the GHD, as Owner’s Engineer for the The ACT Government has engaged integration of a 2 MW / 2 MWh battery construction of the three stages of GHD to project manage the design at the 18 MW Mungullah gas-fired the windfarm, was also appointed to and construction of the works, as part power station in Carnarvon, Western manage the registration and licensing of a joint program with the Australian Australia. By allowing one generator to process on behalf of client Neoen Government. be switched off, rather than running as for the 100 MW/129 MWh battery spinning reserve in the event of faults installation known as the Horndale or demand spikes, the battery will Power Reserve. enable fuel and cost savings. Renewable natural gas study, Renewable energy in PNG Greening the Pipeline, Australia Canada The New Zealand Ministry of Foreign GHD and GHD Woodhead provided The City of Toronto has retained GHD Affairs and Trade (MFAT) is committed integrated engineering and to undertake a landmark review of the to supporting the Papua New Guinea landscape architecture design to help Renewable Natural Gas (RNG) potential Government in expanding access to Melbourne Water convert a section of its biogas and landfill gas assets. electricity in remote communities and of the historic Melbourne Outfall achieving renewable energy goals. Sewer into a public park. The new The project includes a comprehensive public space at Williams Landing GHD has been engaged to provide study of gas purification technologies, advisory and engineering services for reconnects communities divided by RNG transportation via pipelines, MFAT. A feasibility study and detailed the decommissioned channel and infrastructure cost analysis, quantitative design have now been completed for encourages walking, running and and qualitative biogas and landfill gas a hybrid photovoltaic/diesal system in cycling. The project was part-funded potential, and end-markets for RNG. East Sepik province. by the Victorian Government as a pilot for transforming the entire channel. GHD 2017 Sustainability Report | 23 www.ghd.com Services • Ahquatic Sciences • Hydrocarbons Processing • Resource Evaluation • Agriculture • Hydrocarbons Transportation • Risk • Air and Noise • Hydrogeology • Road Network Management • Architecture • Impact Assessment & Permitting • Road Systems • Asset & Facilities Management • Industrial Water & Waste • Security • Aviation • Management • Spatial Sciences • Bridges • Information Services • Stakeholder Engagement & Social • Building Sciences & Physics • Instrumentation & Control Sustainability • Climate Change • Integrated Water Management • Structures • Communication Systems • Intelligent Transport Systems • Tailings (Mines & Residue) • Construction Contracting • Interior Design • Transportation Planning & Traffic • Contamination Assessment & • Irrigation Engineering Remediation • Land Development & Municipal • Tunnels • Dams • Engineering • Waste Management • Data Management Services • Landscape Architecture • Wastewater & Stormwater Collection • Design Documentation • Light Rail Systems • Electrical Engineering – Buildings • Maritime & Coastal Engineering • Wastewater Treatment & Recycling • Electrical Engineering – Industrial • Materials Handling • Water & Wastewater Strategy & • Emergency Response • Materials Technology Planning • Engineering Procurement & • Minerals Processing • Water Efficiency Construction Management (EPCM) • Mining Engineering • Water Transmission & Distribution • Fire & Life Safety • Mining Geosciences • Water Treatment & Desalination • Food Processing • Natural Resources • Waterways & Coastal • Forensic Engineering • Pavement Engineering • Forestry Management • Planning Connect with u • Geology • Plant Engineering • www.facebook.com/GHDGroup • Geotechnical • Policy & Economics • www.linkedin.com/company/ghd • Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) • Power Delivery • https://twitter.com/GHDspeaks Systems & Industrial Hygiene • Power Generation • Heating, Ventilation & Air • Project Management • https://twitter.com/ghdgraduate Conditioning (HVAC) • Railways • https://twitter.com/GHDwoodhead • Hydraulics – Buildings • Renewable Energy • https://twitter.com/GHD_NAmerica © Copyright GHD Group Pty Ltd 2017. All rights reserved. ABN 32 118 062 258 GHD 2017 Sustainability Report | 24
