UN Global Compact First Communication on Progress (COP) I. Statement of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) To our stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that LöningHuman Rights & Responsible Business reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. This is our first annual Communication on Progress, covering the period from January 2017 to December 2017, in which we describe our actions and committed work to integrate the UN Global Compact principles into our business strategy, culture and daily work. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. I look forward to providing you with an update on our progress in 2018. Yours sincerely, Markus Löning CEO Löning – Human Rights & Responsible Business Naunynstrasse 40, 10999 Berlin · T +49 30 61 65 31 50 · info@loening-berlin.de II. Description of actions Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LöningHuman Rights & Responsible Business is a consultancy firm that helps companies meet their human rights obligations in a strategic way. Hence, respect and protection for human rights is at the core of our business activity. Our goal is to make companies effectively incorporate respect for human dignity into their business activities. In other words, we seek to make companies align their activities with international human rights standards such as the Universal Declaration for Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the ILO Core Conventions, among others. Through our analysis and further development of comprehensive strategies, we help companies identify which human rights issues apply to their business, where there might be risks of violations and how to tackle them to ensure sustainable business success. Moreover, apart from our consultancy work for companies, we actively engage with relevant stakeholders, 2 NGOs, governments and companies to promote dialogue on business and human rights matters, providing a bridge between activists and managers to emphasise crosscutting approaches to human rights concerns. We also provide advisory work when requested in certain specific human rights matters on a pro bono basis. Additionally, we regularly publish papers, reports and webinars, which are freely available on our official website. We, therefore, aim at leading by example. For that, we comply with all applicable laws and we, as a HUMAN RIGHTS company, ensure the respect and upholding of human rights on a daily basis at our workplace. Löning – Human Right & Responsible Business is a small company and it does not have any formal (grievance) mechanism in place as it addresses human rights issues that might arise through dialogue with affected parties. Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Löning – Human Rights & Responsible Business Naunynstrasse 40, 10999 Berlin · T +49 30 61 65 31 50 · info@loening-berlin.de We are committed to providing our employees with an open, friendly and non-discriminatory work environment fully aligned with German relevant legislation and international labour standards. For that, we take concrete actions. We take the well being of our employees very seriously. Therefore, employees are subjected to flexible WORK-LIFE BALANCE working hours so that employees can adjust them to their own personal needs. Additionally, we encourage employees to work from home when they deem it necessary for concentration or personal conciliation. Löning – Human Rights & Responsible Business encourages diversity and tolerance at workplace. Indeed, DIVERSITY AT we are a small, diverse, multicultural team with different backgrounds and skills. We look beyond borders, WORK which gives us a high level of cultural awareness and understanding. Additionally, we actively collaborate with a local NGO by hosting a refugee for an internship programme at our office, fostering social inclusion of refugees in the workplace. HEALTH AND In order to guarantee that our team is provided with safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities, the rooms SAFETY and office equipment meet the highest standards and are fully in compliance with German regulations. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 3 friendly technologies. As a small consultancy firm with our work being mostly office based, our direct environmental impact is relatively small. Nonetheless, we do believe that we have an obligation towards the environment and hence, we do take positive actions aimed at minimising our negative impact. Our office is an eco-friendly one. We are equipped with green energy and automatic heating system. GREEN ENERGY Additionally, all windows of our office have double-layered glasses to improve and increase energy efficiency. We encourage our employees, whenever feasible, to make use of public transport for business trips. For PUBLIC TRANSPORT medium and longer trips, we still use the airplane. As of January 2018, we commit to CO2 Compensation when booking flights. In order to reduce waste materials, we do recycling, especially of plastic and paper, and we always RECYCLING purchase recycled paper for our daily work. Löning – Human Rights & Responsible Business Naunynstrasse 40, 10999 Berlin · T +49 30 61 65 31 50 · info@loening-berlin.de Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. LöningHuman Rights & Responsible Business is committed to being in compliance with all relevant ANTIapplicable laws, including anti-corruption laws and to supporting international and regional frameworks, CORRUPTION such as the UN Convention against Corruption. We do not have any specific anti-corruption policy in place or any specific team training on the matter so far. III. Measurement of outcomes LöningHuman Rights & Responsible Business does not have any formal monitoring or evaluation programme. This is a small business in which the monitoring and evaluation of performance of the company in the four areas is done through mainly two channels: (1) internal annual reviews and (2) regular meetings. Every year, we undergo an ‘Internal Annual Review’ in relation to all the aspects involving our business, ANNUAL REVIEW including our goals, organisational aspects, efficiency and ways of improvement. This revision entails an internal audit of our business activities, including also our performance on the integration of the UN Global Compact principles at our workplace. 4 REGULAR Additionally, the Chief Executive Officer organises regular meetings with each of the members of the team MEETINGS in order to assess their personal situation giving them a space to express their views and concerns. Löning – Human Rights & Responsible Business Naunynstrasse 40, 10999 Berlin · T +49 30 61 65 31 50 · info@loening-berlin.de
