Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 02 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 Contents CR at Zurich  03 Corporate responsibility (CR) is integrated into Zurich’s CR management framework  04 strategy. We aim to create sustainable value for all External commitments and indices  04 our stakeholders to ensure we meet and exceed the Focus on our people  06 goals embodied by our purpose, values and our Enhancing community flood resilience  07 code of conduct. Investing our Group assets responsibly  11 Mitigating environmental, social and governance risks in underwriting  14 About Zurich Anti-bribery and anti-corruption  14 Zurich is a leading multi-line insurer that serves its customers in global and local Investing in our local communities  15 markets. With about 53,000 employees, Environmental performance  16 it provides a wide range of property and casualty, and life insurance products and Climate change  17 services in more than 210 countries and territories. Zurich’s customers include Health and safety in our office buildings  18 individuals, small businesses, and mid-sized Responsible sourcing and procurement  18 and large companies, as well as multinational corporations. The Group is headquartered in Principles for Sustainable Insurance 19 Zurich, Switzerland, where it was founded Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 21 in 1872. United Nations Global Compact  23 To read about how CR fits into our Group Strategy, please refer to our 2017 Annual Independent assurance report  24 Report. https://annualreports.zurich.com/ 2017/en/annual-report Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards index 26 Our cover In 2017, we continued to work with the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) and the Mexican Red Cross in 20 communities in Tabasco, Mexico, to increase risk awareness Further information and support sustainable efforts to reduce Please visit www.zurich.com exposure to floods. Email: corporate.responsibility@zurich.com 03 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 This report provides information on some of the key areas in which Zurich made progress in corporate responsibility (CR) in 2017, including our continued commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and becoming a signatory to the United Nation’s Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI). CR at Zurich For Zurich, CR is at the heart of our culture. emissions per employee and a 43-percent It produces sustainable value for our customers, reduction in energy consumption per employee employees, shareholders and the communities in 2016, ahead of our planned target schedule where we live and work. We are proud of what (based on a 2007 baseline). In 2017, we we achieved in 2017. Together with members defined new reduction targets, to achieve and of the Zurich flood resilience alliance, we maintain an at least 20-percent reduction in continued to help communities reduce flood energy and carbon, based on a new 2015 risk. Our investments in green bonds have baseline, until 2025. grown substantially from USD 1.4 billion in 2016 to USD 2.4 billion in 2017, exceeding In the 2017 Dow Jones Sustainability Indices our USD 2 billion target. Zurich also increased (DJSI) review, Zurich achieved a score of 83 and its commitment to impact investments and outperformed 98 percent of other companies in introduced impact targets to expand its the insurance industry group. In addition, Zurich impact investment portfolio commitment improved its score to ‘A-’ leadership level from to USD 5 billion. It aims to avoid 5 million ‘B’ management level in 2016 in our annual metric tons of CO2 equivalent emissions and CDP Climate Change response. improve the lives of 5 million people per year. Zurich’s approach to proactively address Our investment in community programs environmental, social and governance (ESG) from total charitable cash contributions was factors as part of our day-to-day business USD 23.1 million in 2017. Committed to activity also supports several of the UN minimizing our global environmental footprint, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). we achieved a 53-percent reduction in carbon Our approach to these goals is outlined in Insurance creates value for society. It allows people and businesses to protect themselves from risk and helps them become – and remain – prosperous and resilient. Risks are becoming more complex and this report. interconnected as a result of climate change, globalization, urbanization and technological development. Insurers are increasingly expected to use their core skills to help communities and society become more resilient to these interconnected risks. The premiums we invest in capital markets also help to finance businesses and projects that are important for society. CR is an integral part of Zurich’s strategy. By acting responsibly in everything we do, we aim to create sustainable value for all our stakeholders. 04 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 CR management framework External commitments and indices The Executive Committee (ExCo) and the Board of Directors of Zurich Zurich became a signatory of the UN Global Compact in July 2011 and a Insurance Group Ltd (Board) take an active role in overseeing and signatory of the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) in July 2012. implementing our approach to CR. The Governance, Nominations and In October 2017, Zurich became a signatory to the UNEP FI Principles for Corporate Responsibility Committee, a standing committee of the Board, Sustainable Insurance. reviews and approves the Group’s CR strategy and objectives. In the 2017 DJSI Review, Zurich achieved a score of 83, outperforming The CR Working Group, set up by the ExCo, ensures that we achieve our 98 percent of other companies in the insurance industry group and CR objectives. The Working Group comprises senior representatives from receiving Silver Class distinction. Zurich is a member of the DJSI World across the business and in 2017 was chaired by the Chief Executive and DJSI Europe Indices. Officer, Europe, Middle East & Africa. A key aim is to embed responsible decision-making and actions into everything we do. To ensure Zurich has submitted a CDP response annually since 2004. CDP, formerly accountability, each of our CR focus areas is assigned to an ExCo member. the Carbon Disclosure Project, is a not-for-profit charity that runs the The relevant business units and Group functions determine the approach global disclosure system for investors, companies, cities, states and regions and method for delivering the agreed-upon objectives. to manage their environmental impacts. In 2017, Zurich improved its score to ‘A-’ leadership level in our annual Climate Change response from ‘B’ management level in 2016. Zurich has been a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series since the Index was introduced in 2001. Our ESG Rating Absolute Score in December 2017 was 4.0 compared with the highest possible score of 5. Zurich is also a constituent of the MSCI ESG Select Leaders Index. MSCI is an independent provider of research-driven insights and tools for institutional investors. Our MSCI ESG rating in March 2017 was ‘AA’. 05 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 UN Global Compact Living up to our commitment Statement of continuing support See page 23 for UN Global Compact – links Zurich became a signatory of the UN Global to relevant information on our website. Compact in July 2011 because we believe that being a responsible company is fundamental to our long-term sustainability. As a signatory, we are committed to aligning our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations with the Global Compact’s 10 universally-accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. The principles of the Global Compact complement our purpose, values and code of conduct, and all Zurich employees are expected to live up to them. Our continued commitment to the Global Compact’s principles on human and labor rights, the environment and anti-corruption is expressed in this report. We are committed to embracing, supporting and enacting these principles within our sphere of influence, and we will regularly communicate our progress. Mario Greco Group Chief Executive Officer, Zurich Insurance Group 06 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 Focus on our people An organization is only as strong and as good as its people. We continue to focus on identifying the right people for the right roles at the right time, helping them to unleash their full potential through targeted development. This benefits our employees and our customers. We need to be able to recruit, develop and retain a diverse and talented workforce that can thrive in a culture of mutual trust, respect and inclusion. Our diversity and inclusion framework is designed to shape an environment that: • Encourages and values different views and opinions • Respects employees’ personal needs • Provides equal opportunities regardless of gender, race, ethnicity, age, sexual orientation or other aspect of difference. In November 2015 Zurich became the first global company in the insurance industry to be certified by ‘EDGE’ (Economic Dividends for Gender Equality). As of 2017, we had 12 countries EDGE certified and we are one of only six brands to be recognized at EDGE ‘Move’ level for demonstrating our progress in improving gender equality. Our decision to apply for EDGE certification demonstrates our aim to improve gender equality and empower women in the workforce. We want to give people equal opportunity to deliver, and we aim to compensate our people fairly through pay, promotions and opportunities. Working with EDGE, we have developed an Equal Pay Analysis Tool that enables us to review equal pay for equivalent work in like roles. This tool has been audited and verified by an independent third party and is accessible across our business. 07 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 Members of our flood resilience alliance Action research and modelling to improve knowledge about floods Risk expertise to understand the role of insurance in flood management @Rodrigo Rodrich for Practical Action Global influence and scale to reach Technical innovation to understand the the most vulnerable communities impact of climate change on floods Enhancing community flood resilience Highlights in 2017 received various prizes since the program was established in 2013, including the prestigious Floods affect more people globally than any Community members: Academic members: United Nations Framework Convention on other natural hazard and this is something we Climate Change (UNFCCC) Momentum for experienced across the world in 2017. • The International • The Wharton School, University Change Award in 2014. Addressing underlying flood risks is more Federation of Red Cross of Pennsylvania efficient and cost effective than simply In 2017, in Peru, together with our implementing and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) • The International Institute providing relief after floods have occurred. partner Practical Action, the flood resilience of Applied Systems Analysis Flood resilience is a complex issue and tackling alliance won the PODER ‘Think Tank of the • Practical Action, UK (IIASA), Vienna it demands a multi-stakeholder approach. Year’ award. In Mexico, the Mexican Center Zurich’s flood resilience program has brought for Philanthropy (Cemefi) recognized our flood together an alliance of community, academic resilience program model, based on working and private sector members. In recognition of through cross-sector alliances that make the Zurich works within this alliance to ensure that the knowledge our cross-sector collaboration model, and for most of knowledge and expertise shared and ideas it generates fit the needs of local communities, and our approach to flood resilience, we have among different areas of specialization. that these ideas can be put into practice. 08 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 Action at a community level reducing loss compared with other areas that In the U.S., the community work with the have no such systems. In the Piura and the National Academy of Sciences has continued Our work with the International Federation of NEPAL INDONESIA MEXICO PERU Rimac river basins in Peru we are working with in Charleston South Carolina and Cedar Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) 15 communities to improve their understanding Rapids Iowa. began in 2013 and continued in 2017 in of nature-based solutions. We are also helping Mexico and Indonesia. In Mexico, the focus is Generating knowledge to build them to develop and use novel approaches to on flood-vulnerable clusters of communities in Tabasco, where standing flood waters of the implement early warnings of flash floods. These a case for flood resilience measures will make communities in the region In 2017, our research alliance with two Usumacinta river affect areas for months at a more resilient to repeated floods and enhance academic research institutions, Wharton School time. In 2017, we continued to work with evacuation routes and flood emergency plans. of the University of Pennsylvania in the U.S., and 20 communities in Tabasco to increase risk The local teams, in their dealings with public the International Institute for Applied Systems awareness and support the implementation of sustainable interventions to reduce exposure to 74 21 20 15 authorities, were strong advocates for investing more in pre-event resilience. Analysis (IIASA) in Austria, continued to produce floods. Such efforts include ways to enhance valuable findings and research publications. the livelihoods of people in the communities Practical Action also enhanced its ‘Vulnerability Number of communities worked with At a policy level, the alliance jointly published a and helping them secure income during floods. to Resilience’ (V2R) program in 15 communities paper on disaster resilience – what it is and how The work there also includes building in Bangladesh, sharing what it has learned from it can engender a meaningful change – in a multi-purpose community centers that can also its work in Nepal and Peru with this program, journal on development policy. The first findings serve as emergency shelters, supporting flood Work in Nepal and Peru is being carried out which was funded by the Z Zurich Foundation. from evaluating the flood resilience measurement brigades, improving the safety of water supplies through our five-year alliance with Practical We also help communities to develop their own framework were published by IIASA and the and sanitation systems and enhancing both Action. In Nepal, we work in 74 communities support teams to prepare for various types of measurement working group in the Natural lead time and warning capability ahead of in the Karnali river basin to strengthen early flood events related to El Niño and support Hazards and Earth Systems Sciences’ journal, flooding. In Indonesia, work continued across warning systems and improve livelihoods, them in working with local governments to concluding that there is an urgent need for the 21 communities in West and Central Java, helping communities to better withstand the reduce disaster risk. continued development of theoretically extending the use of the Flood Early Warning threats posed by floods. We have taken the Early Action System (FEWEAS) from the flood resilience measurement framework to a Bengawan Solo river to a second river basin, broader level, and used the results for improved the Citarum; enhancing business plans for decision-making on resilience projects. These community waste management projects and include training farmers in alternative farming continuing to develop evacuation places, practices, and setting up local knowledge response teams and flood awareness and centers to increase flood awareness. Work response training. In the early part of the year, continued on early warning systems, increasing the program launched a local innovation lead times from as little as two hours to as challenge, seeking new ideas to build flood much as seven hours in major river basins in resilience at a community level. This process Nepal, giving people more time to get to safety. unearthed some interesting ideas, including Efforts to integrate the warning systems into cost-effective water filtration and flood the government’s Department for Hydrology awareness games for children. In both Mexico and Meteorology’s procedures was particularly and Indonesia, we have applied our unique successful there, too. Thanks to these systems, flood resilience measurement framework to in the Babai watershed during the intense improve decision-making which interventions monsoon floods in August 2017, early warnings to prioritize and to measure progress on reached 50,000 people, giving people the becoming more flood resilient. opportunity to save their lives and critical assets, @Rodrigo Rodrich for Practical Action @Rodrigo Rodrich for Practical Action 09 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 anchored, empirically verified, and practically the flood resilience alliance members and four applicable disaster-resilience measurement additional community organizations (the National frameworks and tools. The Wharton School Academy of Sciences in the U.S., Concern looked at the issue of moral hazard in flood Worldwide with programs in Afghanistan and insurance. Moral hazard describes a situation in Haiti, Plan International in Nepal and Mercy which undue risks are taken because of skewed Corps in Indonesia, Nepal and Timor-Leste). economic incentives, for example, when the costs of risky behavior are incurred by someone All these organizations also applied the tool in else. They reported on empirical evidence from their flood-related community programs in Germany and the U.S., finding that moral hazard 2017, using it in over 100 communities, and Mexico leads policyholders to do less preparation for implementing resilience-building projects based disasters, which increases the risks. The PERC on the findings from the baseline measurements experts from IIASA, the Institute for Social and the tool provided. Many applications of the tool Environmental Transition (ISET) and Zurich were have been extended beyond the initial invited to contribute a chapter to an AGU Wiley communities where they were introduced, book on disaster forensics, which was published making use of networks and collaboration Peru Indonesia in 2017. opportunities with local NGOs, academia and the public sector in their respective geographies. Zurich, in collaboration with IIASA and ISET, Through repeated application of the added to its library of PERC studies, publishing measurement framework in those communities a review of the weak El Niño phenomenon in following interventions to build resilience, and 2015/2016, and subsequent coastal flooding in a thorough post-flood measurement in cases Peru in 2016/2017. It also published a review of where floods occur, we will be able to identify devastating flash floods in southern Germany the changes in those communities and how this in May 2017. This review, written together has enabled them to be more resilient. Our with Zurich Germany, shed light on such floods, research colleagues and those using the tool in which can be extremely dangerous and costly, the field collaborated closely throughout 2017. harboring risks that are often underestimated. This has helped them to understand how the tool works and how it provides additional Engaging Zurich’s people Applying our flood resilience insights and value to the communities’ work on Zurich’s approach to building our flood measurement framework the ground. Shared findings and experiences were resilience alliance goes beyond financial Since its inception, the flood resilience alliance included in a report IIASA published on the tool contributions. We also aim to include Zurich’s has worked together to gain a thorough and the measurement working group, providing employees, who contribute valuable knowledge understanding of community flood resilience, us with insights to further refine the tool. and expertise. In 2017, local Zurich businesses allowing us to design more effective ways to found opportunities to share staff even as solve problems and also measure the impact deployment at the Group level decreased. In of our solutions. We began implementing our Mexico, two members of Zurich Mexico’s risk flood resilience measurement tool in 2016 In Nepal, we work in 74 communities engineering team evaluated Practical Action’s after training community members in how to in the Karnali river basin to strengthen evacuation shelter approach in Peru. And in Indonesia, the local Zurich business provided use it. This is the first practical application of a measurement framework for resilience of its kind. early warning systems and improve training to support further development of livelihoods, helping communities to waste management operations in Tugu Utara In 2017 we continued to make important village on the Ciliwung river. Zurich volunteers progress in applying and evaluating the better withstand the threats posed in Mexico and Indonesia were also engaged framework, based on contributions from all by floods. through Zurich Community Week activities. 10 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 In 2017 Zurich employees contributed to several major Zurich catalyzes innovation year, people implementing the programs came together to forums and bodies focused on reducing disaster risk and/or In 2016, Zurich and the Global Resilience Partnership (GRP) share what they’d learned, including developing a better drafting public policy on disaster risk reduction and mitigation. launched a new competition through the GRP’s Global understanding of Zurich’s flood resilience framework and Zurich represented the private sector as a member of the Resilience Challenge program: the grant-based Water Window tools. Further workshops will help to distil what has been Swiss government’s delegation at the United Nation’s seeks to identify and develop locally-driven innovations and learned from the projects, helping the GRP to promote International Strategy for Disaster Reduction (UNISDR) high-impact solutions to improve water resilience. To test successful ideas on a broader scope. Global Platform in Cancun, Mexico in 2017. The Global new and innovative ideas we offered seed grants of up to Platform is the main global forum that reviews and supports Zurich flood resilience program enters a new USD 250,000. For ideas that were already shown to work, systematic approaches used to manage and address disaster we offered ‘scale grants’ of up to USD 1 million to expand multi-year phase risks. We participated in discussions on the importance of the impact of these approaches. Zurich in total is investing In 2017, we finalized plans to extend the Zurich flood insurance in financial risk transfer, and the role of the overall USD 10 million in the Water Window provided by the resilience program. After its initial phase of operation, in insurance industry in helping to reduce disaster risk. Zurich Z Zurich Foundation. consultation with alliance members and others, we agreed took part in research projects and discussions on incentives to extend it from 2018 to 2023. During the first six months and barriers to reducing disaster risk at the European In 2017, 12 projects run by 11 organizations started operations of 2018 we will complete the groundwork for this new Commission in Brussels. In addition, we shared our expertise under the Water Window challenge, including two which phase. This will include ensuring we have a strong impact in community resilience with the Swiss Non-Governmental will use Zurich’s flood resilience measurement tools as part measurement framework in place. The next phase of Organization (NGO) Platform on Disaster Risk Reduction and of their approach. These projects aim to benefit in excess of operations will begin on July 1, 2018. We have an ambitious with the Swiss Development Corporation (SDC). 900,000 people over a 12-month cycle. Nearly 60,000 target of attracting more investment into prevention actions people were reached in the first four months. Early in the and resilience building instead of post-event relief and recovery. 11 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 Investing our Group assets responsibly Responsible investment can mean different things change through private and public sector advocacy and We also continue to support the growth and development to different people. Zurich has chosen to pursue it selectively excluding companies related to the mining of or of the green bond market beyond our financial investments, electricity generation from thermal coal. The overall for instance, as deputy chair of the Green Bond Principles’ primarily in three ways: approach is detailed in ‘Responsible Investment at steering committee. • ESG integration – besides examining financial Zurich: What we want to achieve, and how we do it.’ Overall, our impact investment portfolio grew from performance, we also assess the environmental, Impact investing: In 2017 we reached our goal of investing USD 1.7 billion in 2016 to USD 2.8 billion in 2017, including social and governance (ESG) ‘performance’ when USD 2 billion in green bonds. In a year that saw the largest not only green, but also social and sustainability bonds, as analyzing individual investments and investment issuance of green bonds to date, including some of the first well as commitments to four private equity funds. sovereign green bonds, we grew our global green bond managers. We take these assessments into account portfolio from USD 1.4 billion in 2016 to USD 2.4 billion at Zurich increased its commitment to impact investments when we decide whether to buy or sell assets. the end of 2017. Green bonds provide capital exclusively and introduced impact targets: Having achieved our green used to finance projects with environmental benefits. bond target allocation, we increased our commitment to • Impact investing – we fund institutions or projects impact investments to USD 5 billion on an overall portfolio that, besides generating a safe, adequate return, We currently hold over 150 green bonds level, and for the first time complemented the exposure with have a targeted and measurable positive impact on impact targets: We are aiming to build an impact portfolio in our portfolio, from 90 issuers in nine that helps to avoid 5 million tons of CO2 equivalent the environment or society. currencies, supporting green projects emissions and improve 5 million people’s lives on an annual • Advancing together – responsible investing is basis. Zurich believes it is the first private-sector investor to ranging from renewable energy generation introduce impact targets for its investment portfolio. a story that is still being written. We are helping to to sustainable real estate or water write it, together with a broad group of stakeholders. management improvements. Over the course of 2017 we made further progress in applying our approach. Highlights in 2017 Shaping a more resilient tomorrow How to deal with climate change: Zurich has defined a clear strategy to reflect climate change in its investment approach. Every business and asset will be affected by climate change and the collective action taken to mitigate or adapt to Our annual targets it. The impacts of climate change run through all the elements As leaders in of our responsible investment strategy and we are committed to action in several areas including monitoring climate change sustainability, risk scenarios, strengthening ESG integration with a clear focus we aim to double our to help avoid and benefit on opportunities and risks associated with climate change, impact investments to financing the transition to a low-carbon economy, driving USD 5 billion 5 million 5 million tons people of CO2 emissions 12 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 ESG integration: We are amending legal agreements with our external asset managers on a continuous basis to explicitly require that they apply responsible investment practices; over 80 percent of investments designated to be in scope of 49% ofESGassets in-scope for integration* Green bonds our ESG integration approach are now covered by investment *includes assets in scope for management agreements referencing ESG integration. ESG integration and/or proxy voting only USD 2,411m We have updated our proxy voting policy. While most of our equity investments are managed externally, we have now 82% of in-scope assets managed by people who received responsible investment training Social and sustainability bonds put in place all necessary policies and procedures to actively exercise our voting rights as a shareholder for equity USD 303m investments that are managed internally. 98% ofpeoplein-scope assets managed by with access to ESG data, analysis and research Advancing together: We believe it’s critical to engage all Impact private equity market participants in a dialogue on responsible investment. USD 116m Over the course of 2017, we led conversations about responsible investment with our external asset managers; 84% ofaforclear in-scope assets managed with and structured process ESG integration in place engaged with policymakers and regulators on the topic of Reducing CO2 footprint for our green finance; encouraged banks to integrate sustainability CO2 Swiss real estate portfolio assessments in their research; and spoke at 28 industry events. We also remain actively involved in various industry 81% of in-scope assets managed with a clear and structured process to discuss ESG issues directly with –11%* initiatives, such as the Investment Leaders Group (ILG), the companies *compared to 2010 which we joined as a founding member in 2013. Awards: Our achievements in green finance were honored by winning two awards from GlobalCapital Magazine: Zurich 87% ofin-scope externally managed assets covered by formal legal agreements was named the ‘Most impressive Green/SRI investment firm that require our manager 2017’ and Johanna Köb and Manuel Lewin, members of the to incorporate ESG Responsible Investment team, earned first and second place Participated actively in Spoke about responsible respectively as ‘Most impressive Green/SRI investment 5 membership organizations investment at 28 conferences professional 2017.’ and other industry events 13 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 Responsible investment KPIs Impact of real estate investment Energy consumption1 (kWh per sqm) 2017 2016 Change 2015 2014 2013 2010 baseline External asset managers who Target: -20% by 2020 (vs. baseline) are signatories to PRI1 (%) 71.0% 74.1% (3.1 pts) 70.4% 67.9% 58.3% Group assets managed by 2010 127 PRI signatories2 (%) 97.2% 97.7% (0.5 pts) 98.1% 98.8% 95.1% 2012 -0.5%* 126 Total amount of impact investments3 (USD millions) 2,830 1,704 66% 1,031 667 236 2013 -0.2%* 126 Investment portfolio4 (USD millions) 207,261 195,852 6% 191,238 204,860 207,280 2014 -2.3%* 124 1 The United-Nations supported Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). 2 Including assets managed by Zurich. 2015 -4.8%* 121 ³ Impact investments in 2017 consisted of: green bonds (USD 2.41 billion), investments committed to private equity funds (USD 116 million, thereof 38 percent drawn down) and other investments (USD 303 million). 20162 -7.8%* 117 4 Starting in 2017, the investment portfolio is calculated on a market basis, and is different from the total Group investments reported in the consolidated financial statements, which is calculated on an accounting basis and doesn’t include cash and cash equivalents. *Total change vs baseline Impact of real estate investment CO2e emissions1 (kg per sqm) 2010 baseline Target: -20% by 2020 (vs. baseline) 2010 32 2012 -1.5%* 32 2013 -1.5%* 32 2014 -3.7%* 31 2015 -6.2%* 30 20162 -10.9%* 29 *Total change vs baseline 1 Scope includes real estate investments in Switzerland (54% of global direct real estate investment value). Buildings in the real estate investment portfolio are largely not used by Zurich. The environmental footprint of Zurich’s own-use real estate is reported in Zurich’s environmental section. The data are based on meter readings and energy supplier information and are heating degree adjusted. The baseline differs from data reported until 2013, in which data was solely extrapolated from energy bills and was not heating degree adjusted. 2 Impact of real estate investment data 2017 will be available in Q1 2019. 14 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 Mitigating ESG risks in underwriting Highlights in 2017 Zurich tracks and monitors volumes and types of corporate responsibility risks in Zurich uses a three-step approach that business transactions internally within the systematically detects, assesses, and Group and externally with a third-party mitigates major ESG risks inherent in ‘risk radar’ expert. Significant changes in specific business transactions. This is part Local operations of the local underwriting process. Concerns ESG performance can be monitored and assessed accordingly. In addition, using about risks can be escalated to the Decline risk tools such as the Zurich Risk Radar and Corporate Responsibility Decision Group Identify new risk/renewal Carry out Zurich’s global and interdisciplinary (CR Decision Group) to assess sensitive or of existing risk requiring initial CR Emerging Risks Group (ERG) we analyze a CR assessment assessment complex corporate responsibility risks and potential risks, including those related to provide direction as to the appropriate Accept risk Process as normal environmental, social or climate issues. mitigation actions. This group includes senior members of relevant business areas in compliance and risk. We track and In 2017, Zurich decided to analyze the outcome of risk assessment and risk mitigation efforts. apply its existing ESG risks in business transactions process CR Decision Group Refer complex/major Using our proprietary risk-profiling to the thermal coal sector. ESG risks to CR methodology, we have prioritized five key (includes senior members Decision Group areas of concern. The first is banned of relevant business areas, cluster munitions and anti-personnel land mines. In business cases where these issues Anti-bribery and compliance and risk Gather data – seek advice from various arise, we have decided not to engage in anti-corruption new business with customers who pose internal experts Zurich is committed to fair and responsible and external risk concerns, and to raise the issue of ESG analysis experts risks with those existing customers where business and prohibits all forms of bribery we believe these issues are relevant. The or corruption, and any business conduct Accept risk second area of concern is thermal coal. that could create the appearance of In 2017, Zurich decided to apply its improper influence. Zurich’s anti-bribery Carry out detailed existing ESG risks in business transactions and anti-corruption Group policy sets CR assessment out our global framework addressing Accept risk with process to the thermal coal sector where conditions we aim to use our role as a leading the common areas of risk and includes commercial insurer to foster dialogue the requirement for local compliance around the impact of coal on climate functions to appoint an anti-bribery and and the steps needed to transition to a anti-corruption officer; complete a focused low-carbon economy. The other three anti-bribery and anti-corruption risk areas of concern are dam construction, assessment; identify and record appropriate Group CEO Refer to Group CEO mining, and oil and gas activities, where mitigating processes within the business; Decline risk for final decision we closely screen governance, human and embed appropriate management rights and environmental risks. In addition, information, key performance indicators, Zurich avoids doing business with reporting and monitoring processes. counterparties that may use child labor, forced labor, or conduct operations that could jeopardize health and safety, or offer unfair remuneration. 15 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 Investing in our local communities Community Investment KPIs 2017 2016 Change 2015 2014 2013 Contributions 6.6 1.6 324% 1.5 0.8 0.8 (cash in USD millions)1 of which contribution from 3.1 0.7 367% 0.6 0.3 0.4 employees (USD millions) of which matching contributions from the Z Zurich Foundation 1.2 0.9 35% 0.9 0.6 0.4 (USD millions) Highlights in 2017 • During 2017, employees volunteered over of which matching contributions • The Z Zurich Foundation continued to 128,000 business hours, more than 22,500 from Zurich business units 2.4 0.1 nm support Zurich’s award-winning flood of which were skills-based. (USD millions)2 resilience program. In 2017, the Foundation • In addition, we have looked for ways for Total time volunteered from invested CHF 8.81 million to finance the our community programs to support our 128,062 44,225 190% 31,040 33,210 28,000 workforce (business hours)1 alliance community and research wider corporate responsibility (CR) agenda. collaboration and the Water Window. A great example of this is our STEP by STEM of which skills based time 22,579 4,039 459% program in Spain, where female role models volunteered (business hours)2 • The Z Zurich Foundation seeks to support people and communities in building a better, working in technical roles within Zurich help Workforce actively volunteering more resilient future. Our Local Programs to inspire the next generation of female talent N/A 32.4% 31.1% 27.0% 24.0% (% of total headcount)3 initiative gives Zurich offices an opportunity to study science, technology, engineering to apply for funding to support local and mathematics. Total charitable cash contributions 23.1 29.6 (22%) 22.6 22.7 17.0 long-term community investment initiatives This year, Zurich employees donated a total (USD millions)4 to address some of society’s biggest of USD 3.1 million to good causes, of which 1 The scope of community investment contributions has been broadened to include all employee donations and matching in 2017, while challenges in areas such as health and USD 0.7 million was matched by the Z Zurich previously it was only including Community Week activities. wellbeing, youth empowerment and disaster Foundation and a further USD 2.4 million 2 Newly in scope for reporting in 2017, prior year restated accordingly (2016). resilience. In 2017, the Foundation supported was matched by the Zurich business units. 3 We are currently enhancing our tracking systems, enabling us to track data more effectively. In the transition, no data is available for 2017. 4 Charitable contributions include corporate cash donations only. Contributions cover 100% of our Group’s business units and the Z Zurich youth programs in Spain, Morocco, Austria, In addition, over USD 0.5 million was donated Foundation. Contributions of the Z Zurich Foundation are valued on a cash-out basis. Excluded are the Farmers Exchanges, which are owned by Isle of Man, Sweden and Germany; mental by the Foundation through their volunteer their policyholders and managed by Farmers Group Inc a wholly owned subsidiary of Zurich Insurance Group Ltd, and contributions made by health initiatives in Bermuda and Ireland; matching scheme. Zurich employees. All amounts are rounded to the nearest USD 100,000 with the consequence that the rounded amounts may not add up to the rounded totals in physical health programs for children in all cases. Malaysia and Brazil, and resilience initiatives In addition, Zurich made total cash contributions in Canada, North America and Mexico. to charitable causes of USD 23.1 million in 2017 to enhance the lives and livelihoods of thousands of people across the world and Our Local Programs initiative gives Zurich offices an opportunity to help them increase their resilience to the risks apply for funding to support local long-term community investment they face. initiatives to address some of society’s biggest challenges in areas such as health and wellbeing, youth empowerment and disaster resilience. 16 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 Environmental performance CO2 emissions per employee (tons per FTE) 2007 baseline1 Highlights in 2017 Target: -50% by 2020 (vs. baseline) The Group-wide Environmental Management Zurich achieved a major milestone in its 2007 3.03 1.50 4.53 System (EMS) defines the governance and ambitions to limit its global operational processes necessary to accurately measure and environmental footprint. Its targets, to reduce 20121 2.17 1.43 -20%* 3.61 improve Zurich’s environmental footprint across carbon emissions by 50 percent and energy all countries in which we operate. Operations in consumption by 40 percent per employee by 20131 2.00 1.46 -24%* 3.46 Switzerland maintained ISO 14001 certification 2020 against a 2007 baseline, were surpassed with use of the EMS. In addition, the EMS has in 2016. Zurich has set the following new 20141 1.52 1.22 -39%* 2.74 undergone an internal compliance review with environmental targets: 2015 1.28 1.32 -43%* 2.60 more than half of global operations. Further assessments will continue in 2018. 20162 1.09 1.04 -53%* 2.13 *Total change vs baseline Target Area 2025 Target Unit CO2 emissions related to facilities3 Total carbon Achieve and maintain an at least 20 percent CO2e/FTE metric (tons) CO2 emissions related to travel4 emissions reduction in total carbon emissions per 1 Restated in 2015 following review of air travel emission factors being applied to air travel data, inclusion of data centers employee compared to 2015 until 2025 into the portfolio, and updated emission factors as per GHG Protocol industry standard. 2 2017 data will be available in Q2 2018. Facilities emissions Achieve and maintain an at least 20 percent CO2e/FTE metric (tons) 3 Includes emissions from own-use real estate (electricity and heat). reduction in total facilities emissions per 4 Includes emissions from air travel and cars (rental cars and car fleet). employee compared to 2015 until 2025 Travel emissions Achieve and maintain an at least 20 percent CO2e/FTE metric (tons) Zurich has been carbon neutral since 2014 and is representing the majority of the largest corporate reduction in total business travel emissions per maintaining this status by purchasing certified energy consumers in Switzerland, for an award for employee compared to 2015 until 2025 carbon credits through the Rimba Raya Biodiversity the best performance in terms of energy efficiency Energy efficiency Achieve and maintain an at least 20 percent Energy consumption/ Reserve project in Indonesia. for 2015/2016. This award is presented every two reduction in total energy consumption per FTE (MWh) years and recognizes a company’s quantitative Zurich continues to advance environmental increase in energy efficiency, the quality of its employee compared to 2015 until 2025 efficiency in its daily operations. For example, after energy management and its innovative approach. Renewable Purchase certified renewable electricity % renewable electricity one year in operation, Zurich’s new North American electricity wherever economically and operationally out of total electricity headquarters in Schaumburg decreased energy and CDP is a not-for-profit charity that runs the global feasible water consumption by more than 30 percent disclosure system for investors, companies, cities, relative to its previous location. states and regions to manage their environmental Copy paper Achieve and maintain an at least 80 percent % FSC certified paper impacts. Through CDP we provide information on purchased FSC certified paper purchased compared to Through Zurich’s Dynamic Working program, which our greenhouse gas emissions, energy use and the 2015 levels incorporates detailed studies of how workplaces risks and opportunities from climate change. are used, Zurich continued to advance effective, Note: Progress against the new 2015 baseline will be announced in the second quarter of 2018. efficient, collaborative workplaces that enable better utilization of space for our business. Zurich’s Swiss business was singled out by Energy Model Zurich, a voluntary Swiss organization 17 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 Climate change Highlights in 2017 Zurich is taking firm steps on climate change to shape a more resilient tomorrow. Using our core insurance skills to respond to some of the most significant long-term societal and environmental trends, we identified climate change as perhaps the most complex risk facing society today. It is inter-generational, it is international and it is interdependent. Representing the consensus of the international scientific community, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) finds strong evidence that climate change is occurring, that it is influenced by human action, and that it is leading to changes in extreme weather and climate events. Our own analysis suggests that the likelihood of missing the Paris Agreement’s target of limiting global warming to 2 degrees Celsius or below is higher than achieving it. That is why in 2017 we presented a new position on climate change where we will take further actions to facilitate – if not accelerate – the generational shift to 5. Disengage and divest from those whose activities are predominantly • Integrating key aspects of climate change, alongside other a low-carbon economy. focused on thermal coal if these companies have no plan to realign environmental, social and governance issues, in public and private We will: their business over time towards a low-carbon future. See our detailed education and curricula. position on thermal coal here. 1. Work with clients as well as public and private partners to • Enhanced transparency by mandating better disclosure of climate enhance resilience and prevent, or minimize, damage and 6. Publically advocate for policies that encourage the private sector to risks, alongside other environmental, social and governance issues. harm from weather and climate-related perils for our fully leverage capabilities and resources in support of the transition to a global low-carbon economy, including: 7. Adopt the recommendations of the Financial Stability Board’s Task customers and communities. force on Climate Change-related Financial Disclosure (FSB-TCFD) and 2. Develop insurance and risk management solutions for the • A global price on carbon, established at a level sufficiently high report on progress made in implementing the above commitments. new technologies, business models and approaches that over time to incentivize action aligned with below-2 degrees Celsius warming. We acknowledge that our actions must be compatible with Zurich’s will be required to achieve this unprecedented transition broader strategic and financial objectives and reflect the real-world to a low-carbon economy. • A clear roadmap for the progressive phasing out of fossil fuel subsidies. operating environment driven by client demand and bound by public 3. Integrate assessments of both physical and transition risks policy. We will continue working with customers to better manage • Credible policy roadmaps for internationally integrated energy climate risks; providing coverage for new technologies and infrastructure, into our investment strategies and contribute to avoiding policies, systems, markets and electricity grids capable of handling such as electric vehicles, renewable energy or carbon capture and 5 million tons of CO2 emissions annually through our large scale use of renewable energies. storage; investing in companies and assets that support the transition to dedicated impact investments. • Policies in support of both public and private research and a low-carbon economy; and – if and when possible – putting a price on 4. Minimize the environmental impact of our own operations. climate risks when making investment or underwriting decisions. development of critical technologies such as energy storage, electric mobility, renewable power and carbon capture and storage (CCS). 18 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 Responsible sourcing and procurement Buy Social Corporate Challenge Highlights in 2017 Our work with social enterprises is one example of how Zurich is ensuring its supply chain takes into account corporate Zurich ensures that corporate responsibility is an integral part responsibility. In 2016, Zurich in the UK signed up to Social of its sourcing and procurement function to ensure that we Enterprise UK’s ‘Buy Social’ Corporate Challenge, which commits are able to uphold our commitment to sustainability through a group of high profile companies in different types of industries the products and services we purchase, and contractual to spend GBP 1 billion in total by 2020 on purchasing goods agreements we enter into. and services from social enterprise companies. The initiative, set We incorporate appropriate evaluation criteria to assess the up by Social Enterprise UK and the Cabinet Office, promotes goods and services we buy, taking into account environmental, sourcing and buying from British social enterprises. These are social and governance (ESG) factors in line with best value and businesses that reinvest their profits to address social and in compliance with relevant legislation. We also ensure relevant environmental issues – from homelessness and unemployment corporate responsibility clauses are included in contracts with to landfill waste and climate change. For example, Zurich in suppliers, such as ethical conduct and labor, health and safety the UK purchases stationery and office products from a Health and safety in our office buildings and environmental standards. company which funds micro-loans in the developing world and helps young people in the UK develop business and Highlights in 2017 In addition, we strive to develop an understanding of the ESG employability skills. Zurich and its partners have already spent We continue to implement various actions and initiatives within impact on the diversity of goods and services we buy, while nearly GBP 20 million with Social Enterprises. the business to promote employee health and wellbeing. We have implementing processes to ensure these factors are taken into set up a fitness center in Zurich’s new North American headquarters. account on an ongoing basis. Reflecting our commitment to We offer an annual program to promote physical and mental promoting supplier diversity, we engage a wide range of Launched in April 2016, the health in Indonesia. We provide workshops with a professional nutritionist in Italy. In Portugal, Hong Kong and in the UK we hold different suppliers, aimed at giving Zurich the possibility to source from the most suitable, agile and innovative companies. Buy Social Corporate stress management workshops. We have also started to develop a Global Wellbeing Framework, which will focus on interventions As part of our approach, we actively work with some of our Challenge will see a group of that provide individuals with the awareness and tools they need to suppliers to enhance corporate responsibility performance throughout supply chain. We also analyze key data and insights high profile businesses aim to take action to improve their own physical and mental health. to review and improve policies, processes and guidelines for spend GBP 1 billion with social Through our global health and safety program, we support managing corporate responsibility issues in the supply chain. effective management of health and safety risks based on local enterprises by 2020. To foster awareness among Zurich’s employees and support our needs and priorities by effectively implementing our Group health efforts, our employees are encouraged to take into account the and safety policy. This policy and supporting policy manual have ESG impacts of their purchasing activity. been reviewed to ensure they are in line with the structure and content of the Zurich Risk Policy and current business needs, and reflect accepted good practice. Implementation is tracked as part of Zurich’s Operational Risk and Control Framework. This provides Links to relevant information on our website assurance that operational risks related to health and safety are properly managed and controlled. Being a responsible business Investing in our local communities We appoint health and safety advisers within each country to External commitments and indices Environmental performance coordinate and carry out local health and safety programs. We Enhancing community flood resilience Climate change work with business leaders and other stakeholders to improve performance. We evaluate achievements and track compliance Our responsibility as investor Health and safety in our office buildings through scheduled internal inspections and audits to ensure that Working with customers Responsible sourcing and procurement we are meeting our policy requirements. 19 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 UNEP FI Principles for Principle 1 Sustainable Insurance We will embed ESG issues relevant Integration in insurance: Zurich uses a on the environment. Zurich’s claims philosophy to our insurance business into our three-step approach that systematically detects, places our customers at the heart of the claims assesses, and mitigates major ESG risks that are handling process by ensuring we treat them with The United Nations decision-making. inherent in specific business transactions. empathy, by being responsive, proactive and by Environment Programme Governance: The way in which Zurich Concerns about risks can be escalated to the communicating clearly. Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) manages ESG issues is embedded in Zurich’s CR Decision Group to assess sensitive or Principles for Sustainable approach to CR. Zurich has a Group-wide CR complex ESG risks and provide direction as to Integration in investments: Zurich proactively Insurance (PSI) serve as a strategy approved by the ExCo and the Board. the appropriate mitigation actions. We track integrates ESG factors into the investment global framework for the The ExCo and the Board take an active role in and analyze the outcome of the risk assessment process, across asset classes, and alongside insurance industry to address overseeing and implementing our approach to and risk mitigation efforts. We have prioritized traditional financial metrics and state of the art environmental, social and CR. The Governance, Nominations and the following key areas of concern: thermal risk management practices. In 2014, Zurich governance risks and Corporate Responsibility Committee, a standing coal, banned cluster munitions and doubled its commitment to USD 2 billion dollars. opportunities. Zurich became committee of the Board, reviews and approves anti-personnel land mines; and governance, In 2017, Zurich’s green bond investments a signatory in 2017. the Group’s CR strategy and objectives and human rights and environmental risks in dam exceeded the USD 2 billion mark. Having oversees the Group’s approach and conduct construction, mining, and oil and gas activities. achieved our green bond target allocation, with regard to CR, reviewing progress against we again took a pioneering role in increasing At Zurich, we are proud of the steps we have taken to agreed actions at least annually. The CR Our ESG product map demonstrates many our commitment to impact investments to incorporate ESG considerations into our core activities Working Group, set up by the ExCo, ensures examples of how our business activities support USD 5 billion on overall portfolio level. For the of investment and underwriting. Signing the UNEP FI that we achieve our CR objectives. Each year all sustainability, including electric car insurance, first time we also complemented the exposure Principles for Sustainable Insurance allows us to build on Zurich employees confirm their understanding renewable energy insurance and driver-behaviorwith impact targets: We are aiming to build an those efforts by being part of the broader dialogue on the of and compliance with the Group’s code of based telematics solutions. The latter is impact portfolio that helps to avoid 5 million tons role insurance plays in shaping a more resilient tomorrow. conduct, and internal policies. designed to improve driver safety, reduce of CO2-equivalent emmissions and improve operational costs and reduce companies’ impact 5 million people’s lives on an annual basis. Mario Greco Group Chief Executive Officer Zurich Insurance Group Principle 2 We will work together with our ESG integration in investments: We are included in contracts with suppliers; developing clients and business partners to raise amending legal agreements with our external an understanding of the ESG impacts on asset managers on a continuous basis to diversity of the goods and services we buy; awareness of ESG issues, manage explicitly require that they apply responsible implementing processes to ensure these factors risk and develop solutions. investment practices; over 80 percent of are taken into account on an ongoing basis. ESG integration in insurance: We work with investments designated to be in scope of our ESG integration approach are now covered Industry initiatives: Zurich collaborates with our customers, brokers and other distribution by investment management agreements a number of industry initiatives and research partners to ensure responsible and sustainable referencing ESG integration. bodies relating to responsible investment, business practices and to protect reputation, flood resilience, road safety and other while promoting best practices in managing Sourcing and procurement: Zurich ensures ESG-related topics. Zurich’s driver-behaviorESG risks. Our aim is to promote international that CR is an integral part of its sourcing and based telematics solutions, reporting, driver best-practice standards that help ensure that procurement function by: incorporating development tools and support from our risk potentially adverse social, environmental and appropriate evaluation criteria to assess the engineering and underwriting experts help economic impacts are adequately managed. goods and services we buy; taking into account to improve safety, reduce operational costs Our global network of industry experts and ESG factors in line with best value and in and reduce the environmental impact of experienced risk engineers help businesses compliance with relevant legislation; ensuring motor fleets. manage their risks and prevent losses more relevant corporate responsibility clauses are efficiently and effectively. 20 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 Principle 3 We will work together with Department for Energy and Climate Change the International Institute for Applied Systems governments, regulators and other (DECC); the UK Department of Environment, Analysis (IIASA), a non-governmental research Related links Food and Rural Affairs; the International organization based in Austria; and the Risk key stakeholders to promote Commission for the Protection of the Rhine Management and Decision Processes Center Being a responsible business widespread action across society (ICPR); and the Swiss Agency for Development at the Wharton School of the University of Working with customers on ESG issues. and Cooperation (SDC) as well as its strategic Pennsylvania in the U.S. Zurich collaborates with Public policy: Zurich pro-actively engages with steering committee for the implementation a number of industry initiatives and research Risk engineering global, regional and local policymakers, of the UN’s Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk bodies to advance responsible investment. Reduction 2015-2030. We have engaged with Responsible investment governments and opinion leaders. Through this Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) engagement Zurich keeps abreast of policy several U.S. agencies and organizations: the Responsible supply chain National Association of Insurance Commissioners and charitable organizations: Zurich and the trends and emerging issues and shares its Z Zurich Foundation have many long-term (NAIC); the House of Representatives; the Flood resilience insurance expertise and insights to contribute alliances with NGOs and charities, especially to effective policy solutions. Senate; the Department of State; the Council Road safety on Environmental Quality (CEQ); the Office of in the work we do through our flood resilience We participate in discussions, workshops and program and our community investment Science and Technology Policy (OSTP); the Investing in communities taskforces related to our priority topics, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA); the activities. These organizations include the including with the United Nations, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Academy of Sciences in the U.S., Concern Corporate responsibility reports International Energy Agency, the International (NOAA); the Department of Commerce; and Worldwide, the International Federation of and publications Finance Corporation, the European the Department of Homeland Security. Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC), MercyCorps, Plan International, Practical Action Investor relations results and reports Commission, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), and Research: Zurich works with two research and 13 local community organizations through the World Bank. We also engage with national institutions in our flood resilience alliance: our local grants program. and international agencies such as the UK Principle 4 We will demonstrate accountability • CR highlights annual report which includes and transparency in regularly the UN Global Compact communication on progress disclosing publicly our progress in implementing the Principles. • Zurich’s Annual Report and Annual Review Zurich publishes information regarding • RI Transparency report environmental, social and governance issues, its approach to corporate responsibility and • Z Zurich Foundation report key performance indicators: • Various topic specific reports • Zurich.com/corporate-responsibility 21 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 “On 1 January 2016, the 17 Sustainable Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the 2030 Agenda for all, at all ages economic growth, full and productive for Sustainable Development – adopted by world leaders in September 2015 at an historic UN As an employer and a life insurance, savings and pensions employment and decent work for all Summit – officially came into force. Over the next provider, we have a responsibility to promote healthy and As a global company and an employer operating in more than fifteen years, with these new Goals that sustainable lifestyles. We are doing this through different channels: 210 countries and territories, we contribute to sustainable universally apply to all, countries will mobilize • Employees’ physical and mental health and wellbeing growth through a diverse set of activities: efforts to end all forms of poverty, fight Read more • The Z Zurich Foundation, through its Local Programs inequalities and tackle climate change, while initiative, provides support and funds to help Zurich offices to ensuring that no one is left behind.” • Research and campaigns Read more work with local community organizations to create United Nations Sustainability Agenda • Promoting wearable technologies Read more multi-year programs focusing on youth empowerment and fighting youth unemployment. Read more • Passionate about road safety Read more • Zurich promotes the Swiss apprenticeship model to be Zurich’s approach to proactively address • Catalyzing partnerships through the Z Zurich Foundation at replicated in other countries. Read more environmental, social and governance (ESG) country level with local community organizations around the factors as part of our day-to-day business activity theme of mental and physical wellbeing Read more • As a responsible investor, we use capital markets to search supports several of the United Nations’ Sustainable for and fund solutions to many of the pressing social or Development Goals (SDGs). As part of being a environmental issues of our time. Read more responsible and sustainable business, we are • Together with the Jakarta Innovation Lab, Zurich has focusing on highlighting those SDGs where we developed an online financial literacy program targeted at can have the biggest impact through our business women in Indonesia running small and mid-sized companies. activities, investments and community programs. Read more Read more • We pay special attention to transactions that might contravene human rights. Read more 22 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and Take urgent action to combat climate change sustainable and its impacts Zurich believes that doing business responsibly today shapes a Using our core insurance skills to respond to some of the most more resilient tomorrow. This can be achieved by enhancing significant long-term societal and environmental trends, we risk prevention and mitigation. Zurich has therefore invested in identified climate change as perhaps the most complex risk a number of ways to enhance resilience: facing society today. It is inter-generational, it is international and it is interdependent. We are therefore taking a number of • The Zurich flood resilience program was launched in 2013 to actions to facilitate the transition to a low carbon economy: help improve community resilience to flooding. Read more • As a responsible investor, we use capital markets to search • The Global Resilience Partnership’s Water Window for and fund solutions to many of the pressing Challenge. Read more environmental issues of our time. Read more • Zurich’s Swiss business has developed a user-friendly online • As a responsible business, it is important for Zurich to take tool to allow people to detect risks to property from floods, accountability for the impact our operations have on the landslides, mud and rock slides. Read more environment. Zurich has set a target to achieve and maintain • Zurich supports SBP, a US-based resilience organization that an at least 20 percent reduction in total carbon emissions rebuilds disaster-affected homes, consults with local per employee by 2025, compared with a 2015 baseline. governments on disaster recovery planning and trains Read more homeowners and small businesses on disaster resilience. • Zurich’s global flood resilience program takes a collaborative approach to supporting communities at risk of floods. Read more • Zurich’s Swiss business launched the Zurich Climate Prize which supports ongoing and completed projects making an effective contribution toward reducing CO2 emissions, improving energy and resource efficiency or bringing about behavioral changes. Read more 23 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 United Nations Global Compact Links to relevant information on our website Human Rights Labour Environment Anti-Corruption Principle 1: Businesses should support and Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the Principle 7: Businesses should support a Principle 10: Businesses should work against respect the protection of internationally freedom of association and the effective precautionary approach to environmental corruption in all its forms, including extortion proclaimed human rights; and recognition of the right to collective bargaining; challenges; and bribery. Principle 2: make sure that they are not Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote complicit in human rights abuses. forced and compulsory labour; greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 5: the effective abolition of child Principle 9: encourage the development labour; and and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our commitment Our commitment O  ur commitment Our commitment Respecting human rights Our people Group environmental policy Anti-bribery and anti-corruption ESG integration into insurance Employee development and Environmental performance ESG integration into insurance diversity & inclusion Z  Zurich Foundation Annual Assurance statement Respecting human rights Report 2016 Board composition Flood resilience program Global Risks Report 2018 Employee engagement Climate change: Zurich’s position Z  urich’s role in emerging markets Employees speaking up and reporting concerns C  arbon neutral S  ustainable products and solutions Health and safety management R  esponsible investment E  mployees speaking up and Suppliers U  nderstanding catastrophe risk reporting concerns (Risk Review page 20) S  uppliers Sustainable products and services H  ealth and safety management ESG integration into insurance 24 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 Independent Assurance Report on Zurich’s 2017 Corporate Responsibility Reporting To the Executive Committee of Zurich Insurance Criteria Our responsibilities Our Independence and Group AG, Zurich (‘ZIG’). The reporting criteria used by ZIG are described Our responsibility is to form an independent Quality Control We have been engaged to perform assurance in ZIG’s internal CR reporting guidelines and opinion, based on our limited assurance We have complied with the independence and procedures to provide limited assurance on define those procedures, by which the CR procedures, on whether anything has come to other ethical requirements of the Code of selected consolidated Corporate Responsibility indicators are internally gathered, collected our attention to indicate that the CR indicators Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by (CR) indicators of ZIG and its consolidated and aggregated. are not stated, in all material respects, in the International Ethics Standards Board for subsidiaries. accordance with the reporting criteria. Accountants, which is founded on fundamental Inherent limitations principles of integrity, objectivity, professional Scope and Subject matter We planned and performed our procedures in The accuracy and completeness of CR competence and due care, confidentiality and accordance with the International Standard on Our limited assurance engagement focused indicators are subject to inherent limitations professional behavior. Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (revised) on the following indicators and information given their nature and methods for ‘Assurance engagements other than audits or Our firm applies International Standard on as disclosed in the CR highlights report of determining, calculating and estimating such reviews of historical financial information’ and Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains ZIG and its consolidated subsidiaries for the indicators. Further, the carbon emissions with ISAE 3410 ‘Assurance Engagements on a comprehensive system of quality control financial year ended December 31, 2017: quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty Greenhouse Gas Statements’. These standards including documented policies and procedures because of incomplete scientific knowledge a) The 2017 “Responsible investment KPIs” require that we plan and perform the assurance regarding compliance with ethical used to determine emissions factors and the on pages 12 and 13, the 2016 “Impact of engagement to obtain limited assurance on the requirements, professional standards and values needed to combine emissions of real estate investment” KPIs on page 13, identified sustainability indicators. applicable legal and regulatory requirements. different gases. Our Assurance Report should “Community investment KPIs” on page 15 therefore be read in connection with ZIG’s A limited assurance engagement is substantially and the 2016 “CO2 emissions per guidelines, definitions and procedures on less in scope than a reasonable assurance employee” KPIs on page 16 (“the selected the reporting of its CR indicators. engagement in relation to both the risk consolidated CR indicators”); and assessment procedures, including an ZIG responsibilities understanding of internal control, and the b) The management and reporting processes with respect to the selected consolidated The Executive Committee of ZIG is responsible procedures performed in response to the CR indicators as well as the control for both the subject matter and the criteria assessed risks. Consequently, the nature, environment in relation to the data as well as for selection, preparation and timing and extent of procedures for gathering aggregation of these CR indicators. presentation of the information in accordance sufficient appropriate evidence are deliberately with the criteria. This responsibility includes the limited relative to a reasonable assurance design, implementation and maintenance of engagement and therefore less assurance is related internal control relevant to this reporting obtained with a limited assurance engagement process that is free from material misstatement, than for a reasonable assurance engagement. whether due to fraud or error. 25 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 Summary of the work performed We have not carried out any work on indicators Our limited assurance procedures included, other than outlined in the scope and subject among others, the following work: matter section as defined above. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient • Evaluation of the application of the and appropriate to provide a basis for our CR reporting guidelines and review assurance conclusions. of application at affiliates Reviewing application of the ZIG internal Limited assurance conclusions CR reporting guidelines using a sample Based on the procedures we performed, of affiliates in Switzerland, UK, USA nothing has come to our attention that causes and Germany. us to believe that • Management inquiry a) The selected consolidated CR key Interviewing personnel responsible for performance indicators as described in the internal reporting and data collection scope and subject matter section are not at ZIG Group level and at affiliate level. prepared and disclosed in all material respects in accordance with ZIG’s internal • Assessment of key figures CR reporting guidelines; and Performing tests on a sample basis of evidence supporting selected consolidated b) The management and reporting processes to CR indicators concerning completeness, collect and aggregate the selected CR data accuracy, adequacy and consistency. as well as the control environment in relation to the data aggregation are not functioning • Inspection of documentation as designed. and analysis of relevant policies and principles Zürich, March 7, 2018 Inspecting relevant documentation on a sample basis, including ZIG Group CR PricewaterhouseCoopers AG policies, management reporting structures and documentation. • Assessment of the processes and data consolidation Peter Eberli Raphael Rutishauser Reviewing the management reporting processes for CR reporting and assessing the consolidation process of data at ZIG Group level and their related controls. 26 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 GRI Standards Index Key: AR: Annual Report 2017 CR: Corporate responsibility highlights 2017* GRI is an international independent organization that helps businesses, governments and other CDP: Carbon Disclosure Project submission 2017 : Link to www.zurich.com organizations understand and communicate the impact of business on critical sustainability issues such as climate change, human rights, corruption and many others. *The Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 report includes the United Nations Global Compact This index lists the organization’s reports and web pages and their reference to the following communication on progress and our progress in implementing the UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative Principles for Sustainable Insurance. GRI Standards. Number Disclosure name Reference and page number Number Disclosure name Reference and page number General disclosures General disclosures (continued) 102-1 Name of the organization AR 1 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services AR 56; CR 4 AR 1 and 14 to 23; CR 14 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 102-3 Location of headquarters AR 1 AR 44 to 61 102-4 Location of operations 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 102-5 Ownership and legal form AR 184 and 289 AR 44 to 51; CR 4 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body AR 46 102-6 Markets served 102-25 Conflicts of interest AR 52, 74 to 78 and 90 102-7 Scale of the organization AR 1 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, AR 60 102-8 Information on employees and other workers AR 24 to 25 and strategy 102-9 Supply chain 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body AR 60 CR 18; CDP 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance AR 54 to 55 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain AR 3 and 12 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach AR 305 and social impacts AR 59 102-12 External initiatives  AR 22 to 23 and 26 to 27; 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes AR 152 to 153 CR 4 to 5 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 102-13 Membership of associations 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting CDP CDP 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker AR 66; CDP AR 2 to 7 102-35 Remuneration policies AR 87 to 88 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities  AR 10 to 11 and 121; 102-36 Process for determining remuneration AR 92 to 100 CDP 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration AR 87 and 91 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior AR 6 to 7 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics AR 9; CDP AR 78 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 102-18 Governance structure AR 35 to 37; CR 4; CDP 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement AR 8 to 9 102-19 Delegating authority CR 4; CDP 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements AR 273 to 277 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries AR 184 to 187 and 289 27 Zurich Insurance Group Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 Key: AR: Annual Report 2017 CR: Corporate responsibility highlights 2017* CDP: Carbon Disclosure Project submission 2017 : Link to www.zurich.com *The Corporate responsibility highlights 2017 report includes the United Nations Global Compact communication on progress and our progress in implementing the UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative Principles for Sustainable Insurance. Number Disclosure name Reference and page number Number Disclosure name Reference and page number General disclosures (continued) Energy 102-48 Restatements of information AR 185 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization CDP 102-49 Changes in reporting AR 186 to 187 302-3 Energy intensity CDP 102-50 Reporting period AR 185 to 289 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 102-51 Date of most recent report CR 16; CDP CR 1; CDP Emissions 102-52 Reporting cycle AR 175; CR 3; CDP 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report CR 16; CDP AR 304 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions CDP 102-55 GRI content index CR 26 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions CDP 102-56 External assurance 305-4 GHG emissions intensity CDP A  R 75 to 76, 116, 280 to 285 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions and 296 to 300; CR 24 CR 16; CDP Management approach Supplier environmental assessment 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach AR 60 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria CDP Economic performance Employment 201-1 Direct ecomic value generated and distributed AR 175 to 183 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover AR 24 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to AR 155; CDP climate change Training and education 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans AR 235 to 242 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 201-4 Financial assistance received from government AR 227 Diversity and equal opportunity Indirect economic impacts 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported AR 33 CR 7 to 11; CDP Supplier social assessment 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria CR 18 CR 7, 11 and 15; CDP Public policy 415-1 Political contributions Materials 301-2 Recycled input materials used Disclaimer and cautionary statement Certain statements in this document are particularly in key markets; (ii) the risk of a Governors. Farmers Group, Inc. and its THIS COMMUNICATION DOES NOT CONTAIN forward-looking statements, including, but global economic downturn; (iii) performance subsidiaries are appointed as the AN OFFER OF SECURITIES FOR SALE IN THE not limited to, statements that are predictions of financial markets; (iv) levels of interest rates attorneys-in-fact for the Farmers Exchanges UNITED STATES; SECURITIES MAY NOT BE of or indicate future events, trends, plans or and currency exchange rates; (v) frequency, and in that capacity provide certain non-claims OFFERED OR SOLD IN THE UNITED STATES objectives of Zurich Insurance Group Ltd or severity and development of insured claims administrative and management services to the ABSENT REGISTRATION OR EXEMPTION FROM the Zurich Insurance Group (the Group). events; (vi) mortality and morbidity experience; Farmers Exchanges. Neither Farmers Group, REGISTRATION, AND ANY PUBLIC OFFERING Forward-looking statements include (vii) policy renewal and lapse rates; and (viii) Inc., nor its parent companies, Zurich Insurance OF SECURITIES TO BE MADE IN THE UNITED statements regarding the Group’s targeted changes in laws and regulations and in the Company Ltd and Zurich Insurance Group Ltd, STATES WILL BE MADE BY MEANS OF A profit, return on equity targets, expenses, policies of regulators may have a direct have any ownership interest in the Farmers PROSPECTUS THAT MAY BE OBTAINED FROM pricing conditions, dividend policy and bearing on the results of operations of Zurich Exchanges. Financial information about the THE ISSUER AND THAT WILL CONTAIN underwriting and claims results, as well as Insurance Group Ltd and its Group and on Farmers Exchanges is proprietary to the Farmers DETAILED INFORMATION ABOUT THE statements regarding the Group’s whether the targets will be achieved. Zurich Exchanges, but is provided to support an COMPANY AND MANAGEMENT, AS WELL understanding of general economic, financial Insurance Group Ltd undertakes no obligation understanding of the performance of Farmers AS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. and insurance market conditions and expected to publicly update or revise any of these Group, Inc. and Farmers Reinsurance Company. developments. Undue reliance should not be forward-looking statements, whether to placed on such statements because, by their reflect new information, future events or It should be noted that past performance nature, they are subject to known and circumstances or otherwise. is not a guide to future performance. Please unknown risks and uncertainties and can be also note that interim results are not necessarily affected by other factors that could cause All references to ‘Farmers Exchanges’ mean indicative of full year results. actual results and plans and objectives of Farmers Insurance Exchange, Fire Insurance Exchange, Truck Insurance Exchange and their Persons requiring advice should consult an Zurich Insurance Group Ltd or the Group independent advisor. to differ materially from those expressed or subsidiaries and affiliates. The three Exchanges implied in the forward-looking statements (or are California domiciled interinsurance This communication does not constitute an from past results). Factors such as (i) general exchanges owned by their policyholders with offer or an invitation for the sale or purchase economic conditions and competitive factors, governance oversight by their Boards of of securities in any jurisdiction. Zurich Insurance Company Ltd Mythenquai 2 8002 Zurich, Switzerland Phone: +41 (0) 44 625 25 25 www.zurich.com 173004386 (02/18) TCL
