GLOBAL COMPACT INITIATIVE The SCI, first pledged its commitment to the United Nations Global Compact in 2001 and continues to support the cause and commitment to the Ten Universally Accepted Principles of UNGC. HISTORY OF SCI The Shipping Corporation of India Ltd. was established on 2nd October 1961 by the amalgamation of Eastern Shipping Corporation and Western Shipping Corporation. SCI started as a marginal Liner shipping company with just 19 vessels and today it has metamorphosed into a largest shipping company in India. As on 1st October 2018, the Company owns 63 ships of 5.68 million DWT. Further, the Company has under its management 53 ships of 0.40 million DWT on behalf of ONGC, A & N Administration, various government departments/agencies and other joint venture companies. Sailing through for nearly fifty seven years, the SCI today has a significant presence on the global maritime map and is undoubtedly India’s premier shipping line. The SCI owns, operates and manages about 31.51% of the Indian tonnage and operates in practically all areas of shipping business servicing both national and international trades. Keeping in view the demands of the nation’s trade, the Page 1 of 15 SCI over the years has diversified into large number of areas and is today engaged in operating break-bulk service, international container service, liquid/dry bulk service, offshore service, coastal passenger service in addition to manning/managing large number of vessels on behalf of various Government Departments and Organizations etc. The SCI has heralded India’s entry into the specialized field of LNG transportation. SCI is the Indian shipping company engaged in transportation of LNG, a fuel for India’s power plants and chemical/petrochemical industry. Presently, SCI is managing technical, commercial and manning operations for three LNG vessels on behalf of the joint venture companies where SCI is also a partner in JVCs. As a commercial venture of the Government of India, the SCI has an excellent track record since inception. The Government of India has conferred “Navratna” status to SCI on 01.08.2008 with enhanced autonomy and delegation of powers to the Company towards capital expenditure, formation of Joint Ventures, mergers, etc. VISION To emerge as a team of inspired performers in the field of maritime logistics, Offshore, Port and Terminal Management, serving Indian and global trade. MISSION To serve India's overseas and coastal seaborne trade as its primary flag carrier, and be an important player in the field of global maritime logistics with focus on: • Maintaining its ‘Numero Uno’ position in Indian Shipping. • Establishing a major global presence in energy–related, dry bulk and niche container shipping markets. • Evolving reliable and cost-effective business models to exploit emerging opportunities in maritime and allied industries. • Achieving excellence in Quality, Occupational Health, Safety and Environmental Management Systems. OBJECTIVES: The Shipping Corporation of India Ltd works to fulfill its objectives as mentioned below: • To provide its clientele safe, environmentally sustainable, reliable, efficient and quality shipping services, complying with all legal and other requirements. Page 2 of 15 • To be an optimally profitable, viable, ethical and socially responsible commercial organization contributing to the national economy by securing a reasonable return on capital and serving the nation’s needs. • To own or acquire an adequate, well designed and efficient fleet to cater to the demand of global maritime trade through options like leasing, demise charter, joint ventures and other innovative financial measures. • To be a major player in India's offshore & other marine activities and to continue to explore opportunities for diversification for steady growth of the Company. • To enhance competency and professionalism among its fleet and shore personnel through effective and dynamic Human Resource Management. • To continually improve its efficiency in process and technology, adopting various measures including E-governance and optimum use of Information Technology. • To minimize risks and environmental impacts for achieving Safety, Health and Environmental performance. Ten Principles of UNGC Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Guided by values, SCI recognises and supports basic Human right principles. SCI, being into international business, adheres to national and international laws apart from guaranteeing fundamental rights to citizens. Our principles prohibit child labour, forced labour and discriminatory behaviour and recognizes right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. SCI has internal rules/procedures for different activities and a grievance redressal cell to attend to complaints involving issues of Integrity, Fairness and Transparency in dealings with SCI. Audit mechanism is in place to ensure compliance. The company also recognises the “right to information” of public and endeavours to furnish all information to the applicants. There is no discrimination on the grounds of gender, religion, caste, creed, colour, etc. in the organization. The Employees are treated with dignity and are provided with safe and healthy working conditions. To ensure this, Safety Management System (SMS), Training and Development of employees and a number of welfare measures have been put in place for the benefit of the employees. Principle 2: Business should Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. SCI does not support any violation of human rights and upholds the dignity of people, be it of its employees or others associated with its business activities. Page 3 of 15 Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Shipping Corporation of India believes in freedom of association and collective bargaining through constructive forums. Negotiations pertaining to periodical wage revisions, service conditions etc. are done in consultation with the employees’ forums. Many a policies are developed with fruitful contributions from the Employees’ FORAs. Employees are free to join a trade union of their choice without fear of intimidation or reprisal, in accordance with national law. The following Unions and Associations represent employees of SCI: 1. Forward Seamen’s Union of India 2. The Maritime Union of India 3. The Shipping Corporation of India Staff Union 4. The Shipping Corporation of India Officers’ Association, Mumbai 5. The Shipping Corporation of India Officers’ Association, Kolkata 6. Shipping Corporation Employees’ Union (Cal) 7. National Union of Seafarers of India The FORAs participate actively on issues pertaining to welfare of employees. The seafarers (employees on the ships) are represented by their Trade Unions viz., Maritime Union of India, National Union of Seafarers of India and Forward Seamen’s Union of India. SCI is in compliance with the requirements of the Maritime Labour Convention (MLC) 2006. The company regularly encourages interactive sessions between the Management and the employees to facilitate free dialogue. Fleet personnel enjoy benefits in accordance with existing NMB Agreement and Agreement between INSA (Representing Indian Ship Owners) and Maritime Union of India (MUI). Principle 4: Business should uphold the Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour SCI does not permit any form of forced and compulsory labour. Being a government company, it ensures that all national and international laws and rules governing child labour are adequately complied with in letter and in spirit. Page 4 of 15 Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour SCI does not permit engagement of child labour in any form and recruits personnel only after they have attained minimum age of recruitment as per national laws. Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation SCI takes pride in being an equal opportunity employer. SCI does not believe in any kind of discrimination based on race, religion, gender, political opinion or social origin in its employment related policies. We, in SCI, strongly believe in inclusivity and equality in remuneration, hours of work, paid holidays, maternity leave, security of tenure, advancement, social security, occupational health, safety, etc. For promoting gender equality, SCI has been the pioneer in India which has been recruiting women in its fleet. Around two Masters, six Chief Officers, two Second Engineers, 31 Second/Third Officers, five Third/Fourth Engineers, two nurses, four TMEs & 9 TNOCs are women serving on various types of ships. Being a Central Govt. Undertaking, the Company scrupulously follows Indian Govt. Instructions with regard to reservation in employment for Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes/Other Backward Classes and differently abled etc. In the shore category, the Company has approximately 44% workforce in the SC/ST/OBC/PWD category. As on 01/11/2018 Total No. of Employees Male Female SC/ST/OBC/PWD NO. 698 552 146 306 % 100% 79.08% 20.92% 43.84% SCI provides equal opportunity for training and development to different strata of employees. Company has been steadily deputing employees for trainings outside the organization. SCI does not allow any kind of behaviour that are threatening, abusive, exploitative or sexually coercive, including gestures, language and physical contact at the workplace. Our system is well equipped to deal with such situations. As per Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace. (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Rules,. 2013 , an Internal Complaint Committee to handle cases of sexual harassment at the work place is functional in SCI. An outside representative from NGO is a member of this Committee. Moreover, the Company has established mechanism such as “Grievance Redressal Procedure”, “Employee Suggestion Scheme” for shore employees through which Page 5 of 15 suggestions, complaints, disputes, dissatisfaction or feeling of injustice relating to one’s employment conditions can be brought to the attention of the Management for appropriate action. Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. The Shipping Corporation of India has taken environmental challenges seriously and it is demonstrated through its’ day-to-day operations. The ‘Safety and Occupational Health & Environment Protection Policy’ and QHSE policy are in effect and implementation is monitored on board vessels. SCI continues to follow the policy of implementation of environmental regulations on all new SCI vessels ordered/delivered in recent past. The last newbuilding vessel acquired by SCI i.e. VLCC from a Chinese shipyard in March 2015, is also complying with strict environmental regulations. Recently, SCI has implemented an Integrated Management System (IMS) comprising Quality Management System (ISO 9001:2015), Environmental Management System (ISO 14001:2015) and Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series of Standards (BS OHSAS 18001:2007). Further, SCI is now migrating from BS OHSAS 18001:2007 to ISO 45001:2018. Certification process for the same will complete in end November end 2018. SCI continues to follow the policy of implementation of environmental regulations on all new SCI vessels acquired in recent past. During the financial year 2017-18, SCI acquired a Multi-Purpose Support Vessel SCI Saraswati , one 10 year old secondhand Suezmax Tanker “MT Desh Abhimaan” and a second-hand Very Large Gas Carrier (VLGC) Nanda Devi . SCI ensured that all these vessels are meeting latest IMO regulations pertaining to oil pollution and exhaust gas emissions. SCI has also implemented Integrated Management System (IMS) comprising Quality Management System (QMS), Environmental Management System (EMS) & Occupation Health and Safety Assessment Series of Standards (OHSAS). Informatively Environment Management System emphasizes reduction in paper usage and thus safeguarding the environment. Environmental Regulations All new shipbuilding projects of SCI are complying with strict environmental regulations, such as : (i) Fuel oil tanks are protected on the sides to avoid direct contact in case of accident. (ii) Engines fitted on new vessels are complying with EU directive 2005/33/EC and thus EU compliant. (iii) NOx Tier II compliant engines are being fitted on new vessels. Page 6 of 15 (iv) Environment friendly refrigerant is being used for the AC plants on new vessels. (v) The vessel delivered after 2010 have green passport upon delivery i.e. list of all hazardous materials will be kept onboard which will be of great help during recycling/handling of hazardous materials during in-service repairs. (vi) Paint applied on the underwater portion of the hull is tin-free. (vii) Energy Efficiency Design Index is being implemented at design stage to reduce the Green House Gas emissions. (viii) Ballast water Treatment Plant is being fitted on the new vessels. (ix) All vessels are asbestos free. (x) All vessels have obtained statement of compliance for Ballast Water Management. SCI is technical consultant to the various Government Organizations for their tonnage acquisition programme. SCI as a policy is ensuring that even the vessels owned by these Organizations comply with environmental regulations. Air and Sea Pollution The company is committed to safe guard against air and sea pollution by way of exhaust gases, pollution by oil or sewage and pollution by garbage toxic, plastics etc. into the sea water. The Company takes following precautionary measures in this direction. • Company’s vessels are fully compliant of MARPOL regulations and hold valid International Oil Pollution Prevention certificate (IOPP). Each vessel is provided with a Shipboard Oil Pollution Emergency Plan (SOPEP) or Shipboard Marine Pollution Emergency Plan (SMPEP) • Ships maintain weekly inventory of oil residues. Disposal and transfer carried out as per regulations and record is maintained in “Oil Record Books”. • Each vessel is holding valid International Sewage Pollution Prevention Certificate (ISPP). • Each vessel is holding valid International Air Pollution Prevention Certificate (IAPP). • Vessels use low sulphur bunkers with less than 0.1% in Sulphur Emission Controlled areas (SECA) and less than 3.5% in other areas. • Vessels use bunker with sulphur content less than 0.1% in European ports. • Inventory of Ozone Depleting Substance (ODS) is maintained on all tanker vessels. • Company has Garbage Management Plan and each vessel complies with the same. • The Company tries to avoid supply of goods which are packed in plastic and promotes eco-friendly/ biodegradable items such as garbage bags, envelops etc. Page 7 of 15 • The company is also in the process of modifying its existing tanker fleet to be ECA compliant. The tanker vessels trading in ECA areas are fitted/being fitted with necessary equipments certified by Classification to be fully compliant with the emission limits while trading in these areas. 8 (eight) tankers are already modified to be ECA compliant and arrangements are in process for other vessels. • The company has procedures to identify and minimise source of marine and atmospheric emissions and ensure that they are always within permissible limits. This includes Fuel Analysis, VOC Management, Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan (SEEMP), Trim Optimisation etc. • Energy Efficiency and Fuel Management are being done by monitoring fuel consumption, vessel speed, vessel’s condition (Laden/Ballast) trim, sea and wind condition, proper polishing and hull cleaning. • SCI is already in process of achieving the SOx control requirements as per Revised MARPOL Annex VI for the Prevention of Air Pollution from Ships (Chapters 1 3) well before the due date. The global sulphur limit will reduce to 0.50% on 1 January 2020. Environmental Safety • A procedure for leak detection at pre-determined intervals of CFC based refrigerants in all refrigeration and air-conditioning systems on board are being complied. (Record of same is being maintained in vessels’ Planned Maintenance System). • In order to reduce the disposal of lead and other hazardous substances into the sea/land; lead – acid batteries and other batteries are returned to the manufactures. • As per International Convention on the Control of Harmful Anti-fouling Systems on Ships 2001, the Harmful Anti-fouling Systems on existing tankers (less than 20 years) have been replaced by non-harmful anti-fouling systems since 31st December 2007 onwards. Liner Vessels The Liner ships of the Company are sometimes engaged in the carriage of Hazardous and dangerous goods, both in the break bulk as well as container vessels. As the sulphur cap (0.5% sulphur fuel) will come into force from Page 8 of 15 01.01.2020, SCI is in the process of preparing all the vessels for use of compliant fuel prior to the due date set by IMO. The company has developed an in-house manual which caters to shipment of International Dangerous Maritime Goods Code (IMDG) cargoes in containers. This document also highlights the company’s policy and procedures in respect of carriage of hazardous and dangerous goods and also their procedures adopted in implementing such carriage. The officers connected with dealing of hazardous goods are trained by attending various workshops and seminars and their knowledge is updated on matters involving carriage of hazardous goods. Frequent interaction with our partners in the container line, owners of vessels, other bodies have benefited SCI in developing hazardous cell. Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater Environmental responsibility The company is committed to environmental protection as per International Conventions for the prevention of pollutions from ships. Towards conserving energy and Fuel Efficiency, in addition to the earlier four SCI tankers, one more tanker and one bulk carrier has been audited by Classification, thereby taking due steps towards economising on Fuel and Energy Efficiency. All ship repair workshops are strictly instructed that they should not use ASBESTOS material in any form during repairs/renewals on board vessels, as use of ASBESTOS is prohibited on ships in any form as per MSC 1/Circ 1426 and SOLAS regulation. SCI has recommended to Andaman & Nicobar Administration installation of Ballast Water Treatment plant on the 2 nos. 1200 Passenger vessels under construction with M/s Cochin Shipyard Ltd.(CSL). Similarly, SCI has recommended to Union Territory of Lakshadweep Administration (UTLA), for their 1 no. 700 MT Oil tanker, installation of double hull (in way of side shell) in the cargo tanks as a safeguard against oil pollution in case of damage to side shell, even though double side is not mandatory as per rules. SCI is technical consultant to A&NA and UTLA and these recommendations given by SCI, shows its commitment to the UN Global Compact initiative. Page 9 of 15 SCI vessels continue to be voluntarily assigned additional Class notations related to environmental protection and safety (over and above the mandatory requirements) like “CLEANSHIP” (BV Classprevention of sea and air pollution), “CLEAN” (DNV Classrequirements for controlling and limiting operational emissions and discharges), “ES” (ABSEnvironmental safety), “ECO” (LR Classenvironmental ship design, construction and operation beyond statutory requirements) etc. Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. The company is committed to doing business consciously and responsibly and believes in setting up sustainable systems to protect the environment. The business of transportation of goods by sea brings the operations of the company very close to delicate marine ecosystems and the atmosphere. Implementation of Eco-friendly technologies SCI has been taking initiatives in incorporating various measures such as • Energy Audit of SCI premises has been carried out and environment friendly energy efficient devices are being installed to reduce energy consumption. Lightening at SCI Head Office has already been replaced with energy efficient LED lights. • SCI has increased the capacity of the installed roof-top solar plant at its Maritime Training Institute, Powai, Mumbai to 0.5 MW from earlier 353.5 KWp, which is one of the largest roof-top solar plant installation at Mumbai. • Today, SCI’s Maritime Training Institute (Powai) has the distinction of being the first green campus in Maritime Education in the country. • Installation of ballast water treatment plants in all new vessels being ordered well ahead of regulation coming into force to minimise transfer of harmful aquatic organisms and pathogens. • SCI also encourages shipyards to increase the fuel efficiency thereby reducing green house gas emissions. • Vessels are built with a green passport and carry the inventory of Hazardous Materials. • The company while acquiring new building vessels ensures full compliance with the stringent international regulations of design and operating systems in force. Page 10 of 15 • The design and equipment of these vessels further greatly reduce the environmental impact from emissions to air and also discharges to the sea. These vessels have been assigned the optional notations such as “CLEAN” or “ES”. • SCI’s recently acquired VLCC has been awarded a notation of “FP” by LRS. • Company has put in place leak detection system at pre-determined intervals of CFC based refrigerants in all refrigeration and air-conditioning systems on board. • Ballast Water Treatment Plant has been fitted on voluntary basis on the new Oceanographic Research vessel. • SCI has followed the concept of Green Room for vessel “Samudra Ratnakar”. The Green Room concept basically means that all heat dissipating servers or work stations are enclosed inside separate room and isolated from the laboratory where the Scientists/Crew are working for their comfort and safety. • SCI has taken few initiatives such as trim optimization, hull cleaning and use of fuel additives which are aimed at reducing fuel consumption of vessels and thereby reducing the environmental pollution. These initiatives are in pilot stages and based on the results achieved, will be implemented on suitable vessels in SCI fleet. • SCI encourages shipyards to use design related measures targeted to decrease the fuel oil consumption resulting in reduction of greenhouse gases. Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. SCI follows the following practices to ensure that businesses work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Preventive Measures • Financial and commercial transactions are fully computerized on a network platform and the working is transparent and least susceptible to human manipulation. • All vessel acquisition tenders are being processed through global e-procurement module only. The tenders are also put up on SCI web site as well as the Government website (Central Procurement Portal) to ensure transparency in action and the enquiry is also being circulated to the global shipbrokers for wider publication. Page 11 of 15 • All other tenders above Rs.2.5 lakhs are put up on SCI and Government websites to ensure transparency in procurement. • In the case of newbuilding vessel acquisition tenders, all the bidders are invited while opening the tenders at both stages (i.e. technical bid and price bid opening). Both the bids are opened in presence of representatives of SCI and bidders. • In case of second hand vessel acquisition tenders, where confidentiality is required to be maintained, only technical bids are being opened in presence of bidders’ representatives and the price bids are opened in presence of SCI nominated Independent External Monitor (IEM) to ensure transparency. • In current ERP-SAP system, complete procure to pay is integrated in system (excluding payment to employee) barring reimbursement of CTM to the agent which is paid through voucher (t-code FV60). • Every measure is taken to minimise cash transaction and maximise electronic payment. Electronic payments are made through secured terminals provided by renowned banks and payments are directly credited to the bank accounts of vendors/employees. • SCI continues to process sale of vessels through the electronic sale/auction process instead of the physical tender process. The electronic processes ensure transparency and work against social evils such as corruption bribery etc. • To ensure transparency and to commit the persons/officials of both the parties, not to exercise any corrupt influence on any aspect of the contract or tender processing, SCI has implemented the “Integrity Pact” w.e.f March 2009. • The details of contracts awarded over Rs 50 lakhs are posted on the SCI website on a monthly basis. • The Liner Division of SCI operates through the agents and SCI takes all precautions to ensure that proper practices are being followed. • Corporate Accounts & Budget department of SCI work collectively and discourages corruption and fosters effective governance for business operations. Adoption of Integrity Pact To ensure transparency and to commit the persons/officials of both the parties, not to exercise any corrupt influence on any aspect of the contract or tender processing, SCI has implemented the “Integrity Pact” w.e.f. March 2009. The Integrity Pact is applicable to public procurements above threshold value of Rs. One Crore. The Integrity Pact (IP) was designed and launched by Transparency International in the 1990s with the primary objective of safe-guarding public procurement from corruption. Thus, Integrity Pact is a tool to help Govt., businesses and civil society to fight corruption in the field of public contracting and ensures that all activities and transactions between a Company and their suppliers are handled in a fair, transparent and corruption free manner. Independent Page 12 of 15 External Monitors (IEMs) are appointed to monitor implementation of Integrity Pact. Preventive Vigilance • The vigilance function in SCI keeps watchful eye on the functioning of the organization by conducting regular checks to ensure that the employees while discharging their duties maintain high integrity and honesty. • Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO) is the nodal officer for reporting complaints regarding corruption which can be filed on line or through KIOSK. • Vigilance awareness is created amongst the employees through various programmes. • Property return statements are submitted by the Executives of the Company every year so that their assets are known to the Company. This is monitored by Vigilance department. • Code of Conduct for Board Members and Senior Management Personnel is stipulated under Regulation 26 of Securities And Exchange Board of India (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015. Besides, information relating to all material, financial and commercial transactions wherein officers have personal interest that may have a potential conflict with the interest of the company is also sought, wherein a declaration is given to this effect. • SCI has also formulated a code under SEBI regulation prohibiting Insider Trading and also whistle blower policy. All these policies are uploaded on the website. • The Chief Vigilance Officer participates in the Board meetings, whenever required, so that issues of sensitive nature are brought immediately to the notice of the Board of Directors of the Company. • The organization has adopted Conduct, Discipline and Appeal rules that bar acceptance of bribes and describes it as misconduct. • Company’s functioning is also monitored by Government Audit, who in turn, reports to Comptroller and Auditor General (C&AG) of India, which is an autonomous body and reports directly to the President of India. The Comptroller and Auditor General of India has deputed full time Resident Auditor in SCI who monitors Company’s working round the year. • SCI has appointed a firm of Internal Auditors for extensive audits of systems and procedures. Apart from adherence to UNGC principles, SCI has adopted the following as its Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Initiatives by Company CSR Initiatives 2017 – 18: The Corporate Social Responsibility vision of the company articulates its aim to be a corporate with its strategies, policies and actions aligned with wider social Page 13 of 15 concerns, through initiatives in education, public health, environment and other areas of social upliftment. The budget available for CSR initiatives in the year 2017-18, as per applicable provisions was Rs. 5.85 crores. The thrust of SCI CSR initiatives in the year 2017-2018 against the available budget were in the following broad areas: a) Projects under Swach Bharat Abhiyan & Ganga RejuvenationSCI undertook the construction/renovation of 318 units of school/public/community toilets across the nation. In addition, SCI supported National Mission for Clean Ganga for development of Katwa Ghat at West Bengal. b) Promotion of EducationAnnual Grants to meritorious students from weaker section of the society, viz. SC/ST candidates, pursuing Ocean Engineering/Naval Architecture/Nautical Science/GME courses at premier institutes (IMU’s, IIT’s & MTI) to encourage and support Maritime Education in the country. In addition, SCI supported 1161 children for mid-day meals. c) Women Empowerment & Gender Equality SCI has undertook various initiatives under this head viz. construction of girls hostel, skill development, distribution of bicycles to tribal girls etc. d) Preventive Health Care SCI has supported for starting Urological surgeries programme at Vivekanand Medical Research Institute. In addition, SCI has supported people battling with cancer for surgeries. e) Ensuring Environment Sustainability & Social Development SCI has supported for installation of Solar Photovoltaic Based Led Street Lighting Systems. In addition, SCI has supported cyclone Okhi affected fisherman’s in Maharashtra. f) Employment Enhancing Vocational Skills for Divyangjans/PwDs SCI has supported for skill development trainings for 250 Divyangjans/PwDs to make them capable and self-dependent through proper technical training in the field of traditional and technical occupations and entrepreneurship. Awards & Accolades to Company During the period, SCI has received following awards from Business, Statutory Authorities and other Bodies: • Capt. Anoop Kumar Sharma, Chairman & MD, The Shipping Corporation of India, won the prestigious individual award 'The Maritime Standard Outstanding Achievement Award' at The fifth annual Maritime Standard Awards which were held on Monday 15th October 2018. Page 14 of 15 • The Shipping Corporation of India won the Sea Trade and Maritime Awards under the category ‘The offshore marine awards for owners and operators on 28th October 2018. • The Shipping Corporation Of India has emerged as a winner in Best Employer Of the year (Indian Flag) (Sapphires of the Ocean) category in the Online Polling for Seajob Indian Anchor Awards 2018. • Samudra Manthan Awards 2017 – Shipping Company of the Year. • SCI was awarded 1st prize in the category of Best Corporate Film in SCOPE Corporate Communication Awards 07 & 08 Dec 2017. • India Seatrade Award 2017 for excellence in “Coastal Shipping &Inland Water Transportation”. • Maritime Gateway Award 2017 Category Coastal Shipping Operator of the Year • India Seatrade Award 2017 to Ms. Sashikala Charles for Woman Logistics Professional Of The Year. • Awarded by India Meteorological Department (IMD), Government of India in 2017 at the Office of the Head, Climate Research & Services, Pune. Two Awards, one Certificate of Merit and ten Additional Certificates were presented to SCI for SCI owned as well managed ships. • Capt.Radhika Menon won “ Pegasus 'Exemplary Sea Service Award' ” for 2017 in “Pride Of Seas”. • Capt. Devendra Kumar Singh won “Pegasus” Honours for 2017 “Pride Of Seas”. • The Maritime Standard Award – Training Award, Dubai (2017). • Lloyd’s List : South Asia Middle East & Africa Award – ‘Training Award’, Dubai (2017). • On 27 August 2018, The Shipping Corporation of India was honored in the U.S. Coast Guard’s (USCG) voluntary AMVER program for its participation in the The Automated Mutual-assistance Vessel Rescue (AMVER) which ensures quick and efficient rescue of disabled and distressed ships at sea, saving lives and ensuring continuity of shipping operations. ******** Page 15 of 15
