Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 1 / 36 Our Sustainability Work in 2017 Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 2 / 36 Nolato in 15 seconds Nolato is a Swedish publicly listed group with 7,200 employees in Europe, Asia and North America. Nolato develops and manufactures products in polymer materials such as plastic, silicone and TPE for leading customers within medical technology, pharmaceuticals, consumer electronics, telecom, automotive and other selected industrial sectors. Nolato’s business model is based on close, long-term, innovative collaboration with our customers. Nolato endeavours to create added value for both customers and shareholders through leading polymer technology, wide-ranging capabilities and highly efficient production. Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 In the directors’ report of its annual report, Nolato has opted to report the Swedish Annual ­Accounts Act’s (ÅRL) requirements of Chapter 6, Section 1, according to Swedish Accounting Standards Board recommendation U 98:2, concerning environmental information. In accordance with ÅRL Chapter 6, Section 11, the statutory sustainability report is prepared separately from the annual report in the form of this document. Contents The CEO’s introduction................................................................................................ 3 The Nolato Group in brief............................................................................................. 4 2017 in brief .............................................................................................................. 6 Sustainable development – responsibilities and opportunities ...................................... 7 Targets and KPIs ...................................................................................................... 12 Environmental responsibility ..................................................................................... 14 Social responsibility ................................................................................................. 20 Business partners and other stakeholders.................................................................. 22 Financial responsibility ............................................................................................. 24 Risks and opportunities ............................................................................................ 25 A busy year .............................................................................................................. 26 About our sustainability report .................................................................................. 27 Nolato and GRI ......................................................................................................... 28 The UN Global Compact ........................................................................................... 31 Definitions and glossary ........................................................................................... 33 Nolato AB (publ), 269 04 Torekov, +46 431-442290 | www.nolato.com | info@nolato.com Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 3 / 36 Essential, interesting and challenging Impressive growth highlight the following progress made in We achieved impressive growth in 2017 and 2017: increased sales to a new level. It’s pleasing that all our business areas are demonstrating Nolato updated its long-term goals on excellent growth driven by strong demand energy, carbon emissions and environmenfrom our customers and Nolato’s attractive tally sustainable product development. offering. The success achieved during the Work within the scope of the Global Comyear is the result of the excellent work by pact was further developed and Group our committed and skilled employees. I’m targets are linked to the UN Sustainable also impressed by the involvement of our Development Goals. employees on issues concerning sustainable Investment in energy-efficient lighting development. and production equipment contributed to greater energy efficiency. Christer Wahlquist President & CEO Corporate responsibility During the year, we took measures to reI’m part of a generation that has always been duce Nolato’s carbon footprint, including aware of environmental issues. We grew up boosting energy efficiency, phasing out being told about acidification, air pollution, fossil fuels and purchasing fossil-free elecenvironmental contamination, littering, the tricity. waste of natural resources and the extincIn 2017, an online course on business tion of plants and animals. In some cases the ethics and Nolato’s Code of Conduct was situation has improved, but it’s common for organised for all senior executives and emthese problems to just get moved to another ployees involved in commercial relations part of our planet. working in sales and marketing. Over the past decade the concept of susBio-based plastics were tested in a range tainable development has grown stronger of production processes with good results. and, in addition to responsibility for the enThere is significant potential to reduce vironment, the perspective has expanded to Nolato and customers’ carbon footprint. encompass social and economic issues. This Our social engagement was further enisn’t a revolutionary change for us. Nolato hanced, including through our Employee has long been a global company and corpoCare Programme and Building Hope rate responsibility is part of our corporate ­Together initiative in China. culture and day-to-day operations. For us, working with sustainable developCorporate responsibility is an important ment is essential, interesting and challenging. part of ‘One Nolato,’ and is an area in which We see clear links between environmental we can create synergies between our three benefits and business benefits. It’s a mindset business areas and strengthen our customer we share with many of our suppliers and offering. Nolato aims to be the partner of customers. choice for customers within sustainable ­development. Small steps and large strides in the right direction Torekov, March 2018 Nolato has a clear strategy on sustainable development and the concept of ‘continuous improvement’ permeates everything we do. In practice, this means taking both small Christer Wahlquist steps and large strides forward. I’d like to President and CEO Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 4 / 36 6 The Nolato Group in brief The Nolato Group in brief Nolato is a Swedish publicly listed group with operations in Europe, Asia and North America. We develop and manufacture products in plastic, silicone and TPE for leading, often global, companies within three areas. Medical Solutions Integrated Solutions Industrial Solutions Medical devices and products for admini­ Components and systems for fast­ Products for industrial companies stering pharmaceuticals (such as auto­ growth areas of technology, i.e. selected (such as automotive components, injectors, insulin pens and catheter consumer electronics products, telecom hygiene products and specialist packa­ balloons). sector products and thermal manage­ ging, gardening/forestry and furniture). ment solution and EMC shielding methods and materials for electronics. Our offering Nolato aims to be the One Nolato customer’s first choice of The ‘One Nolato’ concept means we can offer customers a com­ partner. prehensive offering of technolo­ gies and products from our Nolato’s customer offering comprises most technologies three business areas. in the field of polymers and covers the entire value chain from development to product delivery. Our global presence North America etc. 10% Sweden 18% Asia 38% Other Europe 34% Sales by market Development, production & sales Sales & technology Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 5 / 36 The Nolato Group in brief 7 Our values Our shares Nolato has a long tradition of responsible business practice, and one of Nolato was listed on the stock exour Basic Principles is that efficient business operations must be comchange in 1984, and its B shares are bined with ethics, responsibility and environment awareness. These areas listed on Nasdaq Stockholm in the are consequently natural and integral aspects of our business operations. Mid Cap segment, where they are We are signatories to the UN Global Compact and report sustainability included in the Industrials sector. work in accordance with the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative). Our history Our employees 7,200 Nolato was founded in 1938 as Nordiska Latexfabriken i Torekov AB, with the trademark Nolato, which has been the company name since 1982. Today’s global Group is the result of organic growth and acquisitions. The head office is still in Torekov, Sweden, but the majority of operations are now based abroad. The average number of employees in 2017 was approximately 7,200. 87% were employed outside Sweden. Our business areas 29% 29% 25% 33% Nolato’s operations comprise three customer-focused Medical Solutions business areas. While all three business areas are based on Integrated Solutions common values and technologies, they each create their own Industrial Solutions 42% 42% optimal conditions to succeed in their respective market. Share of Group sales Share of Group operating profit (EBITA) Medical Solutions Integrated Solutions Industrial Solutions Financial highlights: 2017 2016 Financial highlights: 2017 2016 Financial highlights: 2017 2016 Sales, SEKm 1,955 1,645 Sales, SEKm 2,810 1,402 Sales, SEKm 1,968 1,409 Operating profit (EBITA), SEKm 257 216 Operating profit (EBITA), SEKm 332 131 Operating profit (EBITA), SEKm 195 134 EBITA margin, % 13.1 13.1 EBITA margin, % 11.8 9.3 EBITA margin, % 9.9 9.5 Average number of employees 1,395 1,157 Average number of employees 4,928 4,480 Average number of employees 920 775 Development and manufacture of complex product Development and manufacture of advanced components Development and manufacture of products and systems and components within medical technology, and subsystems for selected consumer electronics product systems for customers in the automotive diagnostics (IVD) and advanced packaging solutions products and mobile phones. Within EMC (electroindustry, hygiene, packaging, gardening/forestry, for pharmaceuticals. magnetic compatibility) & Thermal, shielding and heat furniture and other selected industrial segments. dissipation products and systems for electronics. Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 6 / 36 2017 in brief Financial performance Continued efforts to cut Nolato’s emissions of greenhouse The Nolato Group achieved good financial In 2018 we will be focusing on the following gases. performance in 2017. Sales rose by 51% to areas: Increased use of recycled plastic raw mateSEK 6,720 million (4,447). Operating profit Updating companies’ environmental manrials and bio-based (fossil-free) plastics. (EBITA) increased by 67% to SEK 763 milagement systems to the ISO 14001:2015 Preventive health and safety measures. lion (457). The operating margin (EBITA) standard. Social engagement in China and interacwas 11.4% (10.3). Sustained efforts on more efficient use of tion with schools and universities.  The rise in sales was due to a sharp inenergy, water and materials. Measures crease in sales by all business areas, with an exceptional increase for Integrated Solutions. The Group’s operating profit also rose sharply, mainly as a result of the strong sales Sustainability KPIs performance. Earnings per share increased to 2017 2016 2015 SEK 21.74 (12.77). Financial responsibility Sustainable development Sales, SEKm 6,720 4,447 4,726 Nolato has strong core values based on the Operating profit (EBITA*) (SEK million) 763 457 570 view that efficient and profitable business EBITA margin, % 11.4 10.3 12.1 operations must be ethical and sustainable. Average number of employees 7,249 6,418 7,759 Issues relating to ethics, social responsibility, environmental matters and work environEnvironmental responsibility ment have therefore been integral to our Breach of environmental and occupational environment legislation, 2 0 1 business during the year. Over 2017, work number of cases Energy consumption, MWh/SEKm sales 0.028 0.038 0.035 on energy efficiency, a reduced carbon footprint, more efficient waste management, and Water consumption, m3/SEKm sales 26.5 36.8 37.9 health and safety continued. EnvironmenGreenhouse gas emissions, CO2 tonnes/SEKm sales 7.2 11.5 12.1 tal management systems continued to be Waste, tonnes/SEKm sales 1.0 1.2 1.1 updated in line with ISO 14001:2015 and Certified environmental management system,% of total no. of plants 95 91 95 successful trials of bio-based plastics were conducted. Key personnel were trained on Social responsibility business ethics and our social responsibilWorkplace accidents, (cases of ≥1 day’s absence; cases per million 47 (3.7) 63 (5.0) 35 (2.3) ity programmes in China continued (Buildhours worked) ing Hope Together and our Employee Care Certified health and safety management system,% of total no. of plants 27 27 30 Programme). Many of our units had contact Female employees, % 45 49 51 with schools, universities and their local Training on Nolato’s Basic Principles and Code of Conduct, % of number communities. >90 >90 >90 of employees The Group’s sustainability work was reApplication of ethical & humane principles and number of registered ported to the Global Reporting Initiative 0 0 0 breaches of corruption rules (GRI) and the UN Global Compact. SepaEvaluation of suppliers; evaluations performed re. environmental/ 235 173 134 rately, we also reported under the Carbon social responsibility Disclosure Project (CDP). This year’s sustainability report meets requirements for manda*EBITA – Earnings before interest, taxes and amortisation arising from corporate acquisitions. tory sustainability reporting for large companies in the EU. Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 7 / 36 Sustainable development – responsibilities and opportunities Work on sustainability issues is an integral Customers’ first choice Energy Efficiency Directive continued and part of Nolato’s strategy for growth and within sustainable development were reported to the relevant authorities. value creation and is a natural part of our When Nolato was founded in 1938, concepts Investment in energy-efficient lighting and day-to-day work. The aim is to contribute to such as responsibility, good organisation production equipment contributed to greater a better environment, create business opand a focus on customer requirements were energy efficiency. During the year, measures portunities, reduce costs, minimise risks and already part of our corporate culture. Since to reduce Nolato’s carbon footprint were meet the requirements and expectations of then, we have gradually raised our ambitions taken, including boosting energy efficiency, external and internal stakeholders. and issues concerning the environment, sophasing out fossil fuels and purchasing fossilcial responsibility and ethics are now a vital free electricity. Global initiatives part of Nolato’s business (see figure below). In 2017, an online course on business ethThe 10 principles of the UN Global Compact It’s essential that we meet environmenics and Nolato’s Code of Conduct was orhave provided an important guide for Notal and health and safety legislation, but ganised for all senior executives and employlato’s sustainability work since 2010. These the expectations of society and the Group’s ees involved in commercial relations working principles are applied through our Code of stakeholders have also gradually increased in in sales and marketing. Conduct, which forms part of The Nolato importance. These include growing requireBio-based plastics were tested in a range Spirit. The Code provides guidance for manments among Nolato’s customers relating of production processes with good results. agers and employees on issues concerning the to the environment and social responsibility There is significant potential to reduce environment, social responsibility and ethics. and expectations on us to pass these requireNolato and customers’ carbon footprint. The view of business’ role within sustainments on to our suppliers. Nolato aims to be Certification under the ISO 14001 enable development is constantly changing and the partner of choice for customers within vironmental management system is a key both large and small companies are expected sustainable development. Another example element of our sustainability work, and to contribute through preventive and proacis employee engagement, and in this respect adaptation to the new ISO 14001:2015 retive measures. Expectations are expressed in environmental issues and sound business quirements is underway. part through the UN Sustainable Development ethics have become increasingly important in Continued ambitious goals for our susGoals and business’ contribution includes attracting new personnel. tainability work in China, such as through responsible conduct and development of enviour Employee Care Programme (health and ronmentally sustainable products and services. 2017 highlights safety, personal development and participaNolato applies a number of global initiaNolato updated its long-term goals on tion) and Building Hope Together (support tives to its sustainable development reportenergy, carbon emissions and environmenfor a school in a poor area). ing. This report is set out according to Global tally sustainable product development. These Active cooperation with universities, inReporting Initiative (GRI G4) guidelines. goals provide a backdrop to the strategic suscluding through degree projects on environThe Group’s performance with regard to tainability work of the Group companies. mental management, wastewater and sciencarbon emissions is reported according to Work within the scope of the Global Comtifically based emissions targets. the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Global pact was further developed and Group tarDuring the year, 341,000 hours of training Compact-related activities are reported as a gets were validated as part of the UN Suswere undertaken, equating to 53 hours per separate section in this sustainability report tainable Development Goals. employee.  (Communication on Progress; see page 31). Energy audits in accordance with the EU Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 8 / 36 Strategy and governance Nolato should be a good corporate citiKey guidelines Expectations of Nolato’s sustainability dezen and apply sound business principles velopment work are increasing and relate and good ethics. Preventing corruption The Nolato Spirit to responsible behaviour, transparency and is an important aspect of this work and The Nolato Spirit booklet summarises the good business ethics, as well as opportunisomething we have undertaken in accordGroup’s core values, Code of Conduct and ties to develop environmentally sustainable ance with the principles of the UN Global policies and explains how they relate to the products and services. Corporate citizenship Compact. business model. is one of Nolato’s Basic Principles and is an Sustainability issues are part of Nolato’s important aspect of the Group’s long-term business model and strategy. The UN Global Compact strategy to create growth and value for its Since 2010 Nolato has been a signatory to stakeholders. Governance and monitoring the UN Global Compact, a framework docuThe approach to and responsibility for our ment that comprises 10 principles on the enStrategy sustainability work is set out in Nolato’s vironment, human rights, labour conditions Nolato’s sustainable development strategy Basic Principles and Code of Conduct. The and the combatting of corruption. These 10 includes the following areas: Code of Conduct is specified by clear longprinciples are incorporated into The Nolato term goals on the environment, social reSpirit. We aim to create business opportunities sponsibility and business ethics. Each unit through responsible conduct and transparworks with both groupwide targets and its The UN Sustainable Development Goals ent communication of our sustainability own more detailed goals. Nolato’s long-term goals are linked to the efforts. Business opportunities also arise Operational responsibility for the enviSustainable Development Goals or ‘Global through resource-efficient production ronment and health and safety is delegated Goals’ introduced by the UN in 2015. In this methods and the development of products to the Managing Director of each company. way, the Group is contributing to the 2030 with the lowest possible environmental Group management follows up on the develAgenda. footprint. In short, we aim to be customopment of this work and how sustainability ers’ first choice for sustainable developdevelopment goals are being integrated into Sustainability reporting ment strategic planning. One representative on Nolato’s sustainability work is reported in We reduce risk and cost through prevenNolato’s Board has special responsibility for accordance with the Swedish Act on Sustive measures, risk analysis and investthese issues. These activities are followed up tainability Reporting by Large Companies, ments in modern technology. Issues rethrough dialogue with the companies’ manGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, garding energy and carbon emissions are agement and through internal and external the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and the of particularly priority and are subject to audits. Along with the annual sustainability UN Global Compact (Communication on long-term targets. Regarding the use of report, we also carry out an in-depth analysis Progress; COP). materials, we aim to increase the percentof compliance with legislation, target outage of recycled plastic raw material and comes and the development of performance Certified management systems the use of bioplastics. and key performance indicators (KPIs) durNolato’s units are certified to the internaUsing ISO standards and concepts such as ing the year.  tional standards ISO 14001 (environment), lean manufacturing, Medical Excellence ISO 9001 (quality management) and, where and 5S, we create a systematic approach to applicable, to industry-specific ISO standand credibility for our sustainability work. ards. We also work with health and safety We involve our employees through a safe, and energy management standards. The ISO gender-equal and stimulating work envi26000 social responsibility standard proronment. Sustainability work should be vides guidance for our overarching sustainsomething that helps encourage new emable development efforts. ployees to apply to the company. *Medical Excellence is a concept in the Medical Solution Business Area to create a world-class business. Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 9 / 36 Materiality analysis Materiality analysis 2017 1. Sustainability requirements from customers High 2. Sound business ethics Risks and opportunities 3. Attractive employer Within the framework of the ISO 14001, 4 2 4. Legal requirements OHSAS 18001 and ISO 50001 standards, 9 1 5. Sustainability aspects in China Nolato’s businesses endeavour to identify 8 3 6. Polymers in a life-cycle perspective 7. Supply of materials and services 8. Energy and climate and manage issues relating to environment, 10 6 5 Signiﬁcance for 9. Safe and developing workplace health and safety, and energy. This involves 10. Diversity, human rights 14 Nolato’s business not only identifying risks, but also looking 7 11 11. Sustainability requirements from investors 12. Engagement in society for opportunities within sustainable developstrategy 13. Environmental impact of transport ment. This is something that is highlighted in 12 14. Sustainability risks during acquisitions 13 15. Emissions to air and water, waste the revised ISO 14001. 15 16. External nuisance (noise, odor) Analyses of risks and opportunities, com17. Use of chemical products bined with requirements and expectations 17 Medium from a range of stakeholders, provide the basis for the materiality analysis. This is based 16 on sustainability report guidelines (GRI G4) Medium Signiﬁcance for and provides the background for which areas High Nolato’s interested are examined in greater detail in the sustainparties ability report and which GRI indicators are used. The chart shows the issues that were Prior to the 2017 materiality analysis, a few it was agreed that the materiality analysis identified in 2017 as significant and our susof the Group’s companies were invited to provided a fair view of the areas that should tainability report describes how these issues give their views and create a diagram debe prioritised at Group level. We have made are managed and monitored. scribing their situation. In some cases, the some minor modifications relating to the The end of the report (pages 28–30) concompanies prioritised some issues differently areas concerning Nolato’s updated targets in tains a list of the GRI indicators that we refer from the priorities established in the groupthis year’s analysis.  to. wide materiality analysis. Overall, however, Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 10 / 36 Value for stakeholders development. Our understanding of which year. Stakeholder engagement is carried out stakeholders are significant – and what they in multiple ways and includes performance Nolato interacts with a number of stakeconsider to be important – is based on experireviews with employees, customer satisfaction holder groups, which brings requirements ence and long-standing commercial relationsurveys, analyst meetings and cooperation and expectations in relation to sustainable ships, as well as events over the past financial with customers, suppliers and contractors  Overview of stakeholder engagement in 2017 Stakeholder Key issues, requirements and expectations Value created Nolato’s companies are affected by customer requirements regarding susIn 2017, customers carried out follow-ups at approximately 70% of the tainable development. These requirements include matters such as environGroup’s companies. The outcome was mainly positive and the results were mental management systems, prohibited chemical substances, environmenused to enhance the Group’s sustainability work and strengthen customer Customers tal declarations, product labelling, code of conduct, and the fulfilment of sperelationships. The operations in China and Malaysia are certified as Sony cific legislation. Green Partners. Health, safety, pay, benefits, social conditions, well-being, development opWe carried out performance reviews and provided training, professional portunities. development and health care. Preventive health and safety measures were a high priority and the frequency of accidents remained low. The Employee Employees Care Programme was further developed in China. During the year, Nolato paid SEK 1,534 million in wages to employees Nolato endeavours to have long-term and transparent relationships with supSuppliers have been informed of Nolato’s Code of Conduct and we expect pliers. The aim is to ensure the right quality, financial stability and sustainable them to share the Group’s values. We assessed suppliers’ sustainabildevelopment for both parties. Suppliers expect consistent and clear requireity work and conducted around 235 surveys and audits. Suppliers met the Suppliers ments. Group’s requirements to a satisfactory degree. In 2017, Nolato paid its suppliers a total of SEK 4,495 million. Reduce risks, create business opportunities and demonstrate credible and Integration of sustainable development in strategies and day-to-day work forward-looking sustainability work. created value for shareholders. Use of the sustainability report allowed shareholders and potential investors to evaluate the Group’s sustainability Shareholders work. Nolato’s share price rose by 105% in 2017. The share dividend is expected to amount to SEK 329 million. Social engagement is an important aspect of The Nolato Spirit and something Social engagement created trust and interest in Nolato. Contact with that is expected by local communities where the Group operates. As a global schools and universities contributed to attracting future employees. The company, we are expected to undertake measures that contribute to national school project in China was further developed. As a signatory to the UN Society and global sustainable development goals. Global Compact, Nolato contributed to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. In 2017, Nolato paid SEK 94 million in tax. Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 11 / 36 Environmental aspects and ments and notification obligations make up quirements. Nolato has around 137 (111) the majority of the Group’s net sales. internal environmental auditors, who conenvironmental legislation Routine updates to the environmental perducted 106 (103) environmental audits last mits will be carried out at a handful of plants year. The facilities were reviewed by external Environmental aspects in 2018. In a couple of cases, these updates auditors on 20 (20) occasions. Since 1996 The manufacture of products in polymer are required due to an expansion of operaISO 14001 has been updated twice and the materials is associated with a number of tions. We do not anticipate any significant latest version was published in 2015 (ISO significant environmental aspects. Some exlegal or financial consequences as a result of 14001:2015). Nine Group companies have amples include the use of materials (plastics, the renewal of these environmental permits. now been approved under the new standards silicone rubber, metals), chemicals (solvents, In most cases, regular reports are submitand another 12 units will complete the upvarnish, paints), energy and water. Emissions ted to the environmental authorities, and date in 2018. of greenhouse gases and solvents (VOC), the supervisory authorities carry out inspecAll companies are certified in accordance along with the occurrence of various types tions. Two minor breaches of environmental with the requirements of the ISO 9001 qualof waste, are other key environmental issues. legislation were registered in 2017. The deity management system. In addition, almost Indirect environmental aspects relating to viations were of a formal nature and led to 75% of units are certified in accordance with products, packaging and transportation are minimal penalties. standards for the automotive industry (ISO/ also significant. In the Group, the ISO 14001 TS 16949), medical technology (ISO 13485) environmental management system is a valuor other standards. At many of the plants, Certifications (% of all units) able tool as part of efforts to systematically the various management systems are entirely reduce our environmental impact. 100 or partly integrated into the overall opera80 tional system. Environmental legislation 60 Health and safety systems (OHSAS 18001) 40 Nolato’s companies are subject to extensive have been introduced at 6 (6) units. This 20 legal requirements relating to the environstandard will be replaced in 2018 by ISO 0 ment. This concerns both overarching legislaISO OHSAS ISO ISO Other 45001 and six companies are planning to 14001 18001 50001 9001 cert. tion and specific terms for each businesses. introduce the new standard. We use ISO 14001 to identify applicable Two units at UK-based Nolato Jaycare are legislation and our companies implement the Certified management systems certified under the ISO 50001 energy manrelevant measures. From a strategic perspecThe ISO 14001 environmental management agement standard. tive, it is important to evaluate the risks and system standard was introduced in 1997, The ISO 26000 social responsibility standopportunities of future legislation, and the and Nolato had its first plant certified to the ard provides a guideline for our groupwide Group does this by participating in networks standard the same year. Since then this envisustainability work. This standard is based and through regular contact with various ronmental standard has been a key element on seven fundamental principles and deauthorities. of our sustainable development strategy and scribes how an organisation can work with All production units in Sweden apart from systematic approach, as the environmental environmental issues, social responsibility one are obliged to provide notifications puraudits and certification create confidence and ethics.  suant to the Swedish Environmental Code. among the Group’s stakeholders. All units, Most of the Group’s units outside Sweden apart from one company acquired in 2016, require permits or are covered by similar are certified. requirements in accordance with environInternal and external environmental audits mental legislation in the country in question. are conducted to check that environmental Sales from operations with permit requiremanagement systems meet ISO 14001 reNolato Sustainability Report 2017 12 / 36 Targets and KPIs Nolato undertakes extensive work relating Agenda 2030 and Sustainable Development and how we evaluate our ability to achieve to responsibility for the environment, people Goals. The Group’s units use a number of them. Detailed information on emissions and society. We believe this creates a benefit different local environmental targets, pardata and other parameters are presented in for society and the Group’s business operaticularly within the scope of ISO 14001. other parts of this sustainability report.  tions. The groupwide sustainability targets The table below provides an overview of are long-term and are linked to the UN’s how our work on these targets is developing Area Sustainable development goals Outcome More efficient energy use and for 2017–2020 Nolato is targeting a 20% u Energy audits in accordance with the EU Energy Efficiency Directive were reduction compared with the average for 2011–2012. The groupwide carried out. Both large and small energy efficiency projects were conducted KPI is GWh/net sales and many production units use locally adapted tarat all facilities, including investments in more efficient production equipment, Energy gets. Global Goal: ‘Affordable and clean energy’. infrastructure and lighting. The new target introduced in 2017 aims for additional energy efficiency gains until 2020. A 20% reduction in the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide (CO2) during u Carbon emissions efforts are based on more efficient energy consump2017–2020 compared with the average for 2011–2012. The target retion, more environmentally sustainable transportation and the purchase of lates to CO2 emissions from energy consumption. The groupwide KPI is electricity from renewable sources. These measures are producing posiCarbon emissions tonnes of CO2/net sales and there are also different types of local tartive results but we are still dependent on how electricity and district heating gets. Global Goal: ‘Climate Action.’ is generated. Opportunities to purchase ‘green energy’ are currently limited in certain countries. Despite this, we see opportunities to continue constructive measures to reduce our carbon footprint and have introduced a new target for 2020. Hazardous chemical substances should be identified and, where possiu Over the year around twenty chemicals were replaced and further candible, phased out. The percentage of recycled and/or renewable raw madates for substitution were identified. Trials with recycled and renewable raw terials should increase. Nolato endeavours to take part in projects aimed materials continued (see article on page 16). Chemicals, raw maat reducing the environmental impact of existing or new products. Globterials and environal Goals: ‘Sustainable industry, innovation and infrastructure’, and ‘Rementally sustainsponsible consumption and production’. able products The amount of waste should continually decrease in relation to net u Over the long term the percentage of waste disposed of in landfill has desales. The percentage of recycled waste should increase. The Group’s creased and the percentage that is recycled has increased. We apply a lifeunits use their own targets regarding scrap and waste management. cycle approach to waste management, for example by using smart packWaste These targets are part of ISO 14001 or initiatives such as 5S and lean aging solutions that cut Nolato’s consumption of material, emissions from manufacturing. Global Goals: ‘Sustainable industry, innovation and infratransportation and the volume of customer waste. This target is part of the structure’, and ‘Responsible consumption and production’. Group’s continual improvement measures and has no specific deadline. All units to be ISO 14001-certified. Acquired companies should be certiu The majority of facilities are ISO 14001-certified. Those production facilified within two years. Global Goals: ‘Industry, Innovation and Infrastructies that have not yet updated their management systems to ISO 14001:2015 Environmental manture.’ are in the final phase of their work. A company acquired in 2016 is planning to agement systems achieve certification in 2018. The number of workplace accidents should be minimised, with the longu From an industrial perspective, the accident rate is low and over the past term targeting of zero occurrences. All units must have a functioning five years has averaged 3.1 accidents resulting in sickness absence per milsystem for registering and addressing near misses. This work should lion hours worked. In order to ultimately eliminate all accidents, however, we Safe be conducted systematically, for example using certified management need to continue technical and organisational initiatives. One such example workplaces systems relating to health and safety. Global Goals: ‘Good jobs and ecoare the systems to record near misses that have been introduced at all units. nomic growth’. Systematic health and safety measures in accordance with OHSAS 18001/ ISO 45001 are useful tools and certified systems are in place at six units. There should be no cases of infringements of human rights, discriminap During the year, employee training was held on The Nolato Spirit. No cases tion or forced labour. Active information shall continue to be provided to of infringements of human rights were recorded. Of the Group’s approximateemployees and new staff. Global Goals: ‘Gender equality’ and ‘Good jobs ly 7,200 employees, 45% are women. The recruitment of female managers Human rights and economic growth’. is important to Nolato. The unit in Hungary continued its recruitment of peoand gender equality ple with disabilities. There should be no cases of bribery, corruption or cartel formation. Conp Anti-corruption measures are being implemented at Group companies. tinued active information to employees. Globalt Goal: ‘Peace, justice and Training, information and discussions are important tools in this work. Webstrong institutions’ based training on business ethics was provided in 2017. The Group has introAnticorruption duced a whistleblowing system and no events relating to corruption or inadequate business ethics were recorded during the year. Customer requirements regarding the environment and social responsip A large proportion of Nolato’s customers stipulate detailed sustainable bility should be met by a comfortable margin. Global Goal: ‘Responsible development requirements. The results of customer evaluations and audits Customers consumption and production.’ were good during the year. Two plants in China and one in Malaysia have been approved as Sony Green Partners. Improved evaluation of suppliers’ sustainability work. Global Goal: p In 2017, Group companies conducted 235 (173) evaluations of suppliers’ ‘Responsible consumption and production.’ sustainability work. The suppliers satisfied Nolato’s requirements at an acSuppliers ceptable or good level. Reporting must be in accordance with GRI and CDP guidelines. p Social engagement activities in China and elsewhere. Good results from Nolato will continue to endorse the Global Compact. We aim to achieve evaluations of sustainability work in business magazines and by investors. Society, investors good results in evaluations by analysts and independent institutions CPD-based reporting of carbon emissions and reporting to the UN (COP). and analysts through transparent information in the field of sustainability. p The target was achieved u Positive trend, but work remains to achieve the target q Negative trend u Unchanged situation Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 13 / 36 Case study – Climate change Science-based emissions targets “The Paris Agreement is a global agreement on climate change adopted in December 2015. The agreement contains an action plan to restrict global warming to well below 2°C. The plan covers the period from 2020 and beyond. The key points of the agreement concern long-term global climate targets, for the countries of the world to establish national action plans and for countries to report what progress they are making to meet these plans. Another important aspect of the agreement is for developed countries to contribute climate funding to help developing countries,” says Torbjörn Brorson, Head of Sustainable Development at Nolato and professor at Lund University. “Climate change is an important global issue that affects all of us. There are and approved, and in many cases these companies are making long-term and high expectations of efforts by the business sector and companies can condemanding commitments. tribute through measures such as their own emissions targets, action plans In researching the subject, Jelena Mnacakanjan found that Nolato’s sustainand measures, and developing low-carbon products. Nolato has had carbon ability work was already advanced and that the introduction of science-based emissions targets in place for a long time, and these are set based on what we emissions targets would not have any dramatic consequences for the Group. believe is reasonable and possible to achieve. The concept of science-based However, she highlights a number of advantages, including a more long-term emissions targets emerged a few years ago and I wanted to look into how the commitment to reduce the carbon footprint. Other benefits include the ability concept could be applied within Nolato,” says Torbjörn. to clearly communicate carbon-related measures, and to be subject to external “To examine the theory and application of science-based emissions targets, audits of carbon emissions performance over time. Jelena also recommended a student from the International Institute for Industrial Environmental Economthat Nolato expand its gathering of emissions data to also include transportaics (IIIEE) at Lund University, was approached. Jelena Mnacakanjan from Huntion, suppliers, raw materials and other emissions sources not currently fully gary was interested in the subject and in 2017 wrote a master’s thesis entitled included in the Group’s reporting. Science-Based Targets for a Low-Carbon Economy – Drivers and Barriers for “Jelena submitted an excellent degree thesis, which contributed to increasGlobal Companies.” ing knowledge about the concept of science-based emissions targets. We have The Science Based Targets initiative was established by the UN, the World not yet determined whether Nolato will apply these types of targets. We see Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and the World Resources Institute, and aims to both advantages and disadvantages, and as usual we don’t want to increase our enable companies to adopt emissions targets in accordance with UN’s Paradministrative burden. Despite this, there were a lot of good ideas in Jelena’s is Agreement. So far around 320 companies have had their targets audited thesis that we have already taken on board,” concludes Torbjörn Brorson.  Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 14 / 36 Environmental responsibility Technologies and environmental aspects Assembly – Assembly of components to Energy consumption Nolato develops and manufactures products create a complete product or subsystem. GWh GWh/SEKm in polymer materials such as plastic, silicone This may take place on a fully automated, 200 0.07 and TPE for customers within medical techsemi-automated or fully manual basis. 0.06 160 nology, pharmaceuticals, consumer electronAutomated assembly is mainly carried out 0.05 ics, telecom, automotive and other selected for medical devices such as autoinjectors, 120 0.04 industrial sectors. We manufacture everyfor which assembly is performed on a fully 80 0.03 thing from individual components, which automated basis at high volumes. 0.02 the customer assembles in its own product, 40 0.01 to complete products that are ready for deFrom a life cycle perspective, the above tech0 0.00 livery to a customer’s client. We also develop nologies cause different types of interaction 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 and manufacture our own products, such as with the surrounding environment, and in Total Group energy consumption, GWh pharmaceutical packaging. most cases they have a very limited negative Consumption divided by sales, GWh/SEKm impact. Production technologies include: At production facilities, direct environInjection moulding – Technology for manumental aspects may be linked to the use of facturing components from plastic, silienergy, raw materials (mainly plastics) and cone and TPE to highly precise dimensions solvents. Other significant environmental and stringent quality requirements. Our aspects are the occurrence of waste and emismost common production technology. sions to air of CO2 and solvents. Injection blow moulding – Technology for Indirect environmental aspects mainly manufacturing plastic bottles and containinclude supplier activities, transport and the ers. We use this method for the manufacuse of Nolato’s products. ture of pharmaceutical packaging. In the final phase of their life cycle prodDip moulding – Technology for the producucts are recycled in the form of materials or tion of flexible, airtight latex rubber prodenergy, but as with other plastic products ucts. This is used to manufacture products some of the material ends up in landfill or such as catheter balloons and breathing the natural environment. bags. Extrusion – Technology for the production of tubing and other tubular products. This Energy technique is used to manufacture items Energy is consumed by production equipsuch as urine catheters and EMC shielding ment, lighting, ventilation, cooling, transgaskets. port, purification facilities and heating. Die-cutting – Technology for producing flat Nolato mainly uses indirect energy in the products from one or more materials. We form of electricity (86%) and district heating use die-cutting for manufacturing adhe(10%). Some units use fuel oil, natural gas sive, gaskets, seals and cosmetic details or propane for heating and running purificafor customers in the telecom, automotive, tion equipment. The use of fuel oil accounts medical technology and electronics indusfor around 1% of total energy consumption tries. and is decreasing gradually. Fuel oil is being EMC shielding – Techniques and materials replaced by heat pumps or bio-fuel. Fossil developed to achieve electromagnetic comfuels account for approximately 4% and patibility, i.e. to prevent disruption from purchased ‘green electricity’ for 46% of total electromagnetic radiation between elecenergy consumption. tronic components. Radio base stations Energy consumption amounted to 188 are an example of a customer product that GWh (169) in 2017 and the key perforuses shielding. mance indicator, which places energy use Post-processing – We provide components in relation to sales, has shown a declining with the desired finish through painting, trend since 2011. The cost of energy in 2017 decoration and metallisation of compowas approximately SEK 136 million (123).  nents for products like mobile phones and medical devices. Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 15 / 36 Measures aimed at boosting energy efficiency travel, suppliers and users of Nolato’s prodCarbon dioxide emissions, CO2 include: ucts are not insignificant and we now have Energy audits – Energy audits in accordstatistics on our Swedish companies’ transTonnes Tonnes/SEKm 70,000 28 ance with the EU energy efficiency direcportation by road, water and air. These emis60,000 24 tive have so far been performed at 10 sions amount to around 1,500 tonnes a year. 50,000 20 units. These reviews identify good energy In 2017, Nolato’s production plants emit40,000 16 saving opportunities. This may involve ted 48,600 tonnes (51,000) of CO2, less than optimising ventilation, cooling, lighting 3% of which was caused by the direct use of 30,000 12 and compressed air. Nolato will continue fossil fuels. Other emissions were generated 20,000 8 conducting these audits and carrying out mainly from the production of electricity and 10,000 4 cost-effective measures. Three units will district heating in those countries in which 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 conduct audits over the next few years. we operate. Countries such as China, the US Group CO 2 emissions, tonnes Energy-efficient equipment and processes and Poland use coal extensively for electricEmissions divided by sales, tonnes/SEKm – The change from hydraulic injection ity production, causing significant carbon moulding machines to electrical machines dioxide emissions, which has a major impact increases energy efficiency and reduces the on the Group’s carbon footprint. This mainly handling of hydraulic oils. A dipping robot applies to our operations in China. The situat Nolato MediTor is continuing to make ation regarding Nolato’s carbon footprint is significant energy savings. Production affected by a number of factors, such as the planning to gain maximum efficiency from following: equipment and the turning off of equipThe business in Sweden and Hungary is rement when not in use. Shorter cycle times ducing indirect CO2 emissions by more than for presses reduces energy consumption. 20,000 tonnes a year by purchasing fossilISO 50001 – The introduction of a cerfree electricity. tified energy management system (ISO The carbon footprint is decreasing as a 50001) at UK units is highlighting energy result of measures to boost energy efficiency, efficiency. including energy audits and the introduction Buildings and lighting – The use of surplus of ISO 50001. And the phasing-out of fuel heat from equipment to heat premises and oil and installation of heat pumps or the use warehouse buildings at Nolato Contour. of bio-fuel is also helping reduce the carbon The installation of systems for free cooling footprint. is reducing energy consumption at Nolato Other measures concern reduced scrap, Hungary. Lighting is also being extensively better waste management, the purchase of replaced with LEB bulbs. Installation of more fuel-efficient vehicles, increased use of movement sensors for lighting. Installation teleconferences and improved logistics. of electricity meters at strategic points in UK-based Nolato Jaycare previously purbuildings. chased zero emissions electricity, but in 2017 Training and engagement – Measures to fossil-based electricity was also included minimise scrap and production reruns, in the energy mix. Emissions consequently which also reduces energy consumption. increased by around 8,000 tonnes. The comTraining and close monitoring of energy pany has signed a national climate change consumption gets employees involved in agreement. The agreement covers energysaving energy. intensive industry and, by reducing energy usage, participating companies can receive reduced charges under a system in the UK Atmospheric emissions known as the Climate Change Levy. Greenhouse gas emissions Other atmospheric emissions Nolato’s emissions of the greenhouse gas The use of more than 360 tonnes (450) of carbon dioxide are caused by energy conpaints and solvents resulted in emissions of sumption, transportation of raw materiaround 55 tonnes (60) of VOCs (volatile als and finished products, and an array of organic compounds). The majority of these indirect activities among our suppliers and substances are used for the painting of mocustomers. bile phones and other products in Beijing. Reporting of emissions primarily includes Efficient purification equipment installed in direct and indirect energy consumption. 2015 is resulting in emissions being cut by Emissions from transportation, business around half compared with previously. The  Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 16 / 36 measures to improve air quality in Beijing are devices. Other materials used, amounting to there is continued substantial interest in the appreciated by local environmental authoriaround 1,900 (1,600) tonnes/year, are metissue of conflict minerals (see Glossary and ties. Thus far, Nolato has not been subject to als, paints and solvents. Definitions). Chemical substances that are demands for the temporary closure of indusFor a number of the Group’s products, identified by customers, and/or that have trial operations during episodes of significant the customer requires the polymer to consist been identified as candidates for risk reducair pollution in the city. of virgin raw materials. This mainly applies tion under REACH chemical legislation There are just over 3.1 tonnes (2.7) of to pharmaceutical packaging and medical are a priority. In practice this means that a ozone-depleting substances (HFCs; F-gases) devices. Some customers are expressing an limited number of chemical substances are in air-conditioning and other equipment at interest in using recycled plastic, such as in subject to phasing-out or other risk reducaround 10 production units. A minor leakage the use for some mobile phone models or tion measures. This concerns substances such occurred during the year, which correspondvehicle components. The amount of recycled as softening phthalates that occur in some ed to around 2% of the installed amount. plastic used during the year was approxicomponents produced by Nolato. Continual Emissions of sulphur dioxide and nitric oxmately 400 tonnes (400) and customer proactivities are being undertaken to reduce the ides remained low and amounted to 3 tonnes jects are underway with the aim of increasing risks of chemical substances and during the (4). Emissions of dust and malodorous subthe proportion of recycled materials. This is a year around 20 chemical products were substances are negligible, and no complaints groupwide target. We are also seeing interest stituted with alternatives that are better for were received during the year. in reducing polymer usage in some products, the environment and health. which is beneficial both in terms of cost and Solvent-based paints are another area in R  aw materials and chemicals environmental impact. Nolato has an express which it is beneficial from a health and enaim of increasing its use of renewable raw vironmental perspective to switch to waterProduction processes used around 38,000 materials, such as bioplastics (see below). based products. Our aims sometimes conflict (34,000) tonnes of polymer materials in An environmental aspect that concerns with customers’ technical product require2017. More than 97% consisted of plastics most of the Group’s companies are customer ments and the use of water-based paints is and the rest of synthetic rubber. This involves requirements for products to not certain currently low. silicone and latex rubber used in medical hazardous chemical substances. In addition,  Case study – Plastics in the environment Recycled raw materials and ‘green’ plastics Plastics are receiving negative coverage, with the criticism mainly being about plastic waste that ends up in the sea, injuring fish and other marine life. The criticism also relates to the fact that plastic may contain additives that are hazardous to the environment and to health, and that they are produced from fossil raw Nolato has come a long way in its efforts to phase out hazardous chemical addimaterials and consequently have an impact on the climate. tives in plastic. As Nolato’s main raw material is plastic, we also take care to “Every year, Nolato uses more than 35,000 tonnes of plastic. Many of the ensure that as little as possible ends up as waste. So we have a strong focus products that Nolato manufacturers are long-lasting and used in vehicles, garon reducing waste and scrap. We also have a target to both increase the use of den machinery, mobile phones, furniture and medical equipment. These don’t recycled plastic, as well as plastic that doesn’t come from fossil raw material, constitute a major problem in this context and the products themselves are i.e. bioplastics,” notes Torbjörn. often subject to legal requirements and well-developed systems for recycling. “We have recently tested polyethylene plastic using raw material from sugIt’s also unlikely that, for example, chainsaws, domestic appliances and toilet arcane. Instead of producing the ethylene from oil, you produce the same moleflush mechanisms end up in the sea,” says Nolato’s Head of Sustainable Develcule from biological material. Ultimately it has an identical polyethylene molecuopment Torbjörn Brorson. lar structure with the same technical properties as fossil-based plastic. The dif“Nolato also produces plastic products with a short lifespan. These include ference is in the carbon footprint, which is very small for bioplastic. This ‘green’ consumer packaging for pharmaceuticals and food supplements, which usualplastic functions excellently in all our production technologies so now we just ly end up in domestic waste and are then handled in a controlled manner. Other need to persuade customers to request this material,” comments Darren Whitexamples include single-use products used in health care, but there are usually worth, Engineering Manager at Nolato Jaycare.  good systems for collecting and sorting this type of waste. Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 17 / 36 jing has been identified as a water shortage Water consumption Water issues area and that company is undertaking various measures to reduce its water consumpm3 m 3 /SEKm Nolato’s facilities use municipal water for tion. This relates to involving personnel, 200,000 200,000 100 purification equipment, some production identifying leaks, repairing leaking equip180,000 180,000 90 processes, cleaning, sanitation and cooling. ment and checking that water is not being 160,000 160,000 80 In 2017, 177,900 m3 (163,700) of water used when equipment and premises are not 140,000 140,000 70 120,000 120,000 60 were used at a cost of around SEK 2.9 milin use. 100,000 100,000 50 lion (2.4). The amounts of pollutants discharged to 80,000 80,000 40 Plants have systems in place to reduce wawastewater are limited and consist mainly 60,000 60,000 30 ter consumption, such as closed cooling waof sanitary water. All production units are 40,000 40,000 20 ter systems for injection moulding machines connected to municipal wastewater treat20,000 20,000 10 and other equipment. Nevertheless, there are ment plants. Emissions of wastewater are 00 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 some production processes in which water not normally expected to result in any enviconsumption is high. This mainly applies to ronmental impact. One exception are certain Total water consumption for the Group, m3 Consumption divided by sales, m3 /SEKm the manufacture of latex rubber breathing chemical substances at Nolato MediTor in bags in Torekov, which accounts for around Torekov, which have an effect on the purifi13% of total usage. cation processes of the municipal wastewater Several thousand people work at Nolato treatment plant. During the year cooperation in Beijing and this is reflected by the fact that was initiated with Lund University Faculty of the unit accounts for just over 55% of the Engineering to identify disruptive substances Group’s water consumption. The city of Beiand reduce the impact on the wastewater  Case study – Effect on wastewater treatment Smart solution for wastewater issue Emissions of industrial wastewater to wastewater treatment plants can cause problems as the water can contain different types of chemical substances. These substances are specific to the company’s production processes and municipal wastewater treatment plants are not normally designed to neutralise “Vidar and Jennifer mapped where the different wastewater fractions occur, such substances. They may simply pass through and end up in the sea or in a identified the risks of the chemical substances used, and performed a large watercourse. These substances may also accumulate in the wastewater treatnumber of nitrification inhibition tests. It transpired that the leachate contains ment plant’s sludge or disrupt the biological purification processes. several chemicals that inhibit nitrification and are therefore a key culprit in this “Wastewater from our plant is cleaned at Torekov’s wastewater treatment issue. plant. There have been difficulties for a number of years with biological treat“The students’ work was really valuable and gave us the ability to implement ment and it is principally the nitrification process that has periodically worked specific measures. One of those measures relates to the use of chemicals and poorly. If this process doesn’t work, excessive amounts of nitrogen are released we have been able to reduce this by outsourcing some of these processes to into the sea, which causes eutrophication and oxygen deprivation,” explains subcontractors. Another important measure was to optimise the leaching proKristian Sandberg, Quality and Environmental Affairs Manager at MediTor. cess. This process aims to scrub the chemical substances that affect the per“As MediTor releases relatively large amounts of wastewater from the manuformance of breathing bags. We therefore conducted a detailed assessment of facturing of breathing bags, the managers at the wastewater treatment plant how much leachate was actually needed. An important conclusion was that we naturally contacted us. The challenge was for us to investigate the wastewater now produce many more breathing bags than before, but we have not increased to check whether it contained substances that affect the nitrification process.” the amount of leachate. This presented risks of quality issues and using large “Over recent years, we have conducted several different investigations and volumes of water minimises these risks. The increased volume of water is also trialled purification equipment, unfortunately without any apparent effect. It was positive with regard to the inhibition of nitrification,” notes Kristian Sandberg. only when we found a real specialist in the nitrification process that things start“Once we had implemented both measures we had to take a new measureed to happen. In 2017, we got in touch with Senior Lecturer Karin Jönsson at ment of nitrification inhibition. As expected, it had fallen to acceptable levels. Lund University Faculty of Engineering. She approach students Vidar Aspelin and This complex problem appears to have been resolved and the wastewater treatJennifer Ekholm about writing their degree thesis on our wastewater problems,” ment plant representative has approved the measures. We will of course inspect continues Kristian. the wastewater regularly to monitor developments.”  Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 18 / 36 treatment plant. The project went well and transport and environmentally optimised Waste the company has taken corrective measures routes. Nolato MediTor has approved Tonnes Tonnes/SEKm (see article on page 17). Nolato Stargard in Poland as a direct sup7,000 3.0 plier to a customer. This reduces shipments 6,000 2.5 by an estimated 7,000 km a year. 5,000 2.0 Waste Bulk handling instead of handling material 4,000 in sacks reduces the number of shipments. 3,000 1.5 Approximately 6,500 tonnes (5,200) of Intelligent packaging solutions by Nolato 1.0 2,000 waste was generated in 2017. HazardJaycare are cutting the number of ship0.5 1,000 ous waste amounted to 470 tonnes (430). ments between the UK and Italy. 0 0.0 Around 54% (64) of waste was recycled as 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 materials and 21% (14) as energy. Landfill Group waste, tonnes disposal of waste remains at a low level, Products with Waste divided by sales, tonnes/SEKm amounting to around 8% (7) of the total environmental benefits amount. It is positive that the percentage of waste disposed of in landfill is decreasing Our aim is for Nolato to be the customer’s and the percentage being recycled is increasfirst choice in relation to sustainable develing. This is the result of more demanding opment. Working together with customers, legislation in many countries, but ultimately we contribute concept development, design, relates to a range of preventive measures choice of materials, structure, prototypes, introduced at Nolato’s facilities. An ISO production moulds, high-volume produc14001-based approach, lean manufacturing tion and post-processing. The environmental and 5S are important tools to reduce scrap performance of products has become an inand the occurrence of waste. Hazardous creasingly important competitive factor. For waste accounted for 7% (8). External waste Nolato, this applies to everything from momanagement costs amounted to SEK 5.5 milbile phones, component for vehicles, domeslion (3.7). tic appliances and chainsaws, to pharmaceutical packaging and medical devices. Below are some examples of ongoing projects and Transport existing products: During the year, we continued to focus on Nolato Beijing is working on several prothe environmental impact from the transporjects relating to increasing the use of recytation of freight and from business travel. cled raw materials. Here are some examples of action taken: Nolato Plastteknik has a project to replace the chrome plating of plastic components Central procurement of transport services using a different method. In addition, aluin Sweden incorporates sustainability minium is continuing to be replaced with criteria, including access to emissions data plastic in vehicle components. Another exfor CO2, NOx, SO2 and other air pollutample is one of the company’s bulk prodants. In China too, Nolato places environucts, whose lean design uses less polymer. mental requirements on transport firms Nolato MediTor is also conducting proand asks that they use environmentally jects to reduce the PP plastic content in certified vehicles. In the UK, the main carcertain applications, offering benefits both rier used is a company registered under from an environmental and logistical perthe Fleet Operator Recognition Scheme spective. (FORS). This is scheme that covers legal Nolato Polymer has tested a raw material compliance, safety, efficiency and environthat contains 70% bio-based materials. mental protection. One new customer product is already usMany Group companies make use of video ing 20–70% biomaterial. conferencing. For example, Nolato Cerbo Nolato Gota and Nolato Lövepac manuhas installed systems that are open to comfacture components for Volvo Cars’ Drivepanies outside Nolato. This has reduced E generation of engines. These engines the number of visits to suppliers. are around 20% more efficient than their Many of the Group’s companies are optipredecessors. mising transportation, including through Plastics are replacing other materials in higher fill ratios in trucks, coordinated vehicles, household appliances and chain  Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 19 / 36 saws. This results in reduced weight and Nolato Lövepac has developed eco-friendAccidents and complaints fuel consumption. ly traps for bedbugs. Instead of pesticide Nolato Jaycare in Portsmouth in the UK they use strips with dark cavities that atIn 2017, there were no cases of accidents or manufactures containers for handling haztract bedbugs, which are then killed off uncontrolled environmental emissions. Two ardous clinical waste (Sharpak). The aim is when exposed to diatomaceous earth. complaints from local residents regarding to establish Sharpak as the first choice for Nolato Cerbo produces pharmaceutical noise levels and light were recorded.  clinical waste management globally. packaging with less plastic and therefore a Nolato MediTor’s environmentally optismaller carbon footprint. mised breathing bags use less polymer maLövepac Converting is working with reterial and have a smaller carbon footprint. searchers to develop zirconium dioxideThe company also offers phthalate-free based products. Zirconium dioxide is a breathing bags. highly durable ceramic that is chemicalNolato Jaycare in Newcastle in the UK has resistant, has a natural beauty and an successfully tested production using fossilexceptionally smooth surface. In addition, free polyethylene plastic manufactured the material is fully biocompatible, which from bio-based ethylene raw materials. means wearers of items made from zirNolato participates in developing environconium dioxide won’t suffer any allergic mental technology products, such as fuel reaction. cells. Case study – Energy efficiency reduces carbon footprint Energy and carbon footprint are priorities Nolato is highly dependent on electricity and over 85% of its energy consumption consists of electricity purchased in those countries in which the Group operates. This involves significant amounts of energy, leading to costs for the Group and generating carbon emissions. The efficient use of energy has always been important and for many years various measures have been implemented to increase energy efficiency. Ongoing climate change now requires increased efforts from the whole of society and issues concerning energy and carbon emissions are consequently priority areas for Nolato. “In 2017 we conducted an energy audit at Nolato Lövepac in Skånes Fagerhult, Sweden. A key driver, of course, is to find where energy is being wasted, demanding energy legislation in Switzerland. But issues around energy are but the audit was also a means for Nolato to meet the new EU energy directive. complex and it’s not always easy to find good solutions. Using energy statistics and an energy balance, together with energy expertise “We manufacture lots of products from plastic, which requires a high temour audit identified those activities requiring the most energy at the plant,” experature for processing. This leads to energy consumption for both heating and plains Henrik Enoksson, Managing Director of Nolato Lövepac. cooling. In addition, the temperature in the work premises has to be kept at a rea“The audit showed that there is potential to make improvements both in sonable level. This part of Switzerland gets quite warm for large parts of the year, terms of energy consumption and carbon emissions. By installing additional and combined with the waste heat from the equipment, there’s a lot of heat that heat pump capacity we could phase out the use of oil, cutting our carbon footneeds to be vented. We’re saving a lot of energy by installing a separate cooling print. We also found that 25–30% of energy consumption was more or less consystem for products that require high processing temperatures and another sysstant, even when there was no production. That should offer the opportunity to tem for processes with lower temperatures. Another key initiative was installing save energy. And of course we’ll also be working on increasing the energy effiheat pumps to use the waste heat from the compressors. We now use this heat to ciency of lighting, ventilation and compressed air,” adds Henrik. heat the main building and we’ve phased out the use of fossil fuel oil. In terms of “Nolato Treff in Switzerland has been working on energy issues for some all the energy initiatives taken over a period of five years, it amounts to savings of time. Obviously this relates to our business’ finances, but it also relates to the more than 18%,” notes Guido Vollrath, Managing Director of Nolato Treff.  Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 20 / 36 Social responsibility The average number of employees in 2017 creating a balance between men and women Average no. employees was 7,249 (6,418). All units are wholly in employment and career development, as owned by Nolato and comply fully with the well as measures that create opportunities 10,000 9,000 guidelines in Nolato’s Basic Principles and for people with disabilities. Formal gender 8,000 Code of Conduct. The practical work relatequality plans are in place at around two7,000 ing to personnel issues in the Group is decenthirds of units and over the year around 10 6,000 tralised. This means each individual Group units introduced measures to promote gender 5,000 company is responsible for managing issues equality, for example relating to recruitment. 4,000 in a way that complies with both Group In 2017, 45% (49) of Nolato employees 3,000 guidelines and the legislation and culture of were women. The balance between the num2,000 the country in question. ber of men and women varies from country 1,000 The total figure for the average number to country, and in Sweden and the UK there 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 of employees includes approximately 3,000 is a predominance of male staff. In Hungary, staff in China who are employed through China, Poland and Romania there is a prestaffing agencies. This form of employment dominance of women. 30% (22) of Nolato’s Employees by business area has mainly been chosen to make it easier for Board are women, while the corresponding the business to recruit a workforce for varifigure for Group management is 0% (0). Average ous projects and consequently avoid creating Around 29 (27) of other senior executives Industrial Solutions 13% Medical Solutions 19% its own large recruitment organisation. In acare women, which corresponds to 20% (20). cordance with the Group’s Code of Conduct, In accordance with the undertakings in these employees are covered according to the the Code of Conduct, we work to combat same principles as Nolato’s other employees all discrimination. One particular group in China with regard to the setting of wages, in this respect is people with disabilities, benefits, working hours, work environment, and these employees are treated the same social responsibility, etc. as other employees. People with disabilities work at units in Beijing (China), Gothenburg Code of Conduct provides guidance (Sweden), Newcastle (UK) and MosonmagIntegrated Solutions 68% Nolato’s Code of Conduct provides clear yaróvár (Hungary). Nolato’s work in Hunguidance on how the Group’s business pringary has received significant attention and ciples and values should be put into practice. has been recognised with awards. Employees by country It can be viewed as an ethical compass to be Average followed by all staff, irrespective of workWhistleblowing place and function. The Code applies to In order to quickly alert the company to Other 6% US 3% Sweden 13% Nolato’s Board members and contract-based breaches of the Group’s Code of Conduct or staff as well. The Code of Conduct also sets other serious irregularities, employees can out what we expect of our suppliers in terms sound the alarm regarding any irregularities Hungary 9% of responsible business practice. without risk of reprisals or pressure (whistleblowing). No such cases were reported in Everybody has the right of representation 2017. All Nolato employees have the right to be China UK 3% represented by trade unions, and to collective Training and personal development 66% agreements. In Sweden and China, the maTraining is a key development tool for perjority of employees are covered by collective sonnel, and we offer management developagreements. At the units in other countries, ment courses, as well as large number of there are no unions or collective agreements, specific training courses on quality, technoland this reflects a normal situation in these ogy, our Code of Conduct, and health and countries. safety. In 2017, employees attended a total of 341,000 (338,000) hours of training, which Gender equality and combatting equates to approximately 47 (53) hours per discrimination employee. A particularly large number of The gender equality policy is an integral part courses were arranged in China, Hungary, of Nolato’s Code of Conduct and day-toSweden and the US. New employees are an day activities in this area are delegated to important target group for information and the management of local companies. Gender training measures. equality measures are conducted according During the year, around 2,380 (2,050) to the gender equality plans of the Group’s employees participated in performance re companies and includes activities aimed at views, career development or other assessNolato Sustainability Report 2017 21 / 36 ments of their own work. Employee surveys and safety, 8 (5) units were inspected by ocCauses of occupational accidents are carried out regularly at a number of the cupational environment authorities during Group’s units. In most cases, they are perthe year. Some minor deviations regarding Energy Other Hazardous substances formed every other year or every three years, machine safety were noted and these have Lifting, etc and during the year 10 (9) surveys were been rectified. conducted. Overall, the work atmosphere In 2017, there were 47 (63) lost work was deemed to be good and a number of cases (LWCs), which resulted in a total of improvements were suggested by employees. 564 (447) days of absence. No accidents These concerned topics such as leadership, were recorded concerning contractors. As communication and training. in previous years, the most common causes Fall/slips We carry out special initiatives in China to were injuries from heavy lifting, repetitive attract, retain and develop both permanent work, machinery and falls and slips, which in Machinery and temporary employees. These activities most cases resulted in limited absence. Over come under the umbrella of the Employee a five-year period the accident rate averages Occupational accidents Care Programme, which includes activities 3.2 accidents resulting in absence per million concerning health, safety, sports, lifestyle hours worked. From an industrial perspecYear 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 and language tuition. The programme also tive this is low, but more measures remain LWC* 34 43 36 63 47 includes employee surveys, which are supto be implemented for all accidents to be LWC per 2.0 2.9 2.3 5.0 3.7 plemented by a forum that enables employultimately eliminated. Systems for registeremployee ees to regularly express their views to the ing near misses were enhanced and have now LWD* 381 929 405 447 564 company’s CEO. E-learning is widely used been introduced at all units, apart from at LWD per 23 62 27 35 45 and the system contains 400 modules on lean one recently acquired unit. During the year, employee manufacturing, quality management, safety, 689 (583) near misses were investigated and *LWC = Lost Work Case (absence ≥ 1 day) project management and other areas. Happy corrective and preventive action taken. *LWD = Lost Work Day Station is an initiative in which managers Training courses on the environment and and employees take part every month in health and safety are part of our preventive competitions aimed at encouraging bonding, work and an average of 5.8 hours (5.0) per creativity and enthusiasm at work. An activemployee were spent on these courses. New ity that has been popular for some years is employees were an important target group. a day trip to central Beijing. In 2017, 1,344 Training on first aid, chemical health risks, employees took part in the Beijing One Day personal protective equipment, hot work, Tour. forklift driving, fire safety, ergonomics and machine safety is provided frequently. Health and safety Nolato Beijing received the Safety Month Our preventive health and safety measures Best Practice award from Beijing Business are implemented systematically. We identify Development Area (BDA). Nolato Hungary risks and the causes of incidents and acreceived the Disabled Friendly Workplace cidents and take appropriate action. This Award for its initiatives regarding employees involves both technical improvements and with disabilities.  training. Formal safety committees are in place at 91% of units, covering essentially all employees. An important aspect of this ­systematic work is the introduction of ­OHSAS 18001 health and safety management systems. Six (six) units are currently certified and a further eight are planning certification over the next year or so. As ISO 45001 will be published in 2018, a number of units are deferring certification and will instead opt for the new international health and safety standard. With regard to health Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 22 / 36 Business partners and other stakeholders Application of sound business ethics sues of business ethics at the same ambitious a requirement to reduce the number of overIn accordance with the principles of Nolato’s level as previous years. No cases of bribery, time hours. Code of Conduct and the tenth principle of corruption or cartel formation were recorded In addition to review systems, some custhe Global Compact, our business princiin 2017. tomers have established systems under which ples should be characterised by integrity and suppliers qualify for sustainable development responsibility. The Code of Conduct states Interaction with customers and suppliers certification. One example is Sony Green that: Nolato’s customers operate in industries Partner, for which Lövepac Converting, Nolato does not offer gifts, benefits or payin which issues regarding the environment, Nolato Beijing and Nolato Malaysia have ments that could influence, or be regarded health and safety and ethics have a high priqualified. as influencing, the objectivity of the recipiority. This applies to sectors such as automoAs part of these requirements from cusents’ decisions or that breach legislation tive, food, telecom and pharmaceuticals. We tomers, Nolato is expected to pass corand/or local practice. note that requirements on us as a cooperaresponding requirements along its supply Nolato avoids situations in which comtion partner are increasing and monitoring chain. This is done by informing suppliers pany loyalty could come into conflict with is becoming increasingly efficient. Customer about Nolato’s Code of Conduct and specipersonal interests. Nolato complies with requirements are making a constructive fication requirements, as well as different competition law and promotes fair comcontribution to the development of Nolato’s types of monitoring. Over the year, we carpetition. Nolato ensures that all staff can sustainability work. ried out 235 (173) reviews of suppliers with raise concerns about irregularities within In 2017, virtually all units reported cusa focus on sustainable development. Around the company without the risk of personal tomer requirements within sustainable de180 of the reviews were based on questionconsequences (whistleblowing). velopment (see table below). Requirements naires and over 50 cases involved formal relating to hazardous chemicals (REACH audits. These reviews did not identify any For a global company, these matters are comand RoHS) remain important over a fiverisks relating to the environment and social plex and the perception of normal business year period. The same is true of requirements responsibility that cannot be managed, but principles varies between countries and culfor Nolato to have a code of conduct and we did identify a number of areas that need tures. The Group uses the following methods environmental management systems. Recent improvement. In one case, cooperation was for governance and monitoring of the appliyears have seen increasing requirements for discontinued with a supplier. cation of sound business ethics: proof that no conflict minerals (see DefiniAssessments of suppliers’ sustainability Nolato’s Code of Conduct applies to all tions and Glossary on page 33) are used in measures are extensive and time-consuming. employees and Group company manageproducts. Conflict minerals occur in some We therefore apply a risk-based model for ment teams are responsible for conveying products and we have introduced control selecting suppliers for review. The detailed the values in their organisation. mechanisms to ensure that they do not come criteria for which suppliers are selected varWe monitor costs, expenditure and revfrom war zones. ies among the Group’s companies, but it is enues on an ongoing basis. We pay parDuring the year, 16 (15) of the Group’s usually new suppliers, key suppliers, or supticular attention to ethical issues in our units were reviewed by customers from a pliers with particular risks that are selected relationships with our partners. Standard range of sectors. This involves a significant for follow-up. A substantial proportion of business practice must be observed in each number of questionnaires and audits. OverNolato’s suppliers consist of global groups individual country, but if business princiall, customers were very satisfied with Noin the polymer and chemical industry. These ples do not comply with Nolato’s Code of lato’s efforts, but some expressed a desire types of companies often have well-develConduct, we must refrain from doing busito see improvements, such as phthalate-free oped and transparent sustainability activities ness or take alternative relevant actions. medical device products. In China, there was and the risks are consequently considered to  During the year, a web-based course in busiShare of units that report customer sustainability requirements ness ethics was arranged, aimed principally Customer requirements Percentage of units that report at senior managers and personnel in sales customer sustainability requirements (%) and marketing. Using the Global Compact 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 checklists, we conduct annual evaluations of Introduce environmental management 55 67 55 53 32 what measures companies take to countersystems act bribery. The assessment for 2017 shows Phase out hazardous chemicals 32 38 40 42 42 that this work is governed by Nolato’s Code of Conduct and the companies are continuCompliance with REACH and RoHS 96 71 30 37 26 ing to actively combat corruption. Several Product-related environmental information 32 52 65 53 42 companies report that they expanded their Compliance with customer’s code of 64 71 75 79 74 activities in relation to suppliers during the conduct/CR requirements year. An assessment for the year shows that Conflict minerals 82 80 80 58 0 the Group’s companies are working on isOther requirements 27 24 25 10 21 Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 23 / 36 be low. We therefore do not carry out deof the Future network. Nolato MediTech is oration with the International Institute for tailed assessments of such companies. participating in the ‘ARKAD’ project at Lund Industrial Environmental Economics (IIIEE) University Faculty of Engineering. Nolato at Lund University. Investors MediTor cooperated with Lund University In Hungary, the employment of staff with Nolato’s sustainability work is analysed regFaculty of Engineering on a project regarding different types of disability has continued. ularly by investors and other organisations. wastewater issues (see article on page 17). Employment has provided people with visual The Group is approved under Swedbank Nolato Contour participated in the loand hearing impairments with a better qualRobur’s responsible investment criteria. cal labour market and, for example, offered ity of life, and they are making an excellent students internships. The company is also contribution to the company’s work. People Social engagement involved in organisations within the plastics with disabilities are also employed at other Nolato engages with those local communities industry focused on research and developunits in the Group, including in China. where we have operations. It is important ment. Nolato provides financial support for for Nolato to maintain contact with uniNolato Plastteknik is involved as a guest schools, healthcare, sports associations and versities and schools and demonstrate that lecturer on lean manufacturing at Chalmers social activities, and in many cases our inNolato is an attractive employer. This may University of Technology. volvement is long-term and Group employtake the form of family days, ‘open house’ Nolato Malaysia is supporting the Green ees contribute in different ways. One such days, study visits, workplace degree projects, and Health Carnival project at the Science project is Building Hope Together in China, employment fairs for applicants, internships University of Malaysia. Nolato Stargard orwhich for the past five years has involved us and development projects. Below are some ganised an eco-excursion for employees and helping a school in a poor area around four examples: their families. hours’ drive north of Beijing (see article Roughly half of units were in contact with Nolato Cerbo is involved in the City of below).  schools and universities, including through Trollhättan’s ‘TOPP’ project focusing on study visits and internships. Nolato Medibasic training. Tor participates in the Engineering Courses Over the year, Nolato continued its collabCase study – Social engagement Support for pupils and teachers in China “Over the past five years, we have been involved in helping students and teachers at a school in a poor area around four hours’ drive from Beijing. The school has around 60 pupils between the ages of 7 and 12. As their parents have to work in other parts of China, many of the children live at the school. Over the years our Building Hope Together project has donated computers, printers, desks, mattresses, bedding, clothing and other items that help with teaching and improve circumstances for the pupils and teachers­”, explains Anna Wang, HR Manager at that require additional support. In 2017, Nolato and individual employees d­ onated Nolato’s largest production unit in China. towards items including school uniforms, toys and milk. Teachers and other staff Nolato donates as a company to the school’s activities, but in addition to this were given Bluetooth headphones to use at work and in their free time. over 40 employees and their families have become involved in the project in a pri“We also identified four pupils who, due to an illness or death in their family, vate capacity. They visit the school and help financially with various donations, needed additional support. Nolato’s managers donated money and food and vissuch as for clothing and books and for pupils and their families ited three of the families,” adds Anna Wang. Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 24 / 36 Financial responsibility Record year for Nolato Financial highlights The Group’s business areas demonstrated excellent growth in 2017 and sales increased SEKm (unless otherwise specified) 2017 2016 2015 to a new level. In 2017, sales rose by 51% to Net sales 6,720 4,447 4,726 SEK 6,720 million (4,447). Operating profit Operating profit (EBITA) 763 457 570 EBITA margin, % 11.4 10.3 12.1 (EBITA) increased by 67% to SEK 763 milProfit after financial income and expenses 731 438 555 lion (457). The operating margin (EBITA) Profit for the year 572 336 420 was 11.4% (10.3). Return on capital employed, % 26.6 20.6 29.6 The rise in sales was due to a sharp inReturn on shareholders’ equity, % 29.4 19.0 25.3 crease in sales by all business areas, with an Equity/assets ratio, % 45 47 54 exceptional increase for Integrated Solutions. Earnings per share, SEK 21.74 12.77 15.97 The Group’s operating profit rose sharply, Dividend per share (proposed) 12.50 10.50 10.00 mainly as a result of the strong sales perforAverage number of employees 7,249 6,418 7,759 mance. Earnings per share increased to SEK 21.74 (12.77). Sustainable development Environmental investments Environmental costs and financial performance In 2017, Nolato invested SEK 15.2 million Authority charges and other costs 4% (8.1) in measures to reduce environmental Other investments 39% External services 5% Purification facility Energy operation 35% impact and improve health and safety. Just efficiency 42% Certifications 7% over 40% of investments related to energy Administration 19% efficiency improvements and around 40% were for preventive environmental measures. Environmental costs amounted to SEK 18.2 million (14.6) and were dominated by operating expenses for purification facilities, waste management, internal administration Health and safety 12% Purification Waste management 30% and fees to authorities and certification comfacilities 7% panies. During the year, environmental improvement measures generated cost savings Percentage share of the Group’s investments Percentage share of the Group’s costs in environment, health and safety. in environment, health and safety. of SEK 2.8 million (3.4). Savings arose mainly from more efficient energy consumption and improved waste management. The cost Financial value for stakeholders (SEKm) of water supply and sanitation amounted to SEK 2.9 million (2.4) and energy costs were Stakeholder 2017 2016 2015 Comments SEK 136 million (123). Suppliers 4,495 2,546 2,752 Compensation for materials and services Employees 1,534 1,283 1,250 Salaries and benefits Financial value for stakeholders Shareholders 329 276 263 Dividend Nolato’s business generates financial value Lenders 13 6 7 Interest expenses that is distributed between various stakeSociety 94 102 135 Recognised effective tax, Group holders. This includes suppliers, employees, Total 6,465 4,215 4,407 shareholders, creditors and society. See also page 10 for further information about the value created for stakeholders. Swedish corporation tax amounted to 22.0% (22.0) and the effective tax rate was 21.8% (23.3).  Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 25 / 36 Risks and opportunities Nolato’s strategy includes continuously miniWhere applicable, the Group’s units meet ents. We constantly monitor developments so mising operational risks through active and REACH chemical legislation, RoHS product we can initiate the substitution of hazardous planned risk management, while still capitallegislation, producer’s liability for packaging substances, introduce more environmentally ising on the business opportunities that conwaste, CLP chemical legislation (on classififriendly polymers and develop new products. trolled risk-taking brings. The main features cation, labelling and packaging) and other We also have Group-wide targets regarding of risk management are identification, evalurelevant environmental and health and safety environmentally sustainable product develation, governance, reporting, monitoring and laws. We currently expect no increase in opment and increased use of renewable and control. For significant risks, there are procerisks concerning new or amended legislation. recycled materials. dures for accepting, reducing or eliminating Nolato is subject to the EU’s Energy Effithe risk. ciency Directive and energy audits have been Climate-related risks Nolato’s annual report for 2017 provides conducted at 10 units and additional audits One of the Group’s plants is located in an detailed information about operational and will be carried out. We believe there are good area where future climate changes could financial risks. In terms of sustainability, we opportunities for improving energy efficiency cause landslips (Gothenburg). We monitor have identified a number of risks of potential and achieving cost savings. Reporting to the the risk and vulnerability analyses performed importance to the Group’s financial posiSwedish Energy Agency was undertaken in by the authorities in this regard. tion. More demanding environmental legis2017. Climate change is an important issue to lation, taxes, fees and other environmental Nolato, and an overview of the Group’s requirements can entail significant costs for Contaminated land and efforts to reduce its carbon footprint is proindustrial operations. There are also risks hazardous substances in buildings vided on page 15. However, we need to be from a business perspective relating to the There has been no known occurrence of prepared for how climate change may affect environment and social responsibility, which contaminated land, neither are there any the Group in financial terms. This may rehave gained attention in recent years, with a requirements in terms of investigations or late to damage to plants and infrastructure, particular focus on our own production and decontamination. In Sweden, three plants and also aspects pertaining to raw materials that of suppliers. Nolato carries out regular have been classified according to the ‘MIFO’ supply, supplier circumstances and changed risk assessments in order to identify new method for contaminated soil. The risk ascustomer behaviour. Taxes, charges and limirisks and/or costs relating to the environsessment is administrative in nature and is tations on emissions could, of course, also ment, ethics and social responsibility as early not based on actual sample-taking. All the affect Nolato. on as possible. plants are in the lowest risk category and are Sustainable development also creates lots not prioritised by the authorities for further Business ethics of opportunities for Nolato and by integratinspections or measures. Deficient business ethics could damage Noing these issues into strategic efforts, product Hazardous substances such as asbestos lato’s reputation and business operations. We development and marketing we actively try are present in some individual buildings take systematic measures to prevent corrupto utilise these opportunities. We want cusand only result in measures in the event of tion and other irregularities (see page 22). tomers to regard us as an important partner refurbishment or renovation work. Their in sustainable development efforts. occurrence is documented and their status Human rights is inspected regularly. PCB inventories have Infringement of human rights at the Group’s Environmental legislation been conducted at our Swedish operations companies or our suppliers could damage Nolato’s production units have the permits in which small amounts of these hazardous both the Group’s reputation and its business required for their operations, and no more substances were identified. Decontaminaoperations. Nolato’s Code of Conduct apextensive applications for permit renewtion has been carried out in accordance with plies in the same way around the world. We als are planned for 2018. A few units are Swedish environmental legislation. promote the protection of human rights by planning routine updates of their permits. informing people, training staff and through Authorities in Beijing, China have tightened Environmental adaptation of products internal regulations and monitoring. air pollution regulations. We met these new Society has a growing interest in environrequirements by installing an advanced pumentally sustainable products, and one Energy costs rification facility in 2014 that cuts solvent identifiable business risk could be our prodThere is a risk of electricity prices rising and emissions. uct range including products that are not having a material negative impact on profitWith regard to the air pollution situaaccepted by customers for health and enviability and within Nolato this mainly applies tion in Beijing, the risk that the authorities ronmental reasons. The fossil-based origin to the purchase of electricity. The risk of willNolatos take further produktionsenhet Torekovbe ruled measures icannot of plastics has been called into question by negative effects from rising electricity prices out. One such example was the recent revarious stakeholder groups. And the issue of is addressed by the Group entering into fixed quirement for 1,200 industrial businesses to microscopic particles of plastic in the world’s price agreements for 20–80% of electricity temporarily shut down operations during a oceans has also gained attention. requirements for the next four to 12 quarperiod of high air pollution. Nolato was not As a supplier, Nolato has some possibilities ters.  subject to this requirement and we believe to counter this risk, but as most products are our efforts to carry out purification measures produced for customers, development must helped in this regard. be carried out in collaboration with our cliNolato Sustainability Report 2017 26 / 36 A busy year Over the course of a year, Nolato undertakes in an 10% decrease in the key perforactivities. E-learning activities were further lots of measures relating to sustainable demance indicator on energy consumption. developed with a focus on safety, qualvelopment. Below is a small sample of initiaity management, lean manufacturing and tives and activities at our units around the Hungary and Romania language training. Leadership training for world. Nolato Hungary in Mosonmagyaróvár managers. Continued support of Buildintroduced a system to provide detailed ing Hope Together, a programme through Sweden monitoring of energy use and the volume which Nolato supports a school. The comNolato Polymer in Torekov has replaced of waste. Changes are monitored each pany was awarded the BDA Safety Month ­fossil-based fuel oil with HVO, a bio-based quarter. The company received the DisaBest Practice Award. It also achieved good oil. bled Friendly Workplace Award for its results in customer audits and assessments. Nolato MediTech in Hörby and Lomma work with people with disabilities. Lövepac Converting in Beijing focused in continued Medical Excellence-related Nolato Romania in Negoiesti enhanced particular on safety for a month, while activities. More than 5,000 improvement its system for the reuse and collection of another month was dedicated especially to suggestions, 1,000 of which related to packaging that is sent to customers. building a positive corporate culture. The the area of the environment and health company also focused on lean manufacand safety, have now been introduced. UK turing. The company spoke to students about Nolato Jaycare in Portsmouth installed a the industry and its business, including robot that both improves health and safety Malaysia at events like the ARKAD careers fair at and cuts scrap. Work to replace older Nolato EMC in Penang was a Platinum Lund University Faculty of Engineering. hydraulic machines with energy-efficient Sponsor for the Green and Health CarniThe methodology for assessing personnel’s electric machinery continued. A proval at a technical university. work situation was updated with a focus gramme of internal training of technicians on psychosocial factors. is expected to help increase personnel US Nolato Silikonteknik in Hallsberg identiknow-how and create career paths. Nolato Contour in Baldwin installed fied significant environmentally related Nolato Jaycare in Newcastle achieved more energy-efficient ECO-Drive presses. aspects in accordance with the new ISO good results compared with the previous Outdoor lighting was replaced with LED 14001:2015 requirements. year including 8% less water consumplighting and the use of hazardous solvents Nolato MediTor in Torekov conducted tion, 4% less energy consumption and was eliminated on the factory floor. A plan investigations into the properties of waste10% less waste. The amount of hazardous was developed to increase the recycling of water. A charging station for electric cars waste decreased by 60%. A charging stamaterials.  was installed. Fossil-based fuel oil was tion for electric cars was installed. replaced with HVO, a bio-based form of energy. Poland Nolato Gota in Götene conducted successNolato Stargard achieved ISO 14001 ful work on its energyand water-related certification. No occupational accidents goals. occurred during the year. The company Nolato Cerbo in Trollhättan introduced a undertook an eco-excursion, with the new production organisation with three participation of employees and their famiproduction managers. On health and lies. The aim was to generate interest in safety (Green Cross), a fourth reporting the countryside and the environment, and category relating to potential health and included various competitions such as the safety risks was introduced. A more enerbest nature photo and an environmental gy-efficient heat exchanger was installed. quiz. The company invested in its first hybrid machine for injection blow moulding Switzerland (partially electric), and energy savings are A successful energy efficiency project was estimated to be 30–40%. The amount of undertaken. waste will also be reduced. The hydraulic oil cooling system was refurbished, reducChina ing the risk of oil leaks. Risk analyses and Nolato Beijing updated its environmental a training course on health and safety were management system to ISO 14001:2015. conducted. The Employee Care Programme continued Gothenburg-based Nolato Plastteknik’s through dialogue with company manageinvestments in efficient equipment resulted ment, excursions and various sporting Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 27 / 36 About our sustainability report A focus on materiality Company/plant Country Average Building Year Permits Significance to number area (m2) established under envisustainability Nolato’s sustainability report for 2017, in acof ronmental report cordance with GRI G4 and the Communicaemployees legislation tion On Progress (Global Compact), includes Nolato Beijing, Beijing China 4,585 37,009 2001 Yes High aspects relating to the environment, health and safety, social responsibility and busiNolato Hungary, Masonmagyarovar Hungary 670 18,431 2000 Yes High ness ethics. Our ambition is for this report, Lövepac Converting, Beijing China 168 6,168 2010 No Medium together with supplementary information, to give our employees and external stakeNolato Polymer, Torekov/Ängelholm Sweden 59 11,035 1973, 1995 Yes Medium holders a transparent view of the company’s Nolato Jaycare, Portsmouth UK 121 11,132 1986 Yes Medium corporate and social responsibility activities Nolato Jaycare, Newcastle UK 118 4,790 1998 Yes Medium and how these interact with our business activities. Nolato MediTech, Hörby Sweden 154 7,000 1999 Yes Medium All units that were part of the Nolato Nolato MediTech, Lomma Sweden 72 5,000 1980 Yes Medium Group in 2017 are included in the report. In total, 22 (21) production facilities contribNolato Cerbo, Trollhättan Sweden 120 11,000 1971 Yes Medium uted data. A summary of the different units’ Nolato MediTor, Torekov Sweden 68 4,500 1973 Yes Medium significance in terms of the reporting is provided in the table. Nolato Gota, Götene Sweden 176 23,004 1965 Yes Medium Nolato Contour, Baldwin US 194 8,361 1993 Yes Medium Reporting principles Nolato Plastteknik AB, Gothenburg Sweden 111 13,000 1980 Yes Medium Each production unit provides quantitative and qualitative information in accordance Nolato Treff Switzerland 211 11,000 1946 No Medium with Nolato’s sustainability reporting form. Nolato Lövepac, Skånes Fagerhult Sweden 51 4,200 1968 No Low The annual cycle of the report is shown below. The head of each company/unit is reNolato Romania, Negoiesti Romania 54 2,960 2010 Yes Low sponsible for assuring the quality of the inNolato Hertila, Åstorp Sweden 26 4,474 2000 Yes Low formation submitted. The year’s performance Nolato Silikonteknik, Hallsberg Sweden 65 3,600 1995 Yes Low is compared and verified against information for previous years. Further quality controls Nolato Grizzly, Stargard Poland 127 4,633 1996 No Low are conducted in connection with interviews Nolato, Penang Malaysia 69 3,350 2016 No Low and site visits. Emissions of carbon dioxide, sulphur Lövepac Converting, Shenzhen China 6 580 2008 No Low dioxide and nitric oxides from direct energy usage are established using conversion factors. These are based on the energy content and quality of the fuels used. The calculation of carbon emissions from indirect energy consumption – mainly electricity – is based Reporting of data Questionnaire for all units on emission factors from DEFRA (ConverQuality control of data sion Factors for Company Reporting 2015) Preparations for a new report Q4 Q1 Sustainability section in the annual report for those countries in which Nolato operates. During the year, updated conversion factors were applied as the previous factors from Q3 Q2 GRI/COP/CDP report 2010 were replaced with new factors from 2015. In most cases this has reduced the extent of emissions. Where energy suppliers provide specific information regarding the Follow-up and review of sustainability data energy mix, the supplier’s calculation model is used. Information about VOC emissions (from solvents) is principally based on mass balance calculations.  Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 28 / 36 Nolato and GRI The organisation behind GRI (Global Restakeholders. The reporting should provide a ation of the significant sustainability aspects porting Initiative) has established voluntary comprehensive, balanced, comparable, thordetailed on page 9. The table below shows comprehensive guidelines (now standard) ough and credible presentation of the organithe extent to which Nolato works in accordfor how companies and other organisations sation’s sustainability performance. It should ance with GRI G4. should report their sustainable development include both positive and negative aspects. SR in the table refers to pages in the Susactivities. Reporting in accordance with GRI Nolato has chosen to report in accordance tainability Report (this document), and AR should focus on sustainability aspects that with the Core GRI G4 level, and the indicato pages in the Annual Report for 2017.  are significant to the organisation and its tors have been adapted in line with the evaluCore areas covered by the report (General Standard Disclosures) GRI Requirement or indicator Reference designation Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from the President and CEO on the importance of sustainability issues and Nolato’s sustainability strategy. SR3; AR8 G4-2 Description of the key effects, risks and opportunities for Nolato’s stakeholders. Trends, targets and programmes. SR12 Organisational profile G4-3 Name of the reporting organisation. Nolato AB (publ) G4-4 Primary brands, products and services. AR5 G4-5 Location of Nolato’s headquarters. Torekov G4-6 Number of countries where Nolato operates and other geographic areas that are relevant with regard to sustainable development. SR20; AR6 G4-7 Ownership and legal form. AR41 G4-8 Nolato’s markets and customers. AR6–7 G4-9 Number of employees, number of operations, net sales, debt and equity, quantity of products provided. AR5 G4-10 Employees (employment type, gender, region, variations in employment numbers). SR20 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. SR20 G4-12 Description of Nolato’s supply chain. SR22 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period (size, structure, ownership, supply chain). SR27 G4-14 Description of how the precautionary approach is applied by Nolato. SR8,11 G4-15 Initiatives/principles to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses. SR8 G4-16 Membership of national and international organisations. SR31 Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Companies included in Nolato’s financial statements. Companies included in the sustainability report. SR27 G4-18 The process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries. SR27 G4-19 List of all the material aspects identified in the process for defining report content. SR9 G4-20 Reason why aspects are regarded as material within Nolato. Internal limitation of the aspects. SR9 G4-21 Reason why aspects are regarded as material outside Nolato. External limitation of the aspects. SR9 G4-22 Comments on any restatements of information provided in previous reports. SR27 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries. No significant changes Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by Nolato. SR10 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders. SR10 G4-26 Description of Nolato’s stakeholder engagement. SR10,12,22 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how Nolato has responded to these. SR10 Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 29 / 36 Reporting profile G4-28 Reporting period. Calendar year 2017 G4-29 Date of most recent sustainability report. March 2017 G4-30 Reporting cycle. SR27 G4-31 Contact point for the sustainability report. Torbjörn Brorson GRI contents G4-32 References to GRI requirements and indicators. This GRI content index. G4-33 Policy for external assurance for the report. No external verification. Governance G4-34 Governance structure for Nolato’s sustainability work. SR7-8 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Nolato’s core values, Code of Conduct and policies. SR8; www. nolato.com/ sustainability G4-58 Reporting mechanisms for unethical behaviour, e.g. whistleblowing. SR22 Indicators GRI designaRequirement or indicator Reference tion Financial performance G4-EC1 Economic value generated and distributed. SR24 G4-EC2 Economic consequences and risks and opportunities posed by climate change. SR25 G4-EC3 Extent of the organisation’s defined-benefit commitments. AR81 G4-EC4 Material financial support from the public sector. None during 2017 Environmental responsibility Materials G4-EN1 Renewable and non-renewable materials used. SR16–17 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. SR16–17 Energy G4-EN3 Direct energy consumption. SR14–15 G4-EN4 Indirect energy consumption. SR14–15 G4-EN5 Energy intensity. SR14–15 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. SR14–15 G4-EN7 Reduction in energy consumption by products. SR18–19 Waterv G4-EN8 Total water used per source. SR17 Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1). SR15 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3). SR15 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas intensity. SR15 G4-EN19 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. SR15 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances. SR16 G4-EN21 NOx, SO2 and other significant air pollutants. SR15­–16 Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 30 / 36 Effluents and waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge. SR17–18 G4-EN23 Volume of waste per category and treatment method. SR18 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. SR19 Products and services G4-EN27 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and results. SR18–19 Compliance G4-EN29 Fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. SR11 Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products. SR18 Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments. SR24 Supplier assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers screened using environmental criteria. SR22 Social responsibility G4-LA5 Participation in health and safety committees. SR20 G4-LA6 Rates of injury and occupational diseases. SR21 Training and education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee. SR20 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving performance and career development reviews or equivalent. SR21 Diversity and equal opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, etc. SR20 Supplier assessment G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers screened using labour practices criteria. SR22 Human rights Non-discrimination G4-HR2 Proportion of employees informed/trained on human rights policies. SR20 G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. SR20 Child labour G4-HR5 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken. SR19 Forced or compulsory labour G4-HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk of incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures taken. SR20 Supplier assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers screened using human rights criteria. SR22 Society Local communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement. SR23 Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. SR22 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. No recorded incidents. Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 31 / 36 The UN Global Compact Ten principles on Goals presented by the UN in autumn 2015 Communication On Progress responsible business practice are now also connected to the Global ComOrganisations that have endorsed the Global In 2010, Nolato endorsed the UN initiative pact. In 2016, Nolato linked its Group tarCompact must produce an annual Commufor responsible business, the Global Comgets to the UN Sustainable Development nication on Progress (COP) detailing how pact. This meant the Group joining a global Goals. they meet the ten principles. In Nolato’s case, network of more than 12,900 organisations, The booklet The Nolato Spirit, which we use the information provided in the An9,600 of which are businesses, in 160 counincludes the Group’s Code of Conduct, is an nual Report and the Sustainability Report. tries. Nolato participates as a Signatory. important internal document, guiding and Together, these reports provide a fair presenThrough the Global Compact, Nolato coordinating employee activities in line with tation of Nolato’s support of and compliance endorses ten basic principles in the areas of the ten principles. Group companies’ compliwith the Global Compact principles. In order human rights, working conditions, the enviance with the Group’s Code of Conduct is to simplify Communication On Progress, we ronment and anti-corruption. evaluated on a regular basis. In the introducuse GRI indicators and the table of crossThese ten principles are based on various tion to the Sustainability Report, Nolato’s references below shows which indicators are UN conventions, such as the Declaration of CEO Christer Wahlquist comments on the relevant in the context.  Human Rights and the Convention against company’s Global Compact work during the Corruption. The Sustainable Development year. Global Compact principles GRI indicators Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect internationally proclaimed human rights. G4-HR2, G4-HR7, G4-SO1 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. G4-HR1, G4-HR10-11 Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to G4-11, G4-HR4 collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should work to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour. G4-HR6 5. Businesses should work for the effective abolition of child labour. G4-HR5 6. Businesses should work to eliminate all discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. G4-10, G4-LA1, 9, 11, G4-HR3 Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. G4-EN1, 3, 8, 15, 17, 20, 21, 27, 31 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. G4-EN1-10, 15-24, 27 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. G4-EN6, 7, 19, 27 Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. G4-56, 58, G4-SO4, 5 Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 32 / 36 Attestation and signatures of the Board This sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Section 11 of the Annual Accounts Act according to GRI G4 and the Communication on Chapter 6, Section 12 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and contains the sustainaProgress (Global Compact). The sustainability report was approved by the Board for bility reporting of the parent company and the Group in accordance with Chapter 6, publication on 8 March 2018. Torekov, Sweden, 8 March 2018 Fredrik Arp Chairman of the Board Sven Boström-Svensson Henrik Jorlén Lovisa Hamrin Board member Board member Board member Dag Andersson Åsa Hedin Lars-Åke Rydh Jenny Sjödahl Board member Board member Board member Board member Christer Wahlquist Björn Jacobsson Håkan Svensson President and CEO Employee representative Employee representative Auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report Directive and division of responsibility different focus and is considerably less in scope than the focus and scope of an audit The Board of Directors is responsible for the sustainability report on pages 6–31 and conducted in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing and generally for ensuring that it is prepared in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that this review provides us with a sufficient basis for our opinion. Focus and scope of the review Our review was conducted in accordance with the Swedish Institute of Authorised PubOpinion lic Accountants’ recommendation RevR 12 – ‘Auditor’s opinion regarding the statuA sustainability report has been prepared. tory sustainability report.’ This means that our review of the sustainability report has a Torekov, Sweden 12 March 2018. Ernst & Young AB Stefan Engdahl Authorised public accountant Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 33 / 36 Definitions and glossary CDP The Carbon Disclosure Project is a volCSR/CR Corporate Social Responsibility/ tions undertake to endorse ten fundamental untary system for reporting the environmenCorporate Responsibility is a term that enprinciples in relation to human rights, octal impacts caused by businesses. The pricompasses how companies handle issues cupational conditions, the environment and mary target group is international investors concerning the environment, social responanti-corruption. Nolato became a signatory that can refer to information on climate risks sibility, financial responsibility and business to the Global Compact in 2009. when making investment decisions about ethics. Often used in the same sense as the companies. Nolato has been reporting acterm ‘sustainable development’. GRI The Global Reporting Initiative has escording to CDP since 2015. tablished voluntary comprehensive guideEMC The shielding of electronics to achieve lines for how companies and other organiCFCs/HFCs gases containing chlorofluorocarelectromagnetic compatibility (EMC). sations should report their sustainability bons (CFCs), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) activities. GRI G4, which was introduced in and pollutants containing fluoride have negThe Energy Efficiency Directive The EU direc2013, will be replaced by GRI Standards in ative impacts on the environment as a result tive that was introduced in 2015 and that, 2018. of their ozone-depleting properties and their among other things, covers energy audits effect on the climate. These gases are called at large companies. Nolato is subject to the Injection moulding A method for manufacturF-gases because of the fluoride content and directive and conducts energy audits. ing polymer components. The material, such these types of gases have been regulated in Energy consumption Nolato reports both as a type of plastic, is injected under high the EU since 2015 by the F-gas regulation. direct energy consumption (usage of fuel in pressure into a mould in which the compoThese gases may be found in cooling and own energy facilities) and indirect consumpnent is formed. heat pumps, fire protection equipment and tion (purchased electricity and district heatcircuit breakers. ing). ISO 14001 International standard relating to environmental management systems that Carbon dioxide (CO2) CO2 is formed in all Environmental aspects The parts of an organwas introduced in 1996. Over 345,000 orcarbon combustion processes, such as fossil isation’s activities, products or services that ganisations globally are currently certified fuel combustion. Emissions of carbon dioxinteract with the environment. according to ISO 14001. An updated version ide increase global warming (the greenhouse of the standard was published in 2015 (ISO effect). Environment-related costs Costs attributable 14001:2015). to measures for preventing, reducing or reCLP Classification, Labelling and Packagstoring environmental impact directly caused ISO 26000 International standard that proing is EU legislation that addresses dangers by the organisation’s operations. The same vides guidance on how organisations can posed by chemical substances and mixtures applies for costs concerning the occupational deal with social responsibility issues. This and how users should be informed about environment. The costs include administrastandard was introduced in 2010 and prothem. These regulations were introduced in tion, purchase of services externally, authorvides the backdrop to Nolato’s Code of Con2015. ity fees, environmental management system duct. maintenance, waste and external inspections Code of Conduct Guidelines for Nolato’s and audits. ISO 45001 International standard relating to employees, Board of Directors, suppliers, etc. health and safety. Replaces OHSAS 18001 regarding business ethics, the environment, Environment-related investments Investments and will be published in 2018. labour relations and social responsibility. for preventing and reducing environmental impact from the organisation’s operations. ISO 50001 An international standard relating COP Communication On Progress is an anThe same applies for investments to enhance to energy management systems. nual report submitted to the United Nations the occupational environment. specifying how Nolato operates according to Lean manufacturing A systematic method for the ten principles of the Global Compact. Extrusion A method for continuously manuthe efficient management of resources. Lean facturing products in strands, such as tubing. manufacturing aims to identify all the factors Conflict minerals Tantalum, tin, gold and in a production process that do not create tungsten are referred to as conflict minerals if 5S A Japanese method of organisation in the value for the customer. they originate from the Democratic Republic workplace. It involves sorting, systematising, of Congo and neighbouring countries. The cleaning, standardising and ensuring. 5S is an LWC Occupational accidents causing at least term arose because of the armed conflicts in important element of lean manufacturing. one day’s absence (Lost Work Case). the region, where mining operations often contribute to continued conflicts and lead to Global Compact A UN initiative for responsiNGO Non-governmental organisation, a volhuman rights abuses. ble business practice. Participating organisauntary organisation.  Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 34 / 36 NOx (nitrogen oxides) Gaseous oxides formed Polymers Chemical compounds comprising poverty and hunger, ensure the rights of all during combustion processes through the very long chains made up of small, repeatpeople are respected, achieve equality and oxidation of nitrogen. Harmful to health ing units (monomers). Plastic and rubber are empowerment for all women and girls and and the environment and cause acid rain and examples of polymer materials. ensure lasting protection for the planet and eutrophication. its natural resources. The Sustainable DevelREACH EU chemical legislation for the safer opment Goals are integrated and indivisible, Occupational disease A work-related disease handling of chemicals. Chemical substances and they balance the three dimensions of is a disease caused by long-term exposure must be registered for a certain use and sustainable development: economic, social to a particular factor in the occupational particularly hazardous substances can have and environmental. environment. Examples are noise, dust and restrictions imposed on them. solvents. Sustainability report Under an EU Directive, RoHS EU legislation limiting the use of certhe Swedish government has decided that Occupational injury A work-related injury is tain substances that are hazardous to health as of 2017 it is mandatory for large compaa sudden incident (accident) attributable to and the environment. nies to publish a sustainability report. The work that gives rise to a wound or other insustainability report should contain the nonjury. Typical injuries in the polymer industry SO2 (sulphur dioxide) Sulphur dioxide is financial disclosures required to understand are cuts, falls and injuries caused by heavy formed in the combustion of petroleum the company’s performance, position, results lifting and repetitive tasks. Nolato reports products. The gas contributes to the acidifiand consequences of its business operations, occupational injuries as an accident that cation of watercourses and soil. Large conincluding information on issues concerning causes more than one day of absence, called centrations are harmful to human health. the environment, personnel and social matLost Work Case (LWC). The rate is gauged ters, respect for human rights and the comby the number of occupational injuries per Sustainable development Development that bating of corruption. million hours worked. “satisfies today’s needs without jeopardising future generations’ possibilities to satisfy Water footprint The total volume of fresh OHSAS 18001 Standard relating to health and their needs”. Sustainable development enwater used to produce a company’s goods safety in the workplace. It will be replaced by compasses ecological, social and economic and services. the ISO 45001 standard. sustainability. VOC (Volatile Organic Compounds). A group PCB Polychlorinated biphenyls are a group Sustainable Development Goals At the UN of organic compounds that easily vaporise at of industrial chemicals that are hazardous to summit in 2015, the world’s heads of state room temperature. The concentration of volhealth and the environment. The use of PCB adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals atile hydrocarbons in the air has a negative was prohibited in Sweden in 1972, but the and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Deeffect on health and the environment, e.g. it substance remains in the environment due to velopment. The Sustainable Development contributes to the formation of ground-level its slow decomposition. Goals and the 2030 Agenda aim to eradicate ozone. Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 35 / 36 Nolato Sustainability Report 2017 36 / 36 Nolato AB Nolato Hertila Nolato Lövepac Nolato Silikonteknik SE-269 04 Torekov, Sweden Persbogatan 1 Ringvägen 5 Box 62, SE-694 22 Hallsberg, Sweden Street address: Nolatovägen SE-265 38 Åstorp, Sweden SE-286 73 Skånes Fagerhult, Sweden Street address: Bergsmansvägen 4 Phone: +46 431 442290 Phone: +46 42 66880 Phone: +46 433 32300 Phone: +46 582 88900 Fax: +46 431 442291 Beijing, China Gyõr, Hungary Email: info@nolato.com Nolato Hungary Nolato Automotive Components Nolato EMC Production Jánossomorjai utca 3 402 Longsheng Industrial Park Center Limited Liability Company Nolato Beijing 7, Rong Chang Road East Bükkfa utca 10 HU-9200 Mosonmagyaróvár, Hungary 402 Longsheng Industrial Park Phone: +36 96 578770 Beijing Development Area HU-9027, Gyõr, Hungary 7, Rong Chang Road East Beijing 100176, China Beijing, China Negoiesti, Romania Phone: +86 10 6787 2200 Beijing Development Area DIBO Industrial Park, H13 402 Longsheng Industrial Park Beijing 100176, China Negoiesti, Prahova, 7, Rong Chang Road East Phone: +86 10 6787 2200 Nolato MediTech Beijing Development Area Romania, 107086 Nolato Beijing Medical Box 93, SE-242 21 Hörby, Sweden Beijing 100176, P.R. China 402 Longsheng Industrial Park Nolato Jaycare Street address: Medicingatan 4 Phone: +86 10 6787 2200 7, Rong Chang Road East Phone: +46 415 19700 Penang, Malaysia Beijing Development Area Portsmouth, UK Nolato EMC Production Center Sdn. Bhd. Walton Road, Farlington Lomma, Sweden Beijing 100176, China Box 28, SE-234 21 Lomma, Sweden Plot 368, Lorong Perindustrian Bukit Phone: +86 10 6787 2200 Portsmouth Hampshire, PO6 1TS Minyak 21, Penang Science Park, UK Street address: Koppargatan 13 Kristianstad Phone: +46 415 19700 14100 Simpang Ampat Phone: +44 2392 370102 Penang, Malaysia Krinova Incubator & Science Park Nolato AB 2022:210 Newcastle, UK Nolato MediTor Phone: +604 50 57 830 Stridsvagnsvägen 14 New York Way, New York Ind. Park SE-291 39 Kristianstad, Sweden Newcastle upon Tyne NE27 0QF SE-269 04 Torekov, Sweden Nolato Stargard Phone: +46 708-74 41 70 UK Street address: Nolatovägen Phone: +44 191 296 0303 Phone: +46 431 442260 UL. Uslogowa 1 San Diego, USA 73-110 Stargard 16208 Palomino Mesa Ct Lövepac Converting Nolato Plastteknik Poland San Diego, CA 92127, USA Phone: +48 91 573 6362 Phone: +1 858 859 5270 4th Floor, Building 3, Box 4123, SE-422 04 Hisings Backa, No. 21 Xingsheng Road Sweden Nolato Treff Nolato Cerbo BDA, Beijing, 100176 Street address: Exportgatan 59 China Phone: +46 31 588400 Taastrasse 16, 9113 Degersheim Box 905, SE-461 29 Trollhättan, Phone: +86 10 6780 5580 Switzerland Sweden Nolato Polymer Phone: +41 71 372 55 55 Street address: Verkmästarevägen 1-3 Shenzhen, China Phone: +46 520 409900 First Floor, No. 3 Building, SE-269 04 Torekov, Sweden No.1 Lirong Rd. Changyi Industrial Street address: Nolatovägen www.nolato.com Paris, France Area, Xinshi Community, 15, Rue Vignon Phone: +46 431 442200 Dalang St. Longhua District FR-75008 Paris, France 518109 Shenzhen, China Ängelholm, Sweden Phone: +33 1 47 975284 Phone: +86 755 8610 6065 Framtidsgatan 6 SE-262 73 Ängelholm, Sweden Nolato Contour Penang, Malaysia Phone: +46 431 442200 Nolato EMC Production Center 660 VandeBerg Street Plot 368, Lorong Perindustrian Bukit Baldwin, WI 54002, USA Minyak 21, Penang Science Park, Phone: +1 715 684 4614 14100 Simpang Ampat Penang, Malaysia Nolato Gota Phone: +604 50 57 830 Box 29, SE-533 21 Götene, Sweden Street address: Alsborgsgatan 2 Phone: +46 511 342100
