GHANA OIL COMPANY LIMITED (GOIL) GC ADVANCED COP IMPLEMENTING THE TEN PRINCIPLES INTO STRATEGIES & OPERATIONS GC Scope or Criteria for GC GOIL Approach Principle Advanced Level Scope: Criterion 1: GOIL is an Oil Marketing Company, with industrial and commercial operations in petroleum products in Ghana. Our growth is based on shared core values. Implementing The COP describes the Ten Principles into mainstreaming The core of GOIL’S Corporate Social Responsibility programs has been anchored on Strategies & Operation into corporate initiatives , programs and projects that benefit communities in need . Over the years, functions and GOIL has held on to the belief that apart from assisting such communities, it is also business units vital for the success and growth of business. To this end, the core of the company’s CSR business has been in water and sanitation. GOIL has thus continued with its portable water supply project by delivering mechanized boreholes to several deprived communities spread across the country. Over the last three years for example, GOIL has been providing a minimum of 10 boreholes every year to deprived communities. GOIL is committed to supporting efficient and properly managed utilization of our energy sources and products. We take into account the needs of today's consumers and the interest of future generations through an active policy of environmental stewardship that is an integral part of our sustainable development strategy. JUNE 2018 1 As a general principle, GOIL is sensitive to the concerns expressed by the public, government and non-governmental organizations in matters concerning our operations. GOIL observes the rules of free competition and rejects bribery and corruption in all forms, whether public or private, active or passive. As a signatory to the UN Global compact and Ghana Business Code, GOIL is committed to ensuring that all its practices, procedures and processes are in line with the UN Global Compact. Criterion 2: GOIL applies its business principles and rules of individual behaviour whenever it leads or operates a Joint Venture. When we do not lead or operate a venture, we The COP describes require the leader or operator to apply principles that are compatible with our value chain business principles and rules of individual behaviour. In conducting its implementation businesses, GOIL respects the natural environment and the cultural values of Ghana. Through our operations, we contribute to the social and economic development in towns and local communities. We have efficiently used our fuel analysers to test product quality and resolved complaints and enquiries in a timely manner. This has instilled a high level of customer confidence and satisfaction amongst our stakeholders GOIL is committed to developing people’s skills inside and outside the Company. JUNE 2018 2 HUMAN RIGHTS MANAGEMENT POLICIES & PROCEDURES GC Scope or Criteria for GC GOIL Approach Principle Advanced Level Principle 1: Criterion 3: GOIL strives to uphold the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and insist our business partners uphold the same high criteria. Businesses should The COP describes support and respect the robust In Ghana Oil Company Limited (GOIL), human rights take the form of non – protection of commitments, discrimination, nonharassment, health and safety and privacy. internationally strategies or Proclaimed human policies in the area We value difference in thought, ethnicity and culture because we believe such rights. of human difference only makes GOIL a stronger brand. right Principle 2: GOIL respects human rights and it plays a vital part in our interactions with all Businesses should interested parties. make sure that they are not GOIL seeks to rid the work environments of any form of harassment and violence. complicit in human GOIL defines harassment to include but not limited to verbal or visual altercations, rights sexual harassment, offensive language or jokes, anti-diversity slurs, degrading abuses comments and intimidating or threating behaviour. Staff have been informed of the necessary channels to take should they be victims of harassment or violence. GOIL is committed to respect all human rights. All human rights related issues from all interested parties are given equal attention. JUNE 2018 3 Criterion 4: A code of conduct which governs the conduct of GOIL, our subsidiaries, contractors, consultants, transporters and suppliers have been published to inform and make The COP describes our stand clear to all employees, business partners, suppliers and all other effective interested parties. management systems to The code outlines our commitments to human rights, labour rights, environmental integrate the protection and anticorruption practices and describes our expectations with regards human rights to suppliers’ performance on these issues. Verification of compliance with the code principles is subject to annual evaluation and audits by GOIL or a designated third party. An SOP has also been developed to establish procedures for selection, evaluation and re-evaluation of suppliers not only based on their continuing capability to deliver materials or services as per GOIL’s purchasing requirements, but also their compliance to human rights legislature. Our internal due diligence process requires that our business partners are screened vigorously prior to any business engagement. This screening process include screening for potential human rights non-compliance or violations. Periodic training programs are organised to raise awareness of human right issues Criterion 5: We adhere to this principle through our compliance with all applicable legislation and GOIL’s own requirements. The COP describes effective As our business activities are stretched across the length and breadth of Ghana, we monitoring and recognise that further monitoring may be required to provide full assurance that evaluation there is no potential for complicity in human rights abuses. mechanisms of human rights Compliance through contracts with business partners. To ensure that our activities integration and that of our business partners do not deprive people of their human rights, JUNE 2018 4 Employees and business partners are required to fully comply with our code of conduct which is a non-negotiable requirements to be adhered to without exceptions. Continuity in doing business with our partners is subject to annual audits and evaluation against set of defined principles, codes, polices and guidelines. Any contravention of human rights will result in abrogation of contract. We also recognise steps must be taken to identify and address these risks, we are therefore fully committed to providing human rights awareness and training programmes for our employees and business partners. LABOUR MANAGEMENT POLICIES & PROCEDURES GC Scope or Criteria for GC GOIL Approach Principle Advanced Level Principle 3: Criterion 6: GOIL believes that the long-term success and survival depends on our staff sharing a common goal and a commitment to shared values. Businesses should The COP describes The company is committed to ensuring that the right to organize and collective uphold robust bargaining allows those workers to find a common voice. It offers employees with the freedom of commitments, an essential framework for engaging with management on their rights to receive fair association and the strategies or wages, sufficient benefits and decent conditions at work to mention a few, in effective policies in the accordance with the national law without fear of intimidation or reprisal. recognition of the right area of labour to collective The right to establish and to join organizations of their choice to promote and bargaining. developed respective interest is highly respected at GOIL. The freedom of association serves as an important instrument for the workers to achieve better working conditions. We are well represented and have forged strong relationships with trade unions and we regularly engage and discuss our progress in addressing labour standards. JUNE 2018 5 We are committed to building a corporate culture that is based on trust, and in good faith, an environment in which every individual staff is able to make their valued contribution to the team’s success. We recognise and respect the right of employees to collective bargaining and freedom of association in accordance with all relevant local labour legislation as specified in our code of ethics. Our staff handbook spells out labour relations on grievances & disputes, discipline, Senior Staff Association. The Handbook also covers issues concerning our employee rights and compensation and responsibilities. The company recognizes the existence of a Senior staff Association on consultative basis. The Association compromises all Senior Staff of the company and have its objective as the promotion of the welfare of members and mutual co-operation and understanding with management in the best interest of the company. Our company handbook and policies state the right for collective bargaining. Our handbooks covers policies concerning our employee rights and compensation and responsibilities. We assess labour related risks. We have a dedicated resource that monitors and mandates environmental and safety risks. We will continue to refine our employee handbook as needed and incorporate the Global Compact. As stated in our mission statement : Our services provision will be on “Professionally trained, high quality, motivated workforce, working as a team in an environment, which recognizes and reward performance, innovation and creativity and provides for personal growth and development. JUNE 2018 6 The employment of all senior staff will be guided by the terms and conditions as Principle 4: stipulated in the Staff Job description Manual and Senior Staff Handbook documents. The elimination of all forms of forced and GOIL shall fill vacancies with the best-qualified available personnel. A vacancy shall compulsory labour. as much as practicable be advertised first All labour is sourced from the open labour market; employees are provided with labour contracts in accordance with relevant labour legislation, and are free to resign at any time. Our risk management and stakeholder engagement processes expose our levels of risk with respect to labour principles As a company we do not in any way or at any level engage children less than 18 years in our employment as our work involves chemicals which may be hazardous if not handled safely. Through the implementation of our supplier evaluation, we review the practices of suppliers and contractors. We also conduct due diligence investigations of our business partners to ensure that nobody whose work contribute to the success of GOIL is below the minimum age for admission to employment or work. This principle is non-negotiable and it is strictly required for doing business with us. JUNE 2018 7 GOIL regards child labour as a violation of fundamental human rights and does not make use of child labour in any of its operations Principle 5: GOIL is committed to the Age Convention, 1973 (No. 138) which sets a general The effective abolition minimum age for admission to employment or work that shall not be less than the of child labour. age of completion of compulsory schooling and in any case, shall not be less than 15 years, 13 years for light labour. For hazardous work, the minimum age is 18 (or 16 under strict conditions) As a company we do not in any way or at any level engage children less than 18 years in our employment as our work involves chemicals which may be hazardous if not handled safely. Due to the high risk nature of the job GOIL undertakes, it is our company policy to only employ people who are 18 years and older. Our operations comply with the local laws and the selection and hiring process. Through the implementation of our supplier evaluation, we review the practices of suppliers and contractors. We also conduct due diligence investigations of our business partners to ensure that nobody whose work contribute to the success of GOIL is below the minimum age for admission to employment or work. This principle is non-negotiable and it is strictly required for doing business with us. We also ensure that our contractor who work on our behalves as well as our suppliers do not to engage the employment of children less than 18 years JUNE 2018 8 GOIL do not discriminate or deny access to jobs and training, receive low wages or are restricted to certain opportunities on the grounds of gender, skin colour, ethnic or national origin, religion or belief, disability or age without regard for their skills Principle 6: and capabilities. GOIL respects and believe that freedom from discrimination is a fundamental The elimination of human right which is essential for employees and job seekers to choose their Discrimination in respect of employment employment freely, to develop their potential to the full, and reap economic rewards and occupation on the basis of merit. The company guards against discrimination arising out of work related activities which include recruitment, remuneration, hours of work, maternity protection, job assignments, performance assessment and advancement, training opportunities and occupational health and safety Criterion 7: GOIL is aware that many people all across the world are killed, injured or made sick by the work they do. Workers pay such a price to provide for themselves and their The COP describes families and this to GOIL is unacceptable. effective management To provide workplace safety, GOIL have put in place measures at all our outlets to systems to ensure the safety of our employees and the environment in which we operate. integrate the labour During the previous year, our service station staff who are exposed most to the principle hazards associated with the handling and storage of petroleum products were all trained on the hazards posed by the product they work with, its safe handling and advised on unsafe acts at the service stations. JUNE 2018 9 All newly recruited staff were provided personal protective equipment specific to their work and associated hazards. The following best practices are implemented in GOIL,  conducts regular dialogue with trade unions to review the company’s progress in maintaining labour standards  assigns accountability to the relevant staff to ensure compliance to labour principles  conducts awareness building events and internal training on labour principles for company management and employees Criterion 8: All our stakeholders are encouraged to inform or report any labour violation or wrongdoing to the following whistle-blowing email address which is accessible only The COP by the chairperson of the ethics committee: wb@goil.com.gh describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of labour principles integration JUNE 2018 10 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT POLICIES & PROCEDURES GC Scope or Criteria for GC GOIL Approach Principle Advanced Level Principle 7: Criterion 9: It is the policy of Ghana Oil Company Limited (GOIL) to conduct its business in a manner that is friendly with the balanced environmental and economic needs of the Businesses The COP describes communities in which we operate. should support robust We are dedicated to continuous efforts to improve environmental performance a precautionary commitments, throughout its operations. approach to strategies or environmental policies in the area challenges of GOILs sole business is in the storage, distribution and marketing of petroleum environmental products (Diesel, Super, LPG, Lubricants) across Ghana. Aware of the hazards posed stewardship by petroleum products to the environment (air, water, land), GOIL has put in place measures and guidelines along the supply chain to protect the environment. We have adopted and implemented standards, codes and best practices related to the environmental protection. We are fully committed to implementing and integrating these standards into all of our operation. It is Managements decision to be certified to ISO 14001 International Standard, as part of preparation towards our certification, environmental aspects and impacts Principle 8: for all processes were identified and operational controls implemented to prevent environmental pollution Businesses should The company through its Environmental Management Policy ensures considerable undertake reduction in gaseous and effluent emissions. initiatives to promote The company ensures that its use of environmentally friendly cleaner processed greater fuels reduces emissions and pollution. JUNE 2018 11 environmental Our continual partnership with a technology company (Bidi Group) offers responsibility technology on the efficiency of the usage of fuels (Diesel XP and Super XP) sold by the company. These products promote engine efficiency. Principle 9: Businesses GOIL is proud to report a 100% compliance to environmental laws and regulations. should During the reporting period, no penalties, fines or sanctions were imposed for encourage the noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Criterion 10: GOIL is committed to prevent environmental pollution & continually improve the environment management system. GOIL recognizes that the delivery of our The COP describes operations inevitably impact on the environment in a number of ways Effective management Through a commitment to continuous environmental improvement, GOIL’s aim is systems to to ensure that our business operation is undertaken in such a manner as to have integrate the minimum impact on the environment. environmental principles GOIL is in the processes of being certified to ISO 14001, and as such our current Environmental Management System is being aligned with ISO 14001 requirements. As part of preparations towards this certification, environmental aspects and impacts have been identified and operational controls put in place to ensure minimum environmental impact and enhance environmental protection. We reviewed our Material Safety Data Sheet taking into consideration current best practices that protects the environment and prevent the pollution of the environment by the hazardous products we deal with. JUNE 2018 12 GOIL complies fully with laws (national and international), codes, guidelines and industry standards applicable with our activities and products. Our mandatory requirement is that suppliers are environmentally compliant with all necessary legal permits, but the policy expects them to proceed towards best practice. We are willing to apply more stringent criteria than those required by law when we believe this to be appropriate. Our Environmental policy reaffirms Management commitment and dedication toward the protection of the environment. It also spells out environmental objects required to ensure environmental protection. Criterion 11: We have audited systems in place to measure, monitor and report annually against our own performance targets and indicators of performance. The COP describes GOIL is in the processes of being certified to ISO 14001 and to meet the requirement effective of clause 9.2.2 (Internal Audit Program) which states that, the organisation shall monitoring and establish, implement and maintain an internal audit program, including the evaluation frequency, methods, responsibilities, planning requirements and reporting on its mechanisms for internal audit. This is an active way of monitoring and evaluating environmental environmental conformance and compliance with ISO 14001 standard and legal requirements stewardship respectively. Environmental auditing programmes have been implemented to help achieve continuous improvement in environmental performance. Management conduct an annual evaluation of GOIL compliance with environmental requirements which results are used by Management for the setting of new targets. JUNE 2018 13 ANTI-CORRUPTION MANAGEMENT POLICIES & PROCEDURES GC Scope or Criteria for GC GOIL Approach Principle Advanced Level Principle 10: Criterion 12: GOIL has a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption in any form including;  Abuse of public office for private gain Businesses The COP  Misuse of public property should work describes robust  Misuse of public monies against commitments,  Theft of public property corruption in all strategies or  Theft of public money its forms, policies in the including area of Our commitment to combating corruption is embodied in our code of ethics extortion and anticorruption bribery The company believes in full disclosure in its operations and therefore adopts standard accounting practices (IFRS principles ) and ensure good internal controls to facilitate the reliability of the financial statement GOIL applies its business principles and rules of individual behaviour whenever it leads or operates a Joint Venture. When we do not lead or operate a venture, we require the leader or operator to apply principles that are compatible with our business principles and rules of individual behaviour. In conducting its businesses, GOIL respects the natural environment and the cultural values of Ghana. Through our operations, we contribute to the social and economic development in towns and local communities. GOIL rejects all forms of bribery and corruption. In particular, GOIL will not resort to bribery or corruption in order to obtain or retain business or other improper advantage in the conduct of all business. JUNE 2018 14 Criterion 13: Our commitment to combating corruption is embodied in our code of ethics The COP describes The company is committed by ensuring that anti-corruption practices, standards, Effective and procedures are communicated to all employees and business partners. management systems to Enforcement of the code is facilitated through the establishment of whistle-blowing integrate the email address which is accessible only by the chairperson of the ethics committee: anti-corruption All our stakeholders are encouraged to inform or report any breach of Company principle procedure or wrongdoing to the wb@goil.com.gh. Criterion 14: The company upholds the importance of good governance by investing in a wellstructured Internal Audit Department. The department has an independent The COP describes appraisal function which encompasses the examination and evaluation of the effective adequacy and effectiveness of the company’s systems of internal controls. monitoring and evaluation In our sustainability report we report on the outcomes of our internal ethics line, as mechanisms for well as on progress in our ethics governance practices the integration of anticorruption JUNE 2018 15 TAKING ACTION IN SUPPORT OF BROADER UN GOALS AND ISSUES GC Scope or Criteria for GC GOIL Approach Principle Advanced Level Scope: Taking Criterion 15: GOIL is a signatory to the UN Global Compact. This sets out commitments for Action in Support of business in relation to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Broader UN Goals and The COP describes We have pledged to uphold these principles and ensure that all our practices, Issues core business procedures and processes are in line with the UN Global Compact. contributions to UN goals and Also, we integrate environmental and social considerations into our core business issues operations, including tackling environmental challenges such as waste management, respect for human right. Central to GOIL’s good governance policies are corporate social responsibility programs. The core of GOIL’S Corporate Social Responsibility programs has therefore been anchored on initiatives, programs and projects that benefit communities in need. This is why, for the past 13 years, we have been supporting and implementing the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, a commitment renewed in 2017 as an Advanced Level participant. Criterion 16: GOIL’s commitment is anchored on our mission that goes beyond the provision of quality products and services. The Company’s commitment include The COP acknowledgement of the needs of the communities in which we operate. It stems describes from the belief that the quality strategic social of life of people must be improved, and that the society must benefit from the gains investments of and GOIL. philanthropy JUNE 2018 16 Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programmes are therefore anchored on the provision of water and sanitation facilities to deprived communities, improvement of health delivery systems, supporting the delivery quality education and the development of sports. Water and Sanitation Several communities benefitted from potable water through the provision of small township water systems to over 50,000 residents in eight deprived communities in three Regions of Ghana. The communities are; Menang, Ataase Nkwanta and Sikaman all in the Adansi South district of the Ashanti region; Adabokrom in the Bia East District, Kaase in the Bia West and Achiase in the Bia West District of the Western region. Boreholes were also provided for students of Nifa Secondary School in the Akuapem North district and at Nobi (New Tafo) in the East Akim district all in the Eastern region. Education We also took a giant step to help improve quality of education by supporting the National Science and Maths Quiz with sponsorship. We believe the next crop of scientists and leaders must be unearthed and encouraged. Together with the Chartered Institute of Marketing Ghana (CIMG), the Company set up an awards scheme to promote local innovation and entrepreneurial development in five Technical Universities in the country. The initiative will identify, assist and develop skilled students to sharpen their entrepreneurial skills. JUNE 2018 17 Health To support health care delivery, • Management of GOIL donated over $10,000.00 (GHC50, 000) to the National Cardiothoracic Centre Korle Bu Teaching Hospital. • GOIL made a significant donation of over $50,000.00 (GHC250, 000) to the Mother and Child Foundation Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital in Kumasi. •1,000 beds were donated to Hospitals across the country. Donations to Needy Institutions Several other donations were made to orphanages, homes and sociallydisadvantaged groups such as the Teshie Orphanage, Accra Rehabilitation Centre, Ho Leprosarium and Rehabilitation Home, Hope Vocational Institute near Pokuase, Society for the Physically Disabled and other needy institutions. Criterion 17: GOIL has since 2013 been a strong advocate for the provision of portable water to deprived communities in Ghana. The COP describes The provision of portable water has been an integral part of GOIL’s mission to assist advocacy and the deprived in rural communities within Ghana to improve their living conditions. public policy As at its onset in 2013, about forty (40) mechanized boreholes have been engagement inaugurated in communities across Ghana. GOIL is determined to achieve its goal to provide portable water to deprived communities and as such will continue with its campaign. Since 2006 our CEO has been communicating publicly our commitment to the implementation of the principles of the Global Compact. JUNE 2018 18 The following best practices are implemented in GOIL,  advocates the importance of action in relation to one or more UN goals/issues  commits company leaders to participate in key summits, conferences, and other important public policy interactions in relation to one or more UN goals/issues Criterion 18: To contribute to the Forestry Commission of Ghana’s aim to conserve and manage Ghana’s Forestry resources, GOIL in collaboration with Forestry Commission The COP embarked on a campaign to raise the nation’s forest coverage. The campaign is describes aimed at growing and nurturing over 10,000 tress across Ghana. partnerships and collective Together with the Chartered Institute of Marketing Ghana (CIMG), the Company action set up an awards scheme to promote local innovation and entrepreneurial development in five Technical Universities in the country. GOIL supports the Media Coalition Against ‘Galamsey’ to help the team operate efficiently in their monitoring rounds of illegal mining sites. A Media Coalition against illegal mining comprising major media organisations in Ghana launched to wage a crusade against the menace. JUNE 2018 19 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AND LEADERSHIP GC Scope or Criteria for GC GOIL Approach Principle Advanced Level Scope: Criterion 19: Apex Committee made up of the Chairman, the Managing Director and one other Corporate member of the Board deal with policy and corporate strategy direction of the Sustainability The COP Company and make recommendations to the Board. Governance describes CEO and Leadership commitment and leadership Criterion 20: The nine-member Board consists of eight (8) Non-Executive Directors who are responsible for ensuring that the highest standards of corporate governance are The COP achieved in directing and controlling the Company's business. The ninth member describes who is the only Executive Director is also the Managing Director. Board adoption and oversight The Board was assisted in the discharge of its duties, by the under-mentioned committees which met frequently in between Board meetings: APEX COMMITTEE This Committee is made up of the Chairman, the Managing Director and one other member of the Board. They deal with policy and corporate strategy direction of the Company and make recommendations to the Board. FINANCE, AUDIT AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Committee's function was to review and make recommendations to the Board on the Company's budgets, audited financial statements and regulatory conformance. JUNE 2018 20 OPERATIONAL AND MARKETING COMMITTEE The Committee assisted Management to review and consider operational and marketing strategies to propel the Company to prosperity, despite the competition in the Oil Industry. Criterion 21: GOIL strives to earn the confidence of its shareholders, with the objective of providing them with a profitable investment. We regularly provide full and The COP transparent information to all shareholders and are attentive to their concerns, describes especially through the Shareholders Advisory Committee. stakeholder engagement JUNE 2018 21
