UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2018 Contents Statement from our CEO 4 Responsible business at Hogan Lovells 6 Delivering legal solutions for our clients 10 Contributing to society 14 Further information 15 Statement from our CEO We live in a time of unprecedented change with global shifts impacting our world as never before. When I consider the geopolitical, social, and economic landscape there are plenty of challenges to both how we operate as a business and how we behave as individuals. It is in that context that we consider what it means to be competitive and responsible, and how those qualities make us “fit for the future.” Being fit carries with it a number of connotations, ranging from having the right mindset to the shape of our business to the way in which we work together as a team. When considering what it means to be fit, it is our culture, itself a product of our personal and collective behavior, that comes to the fore. One of the strongest qualities of that culture and what it means to be Hogan Lovells is the principle of being committed – committed to our clients, committed to each other, and committed to the communities in which we operate. A second quality is being ambitious – being confident in what we can achieve and using that confidence to pursue our goals and being focused on what the future can offer. Being committed and ambitious is critical when we examine our responsibilities in meeting our obligations under the UN Global Compact and to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. In the following pages you will find some illustrative examples of how as a responsible global business we fully leverage our resources, knowledge, and skills to be fit for the future. Using those cultural qualities of committed and ambitious to help shape business and society for the better. Stephen Immelt CEO, Hogan Lovells 6 Hogan Lovells Responsible business at Hogan Lovells Global human rights policy We have determined that most of our We respect human rights in our practices, suppliers present a low risk of modern slavery business, and supply chain by clarifying what and human trafficking. However, some of our we expect of our people and our business suppliers operate within sectors that present partners through our global human rights some inherent risks. In such cases, further policy. Our Human Rights Sub-Committee information is requested from the supplier monitors its implementation and reports to to confirm that any risks have been identified the board on issues related to human rights and addressed. in our business and supply chain in order to A total of 396 suppliers were deemed continuously assess and improve our human high risk across our International LLP. rights due diligence procedures, and integrate Our client due diligence team performed the findings into our operational procedures. a due diligence exercise in relation to each We provide human rights training to all of and none were found to be involved in our nearly 7,000 colleagues worldwide with modern slavery, i.e. forced labor, child labor, further modules for all of our 2,800 lawyers. or any other form of exploitation. In addition, our Business and Human Rights Living Wage Employer specialists provided focused training to We are a voluntary signatory to the Living corporate and finance practitioners in London Wage Foundation (LWF) campaign in the – looking inwards at our human rights risk UK. The LWF provides a benchmark for profile as a firm and outwards at how we can employers that choose to pay their employees support our clients to identify and address at a rate which is calculated according to human rights risk. the cost of living. We require our suppliers, The UK Modern Slavery Act such as our caterers, to state in their contracts In the UK, we have procedures in place that they pay their staff at least this rate. to address modern slavery and human We pay our employees the Real Living Wage, trafficking risks in our business and supply a rate higher than the LWF wage. chain and report on these in accordance with Global Diversity & Inclusion Committee the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act. Our Global Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) The majority of our suppliers are UK-based Committee comprises senior representation in supply standard low-risk goods or services. from across our practice groups, industry We do not simply buy goods or services on sectors, and regions. The Committee is cost-based principles. We recognize there accountable for defining and executing our are areas of potentially higher risk and in global D&I strategy. In addition, we have some services involving relatively high levels regional committees that are responsible for of contracted labor. We have a database of delivering this strategy in alignment with first tier suppliers to maximize control and local priorities. coordination, adopting a risk-based approach to assess and manage, whenever necessary, any modern slavery risks in our supply chain. In the U.S. we have been named as the “Best law firm for women”, recognizing the work of our Women’s Initiative Network in supporting women’s business development training. 41 percent of the firm’s lawyers in the U.S. are women. UNGC COP 2018 November 2018 7 In the UK, 47 percent of graduate hires were from black, Asian and minority ethnic backgrounds. . Gender equality are working with recruiters, organizations, We are a signatory to the Women’s and universities around the world to open up Empowerment Principles, and we put those the legal sector to a broader range of talent. principles into action. 32 percent of our In the U.S. we have adopted the Mansfield senior management committee are women Rule, which requires that the firm affirmatively and globally just under 25 percent of partners take measures to track and increase the size are women and we aim to achieve at least of candidate pools for significant activities 30 percent women in partnership by 2022. and leadership positions within the firm. Gender Pay Report UK The goal is to increase the diversity of our leadership by achieving at least 30 percent of Our Gender Pay Report concluded that women, minority, and LGBT+ lawyers in the women comprise two thirds of our workforce candidate pools in more than 70 percent of the and are well represented at every level of our 11 categories each reporting period. organization. The gender split in the upper quartiles demonstrates our commitment to Respect Advocates ensuring women reach senior positions. In the UK, we have introduced Respect Advocates who are available to provide support LGBT+ and guidance to anyone in the firm who would We believe that every person should have like to speak confidentially about bullying, equal rights to study, work, and be an active discrimination or harassment, whether due part of their community. That is why we to experiencing it themselves or witnessing continue to focus on growing our Pride+ it in relation to others. We have delivered ‘Allies’ network that has 1,500 members mandatory workshops for all UK partners worldwide. Our LGBT+ people and allies and Business Services leads to ensure our set the culture of our firm and use their leaders understand and are equipped to deal influence to raise important issues both with these issues. In addition, a respect policy locally and globally. has been rolled out across all 14 offices in Ethnicity, culture, & social inclusion Continental Europe and classroom and online training has been delivered in the U.S. We were one of the first law firms to introduce contextual recruitment in the UK, which allows Health & Wellbeing recruiters to make more informed choices Across our regions we have a strong focus on about candidates by considering the context in both physical and mental health with every which their academic achievements have been region participating in a wellbeing day, week, gained; 19 percent of our UK graduate hires are or month. All our people have access to an from lower socioeconomic backgrounds. As part Employee Assistance Program providing of our widening access program in the UK we consultation and mediation services. We provide on-site gyms or subsidized gym access, as well as free fruit in many of our offices and access to nutritionists. We embed In Russia we continue to lead conversations wellbeing into our benefits packages, and as on LGBT+ inclusion. This year we hosted a a multi-generational workplace we provide global webinar in Moscow with people initiatives that support people at every stage taking part in New York, London, Paris, of their life. In the UK and U.S. we also have Frankfurt, Rome, and Madrid. The topic was on-site, independent counsellors and provide how to ensure the safety of LGBT+ refugees mental health awareness training. and immigrants all over the world. 8 People networks and ensure that all relevant stakeholders Our networks and affinity groups are active embed sustainability principles into daily across all our regions and support a wide operations. Our people actively participate in network of communities including LGBT+, the development of sustainability initiatives women, working families, racial and ethnic worldwide and are encouraged to develop minorities, wellbeing, millennials, careers, their own ideas. and colleagues with disabilities or long‑term London office refurbishment health conditions. Open to all, they provide As part of the refurbishment of our London a forum for networking and business office we are assessing the environmental development and support our understanding impacts under the SKA rating, led and of the relevant issues. governed by the Royal Institute of Chartered Global Sustainability Surveyors. We have achieved a Gold SKA Our Global Sustainability Policy helps us to rating for environmental performance minimize energy consumption and waste, throughout the refurbishment project. maximize recycling and reuse, and travel responsibly. In the UK, we are a founding member of the Legal Sustainability Alliance on Climate Change and in the U.S. we are a member of the Law Firm Sustainability Network. All but one of our U.S. offices are at a minimum Leadership in Energy and Ethical behavior Environmental Design (LEED) certified Our updated Global Anti-Bribery and with the majority of offices at Silver Anti-Corruption Policy aims to support level. This includes incorporating energy our commitment to the prevention of bribery efficiencies such as occupancy sensor and and corruption and to the promotion of an daylight harvesting lighting, water usage anti-bribery and anti-corruption culture reduction by installing low flow toilets and by setting forth the firm’s expectations and faucets, and Energy Star rated appliances. requirements relating to the prevention, Following the refurbishment of the building detection, and reporting of bribery and other to the highest environmental standards, our forms of corruption. Our updated Global Tokyo office is working with our real estate Whistleblowing Policy provides means that leadership team to promote the development our people can raise concerns in a manner of sustainable office design guidelines and that protects them from the fear of reprisals a global sustainability framework for our or victimization and which is fair to all 45+ offices. These initiatives will raise the persons involved. profile of sustainability across the entire firm Representative experience – we advised • EDF on its market first precedent-setting €1.4bn issues of Green Bonds to finance future renewable energy projects led by EDF Energies Nouevelles, a wholly owned subsidiary of EDF; • Mars on a 10-year energy supply agreement to purchase green electricity from Eneco’s new 20-turbine Moy Wind Farm in the Scottish Highlands; • IFC and Shell Foundation on their investments in a US$30m+ Luxembourg energy fund, aiming to improve access to energy to offgrid communities in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia. 10 Hogan Lovells Delivering legal solutions for our clients Business and Human Rights Practice UN Protect, Respect and Remedy We have a market leading international Framework for Business and Human business and human rights (BHR) practice, Rights and Rule of Law 2030 advising businesses on how to identify We are leaders in the BHR policy debate and address adverse human rights risks and are guided by improving access to in their operations and supply chains. remedy for victims of adverse human rights We provide clients with the full range of impacts while also ensuring legal certainty human rights services, from due diligence and a level playing field for responsible on new operations and ventures through businesses. In particular to investigations of adverse human rights impacts and human rights related litigation. • our BHR blog was read 40,000 times by Among other matters, we have advised on readers in 117 countries; the human rights implications of projects at • we published the first in a series of sector the leading edge of technological innovation, specific practical guides on the UN Guiding with potential consequences for billions of Principles for Business and Human Rights; people. By engaging clients in the human • we delivered training on human rights risk rights risk associated with their operations, to clients around the world; products, services, and supply chains and demonstrating how this risk interacts with • we chaired and participated in sessions at their “hard” legal risk, we can support the UN and International Bar Association businesses to prevent adverse human on Business and Human Rights and Rule rights impacts wherever they operate. In of Law; recognition of our work in this area, our • we collaborated with the British Institute of London based practice was awarded the International and Comparative Law to test 2018 LexisNexis Legal Award for Innovation. the feasibility of the UK Joint Committee on Human Rights recommendation for a “failure to prevent” adverse human rights legislative mechanism; • Rule of Law 2030 is an evidence-based initiative to align our existing rule of law projects with the SDGs and to maximize our future impact by collaborating with “Hogan Lovells’ BHR department businesses and host governments to sits right at the pinnacle of this implement projects to strengthen the rule fast‑growing area of legal practice” of law. We have cataloged our existing Ben Emmerson QC, rule of law projects and are currently Former UN Special Rapporteur seeking opportunities to partner with on human rights and terrorism businesses and governments on new rule of law initiatives. UNGC COP 2018 November 2018 11 12 Hogan Lovells Representative experience – we advised deliver savings with high commercial and • IIX on its US$8 million Women’s Livelihood environmental value; Bond – the world’s first listed bond with dual • RECUP on its innovative and sustainable focus on financial and social returns; deposit system for reusable takeaway • Signol on its cutting-edge behavioral science coffee cups. platform to drive fuel efficiency and Cross practice initiatives HL BaSE Both our internal human rights compliance HL BaSE is our social enterprise and social and our business and human rights offering finance practice. Working with social impact to clients spans practice areas across clients gives us a deep understanding of our global offices allowing us to provide responsible and sustainable business and, clients with advice on the international, in particular, business with purpose. We are multi‑jurisdictional, and multi-disciplinary able to draw on this understanding when nature of their human rights risk profile. advising any of our clients, whether in Our guide Respecting Human Rights in relation to socially responsible investing, the Energy and Natural Resources Sector anti-bribery and corruption, or corporate developed with our Mining Practice in structuring and B Corp status. It is through Johannesburg is just one example of this work. HL BaSE that we support the development of the ‘Impact Economy’, and connect a variety Business Integrity and Sustainable of stakeholders for whom business is a means Development Initiative to a sustainable and more equitable future. Doing business the right way is fundamental to companies operating in the energy and Anti-bribery and corruption natural resources sector. As stakeholders Global companies need corruption and governments demand higher ethical and related advice from local experts who have sustainability standards from businesses, our an international perspective. We have clients are increasingly adopting strategies and dedicated, on the ground corruption teams in internal controls to ensure they operate ethically. key regional hubs: London, Moscow, Paris, Munich, Johannesburg, Singapore, Shanghai, This initiative focuses on five specific areas: Sao Paulo, Mexico City, San Francisco, sustainable development and the social Tokyo, and Washington D.C. which enables license to operate; green financing, including us to field truly global teams who understand green bonds; socially responsible investing; local nuances and are sensitive to local laws, anti-bribery and corruption; and business combined with a thorough understanding of and human rights. We take an innovative, internationally-applicable laws. We advise client-focused approach, leveraging our global services and sector knowledge. UNGC COP 2018 November 2018 13 Representative experience – we advised • the board of a UK Plc on its compliance with the Bribery Act following a comprehensive review cross numerous jurisdictions worldwide; • a global client on an international internal investigation with regard to criminal liability issues arising from the bribery allegations against FIFA; • undertaking an internal investigation of Eletrobras, the largest electric company in Brazil, of allegations related to the Petrobras “Lavo Jato” scandal. on the most high profile, high value, and have faced global investigations on a scale precedent setting matters. and with financial consequences never seen before. Businesses need to be ready to deal We launched the eighth annual Global with all types of issues, from allegations of Bribery and Corruption Review, housed on misconduct by traders and anti-competitive our new online bribery and corruption portal. behavior to breaches of regulatory and other The review looks ahead to what hurdles obligations relating to money laundering and our clients can expect, and how to go about economic sanctions, often involving multiple avoiding them. authorities in different jurisdictions. We have created a financial investigations roadmap, an interactive tool aimed at guiding clients through the stages of an investigation. Over the last few years, many businesses 14 Hogan Lovells Contributing to society Upholding the rule of law. Calling for accountability A team of lawyers across six jurisdictions We spent more than 1,000 pro bono conducted comparative research for the hours working with the International Bar International Commission of Jurists and the Association (IBA) on a report about human government of a Central Asian state on the rights abuses in North Korean prisons. mechanisms by which the independence and Conditions in the prisons are as bad as the competence of the judiciary are safeguarded. Nazi concentration camps of the Holocaust, Our lawyers conducted research on the according to a judge on the panel who judicial nomination system and the length survived Auschwitz as a child. and affiliation of the mandate; the legally The IBA published a report on the findings of established conflict of interest for judges; the a nearly two-year Inquiry on Crimes Against control of judicial disciplinary mechanisms Humanity in North Korean Political Prisons. and any other mechanism that should have The inquiry report finds reasonable grounds an impact on the independence of the higher to conclude that Kim Jong-un and members bodies of the judicial system and its members. of his regime should be investigated and Supporting integration appropriately prosecuted for committing 10 We are supporting the Spanish Commission out of the 11 crimes against humanity under for Refugees to achieve full integration of the Rome Statute. Our team conducted migrants and refugees in Spain. Together, exhaustive research on crimes against we have designed a series of workshops aimed humanity, including detailed reviews of legal at developing the competencies required to opinions issued by international criminal enter the labor market. Each week a group of tribunals in support of the initiative. refugees and migrants visit our Madrid office Mexico earthquakes and receive technical and language training Following two earthquakes in Mexico, on how to prepare a CV; how to introduce we worked with clearing houses Fundación themselves in a job-related conversation; Barra Mexicana, Fundación Appleseed, basic labor rights; and practical information and the Centro Mexicano Pro Bono to support on websites or associations where they can the communities which had been affected. find job postings. Protecting migrant families We directly impacted the lives of thousands of detained We agreed on a procedure by which both parents and migrants in the U.S., both by preparing individuals for their children will have a meaningful chance to seek asylum. credible fear interviews and through a high-profile lawsuit Parents who were given interviews after being separated against the U.S. government. from their children will have a second chance to talk to Our team negotiated a settlement agreement with the U.S. an immigration officer and present additional evidence. government to resolve M.M.M. v. Sessions, a class action Their children will have the opportunity to have their lawsuit we filed on behalf of migrant children who were forcibly own interviews, with the assistance of their parents. separated from their parents after entering the country. The If either the parent or the child shows a “credible fear” of settlement ensures that those who were set to be deported returning home, both the parent and the child will receive without first being heard on their requests for asylum will now a full hearing before an immigration judge to prove their have a meaningful opportunity to make such claims. claims for asylum. Tackling youth unemployment Our German offices partner with JOBLINGE, a non-profit Mentors act as a confidant, coach, and role model guiding the organization which works with young people between the participant through the program and helping to deal with any ages of 15 and 24 who are unlikely to find employment on issues that arise. Having access to someone who cares and their own. It offers a six-month program with a success rate of listens is often a new experience for the young people, and 70 percent. In addition to pro bono legal advice, over 40 of our these personal relationships are crucial as the participants people have acted as mentors. strive to make sense of and overcome their challenges. We created a consolidated legal guide for the Hogan Lovells Community Solar victims and provided legal advice over the Innovation Awards phone for more than 55 cases which included We launched the Hogan Lovells Community issues relating to real estate and insurance Solar Innovation Awards to recognize claims. Our colleagues also volunteered at a and reward businesses and non-profit number of refuge centers across Mexico City. organizations in developing countries that Lawyers for a Sustainable Economy use solar energy or technologies to benefit As a founding member of Lawyers for a lives in poor communities, especially Sustainable Economy we have committed for women and girls. From nearly 300 to provide at least US $500,000 of pro applications worldwide, ten winners were bono legal support by the end of 2020. selected by leaders in the legal, energy, We will work with U.S. based entrepreneurs, and business sectors. The ten dynamic non‑profits, and grassroots organizations change making organizations are using the that are developing innovative advancements combination of innovation and business to in climate sustainability. make a lasting impact. Further information For further information on our approach to responsible business, we welcome you to Julianne Hughes-Jennett browse our website. Partner, London www.hoganlovells.com T +44 20 7296 2682 julianne.hughes-jennett@hoganlovells.com UN Global Compact key contact: Flip the Switch Barefoot College is a leading social enterprise which works in nearly 100 countries to empower women by training them to become solar engineers. We have made Flip the Switch – A Documentary, about our three year partnership with Barefoot College and the importance of private sector collaboration if we are to achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We held a private screening of the film in London with development. The message was clear: systemic senior executives from major corporations engaging in a change requires business innovation, investment panel discussion on the business case for sustainable and engagement. Alicante Amsterdam Baltimore Beijing Birmingham Boston Brussels Budapest* Colorado Springs Denver Dubai Dusseldorf Frankfurt Hamburg Hanoi Ho Chi Minh City Hong Kong Houston Jakarta* Johannesburg London Los Angeles Louisville Luxembourg Madrid Mexico City Miami Milan Minneapolis Monterrey Moscow Munich New York Northern Virginia Paris Perth Philadelphia Riyadh* Rome San Francisco Sao Paulo Shanghai Shanghai FTZ* Silicon Valley www.hoganlovells.com Singapore Sydney “Hogan Lovells” or the “firm” is an international legal practice that includes Hogan Lovells International LLP, Hogan Lovells US LLP and their affiliated businesses. Tokyo The word “partner” is used to describe a partner or member of Hogan Lovells Ulaanbaatar* International LLP, Hogan Lovells US LLP or any of their affiliated entities or any employee or consultant with equivalent standing. Certain individuals, who are designated as Warsaw partners, but who are not members of Hogan Lovells International LLP, do not hold qualifications equivalent to members. Washington, D.C. For more information about Hogan Lovells, the partners and their qualifications, see www.hoganlovells.com Zagreb* Where case studies are included, results achieved do not guarantee similar outcomes for other clients. Attorney advertising. Images of people may feature current or former lawyers and employees at Hogan Lovells or models not connected with the firm. *Our associated offices © Hogan Lovells 2018. All rights reserved. 1036702_1118
