Global Compact UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 01.05.2017 – 30.04.2018 Statement from the CEO The desire to take responsibility for human beings, the environment The BoConcept CSR policy is divided into the following focus areas: and working circumstances is an important element of BoConcept's safe and environmentally friendly production at our own production global brand. facility and at our sub-suppliers around the world and reduction in CO2 emissions related to transportation and logistics. In 2009, BoConcept joined the UN Global Compact and the BoConcept Corporate Social Responsibility policy is based on the 10 The following pages contain an update on developments in our principles relating to human rights, employee rights, respect for the designated CSR focus areas in the 2017/2018 financial year. environment and a prohibition against corruption. It also ties in with the UN global goals for sustainable development. On behalf of BoConcept, I thank you for the interest you are showing in our organisation and our good work in this field by reading this Global Compact report. Anton van de Putte CEO BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017/2018 2 BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017/2018 3 BoConcept is the brand name of Denmark's most global retail take a holistic approach in the development and design of our furniture chain with more than 250 sales units in more than 60 collection. Design because we are a design company with our own countries around the world. designers. Affordable because we want to spoil our customers by giving them great value. Passion at our core Passion and persistence are what move the people behind the THE BOCONCEPT VISION AND VALUES BoConcept brand, whether they are designing a wall unit, leading a team, or managing a store. Our common mission is to make Our vision and our core values guide us in everything we do at modern design furniture available to the urban-minded customer. BoConcept. These statements are not just words on a page they About are acted out every day by BoConcept employees around the world. Our furniture and accessories We offer customised, coordinated and affordable design furniture Our vision and accessories. Customised because our products can be fitted to To make BoConcept no. 1 brand within urban interiors. BoConcept the needs and dreams of our customers. Coordinated because we BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017/2018 4 CSR VISION CSR POLICY At BoConcept it is vital that our CSR policy strikes an obvious and One of the core values at BoConcept is respect. We want to show healthy balance between environmental impact and business respect for our customers by delivering great design and quality at economics. the right price. But not at any price. As an organisation, we wish to ensure that our conduct has the All BoConcept suppliers must follow the BoConcept Code of Conduct least possible adverse environmental impact; and at the same time in order to ensure that all our products are manufactured in a way we need to be pragmatic and understand that it is impossible to that respects the rights of their employees. Our headquarters are CSR Vision avoid such impact altogether. based in Denmark and we apply our Danish background in our expectations to our suppliers when it comes to quality, environment and work processes. and Policy Over 60 years of experience and know-how provide invaluable benefits for our production facility in Denmark as well as in our close co-operation with our global suppliers. We have carefully selected suppliers that share our commitment to high quality. Business Environmental Together, we work to develop competencies and processes, and to economics impact implement initiatives that take responsibility for people and the environment. BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017/2018 5 Due to BoConcept's social commitment and sense of responsibility, Ten years ago BoConcept launched the first edition of its Code of BoConcept has joined the UN's Global Compact in its attempt to Conduct. The purpose of the BoConcept Code of Conduct is to build a more sustainable and inclusive global economy. ensure that BoConcept suppliers operate in accordance with internationally recognised standards on human rights, labour and With this partnership BoConcept shows its support of the 10 environment. BoConcept adheres to the principles of this code and principles of Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, expects the same of its suppliers. The content is based on relevant environment and anti-corruption. ILO (International Labour Organisation) and UN conventions. The following pages contain an update on the areas that BoConcept The aim of the BoConcept Code of Conduct is not to end our Communihas designated as its principal focus areas: business with non-compliant suppliers but to help our suppliers improve their social and environmental standards. BoConcept is SUPPLIERS therefore willing to work with suppliers to achieve their compliance with this code. However, we will not conduct business with a cation on At BoConcept we have become more globally oriented as a growing supplier if compliance with the requirements of the code is deemed share of our products is sourced from all over the world. impossible. Nor will we conduct business with a supplier engaged in We realise that we are able to exert some influence on our violations of fundamental human rights. suppliers, and we believe it would be natural to take advantage of Progress this to the extent possible. At BoConcept, we visit all our principal suppliers to ensure that these comply with the BoConcept Code of Conduct and that action At BoConcept, we believe that personal relationships, mutual plans are established to deal with the most important issues. respect, communication and determination are useful drivers for growth. With this in mind, we regularly discuss environmental and While adherence to the BoConcept Code of Conduct brings our 01.05.2017 – 30.04.2018 safety issues with our suppliers, and we have in the past suppliers up to a certain standard, it basically only sets out our encouraged our suppliers to abide by the 10 Global Compact minimum requirements. With this in mind, we work with a principles, just as we endeavour to do so ourselves. 'development wheel' that is used in our ongoing dialogue with suppliers. The model below illustrates how we hold our suppliers to their CSR commitments, and it shows that it is an ongoing process. GLOBAL SOURCING SHARE TREND 45% 40% 35% Step 3 Environmental 30% framework 25% 20% 15% Step 2 10% Social conditions 5% 0% 2013/2014 2014/2015 2015/2016 2016/2017 2017/2018 Step 1 Legal framework Scandinavia Asia Eastern Europe Europe BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017/2018 6 SUPPLIERS STEPS TO BECOMING A BOCONCEPT SUPPLIER STATUS ON DEVELOPMENTS 01.05.2017-30.04.2018 The model below shows a number of parameters that BoConcept requires its suppliers to live up to. BoConcept will not begin collaborating with a company that fails to comply with Step 1. Own production In the 2017/2018 financial year, our own production facility in Ølgod, Denmark has:  invested in an upgrade of its extraction system, ensuring a more energy-friendly production  replaced two main compressors, enabling the production to use surplus heat from the compressors to heat up the production facility in a more environmentally friendly way  invested in a new automatic stacking machine, which has improved ergonomics for our employees and resulted in savings of 1 FTE  invested in a stack separator for the edge processing, which has reduced the number of edge damages and lowered the use of lacquer  introduced an electronic solution for workplace assessment, which ensures continuous focus on maintaining a safe workplace for our employees in their day-to-day work  further increased focus on safety, and in April 2018 we exceeded 365 days without accidents with absence. European suppliers During the past 12 months, our largest European accessories supplier has: Step 2 states a number of the expectations BoConcept has to established suppliers. A BoConcept supplier should fulfil most of these  partnered with a third party company which will be assisting in expectations. In case there are any remaining issues, a written action plan will be drafted in consultation with the supplier, setting out ensuring that all sub-suppliers comply with the UN Global practical steps for improvement. Compact principles at all times  entered into various cooperative agreements involving donations Step 3 comprises a number of expectations relating more to management and control issues, and a BoConcept supplier should be able to comply with these specifications. Once Steps 1 and 2 have been established, plans will be drawn up for implementation of Step 3. to different NGOs  increased its focus on printing and as a result reduced the paper and print consumption per employee by 30.89% compared to last year. Moreover, our suppliers of metal products have: Our supplier of wooden products has:  invested heavily in dedusting equipment at their production  divided its production facility into several separate production Our European rug supplier has: facilities in order to ensure safer working conditions for their areas each with their own extraction system – to further  continued to focus on upgrading the safety equipment with its employees improve working conditions sub-suppliers  made further investments in updated safety equipment for their  continued to focus on improving social conditions with its subemployees GOALS AND FOCUS FOR THE COMING YEAR suppliers.  invested in improved lighting solutions to improve the working conditions for their employees. Our goal for the 2018/2019 financial year is to continue our Global Asian suppliers Compact and CSR-related follow-up meetings with all our category During the past 12 months, our strategic supplier of upholstered Our supplier of plastic products has: A suppliers, which account for 80% of our annual buying volume. products in Asia has:  moved its sales and R&D departments into new and more  invested in a new fabric cutting machine, serving to reduce modern offices, which has ensured improved working conditions Moreover, as part of our future strategy we will tighten our labour-intensive work and through this improve ergonomics for for its employees and resulted in a better workflow requirements for CSR and CSR-related activities in the selection of its employees  opened a new staff canteen and raised the meals subsidy new suppliers. This way, we emphasise the importance and  updated its ventilation system in the gluing workshop, which has  invested in more ergonomic lifting equipment for its warehouse prioritisation of the constant focus on CSR activities in the ensured better and safer working conditions. employees. BoConcept supplier portfolio. BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017/2018 7 TRANSPORTATION BoConcept all have a strong focus on reductions in CO2 emissions improve the use of the less polluting truck engine types (Euro from their vessels. Reductions in 2017 was around 5% mainly norm 5-6) from 2016 to 2017. This means that in 2017, the share As an international company, both with regard to retail and supply due to bigger vessels and increased focus on technological of Euro norm 5-6 truck engine types improved from 82.6% to chain, transportation and logistics are key aspects of our business. advancements. 85.7%. The use of the more polluting engine types (e.g. Euro Buying and selling at the right prices is of vital importance to norm trucks 3) was reduced significantly. BoConcept. However, it is just as important to maintain a high Air transport quality standard and ensure reliable delivery. The airlines used by BoConcept have a strong focus on The environmental impact of the different engine types appears minimisation of fuel consumption through initiatives such as from the illustration below. BoConcept has its own production facility in Denmark, but development of new aircraft types, more efficient aircraft engines otherwise also purchases goods from the Far East and Europe. and a general optimisation of flight routes. In order for this to be successful, a strict and precise management of logistics and suppliers is required. In 2017, BoConcept reduced the air-transported volume by 3% NOX AND PM EMISSION STANDARDS FOR DIESEL due to improved control within our supply chain. TRUCKS For many years, BoConcept has operated with only one weekly departure to our BoConcept stores in order to ensure direct Road transport deliveries and through this reduce both costs and environmental As for the European road transport, we constantly encourage our impact. In recent years, the tendency has been to have many carriers/transport operators to minimise their environmental weekly deliveries. However, so far we have been able to maintain impact. our present delivery set-up. When selecting carriers for our European transport corridors, the use of the best truck engine type/highest Euro norm (norms 5-6) STATUS ON DEVELOPMENTS 01.05.2017-30.04.2018 is an important parameter. Sea transport Our carriers' use of the different truck engine types/Euro norms During the past 12 months, there has been no change in the directly affects the CO2 emission levels. Due to changes in carrier BoConcept sea transport set-up. The shipping lines used by mix and volume in different transport corridors, we were able to Further, a large share of our carriers uses the following initiatives to reduce their environmental impact:  Tyre pressure monitoring THE BOCONCEPT WAREHOUSE AND DISTRIBUTION SET-UP  Idle-running reductions (truck engines)  Transport reports on each truck/driver BoConcept has two distribution centres:  Further training of drivers  Ølgod, Denmark  Driver bonus schemes (based on the use of diesel per km)  Shanghai, China One distribution point: GOALS AND FOCUS FOR THE COMING YEAR  Lithuania For the 2018/2019 financial year it is our goal that the share of Euro norm 5-6 truck engine types represents min. 86%. One sourcing office:  Shanghai, China Further, our focus for the coming financial year is to ensure continuous distribution set-up improvements, in addition to which we strive to minimise the impact of our distribution set-up on the environment as far as possible. BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017/2018 8 WE VALUE YOUR FEEDBACK THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES BOCONCEPT'S ACTIONS: If you have any questions, comments or proposals relating to this report, please feel free to contact the designated contact person: HUMAN RIGHTS: Principle 1: Businesses should support and BoConcept supports the international declared human respect the protection of internationally rights. proclaimed human rights; and We do not discriminate against any person, regardless of Torben Blindbæk Principle 2: make sure that they are not race, sex, colour or religion. Quality Manager complicit in human rights abuses. Being a global organisation, BoConcept has employees E-mail: boconcept@boconcept.com with many different cultural backgrounds. It is vital to Telephone: +45 7013 1366 BoConcept to maintain this. LABOUR: Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective One of BoConcept's core values is 'Respect'. recognition of the right to collective In this context the value covers respect for other people bargaining; and their rights. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of BoConcept knows that people make the difference! forced and compulsory labour; Therefore, all employees are encouraged to bring up their ideas to improve workflow, work environment or Principle 5: the effective abolition of child ideas to improve other parts of the BoConcept business. labour; and The BoConcept Code of Conduct states that all suppliers Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination must ensure that basic human rights and basic labour in respect of employment and occupation. standards are implemented. Further, we have communicated to our present suppliers that we have enrolled in the UN Global Compact program and that we expect they will run their companies applying the same 10 principles as we do. ENVIRONMENT: Principle 7: Businesses should support a As can be read on the preceding pages, BoConcept has precautionary approach to environmental prepared a specific plan for the clarification and reduction challenges; of the environmental impacts of our chain and our products. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and This plan covers sub-suppliers/production and transportation. At BoConcept, we will continue our work Principle 9: encourage the development to improve the accuracy of the data. and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION: Principle 10: Businesses should work At BoConcept, we do not accept any form of corruption. against corruption in all its forms, including We do not use bribe or extortion in any way. extortion and bribery. Further, anti-corruption is an integrated part of our Code of Conduct, which we ask our suppliers to confirm in writing. BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017/2018 9 BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017/2018 10
