COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 2017 To: 2018 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Mr Brian Yang 27/11/2018 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Telfort Education Group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights: Staff work for the Group vote for own representatives, who will take notes from the regular staff meetings and present to the management board and to ensure staff will receive proper response. Labour To ensure each staff in the Group receive fair treatment, there are regular staff meetings have been taken, to discuss about the key issues from time to time, for example workload, stress, salary, satisfaction. And line managers would make adjustment on KPI and workload arrangement based on staff opinions. Also all staff benefits related arrangements meet HR policy in China Environment Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of environment. The Group has headquarters office and number of campuses as well, all departments follow “green office” policy, such as saving paper, maximizing online support, encouraging staff and students take public transportation and sharing bicycle, also bring environment issues into teaching material Anti-Corruption Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken to fight corruption:  Ensure workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities Regular safety related trainings are taken place, the organization has clear safety related policy, also has appointed certain individuals in the organization to be main contacts for staff if any working place issues occurred.  Protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats There is clear HR policy covers the issue related to harassment, abuse or threats, the Group takes zero tolerance on these issues  Ensure that the company does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour All work activates are measured and monitored under China HR law to ensure there won’t be any possibility any staff feels has been forced to conduct certain work. There is no any potential circumstance the Group would be involved in bonded labour issues  Comply with minimum wage standards All wage arrangements meet requirement and policy of China HR law  Ensure that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria The Group holds regular meeting for each department to discuss KPI, explain the headquarters’ condition and plan, welcome opinion and agree on the next stage of job plan  Mention “anti-corruption” and/or “ethical behavior” in contracts with business partners The Group carefully select business partners, and only choose those completely share the ten principals to be partner(S)  Ensure that internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment The Group has finance policy to stop any potential anticorruption commitment 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In the box below, please include the most relevant indicators to measure outcomes. Examples include:  Demographics of management and employees broken down by diversity factors (e.g., gender, ethnicity, age, etc.) Gender ratio: almost 50:50, Age ratio: 72% under 45, 28% 45 above  Rate of occupational diseases, injuries, and absenteeism 0%  Percentage of recycled materials The company “green office” policy requires purchasing department to make effort on choosing recyclable products and avoiding things such as paper made cups
