KIRIN REPORT 2018 Kirin Holdings Company, Limited CONTENTS CHAPTER Philosophy and Strategy KIRIN REPORT 03 History of the Kirin Group 2018 05 The Kirin Group Today 07 The Kirin Group’s Value Creation Model 09 Discussion with Management, Part 1 Yoshinori Isozaki Toshio Arima President & CEO Outside Director and Chairman of the Board 11 Message from Top Management Yoshinori Isozaki 17 Discussion with Management, Part 2 Noriya Yokota Chieko Matsuda Director of the Board, Outside Audit & Supervisory Senior Executive Officer Board Member & CFO 21 Financial and Non-Financial Highlights CHAPTER Kirin’s Value Creation 25 : Kirin Ichiban Shibori Relaunch and Craft Beer Market Development 27 : Pharmaceuticals for Worldwide Markets 29 : Lactococcus lactis strain Plasma Stars in New Products 31 : Advanced High-Efficiency Facilities at Myanmar Brewery 33 CSV Commitment Results and Goals Editorial Policy 35 System to Promote CSV This integrated report comprehensively explains the Kirin 37 Human Resources—Valuable Resources Supporting Sustained Growth Group’s corporate value in both financial and non-financial terms. KIRIN REPORT 2018 summarizes the strengths of the Group based on Kirin’s DNA CHAPTER Corporate Governance and its mediumand long-term vision in an easy-to-understand 44 Fiscal 2017 Initiatives manner using the “Value Creation Model Diagram” (pages 7–8) 47 Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board as a guide. Members, and Executive Officers 49 Interview with an Outside Director Precautionary Note regarding Forward-Looking Statements Kimie Iwata In this report, statements that are not historical facts are forward-look51 Risk Management ing statements based on future prospects and plans. These forwardlooking statements include such factors as risk and uncertainty, and as a result, actual results and performance could differ from these 53 Business Overview statements. In addition, the forecasts for the fiscal year ending December 61 Financial Status 2018 are as of the announcement made on February 14, 2018. 65 Investor Information/Company Information 1 KIRIN REPORT 2018 CHAPTER Philosophy and Strategy Corporate Philosophy The Kirin Group — Focused on people, nature and craftsmanship to redefine the joy of food and well-being We pride ourselves on offering products based on what people want. We pride ourselves on our ability to harness the goodness of nature through innovative technology. We pride ourselves on delivering tangible satisfaction and quality in everything we make. All of which ensures that we exceed customers’ expectations. And naturally, we do not stop there. As we look forward with vision and dreams, we aim to continue offering food and health products that bring new joy to people’s lives everywhere. Always a step ahead, the Kirin Group supports health, pleasure and comfort in your life. KIRIN REPORT 2018 2 Philosophy and Strategy History of the Kirin Group Applying innovations to respond flexibly to changes in the operating environment Kirin’s market share reaches 60% during the Diversifying operations beyond beer production boom years when beer becomes popular in Japan to offer a wider lineup of life-enrichening products During Japan’s period of rapid economic growth from In the 1980s, the Kirin Group expanded into the life scithe 1950s to 1970s, Kirin Brewery Co., Ltd., greatly ences industry and established a full-fledged pharmaexpanded its production, sales, and deliveries of beer. ceuticals business. In order to diversify its operations It also expanded operations to include a soft drink further, Kirin took steps toward creating a new combusiness in 1963 and a whiskey business in 1972. By pany image while improving its corporate structure. the 1970s, the company had secured a market share of about 60% for its Kirin-brand beer, produced by its network of 12 breweries across the country. Beer shipments and Beverages, domestic market share in food and the 1970s other products 7.7% 2,810 (Millions of liters) 2,750 2,380 2,550 2,320 1980 2,250 2,320 2,050 1,790 1,640 Sales Market ¥855.8 Beer share billion 92.3% Over 60% 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 (Year) EARLY HISTORY Founding of Japan Brewery Co., Ltd. Establishment of Kirin Brewery Company in 1907 amid intensifying competition among beer makers Japan Brewery Co., Ltd., was set up in 1885 by Japan’s beer industry entered a time of intense competition a number of foreign residents in Yokohama’s after the turn of the century. In that context, a group repreYamate district, who envisioned great promise senting the Iwasaki family and the companies Mitsubishi for a beer industry in Japan. To produce a genand Meidi-Ya took over Japan Brewery and, while leaving uine German-style beer that suited the tastes the brewery’s operations intact, established Kirin Brewery of Japanese consumers, they imported ingreCompany in 1907. The dients and brewing equipment from Germany new company’s Artiand hired a qualified German brewmaster. Kirin cles of Incorporation beer was sold in 1888 with a label featuring a declared an ambition kirin, a legendary creature from ancient Chinese to do business over myths that is said to be a harbinger of good luck. the next 100 years. 3 KIRIN REPORT 2018 The launch of Kirin Holdings Expanding operations globally Kirin Holdings Co., Ltd., was established in 2007, the Aiming to be a leading company in Asia and Oceania, year of the company’s 100th anniversary of its foundKirin Holdings set up subsidiaries in various countries ing. A pure holding company framework was adopted including Australia, China, the Philippines, and Myanas a means for strengthening the Kirin Group’s manmar. It also launched Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., in agement. Then in 2013, Kirin Co., Ltd., was established 2008 as a pharmaceutical and biochemical business, for the purpose of leading the Group’s Japan Integrated which is applying biotechnology in an effort to develop Beverage business segment. global pharmaceutical products. Percent of normalized Percent of revenue operating profit Japan Integrated Japan Integrated Beverages segment Beverages segment 56.4% 37.3% Overseas Integrated Beverages segment 2017 Overseas Integrated Beverages segment 24.1% 34.0% Consolidated revenue Pharmaceuticals and ¥1,863.7 billion Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals segment Consolidated normalized operating profit Bio-chemicals segment 18.6% ¥194.3 billion 32.0% Others segment Others segment 0.9% Note: The Kirin Group adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) from the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. 0.5% Intercompany eliminations -3.8% Japan Integrated Beverages segment Overseas Integrated Pharmaceuticals and Others segment Beverages segment Bio-chemicals segment 10.4%* Operating profit margin (based on Japanese accounting standards) 6.7% 6.3% 5.0% 4.8% 2015 4.3% 2008 Acquired a capital stake 2001–2005 Establishment of in Myanmar Brewery Ltd. 1990 Release of Chu-hi Hyoketsu Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd. 2013 Launch of unprecedentedly RTD Release of Nodogoshi Establishment of Kirin Co., Ltd. popular beer, new genre 2007 Ichiban Shibori 1998 Establishment of Kirin Holdings Co., Ltd. Establishment of Acquired a capital stake in Lion 2006 * Normalized operating Kirin Beverage Co., Ltd. Nathan Limited (currently Lion Pty Ltd.) Acquired a capital stake in Mercian Corporation profit margin (2017) KIRIN REPORT 2018 4 Philosophy and Strategy The Kirin Group Today Leveraging the diversity of the Group’s businesses, operating regions, and employees Kirin Holdings Company, Limited Japan Integrated Beverage Overseas Integrated Beverages Pharmaceuticals and business segment business segment Bio-chemicals business segment 50 subsidiaries 91 subsidiaries 49 subsidiaries Kirin Co., Ltd. Lion Pty Ltd Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd. Kirin Brewery Co., Ltd. Myanmar Brewery Ltd. Kyowa Hakko Bio Co., Ltd. Kirin Beverage Co., Ltd. Kirin Holdings Singapore Pte. Ltd. 47 other subsidiaries Mercian Corporation 88 other subsidiaries 46 other subsidiaries Note: The Other business segment includes Koiwai Dairy Products Co., Ltd., and one other company. Operational scale and profitability of operating companies High Myanmar Brewery Revenue Lion Beer, Spirits, ¥25.6 billion and Wine Kyowa Hakko Kirin Normalized operating profit Revenue Kirin Brewery ¥9.9 billion ¥195.3 billion Revenue Revenue Normalized operating profit ¥354.2 billion ¥647.0 billion ¥54.5 billion Normalized operating profit Normalized operating profit ¥62.2 billion ¥71.6 billion Profitability Kirin Beverage Revenue Mercian ¥285.7 billion Normalized operating profit Revenue Lion Dairy and Drinks ¥65.3 billion Revenue ¥21.7 billion Normalized operating ¥153.4 billion profit Normalized operating profit ¥9.9 billion ¥5.4 billion Operational scale (revenue) Large The revenue amounts of Kirin Brewery, Mercian Corporation, and Kyowa Hakko Kirin include sales tax on liquor. 5 KIRIN REPORT 2018 With a history spanning more than a century, the Kirin Group outside of Japan is approximately 46%. By creatively and flexibly has established a globally unique business portfolio composed leveraging the diversity of its businesses, operating regions, and of three core businesses—alcoholic beverages, non-alcoholic employees, the Kirin Group is driving innovations worldwide while beverages, and pharmaceuticals and bio-chemicals. Today, the continuing to take on the challenge of creating new value. Kirin Group’s global operations cover Japan and the rest of Asia, Oceania, the United States, and Europe. The number of Group companies has reached 192 and the percentage of employees The Kirin Group around the world Alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages businesses Pharmaceuticals and bio-chemicals businesses United Kingdom Kyowa Kirin International plc U.S.A. The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Northern New England, Inc. Germany China Kyowa Hakko Europe GmbH Kirin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. Kyowa Kirin USA Holdings, Inc. China Resources Kirin Beverages Vietnam (Greater China) Co., Ltd.* Interfood Shareholding Company Taiwan Kyowa Hakko Taiwan Kirin Co., Ltd. Bio US Holdings Inc. Philippines Four Roses Distillery, LLC San Miguel Brewery Inc.* Myanmar Myanmar Brewery Ltd. Singapore Kirin Holdings Singapore Pte. Ltd. Kyowa Hakko Kirin (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Australia Lion Pty Ltd * Affiliate consolidated under the equity method Number of employees by country and region Japan Overseas Japan Overseas 66% 34% 54% 46% Oceania 17.1% 2006 2017 U.S.A. 13.7% (As of the end (As of the end of December) of December) Asia 12.9% Europe 2.0% Others 0.3% KIRIN REPORT 2018 6 Philosophy and Strategy The Kirin Group’s Value Creation Model Enhancing economic and social value by positioning the creation of shared value at the heart of business activities INPUT BUSINESS Enhanced operational resources Kirin’s unique business portfolio Human resources The key assets for sparking innovation and driving the Group’s growth Alcoholic and non-alcoholic Brands beverages businesses The basis for maintaining ties with consumers built up over many years and for offering them new experiences Innovation Research and Pharmaceuticals and development The means for pursuing technological innovations and meeting bio-chemicals the expectations of consumers and their communities businesses Supply chain and Kirin’s foundation for value creation IT capabilities The resources for supplying the high-quality products and Technological capabilities Marketing expertise services needed for strengthening ties with customers Sound corporate governance Note: The key indicators that have been set for improving operational resources are presented on pages 21 – 22. 7 KIRIN REPORT 2018 The Kirin Group has positioned the concept of creating shared value synergies from its alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages businesses (CSV) as the basis of its business activities. Accordingly, the Group as well as its pharmaceuticals and bio-chemicals businesses. Through is working to improve its operational resources—particularly human the products and services offered by each of these business areas, the resources, brands, R&D, supply chain and information technology— Kirin Group is increasing both economic and social value it offers to its as a means for enhancing technological capabilities and marketing stakeholders around the world. Looking ahead toward the next stage expertise. They are its foundations for creating value, which is one of growth, the Group intends to enhance its operational resources of the Group’s competitive advantages. At the same time, the Group while maintaining this cycle of creating value with the goal of growing is branching out into diverse new business domains by generating sustainably into the future. OUTPUT OUTCOME Good-quality products and services ROE EPS Economic value For more details, please refer to page 21. Social value Promotion of health and well-being Community Environmental engagement conservation For more details, please refer to pages 33 – 34. KIRIN REPORT 2018 8 Philosophy and Strategy A Discussion Between the Chief Executive Officer Discussion with Management, Part 1 and the Chairman of the Board Committed to CSV management for sustainable growth Together with our stakeholders, we create value Isozaki Given these circumstances, how then do we propose through our business in three areas: health and wellto attain long-term growth? The answer lies in creating shared being, community engagement, and the environment. value (CSV), which we positioned as our core management principle in 2012. With this approach, instead of reacting passively to a changing market, we view it as a business opportunity. Isozaki The Kirin Group has three core businesses: alcoholic Arima Increasingly, investors want to know what steps a firm beverages; non-alcoholic beverages; and pharmaceuticals and is taking to meet globally recognized environmental, social and bio-chemicals. In the areas of alcoholic beverages and non-algovernance (ESG) benchmarks. When considering a firm’s coholic beverages, our business is quite stable. Looking ahead, investment potential, they carefully check not only ROE and however, we cannot take sustainable growth for granted. other growth metrics, but also how the firm is addressing Arima With Japan’s high longevity and low fertility rate, the social issues. domestic beverages market is growing increasingly mature. Isozaki In my mind, a basic tenet of ESG is that a firm’s susIssues caused by the harmful use of alcohol are also a critical tainable potential is nil if its profits depend on tradeoffs against constraint to growth. society, the environment, and stakeholders. Tradeoffs against Isozaki In fact, Japan’s beer market peaked in 1994. Market employees and other workers along the value chain can erode growth declined over the 20-some years since then. Economic brand equity, product quality, CRM and more. Consumers too growth is slowing overseas, as well, not only in North America, are assigning ever more importance to a brand’s social efforts, Europe and Oceania, but even in China. Pharmaceuticals presrather than making purchasing decisions based only on quality, ent their own challenges. In the Japanese market, for example, price, styling, and the like. we are facing downward pressure on official drug prices, as the Arima Since becoming one of the first in Japan to adopt the government seeks to contain rising healthcare costs. CSV concept, Kirin has earned accolades for its Group-wide Arima The chances of revisiting yesterday’s high growth rates CSV initiatives. Recognizing our responsibility as an alcoholic are rather slim for any of our business sectors. beverages manufacturer, we are committed to action in Yoshinori Isozaki President & CEO Mr. Isozaki was appointed chief executive officer and president of Kirin Holdings in 2015. He has served as chief executive officer and president of Kirin Company Limited since 2013. He previously held the positions of senior executive officer and general manager of corporate planning at Kirin Holdings, director of San Miguel Corporation, and others, having joined Kirin Beer in 1977. 9 KIRIN REPORT 2018 the three major areas of health and well-being, community Arima When I visited Iwate Prefecture recently to inspect the engagement, and the environment. hops crop, I noticed the enthusiasm in the growers’ faces. It Isozaki Our Group has a unique portfolio comprising alcoseems that ever since Kirin lent its support to reverse declinholic beverages and non-alcoholic beverages, together with ing production of Tono hops, more young people have been pharmaceuticals and bio-chemicals. In building this portfolio, coming to learn how to cultivate the crop. This kind of activity we have gained technological and marketing acumen that we is essential to revitalize rural communities. leverage using our management resources to deliver products Isozaki Outside Japan, the Kirin Group serves local commuand services true to the Kirin brand. Focusing on positive outnities in many ways. In Sri Lanka, Kirin funds training for tea comes for nature and society throughout the economic value growers to obtain Rainforest Alliance certification for suschain, we are dedicated to CSV, which holds the key to sustaintainable agriculture. Kirin also donates textbooks to primary able growth of the Kirin Group. schools in tea-growing locales. Such actions help us achieve fair trade and sustainable sourcing, while furthering environmental conservation, sustainability, and local development. To Creating shared value for another 100 years clarify our corporate stance and guide us in addressing such issues, we decided on 16 CSV commitments that reference the Isozaki After adopting CSV in 2012, we have increasingly UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). incorporated the concept in our business. In February 2017 we Arima Clearly, we are moving in the right direction; therefore, made significant progress with the announcement of our CSV we will be redoubling our CSV efforts. To pioneer new venCommitment, which sets down how we put CSV principles into tures we must break down the walls of our existing business practice to achieve measurable results at each key point on domains and methodologies. Technological innovation alone is the value chain. In 2016, in the area of health and well-being, not enough. The processes and systems that we take for grantwe formed the Business Creation Department, which played ed in business and society are also ripe for creative disruption. a key role in development of Lactococcus lactis strain Plasma. Isozaki Indeed, as we break down the walls and explore the terriWe are also working on innovative products and services that tory beyond, it is our duty to create change that helps solve social support self-care in healthy people and help manage pre-disissues to the best of our ability. Yes, it is a huge challenge, but the ease states. As an example of community engagement, we use alternative is unthinkable. The Kirin Group cannot survive and Japanese “Ibuki” hops from Tono in Iwate Prefecture in craft thrive without sustainable development. Following the words of beer production. In this and other undertakings, the network our founders, Kirin has broken down many walls over the years in we built for our successful 47 Todofuken no Ichiban Shibori the spirit of our founders’ wish for people to enjoy delicious beer Beer project has continued to serve us well, as we build winand live in an affluent society. Inspired by these words, we make win relationships with communities through our activities. it our mission to keep creating new value over the next 100 years. Toshio Arima Outside Director Mr. Arima has been serving as an outside director of Kirin Holdings since 2011 and, in 2016, he took on the additional role of chairman of the Board. Previous positions include director of FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation and president and representative director of Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd., which he joined in 1967. He is also a current member of the United Nations Global Compact Board. KIRIN REPORT 2018 10 Philosophy and Strategy Message from Top Management We are refining our strengths and accelerating our mediumto long-term growth strategy. President & CEO 11 KIRIN REPORT 2018 Steady progress in structural reform and saw the Group’s profits rise to record levels. We are pleased to reinforcement of our management foundation to report a deepening group-wide commitment to carrying out achieve sustainable growth our plans. In 2018, the final year of the 16MTBP, we will keep moving with urgency to achieve core business profit growth. We We put the Kirin Group 2016–2018 Medium-Term Business are confident that we will reach our quantitative targets and Plan (16MTBP), into action in 2016 as the first stage of our Longguidance. In addition, we have fortified the Group’s manageTerm Management Vision, “New KV2021,” Accordingly, we are ment foundation with a view toward maximizing shareholder reinforcing our beer business earnings base, pursuing structurvalue based on further progress in corporate governance and al reform of low-profit businesses, and leaping forward in our strengthened CSV management based on our CSV Commitpharmaceuticals and bio-chemicals businesses. As in these ment. Through these and other measures we have gained a three core initiatives, we are making every effort to restructure solid footing to realize New KV2021. Sustainable growth is and revitalize Kirin, group-wide. our goal over the next three years as we head toward the next Over the past two years our reforms of low-profit businessMTBP, scheduled. es have shown impressive results. In 2017 we also made great strides in reinforcing our domestic beer business earnings base. Actions like these, along with liquidation of non-core assets and other measures, have brought structural reform to the group at a brisk pace. As a result we achieved three-year free cash flow targets laid out in the 16MTBP a year early. The year 2017 also Long-Term Management Vision “New KV2021” — New Kirin Group Vision 2021 Through the core businesses* of the Kirin Group we create value that addresses social issues and consumer needs, with the goal of achieving mutually sustainable 2021Vision growth along with our communities and society at large. * Alcoholic Beverages, Non-alcoholic Beverages, and Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals Outcome Creation of Economic Value and Social Value Value Creation: Value Creation: Strategic framework Social issues Consumer expectations (= Kirin Group's unique CSV) Technological Capabilities Organizational Capabilities “One Kirin” Values “Passion and Integrity” KIRIN REPORT 2018 12 Philosophy and Strategy Message from Top Management Seeking profit growth in our existing businesses of June 2017 established the Guidelines on Fair Liquor Trade, which offers opportunities for the beer industry to move decisively toward focusing on profitability. While maintaining this swift progress in structural reform, we In this reshaped business environment, Kirin Brewery is are intent upon achieving our quantitative targets and profit among the first to shift its orientation away from price, putting guidance. At the same time we will accelerate implementation even greater emphasis on brands than we have in the past. Speof measures with a view toward our next medium-term plan and cifically, in January 2017, preceding this regulatory reform, we beyond. Realizing profit growth in our existing businesses is our slashed sales promotion costs, while reclassifying marketing top priority. cost as an investment in brands, which are intangible assets. This Among our existing businesses, we are seeking new heights allows us to allocate resources to branding by launching products of profitability in Kirin Brewery and Lion Beer, Spirits, and Wine with fresh appeal and introducing innovations in places where business (Oceania). It is generally recognized that beer maralcoholic beverages are served or sold. kets in Japan and other industrialized nations in North America, In July 2017 for example, we revamped Ichiban Shibori with an Europe, and other regions are becoming ever more mature. improved flavor, which we communicated through an ad camDomestic beer consumption has dropped one fourth from paign, winning the hearts of a large cross-section of beer lovers. its peak. Against Japan’s background of declining fertility and an The rate of sales growth surpassed that of the market itself while aging population we foresee further reduction in consumption enhancing the attractiveness of the beer category as a whole. We ahead. Over the medium to long term it is unrealistic to hope also expanded our craft beer business to revitalize the market by for unit growth. Aggressive price competition has continued for further boosting beer’s appeal. some time but the revised Liquor Tax Law and related legislation Going forward we will further narrow down the products Initiatives to Maximize Shareholder Value Implement three initiatives to maximize shareholder value based on the foundation built since 2015 1. Profit growth of existing businesses 2. Synergy creation capitalizing on business strengths 3. Financial strategy focusing on cost of equity and non-financial strategy to reduce future risks Hands-on management Progressive corporate governance CSV Commitment We are committed to CSV for Integrated management of Strengthen management oversight sustainable growth by addressing the Kirin Holdings Company and by the Board of Directors social issues in three priority areas, the Kirin Company recognizing our responsibility as Increase the transparency and Quick decisions by executive officers an alcohol producer. fairness of business operations 13 KIRIN REPORT 2018 in which we invest, aiming to build strong brands supported by cutting supply chain costs. long-term fans. At the same time, we will invest in the growth Going forward we are taking the next step up in our strategy, categories of craft beer and ready-to-drink (RTD) pre-mixed shifting from profitable growth to growth-based profit generacocktails. Through these measures we intend to stimulate new tion. By developing a robust brand portfolio and creating value growth for Kirin Brewery and boost profitability over the medibeyond existing domains, we aim to raise our normalized operum term to a level comparable to global competitors. ating profit margin to 10% by the year 2021. Regarding Lion Beer, Spirits, and Wine business, we are In the Kyowa Hakko Kirin pharmaceuticals and bio-chemicals regaining profit following conclusion of distribution agreement business we are making steady progress with development of our with Anheuser-Busch InBev (ABI) in Australia. Specifically, we global strategic products, KRN23 (Burosumab) and KW-0761 are leveraging our strengths by boosting the brand equity of our (Mogamulizumab). In February 2018 the European Medicines main brands and expanding craft beer sales. In 2018 we will ramp Agency (EMA) granted Conditional Marketing Authorisation to up these efforts to achieve profitability levels seen when the ABI KRN23. Having obtained FDA marketing approval in April 2018, agreement was in force. we plan to launch KRN23 in both the U.S. and Europe within We are pursuing a growth strategy for Myanmar Brewery, the year. Kirin Beverages, and Kyowa Hakko Kirin, as these are the main Progressing favorably with its five-year plan, Kyowa Hakko drivers of Group growth. In the case of Myanmar Brewery, we are Kirin is enhancing its marketing capabilities and other aspects of building the brewer’s main brand, Myanmar Beer, and expanding its business in addition to developing global strategic products. production facilities and capacity to support long-term growth. Advancing steadily, KHK drives the Kirin Group’s mediumto Over the past two years we have greatly improved the profitabillong-term growth as it makes the leap to become a global speity of Kirin Beverages by dropping unprofitable operations and cialty pharmaceutical company (GSP). Profit Growth of Existing Businesses Further improve profitability Turn selling expenses from a “cost” to an “investment” Kirin Brewery Invest aggressively in growth categories Lion Beer, Spirits, and Steadily implement the “Post ABI strategy” Wine Driving Group Growth Myanmar Brewery Strengthening main brands Kirin Beverage Step up from profitable growth to growth-based profit generation Kyowa Hakko Kirin Achieve outstanding growth to become a global specialty pharmaceutical company (GSP) Lion Dairy and Drinks will continue the ongoing efforts to improve profitability and accelerate growth in nutritious beverages. KIRIN REPORT 2018 14 Philosophy and Strategy Message from Top Management Advancing CSV with stronger intangible assets and new business development Seeking mediumto long-term growth in the years ahead, we will prioritize profitable growth of our existing businesses, while accelerating our shift to CSV as the core of our management. CSV management is key to raising corporate value and attaining sustainable growth. While fulfilling our responsibility as an alcohol producer, we create value by addressing social issues in the key areas of health and well-being, community engagement, and the environment. We follow two policies to further CSV management and develop businesses, products and services that address customers’ latent needs and have a positive impact on society. The first policy is to strengthen management’s intangible assets: human resources, brands, R&D, and supply chain and IT. These are assets that the Group has gained over the years in response to changes in the business environment. Strengthening our human resources is of particular importance as human resources are our engine for growth. Kirin Group 2016–2018 Medium-Term Business Plan Basic policy Restructure and revitalize Kirin, groupwide Implement specific strategies in accordance with the positioning of each business Invest, strengthen and grow profit base in beer businesses Key initiatives (Kirin Brewery; Lion Beer, Spirits and Wine; Myanmar Brewery) Restructure and revitalize low-profit businesses (Brasil Kirin, Kirin Beverage, Lion Dairy and Drinks) Invest in Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals business to leap upward in growth (Kyowa Hakko Kirin) Raising Group profitability is our top priority, targeting increased capital efficiency and 2018 sustained growth in shareholder value. quantitative targets ROE: 15 %+ Normalized EPS:CAGR 6%+ Stable shareholder returns through dividends, enhanced financial flexibility Financial strategy Consolidated dividend payout ratio 30% or more of normalized EPS Repayment of interest-bearing debt 15 KIRIN REPORT 2018 To enhance diversity in human resources and organizanew value without relying on major investments. When a chaltional structure, we offer not only entry-level positions, but lenge calls for supplementing the Group’s own functionality also an increasing number of mid-career positions to attract and resources, we will use partnerships and M&A, evaluating candidates with valuable experience and expertise. To acceleach case on its own merits. erate workstyle reform we are cultivating an environment To promote sustainable growth of the Group and raise corthat encourages all employees to develop and use their full porate value, we are continuing our rapid structural reform and potential. pursuit of profit growth in existing businesses, while quickenWith human resources as our core growth driver, we are ing the pace of innovation and creating new value by putting reinforcing our business foundation in many ways. These CSV management into practice. include enhancing brand equity, R&D in our strong areas such Moving forward, we will exercise and extend our full peras immunity, strengthening and optimizing the supply chain, formance potential, always striving to be worthy of the trust which encompasses production technology and engineering and support of our stakeholders. technology, and applying information technology to enhance business processes. The second policy is to develop new domains along with Yoshinori Isozaki existing businesses to support Group growth over the next 10 President & CEO years. Kirin Holdings will find opportunities for synergy among existing businesses while fostering new ventures in the areas of health and well-being, and pre-disease. For the most part we can leverage the tangible and intangible assets the Group has cultivated over the decades to create Progress toward MTBP quantitative targets (Figures are past performance and forecast for ROE and compound annual growth rate of normalized EPS*) (Yen) (%) 200 50 Normalized EPS at 180 10.3% Normalized EPS at 45 160 CAGR 6 % 40 CAGR or above 140 35 157 120 151 30 100 25 Normalized EPS 29.1% 80 117 16% 20 60 ROE 15 15% 40 or above 10 20 5 0 ROE 0 -20 (0.3)% -5 2015 2016 2017 2018 2016 MTBP forecast target *2015: ROE before amortization of goodwill, etc. and ROE increased due to sale of Brasil Kirin Expected achievement normalized EPS based on the J-GAAP. After 2016: ROE and normalized EPS under the IFRS. shares and gains on sale of fixed assets. of 2016 MTBP target KIRIN REPORT 2018 16 Philosophy and Strategy A Discussion Between the Chief Financial Officer and Discussion with Management, Part 2 an Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Identifying the challenges facing the Kirin Group and Kirin Beverage increased its normalized operating profit margin laying a path toward future growth to 7.6%, and Brasil Kirin was sold off. Looking ahead, we intend to follow the same basic objectives as before while managing the Group’s existing businesses. At Matsuda The chief financial officer is not simply responsithe same time, however, it will be necessary to consider new ble for basic financial matters; it is an important leadership lines of business. I think that identifying such businesses will be position that involves executing strategies, ensuring corporate a task for our next medium-term business plan. governance on a group-wide basis, and making key decisions Matsuda Investors generally prefer specialized companies about fund procurement, growth-oriented investments, and over corporate groups with diversified businesses due to confinancial policies. From your standpoint as CFO, what are the cerns that a situation known as conglomerate discount may main challenges currently confronting the Kirin Group? occur. In order to eliminate such concerns, the CEO and CFO, Yokota Our challenges are to reach the targets for return on who are also investors in the Group, must strictly manage the equity (ROE) and normalized earnings per share (EPS) set in our 2016 medium-term business plan. Our initial goal for profitability now appears to be attainable. The target for free cash flow has already been exceeded and the company has made real progress in repaying interest-bearing debt. The basic policy of the 2016 medium-term business plan is to restructure and revitalize the Kirin Group. One by one, steps were taken toward that end, and we managed to reach respectable levels of corporate profitability and financial soundness. At present, we recognize that the biggest concern among shareholders and investors is how the Kirin Group plans to use the cash it has generated to ensure future growth. Matsuda In other words, now that finances are in order, the issue is what to do next. I think there are three key questions regarding how companies use cash. The first is how to use it to ensure sustainable growth over the medium and long terms. The next is how to allocate resources in a business portfolio that can realize that growth, and the CFO plays a very important role in that regard. Finally, the question is how to structure finances so that cash continues to be generated dependably. As part of the 2016 medium-term business plan, the Group’s business portfolio in particular was restructured. What are your objectives going forward? Yokota Up until now, we focused on how to reach a respectable level of profitability, which includes the asset turnover of existing businesses, and how to revitalize the Group if that level of profitability could not be reached. As a result of our efforts, Continuing to proactively invest in growth while maintaining a sound financial structure based on a long-term management vision 17 KIRIN REPORT 2018 company’s assets and capital with even more discipline than for mass producing amino acids in its pharmaceutical business. investors from outside the Group. It is also essential to pursue I believe the Group can create more new value in the future by synergies between businesses, which is not possible for specombining the wide range of technologies it has built up over cialized companies. the years as well as technologies from outside the Group. Yokota I agree with you. Especially in terms of creating synDiscussions of Kirin’s long-term management vision and ergy effects, the Kirin Group’s competitive advantages as a next medium-term business plan are currently underway. One manufacturer are its wealth of technologies and expertise. For issue is how to bolster the Group’s exiting businesses while instance, by drawing from microorganism cultivation techutilizing its assets to create synergies. We also want to channiques developed over many years in the beer brewing businel synergies toward launching all-new businesses that create ness, the Group generated synergies with other businesses, economic and social value for stakeholders. That is the kind of including the development of antibody pharmaceuticals and vision we would like to put forward. their production methods, and the application of technologies Matsuda As market conditions grow increasingly volatile, companies will need to more clearly state their objectives for the future. That means it will be important to formulate a straightforward and coherent long-term vision, and work toward accomplishing its goals by carrying out each related measure step by step. With that in mind, I would like to hear your plans regarding how cash will be allocated for the purpose of realizing growth in the future. Yokota I think the Kirin Group can continue to grow, so, when all is said and done, our policy for allocating cash is to give first priority to growth-oriented investments, which tend to be associated with expanding business through mergers and acquisitions. Indeed, the Group will continue searching for outstanding companies to merge with or acquire, but such opportunities are limited because many have already been acquired by our global competitors. Therefore, it is important for us to exercise discipline when making such investment decisions. Under those circumstances, creating shared value is our strategy for ensuring the sustainable growth of the Kirin Group. Specifically, we aim to leverage the Group’s competitive advantages and unique business portfolio to increase economic and social value. Accordingly, our policy is to step up investment in intangible assets that support this objective, namely human resources, the Group’s brands, R&D, supply chain and IT. Matsuda Nowadays, investors are not only concerned with financial performance and shareholder value; they also attach importance to the social contributions of companies, such as initiatives related to environmental, social and governance (ESG) Noriya Yokota × Chieko Matsuda Director of the Board, Senior Executive Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Officer & CFO, Kirin Holdings Co., Ltd. Member, Kirin Holdings Company, Ltd. Senior Executive Officer, Kirin Company, Ltd. Mr. Yokota was appointed as a senior executive Ms. Matsuda was appointed as a member the officer and member of the Board of Directors Outside Audit & Supervisory Board of Kirin in 2018. He joined Kirin Brewery Co., Ltd., in Holdings in 2016. She had joined Long-Term 1984, where he was appointed as an executive Credit Bank of Japan, Ltd., in 1987, after which officer and head of the Production Division. At she worked for Moody’s Japan, Ltd., Corporate Kirin Holdings, he has served as the director in Directions, Inc., and Booz & Co., Inc. Ms. Matcharge of group-wide personnel and general suda is also a professor at Tokyo Metropolitan affairs, senior executive officer, and director in University in the Department of Urban Liberal charge of group-wide management strategies. Arts and the Graduate School of Social Science. KIRIN REPORT 2018 18 Philosophy and Strategy A Discussion Between the Chief Financial Officer and Discussion with Management, Part 2 an Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Aiming to make operations more advanced and efficient by adopting cutting-edge IT and ERP systems Matsuda Please tell me about the company’s future plans for strategic investment in IT. Yokota In the Japan Integrated Beverages business, we will begin using enterprise resource planning (ERP)* software in production, logistics, and accounting operations by January 2020, and integrate numerous information systems that have been built and operated separately. By doing so, we will reduce costs and labor for system maintenance, and centralize management data that had been decentralized across criteria. I believe Kirin’s approach of creating shared value is a various systems in the past, allowing that data to be more forward-looking, exemplary management initiative. Generally, effectively utilized. however, since people are not very familiar with this concept, it Matsuda Does that mean operations will be standardized needs to be clearly explained, which might be difficult. with the ERP system? Yokota You are right to say that. Creating shared value is not Yokota Yes, in an effort to facilitate efficiency and save labor merely a conceptual approach, and, as CFO, I have an importcosts, we plan to standardize operations in each division, elimant duty to provide a clear and comprehensive explanation inating factors that are dependent on the experience and skills to investors about the Group’s initiatives for tackling issues of individual employees. confronting society, specifically in the three areas of health and Matsuda For Japanese companies, raising the productivity well-being, community engagement, and the environment, of administrative and management divisions is an important and how those initiatives eventually lead to economic value. issue with respect to realizing workplace reforms in the years Matsuda Among the four important intangible assets being to come. While adopting ERP systems, it will also be essentargeted, I think the value of Kirin’s brands has a big impact on tial to re-examine operational processes themselves. Indeed, the competitiveness of its business since beer and beverages improvements that result from that will probably be a factor are business-to-consumer businesses. How do you plan to underlying differences between the competitiveness of comenhance brand equity? panies’ headquarters in the future. Yokota It will be important to raise the value of Kirin’s brands Yokota ERP systems are not the only ones; we will also need by implementing a thoroughgoing plan-do-check-act cycle to automate administrative operations using robotic process and improving our marketing strategies. Toward those ends, automation (RPA), and make use of artificial intelligence (AI) we have actively brought new capabilities to our organization, and the internet of things (IoT) in manufacturing. The chalsuch as inviting highly experienced personnel from outside lenge will be how to incorporate such new technologies while the Group to lead the marketing division. Consequently, our taking into account their cost effectiveness. strategies and processes got off to a fresh start and we have * ERP is a concept and a system that integrates key data about sales, production, been steadily improving results, just like we did before with personnel, accounting, and other factors as a means for making management more efficient. Ichiban Shibori beer and Nama-cha bottled green tea. Cash flow over two years from 2016 to 2017 Repayment of 2016 2017 Operating CF interest-bearing 454.0bn yen debt Operating CF 232.3 221.7 MTBP target 258.3bn yen 550.0bn yen+ FCF 434.5bn yen MTBP target 135.0bn yen Investment CF (82.7) 63.2 Investment CF MTBP target 260.0bn yen+ Shareholder Free CF 149.6 284.9 return (dividend) (19.5)bn yen 89.1bn yen Repayment of interest-bearing debt 1 1 1 .0 147.3 MTBP target MTBP target (290.0)bn yen+ 125.0bn yen Shareholder return (dividend) 43.2 45.9 19 KIRIN REPORT 2018 Promoting international exchanges and leadership Japan Integrated Beverages business. ( Please refer to pages grooming while bringing innovations to diverse and 38 – 39 for more details.) highly capable organizations Matsuda If the Kirin Group steps up such international exchange and leadership promotion initiatives, it may indeed transform its corporate culture in the future. Matsuda How does the Company plan to motivate and Yokota Yes, I hope we can shift toward having organizations improve the performance of its human resources? that are more engaged and accepting of diverse values. Yokota In the Japan Integrated Beverages business, we are proceeding to centralize our human resources system, making Striving to ensure stable dividend payments while it possible to utilize a common personnel database for domesgiving consideration to the Company’s capital structure tic Group companies. Although this allows us to examine uniform data on the career tracks of individual employees and other matters, we still cannot monitor data about their future Matsuda Finally, I would like to hear about the Company’s career goals. Therefore, we intend to improve and replenish approach to its capital structure and shareholder returns. the quality of the data in the future in order to more effectively Yokota Under our former 2016 medium-term business plan, assign personnel to the most suitable jobs. the debt-to-equity ratio grew to approximately 1 in fiscal 2015, Matsuda What is being done for personnel outside Japan? but it was brought down to 0.51 by the end of fiscal 2017. Yokota Although databases of human resources in Japan have At the stage we are at now, I think it is appropriate to maintain this not yet been integrated with those outside Japan, we have been level while giving consideration to cost of equity. At present, we actively promoting interaction among personnel on a global are targeting a consolidated payout ratio of at least 30%, but we level. The Group has already held international conferences for will review this target in the future along with our financial stratemanufacturing, marketing, R&D, IT, and other divisions, and gies based on business and investment strategies. Of course, we plans to hold more for administrative divisions, such as finance. will make that decision while discussing it with investors. In Australia, an exciting leadership development program is Matsuda Looking ahead, the Company expects to generate being carried out by Lion Pty Ltd., and it has been used as a substantial cash flows. In that context, while it is obviously model for a leadership enhancement program that started in the important to pay dividends and repay interest-bearing debt, your policy is to give top priority to investments for future growth, right? Yokota That’s right. Although our operating environment is challenging, we want to ensure that the Kirin Group will grow by carrying out our management strategy of creating shared value while continuing to meet consumers’ expectations and respond to requests from stakeholders and the general public. For that purpose, and based on very strict criteria, we intend to carefully select investment targets that offer high returns on investment when allocating capital. Matsuda As you know, many people will depend on your ability to make shrewd decisions as the company’s CFO. Thank you for sharing your views today. Dividend/Consolidated payout ratio (yen) (%) 50 Dividend 40 45 46yen 35 32.2% 32.5% 31.2% Consolidated 40 29.5% payout ratio 30 38yen 38yen 35 36yen 39yen 30.5% 25 30 20 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 KIRIN REPORT 2018 20 Philosophy and Strategy Financial and Non-Financial Highlights Pp. 7–8 Value Creation Model Pp. 7–8 Value Creation Model OUTCOME: Main achievement of economic value INPUT: Main achievements of human resources, brand, R&D, and supply chain/IT Financial Highlights (Fiscal 2017 Results) Non-Financial Highlights Note: Began applying the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in December 2017. Note: All results exclude Brasil Kirin. Myanmar Brewery has been counted since 2016. However, greenhouse gas emissions have been counted since 2015. ROE/Profit margin*1 Employee engagement*5 Human resources (%) (%) 30 75 ROE 25 20 29.1% 70 15 65 66% Profit Margin 10 5 13.0% 60 0 55 –5 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Note: Until fiscal 2016, ROE before amortization of goodwill, etc., net profit margin before 2014 2015 2016 2017 amortization of goodwill *1 Margin of profit attributable to owners of the parent Having employees that empathize with the direction and goals of their company and are willing to do their utmost to achieve them Normalized EPS*2/Normalized profit*3 will lead to sustainable performance improvement and innovation (Yen) (¥ billion) creation. Employee engagement is seen as an important indicator 160 160 for that. Note: Weighted average of survey results at target companies. Myanmar Brewery and Normalized profit Kyowa Hakko Kirin Group counted since fiscal 2016 137.7billion 120 120 ¥ 80 80 Ratio of female managers*5 Human resources Normalized EPS 40 40 ¥ 151 (%) 35 0 (+8.6%) 0 Overseas 33.3% 30 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Note: Until fiscal 2016, normalized net income 25 *2 Normalized EPS = Adjusted profit / Average number of shares outstanding during period *3 Adjusted profit = Profit ± Other operating income and expenses and other items after 20 income taxes Entire group 14.7% 15 Consolidated normalized operating profit* / 4 Consolidated normalized operating profit margin 10 (¥ billion) (%) Japan 6.7% 5 200 16 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 150 Consolidated normalized 12 operating profit margin The organization’s diversity is an important factor in raising human 100 12.3% 8 resource skills, the basis of innovation. We are taking steps to promote the active participation of women in the workplace with Consolidated normalized the aim of a corporate culture that reflects more than ever the operating profit diverse views and challenges of each and every employee in 194.3billion 50 4 management and business. ¥ 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 J-GAAP IFRS Note: Operating income (margin) until fiscal 2016 *5 Scope: (Japan) Kirin Holdings, Japan Integrated Beverages Business (Kirin, Kirin Brewery, Note: Revenue excluding liquor tax (sales) Kirin Beverage, Mercian), Kyowa Hakko Kirin Group *4 Normalized operating profit = revenue – cost of sales – (selling, general and (Overseas) Lion, Myanmar Brewery administrative expenses) Used as a profit indicator to measure ordinary business performance 21 KIRIN REPORT 2018 Advertising expense ratio*6 Brands IT expenses/IT investments*7 Supply chain and IT capabilities (%) (¥ billion) 14.0 30 25 13.0 20 IT expenses 15.2billion 12.0 ¥ 1 1.0 11.8% 15 10 10.0 IT investments 5 0 0 ¥ 11.1 billion 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 While expenditures to raise sales volume in the short term are made Fixed expenses for IT will be invested to improve efficiency while as efficiently as possible, a certain amount of ongoing investment is benchmarking global and domestic industry standards. Meanwhile, necessary for advertising that contributes to raising brand value. aggressive IT investment needed for future business growth will be Note: Percentage of advertising expenses to total rebates (regardless of whether substantially actively incorporated into the mediumto long-term investment discounted or not), compensation for handling of products for business use, marketing plan, starting with investments from 2017 and beyond for the expenses for sales promotion measures, and advertising expenses. introduction of ERP. Note: Cash basis amount excluding depreciation and amortization expenses R&D expenses Research and development Greenhouse gas emissions Supply chain and IT capabilities (Scope 1+2)/(Scope 3) (¥ billion) (1,000 tons CO2e) 80 5,000 Scope 1+2 60 ¥ 59.0billion 4,000 1,016 Other businesses 1,000 tons CO2e 3,000 40 Pharmaceuticals 2,000 Scope 3 20 and Bio-chemicals businesses 4,191 48.9 1,000 1,000 tons CO2e ¥ 0 billion 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 Through innovation, the importance of R&D is increasing more and The prevention of global warming is an issue that needs to be more as a source for continuously realizing new value creation. We addressed by society as a whole and merely reducing GHG will continue to promote value creation by constantly investing a emissions (Scope 1+2) through our business activities will not solve fixed amount in R&D, while working to raise R&D efficiency. the problem. In addition to reducing Scope 1+2, the Kirin Group sets targets for reducing GHG emissions (Scope 3) throughout the value chain and will contribute to the prevention of global warming. *6 Scope: (Japan) Japan Integrated Beverages Business (Kirin Brewery, Kirin Beverage, Mercian) ; (Overseas) Lion, Myanmar Brewery *7 Scope: (Japan) Kirin Holdings, Japan Integrated Beverages Business (Kirin, Kirin Brewery, Kirin Beverage, Mercian; (Overseas) Lion * Those without are the entire domestic and overseas Group KIRIN REPORT 2018 22 CHAPTER Kirin’s Value Creation Turning Kirin’s strengths Alcoholic and non-alcoholic into value, worldwide beverages businesses The Kirin Group’s strengths in technology and marketing are the foundation we use to deliver appealing products and services to consumers worldwide. Innovative technology goes beyond the fruits of our R&D Pharmaceuticals efforts. It includes continuous innovation in manufacturing, engineering, and bio-chemicals raw material procurement and logistics. Similarly, our marketing expertise encompasses more than advertising and sales promotion. businesses We also uncover consumer insights and latent needs for which we develop new products and services, thereby creating new markets in concert with communities and consumers. To these strengths we Kirin’s foundation for add human resources, brands, R&D, supply chains, and informavalue creation tion technology backed by management resources. This Technological Marketing process reinforces the foundation and creates new value capabilities expertise shared with communities worldwide. In this way, we contribute to health and well-being, community Sound corporate governance engagement, and environmental protection through our Group businesses around the globe. Here we introduce our initiatives to create value by leveraging the Kirin Group’s strengths. 23 KIRIN REPORT 2018 Community engagement CASE Kirin Ichiban Shibori Relaunch and Craft Beer Market Development P. 25 Health and well-being CASE Pharmaceuticals for Worldwide Markets P. 27 Health and well-being CASE Lactococcus lactis strain Plasma Stars in New Products P. 29 The Environment CASE Advanced High-Efficiency Facilities at Myanmar Brewery P. 31 KIRIN REPORT 2018 24 Kirin’s Value Creation Kirin Ichiban Shibori Relaunch and Craft Beer Market Development Restoring beer’s appeal through customer-centered marketing Over the past two decades, Japan’s beer market has continued flavor, while reining in sour notes and overly sweet aromas. to shrink. A decline in the drinking population is not the sole Backed by the customer-centric marketing power of the cause. At Kirin, we also perceive that beer has lost some of its Kirin Group, our “New Ichiban Shibori” campaign was crafted to appeal. In response, we have taken measures to make beer an focus on the “four moments of truth” that build the customer– attractive choice again. brand relationship. We also drew from our contacts and expeIn 2017, we revamped Ichiban Shibori (“Kirin Ichiban” for rience in developing our 2016 offering, “47 Todofuken no Ichiban export), our flagship brand, for the first time in four years. Shibori.” This involved fine-tuning our marketing in terms of Rather than the common tendency to introduce products as customer desires and regional characteristics, through collabthe manufacturer sees them, we constructed the new story of oration with local governments and agricultural cooperatives, Ichiban Shibori from the customer’s point of view. as well as other stakeholders throughout Japan. This shift to a customer-centric approach From January to March 2018, sales of the revamped extended to reformulation of the brew itself. Ichiban Shibori have reached 6.65 million cases, an increase To discover what customers really want of 12.4% (over the same period last year). Going forward, we in the taste of beer, we performed extenare committed to making Ichiban Shibori, Japan’s mainstream sive market surveys. We then performed beer, by applying our creating shared value (CSV) approach to test brewing more than 1,000 times over a refine the flavor and build local pride. three-year period. Ultimately we succeeded in brewing a deliciously well-balanced, highly drinkable beer with richer “umami” in the barley Partnering to reshape COJapan’s beer market 25 CREATION KIRIN REPORT 2018 Increasing customer touchpoints. revitalizing the craft beer market Another way we are working to boost beer’s allure is by invigorating the craft beer market. In Japan craft beers account for only about 1% of beer sold, by both volume and revenue*. The U.S. market stands in sharp contrast, with craft beer market share at 12% by volume and more than 20% by revenue, making this a major segment. Seeing similar strong potential for dramatic growth in Japan, Kirin Beer is creating more customer touchpoints to expand and establish craft beer’s presence in the market. angles. To simplify serving a variety of craft beers at restauAs part of this thrust, we have extended our craft beer rants and bars, we developed the convenient Tap Marché beer range by adding high-status brands such as YO-HO Brewing dispenser. Our Spring Valley Brewery brewpub is now at three (Japan) and Brooklyn Brewery (USA), which complement our locations, with plans for more. We also serve the craft beer own Spring Valley Brewery and Grand Kirin offerings. community by offering digital content and tasting seminars. Meanwhile, we are increasing the number and type of Through initiatives like these, we deliver new value to customtouchpoints so people can experience craft beer from different ers in collaboration with partners inside and outside Kirin. * Based on Kirin’s in-house research Branding with “four moments of truth” (Four MOTs) Kirin Beer’s customer-centric marketing is structured according to the “four moments of truth.” These are the four key moments where the customer’s feelings and behavior regarding the brand are most influenced by targeted advertising and promotional activities. Zero Moment Third Moment The moment that The moment For example, the Zero Moment of Truth is when the consumer comes into the consumer seeks further touch with brand information connections with the brand the prospect gathers information about a potential purchase. We target this moment by raising brand awareness through TV commercials, events, social media, and so on. The First Moment of Truth is when the prospect makes the decision to purchase. Here, First Moment Second Moment The moment that The moment we build desire based on analysis of behavior at large the consumer purchases the consumer actually uses the brand and assesses the brand liquor stores, supermarkets, bars and restaurants. KIRIN REPORT 2018 26 Kirin’s Value Creation Pharmaceuticals for Worldwide Markets RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT Innovating therapeutic antibody drugs Leaping forward as a global specialty pharmaceutical company Kyowa Hakko Kirin Group provides high-quality products and biotechnologies, focusing on nephrology, oncology, immunolservices in the pharmaceutical and biochemical fields to conogy/allergy, and neurology. Our clinical pipeline and product tribute to the health and well-being of people around the world. portfolio contain four main modalities: next-generation theraAt the Group’s core is Kyowa Hakko Kirin (KHK), a rapidly peutic antibodies, new types of small molecule drugs, nucleic evolving global specialty pharmaceutical company (GSP). KHK acid drugs, and regenerative therapeutics. develops innovative ethical drugs, driven by state-of-the-art Development of four major modalities Further evolution of existing technology Establishment of new technology Our core strengths established by Next-generation R&D and production of therapeutic antibodies Nucleic acid drugs biopharmaceuticals Immuno activating antibody Genetic engineering technology Nucleic acid function-enhancing technology Cell/tissue homing antibody Protein/antibody engineering DDS technology using lipid nanoparticles technology Excellence in analysis and New small molecule drugs control of carbohydrates Regenerative therapeutics Skills in cell culture and Integrated approach with control of cell differentiation iPS-T cell technology science of biologics Technology for (collaboration with Kyoto University) Precise drug design and manufacturing of biologics Skills in stem cell culture and synthesis based on structural differentiation control analysis of target molecule 27 KIRIN REPORT 2018 Collaboration for innovation Since 2013 KHK has been progressing toward commercialization of KRN23 in collaboration with Ultragenyx, a U.S. biopharmaceutical company that focuses on treatment of rare genetic diseases. In June 2016 the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) assigned breakthrough therapy designation to KRN23 for the treatment of XLH in pediatric patients, while in February 2018 the EuropeKRN23 (burosumab) for XLH: an Medicines Agency (EMA) New treatment for a rare disease granted Conditional Marketing Authorisation to KRN23 under A strategic product driving KHK’s growth as a GSP is KRN23 the name Crysvita®. We also (burosumab), which treats X-Linked hypophosphatemia plan to introduce KRN23 to (XLH), a bone disease caused by overexpression of phosphathe U.S., Oceania, Japan, and turic hormone fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23). other Asian nations following In XLH, reduced serum levels of phosphorus and vitamin expanded regulatory approval. D prevent adequate mineralization of bone, leading to skeletal Through the process of abnormalities, impaired growth, and extreme pain. XLH is a commercializing KRN23 we are rare disease occuring in one out of 20,000 people in the world. building our marketing network KRN23 is the first treatment to target the cause of the disand strengthening our foundaease, by controlling excess FGF23. Current treatment offers tion to leap ahead as a global only symptomatic relief by replacing phosphate and vitamin D, specialty pharmaceutical combut requires frequent dosing and may cause renal calcification. pany. We look forward to conKHK discovered KRN23 — a recombinant fully human tinued collaboration within and monoclonal IgG1 antibody — which effectively raises serum outside the Group as we fulfill phosphorus level and maintains it within the normal range. our commitment to meeting Having proven safe and highly effective in clinical trials, KRN23 society’s needs through pharAdapted from Kyowa Hakko Kirin is attracting attention as a new treatment for this rare disease. maceutical innovation. Group’s FY2016–2020 Mid-term Business Plan KIRIN REPORT 2018 28 Kirin’s Value Creation Lactococcus lactis strain Plasma Stars in New Products Kirin discovers lactic acid bacterium that activates “commander in chief” of immune system An aging population and increased interest in wellness are been confirmed to directly actidriving demand for health-supporting foods that fit people’s vate Plasmacytoid dendritic cells lifestyles. In response, we have formed a group-wide joint (pDCs) — which together act as the research team to leverage our experience and expertise in bio“commander in chief” of the immune technology and fermentation. Based on its scientific studies, system. The team’s findings on the unique activity of Lactothis joint R&D team applies its findings to the development of coccus lactis strain Plasma have been met with critical acclaim food products for healthy living. following presentations at medical conferences and publication Lactococcus lactis strain Plasma was discovered by our joint in respected journals. team in 2011. This is the only lactic acid bacterium that has IP Health-supporting food products based on scientific research DEVELOPMENT 29 KIRIN REPORT 2018 Targeting healthcare professionals Kirin Group companies are applying the fruits of this research to their businesses. Koiwai, Kirin Beverages, and Kyowa Hakko Bio have rolled out products incorporating Lactococcus lactis strain Plasma in the yoghurt (probiotic drink), soft drink, and dietary supplement categories, respectively. In 2017 we unified the branding of our own Lactococcus lactis strain Plasma formulated products and partnered with external companies to grow this market. In addition, we have developed products specifically to be marketed through healthcare professionals, including doctors, pharmacists, nurses and nutritionists. The first such product, parents of small children. As we raise awareness of Lactococcus launched in December 2017, is a chewable supplement that lactis strain Plasma among the general population and bolster can be taken without water. our unified marketing efforts, the Kirin Group is helping to meet Academic journals, worldwide, have published 13 of our the health challenges that today’s society faces. research team’s papers about Lactococcus lactis strain Plasma functionality. These articles have been cited frequently by othWorking through healthcare professionals er researchers in their own research papers. Meanwhile, we are educating the public about Lactococcus Leveraging scientific lactis strain Plasma. Based on expert opinion and the scienevidence Hospitals Recommendations Specific General tifically verified efficacy of Lactococcus lactis strain Plasma, Kirin Clinics target target Pharmacies we have also begun promoting it through specialists advising those with elevated health concerns — such as the elderly and Plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) are directly activated by Lactococcus lactis strain Plasma Lactococcus lactis strain Plasma Lactococcus Various types of immune cells work lactis strain Immature Plasma pDC together to protect against viral infecActivation tion. But conventional lactic acid bacteria can stimulate only a few of these, pDC such as NK cells. In contrast, Lacto(Plasmacytoid dendritic cell “commander in chief”) coccus lactis strain Plasma directly activates pDCs, which act together in NK cell Killer T cell B cell Interferon the role of “commander in chief” of the immune system. This greatly increases the anti-viral potential of the peripheral Protects against viral infection Activated pDC immune function. WE B Further information is available in “The Lactococcus lactis strain Plasma anti-viral defense mechanism.” KIRIN REPORT 2018 30 Kirin’s Value Creation Advanced High-Efficiency Facilities at Myanmar Brewery ECOFACTORY Leader in a growing market Strengthening our dominant position In 2015, we welcomed Myanmar Brewery (MBL), the largMyanmar Brewery — robust brand portfolio est beer producer in Myanmar, to the Kirin Group. Holding Mass market Premium 80% market share, MBL is Myanmar's dominant brewer, but competition is heating up as global brewers enter this growth market. Domestic International Economy Mainstream To hold onto the reins of leadership, Kirin Group is applypremium premium ing its expertise and experience to help strengthen MBL's product development, marketing, operations, sourcing and other functions. Our brand portfolio strategy is to sell more lowand medium-priced products and strengthen the brand, while adjusting brand architecture to encompass premium beers where we see growing demand. Of course, we are providing MBL with fully coordinated marketing support, including product concept design, in-store display tools, and consumer communication. 31 KIRIN REPORT 2018 Burgeoning Myanmar beer market Myanmar, “Asia’s last frontier,” has been in the spot328 light since 2011, when political and economic reforms began. Rapid economic growth, evidenced by GDP rising 7–8% over the past few years, includes an expandBeer consumption in Myanmar ing beer market. Its size was 330 million liters in 2016, (million liters) which, on a per capita basis, is still low compared to 90 neighboring Thailand and Vietnam. As the economy continues to grow, we look forward to beer consumption rising dramatically. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (Kirin estimate) Engineering expertise supports production increase To meet Myanmar’s rapidly growing demand, MBL is greatly expanding its facilities for brewing as well as bottling and canning. With a view to markedly stepping-up production capacity by year-end, in early 2018, we added a high-efficiency production line with a capacity of 100 million liters per year. Supporting this expansion is Kirin Engineering Company together with engineering divisions from Group companies. At Energy and water home and abroad, Kirin Engineering has earned a high reputaconservation measures tion for constructing and equipping manufacturing facilities, not only for the Group but also for other firms. Myanmar’s economy is developing so rapidly that the nation To help maximize investment efficiency in MBL, Kirin Engimay soon face an energy shortage. To minimize the energy neering staff and Kirin Brewing engineering personnel posted consumption of each process, the MBL plant is investing in to Myanmar share their expertise and experience. This collabadvanced energy-saving equipment, assisted in some areas oration covers overall design and selection of equipment, not by Joint Crediting Mechanism (JCM) financing from the to mention installation, fine-tuning and instruction in operaJapanese government. tion, thereby bringing out the facility’s full potential. Drawing on the Group’s expertise, we are taking steps to conserve water resources as well. Wastewater discharged Energy-saving equipment introduced at MBL from factories is purified in-house under strict water qualiWort kettle Wort preheating system ty management while we continue to expand the capacity of Scrubber Recovers and re-uses vapor facilities to handle increased production. from wort boiling as a heat source By boosting process efficiency and using advanced Steam ejector Heater technology, we aim to achieve a 25% reduction in unit water Vapor re-compression system usage by 2020, relative to 2015 levels, a notable achievement Steam Drain Employs steam ejector in the industry. With our contribution to economic growth and environWort Wort Halves steam required mental protection, the Kirin Group is committed to Myanmar’s Heat Energy exchanger storage tank preheater for wort boiling process sustainable development. (compared to the existing equipment) KIRIN REPORT 2018 32 Kirin’s Value Creation CSV Commitment Results and Goals CSV priority issues and commitment progress and goals (As of December 31, 2017) CSV key initiatives Commitments When it formulated the long-term management vision New KV2021, the Kirin Group A Education in appropriate Promote measures against identified management issues to achieve responsible drinking and nurturing harmful alcohol intake alcoholic a positive drinking 0.1 Develop no-alcohol and sustainable growth, and organized the Group producer culture low-alcohol products Materiality Matrix (GMM). In 2016, we established “health and well-being,” “community engagement,” and “the Support customer control of 1.1 calorie and nutritional intake environment” as CSV Key Initiatives to be dealt Supporting self-care with in a focused manner with the view of being “a for healthy people and people responsible alcohol producer“ as outlined in GMM. with pre-disease Create innovative products and To share our purpose together as a Group and 1.2 services that contribute to improving customers’ quality of life work on CSV Key Initiatives, we have formulated our vision as 16 commitments, while also consulting Continuously discover innovative Health 1.3 the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted and new drugs Evolution in by the U.N. in 2017. Further, we have established a well-being medical treatment Contributing to the spread of bioconcrete approach to achieving our commitments and 1.4 pharmaceuticals and the reduction we update our approach depending on yearly progress. of medical costs, a global issue Health-oriented 1.5 Improve employee health business management Safety and security Improve global safety and Group materiality matrix of our products 1.6 customers’ sense of security Responsibility A Safety and as a Responsible security pharmaceutical alcoholic of our Contribute to the revitalization of manufacturer producer products 2.1 producing areas by brewing unique beers that can only be made by using Japanese hops Health Impact on social sustainability Sustainable Human The Community and sourcing rights Environment engagement well-being 2.2 Provide long-term support for Enhancing Sri Lankan black tea farmers Human sustainability of resources Community the supply chain Corporate New value engagement and governance creation corporate culture Develop Japanese wines and contribute to 2.3 products that ensure global recognition, and thereby revitalize producing areas 2.4 Provide sustainable support for dairy farmers Regional revitalization Develop products and services that through business 2.5 revitalize local communities activities Impact on the Kirin Group’s business 3.1 Reduce greenhouse gas emissions Reflecting The environmental 3.2 Preserve water resources Environment activities in our business strategies 3.3 Preserve biological resources Improve sustainability of 3.4 containers and packaging WEB Please refer to our website for details about our commitment approach, performance indicators and other information. https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/csv/commitment/pdf/CSV_all_E.pdf 33 KIRIN REPORT 2018 Major achievements in 2017 Major goals in fiscal 2018 Related page G Create responsible alcohol consumption program across the Group G Kirin Zero Ichi (Japan) drove the Group’s total sales volume of and establish indicators and targets to measure the spread of non-alcoholic products to a 57% increase compared to the Risk activities to educate people on responsible alcohol consumption Management previous year. Page 50 Further improve perception of no-alcohol products LN Our Goodness Promise progressed steadily. The “Best for you” and KBC Focus on spreading sugar-free products (Japan) “Good for you” categories accounted for 76% (74% in the previous year) of Lion Dairy & Drinks sales volume, while the LN Aiming to achieve its targets for 2019, LN will expand the Milk Loves Health Star Labeling adoption rate was 60% (43% in the previous You Back initiative to spread knowledge about nutrients necessary for year) of stock keeping unit (SKU) (Australia) living through it on pack information (Australia) G Launched a unified brand across the Group that combines G Raise social awareness of Lactococcus lactis strain Plasma through Lactococcus lactis strain Plasma (¥23 billion in sales is expected in healthcare experts Kirin’s Value Creation 2027). Begin developing the health business and products to follow those mentioned above Case 3, page 29 KHK Application for approval of the manufacture and sales of KRN23 (burosumab) was accepted in Europe and designated for priority KHK Launch KRN23 in Europe and the U.S. and try to penetrate the market Kirin’s Value Creation review by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Case 2, page 27 KHK Successfully litigated a patent in the U.K. of an adalimumab KHK Apply for approval of an adalimumab biosimilar (FKB327) in the U.S. biosimilar candidate (FKB327), and our application for marketing and obtain approval in Europe. approval in Europe was accepted. KC Turn the PDCA cycle on initiatives to reform and improve work by KC Reduced overtime work hours by 4.7% over the previous year reforming working styles KHK Divisions that reduced prolongedwork hours from the previous KC KHK Obtain Excellent Enterprise of Health and Productivity year: 89.8% Management (White 500) G Decided the certification rate for Global Food Safety Initiative G Increase the certification rate for GFSI-recognized schemes to more (GFSI)-recognized schemes would be a performance indicator than 50% (certification rate: 33%) KC Disclose the list of alcoholic beverage ingredients and nutritional KC Disclosed list of soft drink ingredients and nutritional information information on website KB Promoted the Home Town of Beer Initiative to revitalize regions that collaborate with hop producers, citizens, and the government KB Expand the development of craft beers that use domestic hops in Tono City, Iwate Prefecture Seek to establish a hop production system that can maintain a domestic Started a Hop Summit with hop producers and craft brewers in various hop procurement volume of 100 tons by 2026 regions in collaboration with Kirin’s project to add value with domestic hops KBC Achieved about a 50% ratio of number of highly sustainable farms KBC Aim to achieve a 70% ratio of number of highly sustainable farms among Sri Lankan black tea supplier farms among Sri Lankan black tea supplier farms by 2020 Kirin Group Number of farms that have obtained Rainforest Alliance Environmental Report certification: 44 Support those farms (7,750 farms) in obtaining certification ME Château Mercian has won high praise at prominent domestic and ME Open the Kikkyogahara winery and complete construction of the Mariko winery international wine competitions, including winning the gold medal Contribute to the development of Japanese wine through the growth of the at the International Wine Challenge Château Mercian business (sales target for rate of sales volume increase: Kikyo decided to build a new Hara winery (2018) and Mariko winery (2019) 10% increase over the previous year) LN Started Lion Dairy Pride Program, an online program to support sustainable and productive dairy farming. Provided grant funding LN Develop Orchard Pride Program for Lion fruit suppliers to 10 dairy farmers in partnership with Landcare Australia in 2017 KB Continue to release nationwide the Kirin Brewery “9 Factory Ichiban Shibori” KB Launched Kirin 47 Todofuken no Ichiban Shibori Beer can design advertising and supporting regional revitalization G Greenhouse gas reduction target approved by Science Based KC Formulate GHG reduction roadmap for 2018–2030 Financial and NonTarget (SBT) KB Expand renewable energy ratio for plant purchased electric power to 50% Financial Highlights KB KBC Supplied electricity with hydroelectric power generation to by 2030 Kirin Group the Kirin Beer Toride Plant and the Kirin Beverage Shonan Plant LN Install 10 MW solar power generation facilities by 2026 Environmental Report G Continue water-source forestation activities (planned: 10 locations, 19 times) G Continued water-source forestation project activities Risk Management MB Reduce water-use intensity by 25% (compared to 2015) Page 52 (conducted at 10 locations, 19 times) Kirin Group KHK Reduce water usage by 30% by 2030 (compared to 2015) Environmental Report Kirin Group Same as 2.2 Same as 2.2 Environmental Report KB Completed FSC® certified paperboard packaging for six packs KC Switch all paper containers and packaging to FSC® certified paper Kirin Group by 2020 Environmental KC Obtained COC certification license from FSC® Report LN Raise recyclable material packaging rate to 90% or more by 2030 G Kirin Group KC Kirin Company, Limited KB Kirin Brewery Company, Limited KBC Kirin Beverage Company, Limited ME Mercian Corporation LN Lion Pty Limited MB Myanmar Brewery Limited KHK Kyowa Hakko Kirin Company, Limited KIRIN REPORT 2018 34 Kirin’s Value Creation System to Promote CSV Group CSV Committee To proactively and independently support Group companies’ Executive Committee and Kirin Holdings’ Board of Directors. CSV management, the Kirin Group convenes the Group CSV In addition, the committee chair provides instructions for Committee once a year, in principle. The presidents of major improvements necessary to promote CSV to all department operating companies also attend committee meetings, which and Group companies of Kirin Holdings. This increases the are chaired by the president of Kirin Holdings Company, Limeffectiveness of CSV policies and strategies determined by ited, as members. The committee members discuss CSV polthe committee. The Kirin Holdings CSV Management Section, icies, strategies and action plans and monitor the status of the which serves as the secretariat for the committee, supports the implementation of our CSV commitment. operating companies and lead units by providing CSV-related The details of decisions made by the Group CSV Cominformation and initiatives taken by each company. mittee are, as needed, discussed and reported to the Group System to promote CSV Board of Directors Kirin Holdings Group Executive Committee Incorporation into the Group’s overall strategy Group CSV Committee Group materiality matrix Chair: President & CEO, Kirin Holdings (KH) Agenda Executive Group CSV policies, strategies, Monitoring Director: Director of CSV Strategy, KH Group and action plans Secretariat: CSV Management Section, Status of implementation of Corporate Strategy, KH Group CSV-related initiatives of Group companies Members: Presidents of principal companies, KH vice president, and executive officers of KH Group Incorporation into the strategies of operating companies Operating companies Report on Fiscal 2017 Activities realized in a project.” And “We need to consider how the Group should acknowledge the evaluation items as investors (urgency, The Group CSV Committee held its fiscal 2017 meeting on June repercussions, incompatibility and range), which were touched 8, 2017. Mr. Toshio Arima, outside director and chairman of the on in the lecture given by Mr. Matsubara.” board of Kirin Holdings, and chairman of the board, Global Compact Network Japan and Mr. Minoru Matsubara, chief manager, Asset Management Business Planning Division of Resona Bank, Ltd., who lectured on “ESG and Corporate Valuation.” After the lecture, committee members shared the progress of our CSV commitment and opinions were shared regarding the common issues facing these commitments. Meeting participants also engaged in lively discussions, making comments such as “We should approach environmental investments as part of our overall capital investments, and we should also incorporate environmental investments that reflect our mediumto longterm plan and roadmap.” “We should focus on the cost of environmental investments as well as the overall return that can be 35 KIRIN REPORT 2018 Corporate activities in line with the United Nations Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact rights, elimination of unfair labor practic(UNGC) is a voluntary, global initiative es, response to environmental issues, and for companies and groups committed prevention of corruption. to exercising creative The Kirin Group leadership for maintainannounced its participaing responsible business tion in the UNGC in Seppractices and sustaintember 2005. We are ability as good corporate taking steps to achieve citizens. The UNGC asks the UNGC principles in for the commitment of the our corporate activities senior management of through our relationship companies that support with employees, stakethe 10 principles relating holders, and the global to the protection of human value chain. President’s message The operating environment is drastically changing, and numerous issues have emerged and are growing increasingly serious. There is a growing shared awareness that not only governments and NGOs, but also companies should play a positive role to solve these social issues. Greater voluntary efforts are required by companies in the latest international frameworks for improving global sustainability, such as the United Nations Sustainable Development Targets (SDGs) and the Paris Agreement adopted at the 21st Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21). The Kirin Group is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and carries out its social responsibility through its corporate activities worldwide. Based on the 10 principles in four fields established by UNGC (human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption), we are advancing Group initiatives to achieve sustainability for society and companies. We have drawn up and announced our CSV commitment with regard to SDGs for 2017 and will contribute to solving issues through our business over the medium to long term. President & CEO KIRIN REPORT 2018 36 Kirin’s Value Creation Human Resources—Valuable Resources Supporting Sustained Growth Strengthen leadership and promote diversity to improve human resources, the foundation of value creation. Focus on transforming our human resources and corporate culture with the aim of a disciplined yet caring company Improving human resources and creating innovation Transforming into a disciplined yet caring company Aiming for sustained growth through value creation that However, the Kirin Group currently lacks a sense urgency that contributes to solving various social issues, the Kirin Group demands a change of the status quo and a challenging spirit believes that human resources are the most important that says, “I want to take on new challenges myself.” To transresource of a company. To create new value and corporate form itself into a company that achieves innovation routinely, growth, the Kirin Group is striving for a “game change” to the Kirin Group is now pursuing human resource and organiensure its competitiveness by breaking away from the conzational culture reforms. ventional viewpoint held by each business. To achieve a “game Through this initiative, the Kirin Group seeks to become a change,” innovation in the corporate activities of all divisions disciplined yet caring company. Employees who strive to innoincluding R&D, as well as production, distribution, and marvate with a high degree of motivation are given opportunities keting, is essential. Human resources are the most important regardless of age, rank, affiliation, and career, their growth is resource for achieving this innovation. The power of employsupported, and their results are fairly evaluated. On the other ees with rich and flexible ideas and strong reform conscioushand, we encourage self-change for employees who settle for ness who enjoy taking on new challenges is the basis of all the status quo. By fostering a merit-based organizational culvalue creation activities of the Kirin Group, which promotes ture, we are taking steps to evolve into a company that boldly CSV management. innovates for new value creation. Approach to strengthening human resources An environment in which pursuing lofty targets and tackling new challenges is standard practice and the lessons learned from such undertakings are utilized in future endeavors Disciplined yet caring company A meritocracy in which employees are motivated and able to grow through their work Developing human resources Reforming working styles Promoting diversity Cultivating leadership skills 37 KIRIN REPORT 2018 Developing leadership in senior management Senior management’s number one mission to develop senior management is strongly self-aware and motivates human resources employees with powerful leadership. With this understanding, the Kirin Group established a In transforming into a disciplined yet caring company, the policy of changing the awareness and actions of senior leaderawareness of senior leadership and changing how they act is ship. The Group also launched a leadership development proa key point. Although the Kirin Group has changed its orgagram in fiscal 2017 for about 130 employees of senior leaders nizational culture, we have not yet achieved our vision. This including directors of Kirin Holdings, the top management of is mainly because the role required of leaders who should be major operating companies, and the heads of offices and diviat the center of reform was not clearly defined. While one of sions nationwide. This program was developed in conformity the most important missions of a leader is to develop human with conditions in Japan while drawing on the program of Lion resources, organizational reforms will not advance unless Pty Ltd. of Australia. 2017 senior leader session Lecture by Peter David Pedersen, co-founder of E-Square Inc. and Director, TACL Leadership Academy Leadership development program schedule Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Stock-taking 360-degree Kick-off workshop Interim workshop by leadership survey self-assessment test Action plan 1st phase 2nd phase Action planning Implement action plan/ Implement action plan/ Follow-up with coaching Senior leadership action declaration Follow-up with coaching and practice Original workshop for offices and divisions PDCA for Review leadership Engagement Member 360-degree enhancement survey interviews survey KIRIN REPORT 2018 38 Kirin’s Value Creation Human Resources—Valuable Resources Supporting Sustained Growth Continually encourage self-change in a PDCA cycle In the leadership development program, each employee is continually encouraged to undergo self-change through a PDCA cycle. Specifically, we conducted a 360-degree survey in March 2017 to evaluate each survey participant from multiple viewpoints including those of subordinates and co-workers and conducted a self-assessment test to objectively assess their leadership qualities. Based on the results, a kick-off workshop was held and each person took stock of the current reality (objective assessment and clarification of issues regarding their leadership) and formulated an action plan. In May, as the first phase of implementation under the action plan, we began implementing regular one-on-one coaching by outside coaches and conducting workshops in divisions and other units. In July, all participants pronounced Coaching by outside coaches the senior leader action declaration to every employee. After that, we evaluated the results of initiatives by re-implementing the 360-degree survey, conducting member interviews, and implementing the employee engagement survey. At the same time, we have continually improved the program’s content. We will continue to carry out organizational culture reforms by encouraging self-change from senior management to mid-level leaders and all employees. Employee engagement data are shown on page 21. Lion’s leadership program Aiming to achieve sustainable growth Lion Pty Ltd. of Australia, an alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages business in the Oceania region, is working to fortify its leadership with the goal of sustainable growth. Every officer and employee sets competency, skill, and performance targets for themselves each fiscal year through coaching. They are then reviewed for their attainment of those targets at the end of each fiscal year. A variety of programs are conducted for senior management including “Growing Our Authentic Lion,” which teaches about organizational management adapted to changes in the business environment, “Leader’s Conference,” where management targets and business strategies are shared, and “Leadership at Lion” for employees who are new to management because of promotion or mid-career recruitment. These have earned an excellent reputation as high-quality programs that have comprehensively strengthened leadership and greatly contributed to the development and acquisition of excellent leaders in the field. 39 KIRIN REPORT 2018 Leveraging diverse viewpoints and values to achieve innovation Create an environment where employees can flourish The diversity of an organization is a key factor in the enhancement of human resources. To understand market changes and contribute to solving social issues, we need to transform into a corporate culture that is able to reflect diverse employees’ be respected and discrimination based on sexual orientation opinions and challenges in management and business more and sexual identity will not be tolerated. At the same time, than ever before. With this awareness, the Kirin Group has the requirement for obtaining condolence leave from work, set the creation of an organizational culture that enables all which thus far has been confined to legal marriages, was employees to flourish regardless of gender, disability, age, expanded to also include common-law and same-sex marnationality, sexual orientation, and gender identity as an riages, and we have also conducted training to make this important management task. information widely known. These For example, to promote the active participation of wominitiatives are appreciated by en, four of our domestic companies*1 have set a goal of tripling society and Kirin Company, Limthe number of female leaders in 2013 to 300 (12% of all manited has received the top-level agers) by 2021 and have expanded the employee education gold certification from “work program, as well as the work-life balance program, which is with Pride.”*3 based around life events such as pregnancy and childbirth. A *1. Kirin Company, Limited, Kirin Brewery Company, Limited, Kirin Beverage Comseries of initiatives that promote the empowerment of women pany, Limited, and Mercian Corporation. in the workplace were evaluated and Kirin was selected a Fiscal *2. The Nadeshiko Brand initiative is a project aiming to introduce certain TSE-listed enterprises that are outstanding in terms of encouraging the empowerment of 2017 Nadeshiko Brand*2 . In women in the workplace as attractive stocks to investors who put emphasis 2017, we revised the complion improving corporate value in the midand long-term, thereby promoting investment in such enterprises and accelerating efforts encouraging women’s ance guidelines, which is the success in the workplace. code of conduct for all Group *3. A private organization that supports the pursuit and establishment of diversity employees. The guidelines management specify that individuals are to Nadeshiko Brand logo Data on the ratio of female managers are shown on page 21. Kirin’s Program to Simulate the Work-Styles of Mothers and Fathers Promoting an understanding of diverse working styles and raising productivity Kirin’s Program to Simulate the Work-Styles of Mothers and Fathers, which started in Program goals 2016 with female sales department employees, is in fact an attempt to get employees Creating time for challenges x Strengthening without children to act, through simulated experience, as though they are working consumer perspective mothers and fathers. Because a parent’s time is restricted by child rearing and emerLessons learned from previous challenges are applied to subsequent challenges gencies such as a child coming down with a fever, we are promoting an understanding of diverse working styles, reviewing how a person and the organization work, and Corporate culture that can leverage diverse improving work efficiency through simulated human resources, such as by limiting conexperiences that efficiently improve work by straints due to child and nursing care gaining the cooperation of those around us. Since the program’s inception, there have Improve leadership and management skills been significant results such as productivity through experience improvement. Therefore, in 2018, we expanded it to cover the entire company. Further, the program has been expanded so that employees Shift employee thinking from “not causing can select from the three simulated scenarios The desks of participants in the program to trouble for each other” to “understanding and supporting each other” of childcare, nursing care, and family illness. simulate the work-styles of mothers and fathers KIRIN REPORT 2018 40 CHAPTER Corporate Governance Basic view on corporate governance In line with the Group’s corporate philosophy and the “One Kirin” values that are shared across the Kirin Group, the Group believes that achieving the 2021 Vision outlined in its long-term management vision New KV2021 will lead to the Group’s sustainable growth and to greater corporate value over the medium to long term. Accordingly, the Group will develop a corporate governance system that can effectively and efficiently reach that goal. The Kirin Group believes that cooperation with its stakeholders will be indispensable to putting its corporate philosophy into practice and turn the 2021 Vision into reality, and therefore the Group respects its stakeholders’ respective viewpoints. We will promptly disclose information to shareholders and investors based on transparency, fairness and continuity, actively engage in constructive dialogue, and fulfill accountability in good faith. 41 KIRIN REPORT 2018 Evolution of corporate governance system 1999–2006 2007–2012 2013–2015 2016–2018 Implementation of Group management KV2015 long-term management vision KV2021 long-term Evolution to new KV2021 Overseas expansion management vision Pursuit of rapid growth Organic growth utilizing Clarification of Aggressive overseas expansion through established foundations of Kirin Group’s unique CSV Business plans M&A activities global businesses acquired under KV2015 Revitalization of Japan Integrated Beverages Business 2007–2009 2010–2012 2013–2015 2016–2018 Medium-term business plan Medium-term business plan Medium-term business plan Medium-term business plan Promotion of Three-year shift to Restructuring and Revitalize “qualitative expansion” “organic growth” Kirin, Groupwide 1999 2007 2013 Introduction of Introduction of pure holding company system Introduction of regional headquarters system with Kirin in-house company and establishment of Kirin Holdings Holdings as global headquarters Organization system with Kirin Establishment of Kirin Company as regional headquarters Brewery as operating for Japan Integrated Beverages Business and holding company 2015 Introduction of integrated operation system for Kirin Holdings and Kirin Company 1999 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2010–2012 2015 Liquidation of marketable securities Introduction of new executive officer system and other assets at Kirin Holdings and Kirin Company Appointment of executive officers in charge of overseas operations at Kirin Holdings Corporate governance evolution 2016 2003 Announcement of corporate Establishment of Advisory Board governance policy Establishment of Appointment Advisory Committee Formation of Nomination and and Compensation Advisory Committee Remuneration Advisory Committee Establishment of Group Risk Management Committee Reorganization into Group Risk and Compliance Committee 2006 2017 Establishment of Group Executive Committee Revision of officer Establishment of Group Information Disclosure Committee 2014 remuneration system Establishment of Group CSR Committee Change of name to Introduction of restricted Group CSV Committee stock compensation system (performance-based) Outside 2002 directors 2003 2012 2016 Appointment of female 2 director Streamlining of Board of Directors Appointment of female Audit Change in number Outside Outside & Supervisory Board member directors Appointment of outside directors 4 director as chairman of 2 the board of executive officers 25 10 9 Appointment of outside Inside directors director as chairman of Inside directors Inside directors 23 the Nomination and 8 5 Remuneration Advisory Reduction of term of directors from two years to one Committee * Number of directors. Indicates the number as of April 1 of each year KIRIN REPORT 2018 42 Corporate governance organizational chart General Meeting of Shareholders Audit & Supervisory Board 2 Board of Directors 1 Chairman Auditing Auditing Independent Inside Outside accounting auditor 2 Inside Outside auditors auditors directors directors 2 3 5 4 Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee 3 Chairman Auditing Auditing Inside Outside directors directors 2 3 President Group Executive Committee 4 Internal Group CSV Committee 4 auditing Executive officers Group Risk and Compliance Committee 4 Group internal audit 2 Group Information Disclosure Committee 4 Departments Internal auditing Group companies Regional headquarters Operating companies 1 Desired functions of the Board of Directors of the Kirin Group 3 Advisory body to the Board of Directors By verifying the executive branch and operating company strategies and Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee: In 2016, Kirin Holdings making sound recommendations from a broad-ranging view, we demonunified the Appointment Advisory Committee and Compensation Advisory strate “important decision-making” and “monitoring” functions and enhance Committee to form the Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee. corporate value over the medium to long term. An advisory body to the Board of Directors, the committee is responsible for discussing from an objective and fair perspective the appointment and “Important decision-making” functions remuneration of directors, Audit & Supervisory Board members, and executive Focus on important matters and discuss them from a mediumto longofficers of major Group companies. The committee is also responsible for the term management perspective Kirin Holdings CEO successor plan. Decision-making function is accelerated (delegation of authority to the executive branch) As for the composition of the committee, the chairman and the majority of “Monitoring” Functions committee members are outside officers, thus ensuring objectivity and Establish corporate governance policy and enhance monitoring transparency. The term of office is one year. Increase number of outside officers and exercise monitoring function from Outside directors: Kimie Iwata (Chairman), Shoshi Arakawa, a specialized and objective standpoint Katsunori Nagayasu Mutual cooperation between Audit & Supervisory Board members, 2 independent accounting auditor, and internal control divisions Inside directors: Yoshinori Isozaki, Toshiya Miyoshi In addition to the Audit & Supervisory Board, Audit & Supervisory Board members also 4 Advisory bodies to the president attend important meetings including Board of Directors meetings, and audit directors’ Group Executive Committee: The Group Executive Committee assists the performance of their duties through visits to Group companies in Japan and overseas. president & CEO in decision-making on matters related to strategies and Audit & Supervisory Board members also work closely with corporate auditors of investments that will have a significant impact on the Kirin Group. Group companies to enhance the effectiveness of audits. The Group internal audit director (Internal Audit Division of Kirin Company, Group Information Disclosure Committee: Delegated by the president, the Limited) conducts internal audits of the Group’s major risks and internal control committee deliberates and decides the importance of information including its system. Further, the Group internal audit director, Audit & Supervisory Board timely disclosure and the necessity of timely disclosure. members, and independent accounting auditor exchange information and views Group CSV Committee: Refer to page 35. and hold discussions when necessary. The group internal audit director and Audit & Supervisory Board members obtain necessary information by attending meetings Group Risk and Compliance Committee: Refer to page 51. of the internal control divisions and the independent accounting auditor interviews Internal Control Division staff as necessary to conduct an effective audit. 43 KIRIN REPORT 2018 Corporate Governance Fiscal 2017 Initiatives Evaluations of the Board of Directors’ effectiveness Kirin Holdings routinely conducts evaluations of the management of the Board of Directors, the content of its discussions, and strives to ensure important decision-making and monitoring functions. Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Discussions were held among the Board of Directors based Conducted a survey that included evaluation criteria based on on self-evaluation surveys and the Board conducted an the research of third-party advisers and discussed it at the Board overall review. meeting in light of existing initiatives and improvements Evaluation Criteria Evaluation Criteria 1. Relationship between the Board of Directors and management 1. Supervision of development, execution, and monitoring of strategies 2. Composition of the Board 2. Risk management and supervision of crisis control 3. Proceedings and discussions at Board meetings 3. Thorough understanding and implementation of healthy corporate ethics and supervision thereof Evaluation Results 4. Supervision of decision-making such as business acquisition/withdrawal •It was determined that the Board of Directors was generally effective 5. Supervision of executive remuneration and plans such as succes•The desired functions of the Board of Directors were reaffirmed sion planning for next-generation leaders 6. Supervision of overall disclosure to stakeholders 7. Structure and management of the Board of Directors Enhancement Policy Evaluation Results 1. Expand discussions form the viewpoint of Group management 1. It was determined that the Board of Directors functions Shift from monitoring each individual project to monitoring properly overall each Group strategy issue 2. It was determined that the Board of Directors was generally 2. Expand the sharing of management information effective Report the progress of monthly performance of principal companies in a timely manner Enhancement Result Enhancement Policy 1. Exchanged views about partnering and financial strategies in We will strive to maintain and improve the effectiveness of the Board a timely manner to reflect changes in the managerial environof Directors through constructive discussion as outlined below: ment and expanded discussions about important issues from 1. Discussion from the standpoint of non-financial topics including a Group management perspective the environment, society, and governance (ESG) 2. Facilitated quarterly monitoring through greater sharing of 2. Discussion on enterprise risk management (ERM) adapted to Group management information complicated global risks Governance and performance evaluation of Group companies Operational execution and monitoring system directors or executive officers concurrently serve as directors for Group companies of each company. Kirin Holdings, a pure holding company, fulfills the function of formulating and promoting Group strategy, monitoring each Performance evaluation of each Group company business, and creating synergies across the Group. Performance evaluation indicators of Group companies are Each company of the Kirin Group is managed autonomously ROA linked to ROE, a quantitative target, and the normalized and speedily in locations that are close to stakeholders including operating profit of each company is directly linked to normalcustomers. Kirin Holdings grants business execution authority ized operating profit guidance. In accordance with the voluntailored to the strategy stage of each company while working to tarily application of International Financial Reporting Standards improve governance through the Board of Directors meetings (IFRS), the performance indicators of Group companies have of each company by sending directors to each Group company. been replaced with IFRS. ROA is calculated based on normalized Please note that regarding principal Group companies, Kirin’s operating profit/total assets. KIRIN REPORT 2018 44 Corporate Governance Fiscal 2017 Initiatives Candidate plan for president & CEO (succession planning) Kirin Holdings’ Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Comof Directors. mittee deliberated on the formulation of policy for the PresiBased on this report, we have been selecting, evaluating dent & CEO Succession Planning in 2016 and reported on the and training candidates since 2017 under the supervision of the requirement (an image befitting the President & CEO of Kirin Board of Directors in order to determine the future successor Holdings) and the decision process for candidates to the Board in a highly objective and transparent process. Management process of succession planning Requirement defined as a person with Identify candidates Agree on skill Development Select successor an image befitting and issues development policy the president & CEO Review Board of Directors Supervise management process, final decision on successor Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee Remuneration system for executive officers Kirin Holdings introduced a new remuneration system for executive report of the Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Comofficers in March 2017 in order to more strongly motivate officers mittee. The Board of Directors decides director remuneration to achieve the management plan and to further promote mediand Audit & Supervisory Board Members deliberate to decide umand long-term value sharing with shareholders and investors. Audit & Supervisory Board Member remuneration within a range of the total remuneration previously decided at the GenBasic policy eral Meeting of Shareholders. 1. Remuneration shall emphasize the link to business performance and corporate value in the medium to long term, and Remuneration of position shall encourage the sharing of value with shareholders. Directors (excluding outside directors) 2. Remuneration shall be at a level commensurate with the roles Because they are responsible for the execution of business, we have and responsibilities of Director of the Group. established remuneration structure that takes into account the 3. Executive remuneration shall be reviewed by the Nominaachievement of short-term consolidated performance targets and tion and Remuneration Advisory Committee in which Outside the improvement of corporate value over the medium to long term. Directors account for the majority of the Committee members, in order to ensure objectivity and transparency. Outside directors Because they are responsible for supervising and advising CompaDecision process ny and Group management from an objective position, only basic remuneration (fixed remuneration) is provided. D  eliberated on in the Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee, the majority of whose members are outside Audit & Supervisory Board members directors, and whose chairman is an outside director, and then Because of their role of auditing the performance of directors’ reported to the Board of Directors. execution of their business from an objective position, only basic remuneration (fixed remuneration) is provided. Specific decisions concerning remuneration are based on the 45 KIRIN REPORT 2018 Overview of remuneration system for executive officers Fixed remuneration Performance-linked remuneration Approximately 50% Approximately 50% Restricted stock Basic remuneration Yearly bonus compensation Restricted stock compensation Basic remuneration Yearly bonus (performance-based) Mediumto long-term incentive Position Fixed remuneration Short-term incentive remuneration remuneration Directors (excluding outside directors) Those receiving Outside directors Directors (excluding outside directors) Directors (excluding outside directors) payment Audit & Supervisory Board members Stock (monetary compensation receivables Allocation policy Cash Cash for the allocation of restricted stock) Consolidated normalized operating profit Evaluation ROE — Individual performance evaluation indicators Normalized EPS (excluding chairman of the Board and president & CEO) Shares with transfer restrictions will be allocated each fiscal year, in principle Remuneration is 100% when targets are The rate at which shares with restrictions Allocation policy Establish remuneration achieved and varies within a range of 0 that are to be lifted is set within the range of for each role and duty 33% to 100% according to the achievement to 200% of targets in the first year of the transfer restriction period (in principle, three years). Calculation formula of individual remuneration Calculation formula for the rate of lifting the restrictions Individual remuneration Rate of lifting Standard bonus the restrictions 200% 100% 150% Company Rate of lifting 100% the restriction 67% 1 performance A pay rates 50% based on ROE 33% 2 0% Consolidated (%) Calculation normalized 0% — Lower Target Upper operating profit Lower Target Upper ROE formula limit limit limit limit 200% 150% Individual 100% Rate of lifting performance 100% B the restriction pay rate 50% based on 67% 1 Evaluation 0% indicators for normalized EPS 33% 2 Lower Target Upper commissioned limit limit work (%) 0% Normalized EPS Lower Target Upper A standard bonus is set for each officer based on internal limit limit regulations “A” is the ratio of the part that is linked to company performance, and “B” is the ratio of the part that is linked to individual performance Each ratio is set for each position based on internal regulations. WE B Please refer to the Corporate Governance Report for details about director and Audit & Supervisory Board member compensation in fiscal 2017. https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/ir/policy/pdf/e_governance_report.pdf KIRIN REPORT 2018 46 Corporate Governance Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and Executive Officers (As of April 1, 2018) Directors Yoshinori Isozaki President & CEO 1977 Joined the Company 2015 President & CEO of the Company (current position) Major Concurrent Positions Representative Director and President & CEO of Kirin Company, Limited Keisuke Nishimura Representative Director of the Board, Senior Executive Vice President Investment Strategy, Overseas Business 1980 Joined the Company 2017 Representative Director of the Board, Representative Director of the Board, Senior Executive Vice President of the Company (current position) Major Concurrent Positions Senior Executive Officer of Kirin Company, Limited Director of San Miguel Brewery Inc. Director of China Resources Kirin Beverages (Greater China) Company, Limited Director & Vice Chairman of Myanmar Brewery Limited Toshiya Miyoshi Yasuyuki Ishii Noriya Yokota Director of the Board, Director of the Board, Director of the Board, Senior Executive Officer Senior Executive Officer Senior Executive Officer & CFO HR and General Affairs, Marketing, Supply Chain Management Chief Financial Officer, IR, IT Corporate Brand Management (Production, Logistics, Procurement) 1982 Joined the Company 1980 Joined the Company 1984 Joined the Company 2015 Director of the Board, Senior Executive Officer 2017 Director of the Board, Senior Executive Officer 2018 Director of the Board, Senior Executive Officer of the Company (current position) of the Company (current position) of the Company (current position) Major Concurrent Positions Major Concurrent Positions Major Concurrent Positions Senior Executive Officer of Kirin Company, Limited Senior Executive Officer of Kirin Company, Limited Senior Executive Officer of Kirin Company, Limited Director of San Miguel Brewery Inc Director of Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd. Director of Kirin Business System Company, Limited Information on matters related to the nomination of directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members can be found on the Company’s corporate website. WEB Management (profile and reasons for nomination) WEB Criteria regarding the Independence of outside officers https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/company/board/ https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/ir/policy/pdf/governance20160215e_02.pdf 47 KIRIN REPORT 2018 Outside directors*1 Toshio Arima Shoshi Arakawa Kimie Iwata Katsunori Nagayasu Outside Director of the Board*2 Outside Director of the Board*2 Outside Director of the Board*2 Outside Director of the Board Chairman of the Board Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee 1967 Joined Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. 1968 Joined Bridgestone Corporation 1970 Joined The Mitsubishi Bank, Limited 2002 President and Representative Director 2006 CEO and President, Representative 1971 Joined the Ministry of Labour 2008 Representative Director, President of of Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. Board Member of Bridgestone 2004 Director and Corporate Officer of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. 2006 Director of FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Shiseido Company, Limited 2012 Representative Director, Chairman of Corporation 2012 Chairman of the Board of Bridgestone 2008 Director and Executive Vice President The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. 2011 Outside Director of the Company Corporation of Shiseido Company, Limited 2016 Senior Advisor of The Bank of Tokyo(current position) 2013 Advisor of Bridgestone Corporation 2012 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (current position) 2012 Executive Advisor of Fuji Xerox Co., (current position) Member of the Company, Advisor Outside Director of the Company Ltd. (current position) 2015 Outside Director of the Company of Shiseido Company, Limited (current position) (current position) 2016 Outside Director of the Company 2018 MUFG Bank, Ltd. Senior Adviser (current position) *1 Outside Director as described in Article 2–15 of the Companies Act of Japan *2 Fulfills the requirements for designation as an Outside Director stipulated by the Tokyo Stock Exchange and complies with the Company’s criteria regarding the independence of Outside Officers Audit & Supervisory Board members Motoyasu Ishihara Akihiro Ito Masakatsu Mori Chieko Matsuda Nobuo Nakata Standing Audit & Supervisory Standing Audit & Supervisory Outside Audit & Supervisory Outside Audit & Supervisory Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Board Member Board Member*3 Board Member*3 Board Member*3 1981 Joined Kirin-Seagram Co., Ltd. 1983 Joined the Company 1969 Joined Arthur Andersen, LLP 1987 Joined The Long-Term Credit 1985 Admitted to the Japanese bar (currently, Kirin Distillery Co., 2015 Director of the Board, 1995 Japan Representative of Bank of Japan, Limited and joined Ishiguro Law Office Ltd.) Senior Executive Officer of Andersen Consulting (currently , 2006 Representative Director of as an associate 2015 Standing Audit & Supervisory the Company Accenture Japan Ltd.) Matrix, Inc. 1987 Associate of Masuda & Ejiri Board Member of the Company 2018 Standing Audit & Supervisory 2013 Vice Chairman of International 2011 Professor of School of Business (currently Nishimura & Asahi) (current position) Board Member of the Company University of Japan Administration, Department of 1991 Admitted to the New York Bar 2016 Auditor of Kyowa Hakko Kirin (current position) (current position) Urban Liberal Arts at Tokyo 1992 Partner of Masuda & Ejiri Co., Ltd. (current position) Audit & Supervisory Board 2015 Outside Audit & Supervisory Metropolitan University (current (currently Nishimura & Asahi) 2017 Audit & Supervisory Board Member of Kirin Company, Board Member of the Company position), Professor of Department 2007 Partner of Allen & Overy Member of Kirin Company, Limited (current position) (current position) of Business Administration, Social 2012 Representative Partner of Limited (current position) Sciences at Tokyo Metropolitan Hibiya-Nakata (current position) University (Graduate School) (current position) 2018 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the Company 2016 Outside Audit & Supervisory (current position) Board Member of the Company (current position) *3 Outside company auditor as described in Article 2–16 of the Companies Act of Japan. Also fulfills the requirements for designation as an outside auditor stipulated by the Tokyo Stock Exchange and complies with the Company’s criteria regarding the independence of outside officers Executive officers Hiroshi Ogawa Ryosuke Mizouchi Noriaki Kobayashi Toru Yoshimura Senior Executive Officer Senior Executive Officer Senior Executive Officer Executive Officer Director of the Board, Senior Executive Director of the Board, Senior Executive Director of the Board, Senior Executive Director of the Board, Executive Officer Vice President of Kirin Company, Limited Officer of Kirin Company, Limited Officer of Kirin Company, Limited of Kirin Company, Limited Public Relations, CSV R&D, Quality Assurance Director, Risk Management, Legal Group Corporate Strategies KIRIN REPORT 2018 48 Corporate Governance Interview with an Outside Director Supporting value creation through more effective governance Kimie Iwata Outside director Ms. Iwata is chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee. She has served as an outside director at Kirin Holdings since 2016. From 2008 to 2012 she held the position of representative director and executive vice president at Shiseido Co. Ltd. She retired from her post as director-general of equal employment, Children and Families Bureau of Ministry of Health, Labour & Welfare in 2003, after serving the ministry since 1971. As chairman of the Remuneration Advisory Details of the system have been disclosed through IR Q Committee, how do you rate Kirin Holdings’ corporate governance system? activities and explained at the shareholders meeting. I see this executive remuneration system as a highly desirable improvement in governance. Going forward, I expect the committee to Kirin has been committed to reinforcing its corporate govercontinuously re-evaluate which indicators are best and what nance system for many years. Due to enactment of Japan’s percentage of the total payment package is appropriate for Corporate Governance Code of 2015, the company advanced performance-related remuneration. these efforts. Kirin’s Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Regarding succession, the committee has taken the time Committee has formulated an improved performance-related to thoroughly discuss the qualities required in the CEO of Kirin remuneration system and a succession plan for top executives. Holdings and how to configure a highly transparent decisionTo promote awareness of business goals and corporate making process for candidates. value, Kirin’s new remuneration system, effective 2017, boosts At many Japanese firms, the CEO selection process is a performance-linked remuneration to 50%. More than a yearly black box when viewed from outside. Kirin’s succession plan bonus system tied to corporate profit targets, this introduces calls for the Nomination and Remuneration Committee to stock-based remuneration to promote medium-term shared apply due diligence in deliberating whether the candidate value with shareholders. suggested by operating officers is the right person for the job. 49 KIRIN REPORT 2018 When outside officers are central to the task of nominatSurvey results consistently confirm the board’s effectiveness ing successors, the benefits are twofold. One is impartiality as a whole. To continuously improve operations we are using and objectivity in evaluating individual candidates. The other the PDCA cycle. This has helped us, for example, to narrow is the range of viewpoints committee members bring to the down the agenda of the board of directors to Group oversight process, reflecting their specialized knowledge of diverse and weighty decisions from the viewpoint of Group managefields and industries. Moreover, the succession plan provides ment . As a result, the board can now allot more time to profor systematic cultivation of successor candidates over time, ductive deliberation on high-priority issues. a valuable advantage. In my two years as an outside director, the biggest issue we faced was the sale of Brasil Kirin shares. It was a difficult decision for the board, requiring many discussions to decide Q How is Kirin doing in terms of diversity and inclusion? whether or not to sell and what conditions to impose upon the sale. We then reassessed all processes, from acquisition to sale, regarding Brasil Kirin. By devoting time to discussing A When I was an executive at another publicly listed comwhat the case had to teach us, the board was able to discuss pany, the Kirin Group asked me to be an instructor for their and comprehend matters in greater depth. female management candidate development program. I was Going forward, the board is dedicated to in-depth discusimpressed that Kirin was one of the few firms back then that sion of important issues such as formulation of the next longwas serious about promoting female advancement. The Kirin term management plan, medium term plans, and fiscal year Group’s progressive stance has won independent acclaim, as plans. For Group growth, we must articulate a clear strategy. evidenced by its inclusion in the New Diversity Management As an outside director, I hope to contribute to continuous longSelection 100 project of Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade term growth and increased corporate value through decision and Industry (METI). making concerning matters of importance and oversight of Some issues remain. To promote female advancement we business matters. must enable employees to give birth and raise children while holding onto their jobs. In Kirin’s supportive system, we take it for granted that women will be able to return to their positions after taking child-rearing leave. When it comes to career path support, we are committed to professional development leading to key positions for women. More time is required, however, before we achieve significant results. That said, we are proud to have our first female executive officer, as well as women in such positions as general managers of plants and general managers of regional sales head offices. The Company is also committed to increasing the number of female leaders to 300 by 2021, a ratio of 12%. I hope that Kirin will give solid support to guide promising young employees on a career path to leadership. In conclusion, please share your opinion on Q the effectiveness of the board of directors, and issues to be addressed going forward. A Regarding evaluation of the board’s effectiveness, in FY2016 we conducted and disclosed self-evaluation surveys of directors of the board and Audit & Supervisory Board members. KIRIN REPORT 2018 50 Corporate Governance Risk Management Kirin Group risk management system The Kirin Group defines risk as uncertainty that seriousMajor identified risks ly impedes the accomplishment of its business targets or impacts its business continuity. The Group establishes risk Risks related to business environment management systems to properly recognize and address risks 1. Laws, regulations, and tax systems in light of new strategies and important changes in the external 2. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates environment. In risk management, we identify the most critical 3. Increases in raw material/energy prices, and logistics costs risks from the two perspectives of “the risk of not achieving the 4. Weather, climate change, natural disasters, and infectious diseases business targets” and “the risk of things turning into a crisis.” 5. Financing Group companies identify serious risks in line with busi6. Changes in the value of asset holdings ness environment analysis and strategies based on the above 7. Changes in the trends of economic and market environments and popperspectives and formulate risk statements and response ulation movements measures as part of the process of establishing annual busi8. Overseas operations ness plans. Kirin Holdings oversees overall risk management of the Risks related to business operations Group and verifies important risks for each company. At the same time, it examines the impact on the Group should the 1. Business and capital alliances risks manifest and establishes the important risks facing the 2. Human resources Kirin Group. 3. Product safety Each company implements the risk management cycle 4. Information leakage and information systems which includes monitoring the status of risk response plans on 5. Occurrence of litigation and fines a quarterly basis and reviewing the identified risks when necessary. Moreover, the Group Risk and Compliance Committee * Each risk item is reviewed every year. periodically receives reports from each company concerning risk status, and when necessary, it instructs and supports them WE B For detailed information on risk awareness that affects the business environment and business execution, please refer to Kirin Holdings’ website. to strengthen and support Group risk management. https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/csv/governance/risk_management.html Example of Kirin’s response to a serious risk Impending risk to logistics infrastructure due to a driver shortage for long-distance truck transport An example of a serious risk was Kirin’s response to the logistics center in Kanazawa, Ishikawa Prefecture in 2017. Through joint infrastructure. Japan’s logistics infrastructure was strained due transportation using railway containers from Kansai area factoto the shortage of truck transport drivers and the logistics enviries, we were able to shift from long-distance truck transportaronment had grown increasingly tight. A truck driver shortage is a tion equivalent to 10,000 vehicles per year to railway containers. social issue and could have a negative impact, such as fragmentIn 2017, we agreed to conduct joint distribution with four beer ing the supply chain or sharply raising the transportation costs of companies in a part of eastern Hokkaido and we expect a reducthe Kirin Group. Therefore, the Group opened a joint distribution tion of 800 long-distance trucks annually. Joint distribution in Hokkaido Coverage of each company Four companies’ distribution coverage Four companies consolidated/ Four companies’ Individual company Beer joint facilities JR Kushiro company Destination JR Sapporo freight terminal facilities Four companies freight terminal consolidated A truck unit, comprising one company/one delivery, is delivered from each company’s facility 51 KIRIN REPORT 2018 Key Initiatives for ESG 1. Key initiatives for the Environment Human rights In February 2018, Kirin Holdings formulated The Kirin Group’s The Kirin Group has established four key initiatives, biological Human Rights Policy in accordance with the United Nation’s resources, water resources, containers and packaging, and global Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. In Japan and warming. Specifically, we are monitoring the effect that water risk overseas, we will promote respect for human rights based on the has on management by working on water conservation, purificaGuiding Principles, which reflect the global standard. tion, and pollution prevention to preserve water resources. The Kirin Group’s Human Rights Policy Framework Conservation of water resources We are working on high-level water conservation activities in each Scope of application of human rights policy country and region where our business facilities are located, reliable •All executives and employees of the Kirin Group (Kirin Holdings Company, Limited and its consolidated subsidiaries) wastewater treatment, and forest conservation activities at the water •Business partners are expected to adhere to this policy and suppliers are sources of manufacturing plants that began to pioneer the industry. expected to comply with it Positioning of human rights policy Because water resources are unevenly distributed, we tried to •This human rights policy governs all other policies and documents identify the impact of water risk on management from a long-term related to the Kirin Group’s efforts to respect human rights across its global operations perspective. We did this by conducting water risk assessments of Person responsible for management of the human rights policy the site basins at 35 major manufacturing plants in six countries •The senior executive officer for human resources strategy at Kirin Holdings Company, Limited in 2014, and water risk assessments in the upstream value chain, Summary of commitments expressed in the human rights policy (partial) mainly in Japan’s integrated beverages business. •Identify and remedy adverse impact on human rights and implement corrective measures (including the establishment of inquiry channels and W E B For detailed information on risk awareness and compliance with environmenimprovement of effectiveness) tal management, please refer to the Environmental Report on our website. •Training and skill development for executives and employees https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/csv/report/env/ •Prohibit discrimination and harassment, provide a safe and healthy environment, ensure a minimum wage, oppose forced labor and child labor, and 2. Key initiatives for society uphold our responsibility to the communities, including indigenous people WE B For the full text of our human rights policy, please refer to our website. Alcohol-related problems https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/csv/human_rights/ Alcohol-related problems are now one global issue. In 2015, the United Nations included the prevention of harmful use of alcohol in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 3. Key initiatives for governance To respond in this environment, the Kirin Group joined the Prevention of bribery International Alliance for Responsible Drinking (IARD), an interWith the reinforcement of restrictions on bribery in countries national NPO. We are promoting its “Beer, Wine and Spirits Proaround the world including Japan, the Kirin Group complies with ducers’ Commitments,” a collective commitment to promote the applicable laws and regulations of countries and regions in responsible drinking and reduce harmful drinking, with the world’s which it conducts its business activities, and conducts fair busimajor alcoholic beverage producers. ness activities in line with sound business practices and ethics and In addition, in each business area, we are complying with completely prohibits bribery and corruption to gain unfair profits. voluntary industry codes for the advertising and promotion of Specifically, in 2014, we established the Kirin Group Guidealcoholic beverages and conducting educational activities on lines for the Prevention of Bribery and Kirin Group Regulations for responsible alcohol consumption. In Japan, an industry-wide the Prevention of Bribery. We are responding to the risks of each movement is being advanced in coordination with government company and business based on these guidelines and regulations. agencies and healthcare professionals under the Basic Plan We will continue to take steps to prevent corruption based on for Promotion of Measures guidelines in Japan and overseas and applied case law. against Alcohol-related Harm. In Australia and New Zealand, Prevention of bribery procedures meanwhile, we are expanding Risk assessment our assortment of low-alcohol beers while at the same time Understand the current situation (verify internal control status) participating in industry initiatives for promoting healthy Execution (establish/apply rules and procedures/communication) drinking habits among youths Meeting with CEOs of IARD-affiliated Monitoring (establish /inspect procedures, improve as necessary) and all other adults. manufacturers (2017) KIRIN REPORT 2018 52 Business Overview Overview by segment and business for fiscal 2017 Japan Integrated Beverages Key operating companies Revenue (Billions of yen) Normalized operating profit (Billions of yen) Kirin Company, Limited. Others and Kirin Brewery Company, Limited. 1,061.6 1,051.0 elimination 67.8 72.5 Mercian (+19.0%) Mercian (–1.7%) Kirin Beverage Kirin (+25.1%) Beverage (–2.3%) Kirin Beverage Mercian Company, Limited Corporation Kirin Kirin Brewery Brewery (–1.3%) (+1.1%) 2016 2017 Others and elimination 2016 2017 Overseas Integrated Beverages Key operating companies Revenue (Billions of yen) Normalized operating profit (Billions of yen) Lion Myanmar Brewery 428.5 448.6 Others and 66.4 66.0 Others and elimination elimination Myanmar Myanmar Brewery Brewery (+13.1%) (+10.3%) Lion Lion (–2.5%) (–0.3%) 2016 2017 2016 2017 Pharmaceuticals Revenue (Billions of yen) Normalized operating profit (Billions of yen) & Bio-chemicals 341.4 346.7 62.2 Bio-chemicals Bio-chemicals Key operating companies (–0.1%) 51.5 (+29.4%) Kyowa Hakko Kirin Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals Kyowa Hakko (+2.0%) (+19.9%) Bio 2016 2017 2016 2017 Note: Figures in parentheses are comparisons with the previous fiscal year. 53 KIRIN REPORT 2018 Kirin Brewery Kirin Beverage Amid a sluggish beer market that declined 2.6%, Kirin Brewery Gogo-no-Kocha increased 2%, recording its highest-ever volume of reviewed its trading conditions from January onward in anticipasales, and the sales volume of Nama-cha, including the effects of last tion of the enforcement of the Standard for the Fair Trade of Alcohol year’s product renewal, increased 5%. Meanwhile, Kirin Beverage’s accompanying the revision of the Liquor Tax Act in June. As a result, total sales volume decreased 2%, falling below the market average the review found that the effects of continued high retail prices over of ±0% due to the termination of contract manufacturing agreea certain period compared with competitors’ products caused beer ments, as well as declining sales volume of FIRE (down 8%). The sales volume to decline 4.2%. By brand, Ichiban Shibori dropped 2.4%, functional beverages category was up 11% on strong performance in line with the overall market decline, but sales of cans were strong of new products under the Supli brand. after conducting intensive sales promotion activities in September to While revenue decreased due to declining sales volume, upgrade the product, pushing sales volume upward (up 0.6%) for the normalized operating profit increased substantially on the rising year. On the other hand, sales volume of the Nodogoshi brand declined composition ratio of Gogo-no-Kocha and Nama-cha, as well as cost (down 4.9%), leaving Kirin Brewery the challenge of recovering marreduction effects. ket share in the new genre category. RTD increased 8.4%, centering on Hyoketsu and Honshibori, and Mercian sales of non-alcohol beer-taste beverage increased 58.7% with the Products centered on domestically produced and imported wines launch of Kirin Zero ICHI. fared well, and the sales volume of wine increased (+2%). Although Although revenue declined due to decreasing sales volume of beer revenue declined because of an increase in low-priced imported products, unit sales and product mix improved thanks to a review of wine for daily drinking, normalized operating profit rose due to cost trading conditions and a rising ratio of can sales. Moreover, cost reducreductions and the rationalization of marketing expenses. tions were successful and normalized operating profit increased. Lion revaluation. The turnaround program has laid the foundation to Lion Beer, Spirits and Wine business concluded its beer distribution return the business to growth in FY18. agreement in Australia with Anheuser-Busch InBev (ABI) in September 2016. However, the changes offer an opportunity to focus more Myanmar Brewery investment behind Lion’s retained portfolio of owned and licensed Taking advantage of demand for low-priced and can products, the brands. While sales volume sharply declined (down 10.5%) due to sales volume of Andaman Gold increased sharply (up 85%), and the the loss of the ABI brands, volumes of core Lion beer brands remained promotion of bottled Myanmar Beer was also successful, rising 4%, solid, particularly in growth categories such as contemporary, and causing total sales volume to increase a substantial 17%. Although craft. Excluding the impact of the loss of the ABI brands, revenue the product mix deteriorated due to a considerable increase in the and normalized operating profit were largely unchanged from the economy category, revenue increased on a local currency basis on previous year. a significant jump in sales volume and the effects of a price revision In the Lion Dairy & Drinks business, raw material costs increased carried out in the previous and current fiscal years. Raw material due to sharply rising Australian orange prices, impacting sales volexpenses increased due to the effects of foreign exchange rates, but umes of juice. Despite the short-term set-backs, the underlying perefforts to reduce supply chain costs had a beneficial effect, pushing formance of the business was solid and normalized operating profit normalized operating profit up on a local currency basis. increased only slightly due to the loss recognized in 2016 on inventory Despite a decline in sales due to the impact of generic drugs in Japan, the pharmaceuticals business saw sales and profits increase due to higher technology licensing revenue and lower SG&A expenses including R&D expenses. In R&D, global strategic product development advanced steadily. In the bio-chemicals business, raw material sales for pharmaceuticals and health foods and online sales remained steady both in Japan and overseas, and revenue remained unchanged from the previous year. Normalized operating profit increased year on year due to a higher composition ratio of highly profitable products. KIRIN REPORT 2018 54 Business Overview Japan Integrated Beverage Strategy Kirin Brewery Market environment Due to the declining birthrate and aging population and diversification of preferences, it is expected that the domestic beer market will continue to shrink. Moreover, in accordance with the revision of the Liquor Tax Act in June 2017 Standard for the Fair Trade of Alcohol came into effect, the retail price of alcoholic beverages including beer rose. Concerns of declining demand for beer products due to retail price increases have been recently mounting, and a shift in demand to lower-priced products and RTDs can also be seen. On the other hand, with the revision of the Liquor Tax Act (Figure 1), the liquor tax for beer, happo-shu, and new genre categories will be gradually unified by 2026, the definition of beer will be expanded in April 2018, and liquor tax differences between beer and RTD will widen over the medium and long-term. Kirin Brewery considers the above-mentioned changes in the task. Kirin Brewery will strengthen Nodogoshi, which has been business environment as opportunities and seeks to increase the No. 1* new genre brand in sales in the other brewed liquors profitability to profit margin levels equivalent to those of global (sparkling) 1 category since its launch in 2005. It will also make beer makers. the new genre product Honkirin, launched in March 2018, a Regarding beer (Figure 2), Kirin Brewery will continue to new pillar brand. increase the composition ratio of the highly profitable beer catThe RTD category, which continues to grow, will become egory in anticipation of a future revision to the liquor tax. It will even more important due to rising retail prices for beer, future consistently seek to enhance the appeal of the beer category, liquor tax revisions, the diversification of preferences, and which is a pillar of its strategy in the 2016 MTBP and attain profit changes in lifestyles. In the RTD market, the top brands that growth even in markets where total consumption is declining. account for about 60% of the total market are driving growth The primary focus of the strategy is to raise the brand equity of and product types are diverse. To increase sales volume in Ichiban Shibori, strengthen the craft beer business, and expand these markets, Kirin Brewery will continue to strengthen its the Japanese craft beer market. ( Please refer to pages 25 core Hyoketsu and Honshibori brands and also expand its brand 26 for Ichiban Shibori and craft beer initiatives.) portfolio. It will nurture Kirin The Strong, launched in April 2018, With the beer liquor tax on the road to unification, the catin higher-alcohol percentage products, which have a particegories of current beers, happo-shu and new genre will gradularly high growth rate among RTDs. Furthermore, Kirin ually disappear, and other categories will form. Among these, Brewery is taking steps to increase the profitability of the RTD economy products could be a category that accounts for a category by building production facilities at the Nagoya Plant, certain share of the market. To restore current market share responding to growing demand, and streamlining transportaand acquire a future presence, even in the economy category, tion to the east and west. recovering market share in the new genre category is an urgent * 2005 “Other miscellaneous liquors 2.” From 2006 to 2017, based on taxable quantity shipped of “other brewed liquors (sparkling) 1” Figure 1: Applicable tax rate for each alcoholic Figure 2: Category/Brand strategy beverage (350ml equivalent) Apr 2018 Oct 2020 Oct 2023 Oct 2026 Enhance appeal of Beer beer category ¥ 77.00 Ichiban Shibori Craft beer ¥ 70.00 ¥ 63.35 ¥ 54.25 Recover market share in new genre category Happo-shu ¥ 46.99 (Malt ratio: Nodogoshi Honkirin less than 25%) ¥ 35.00 ¥ 37.80 Strengthen brands New in RTD/ genre ¥ 28.00 Non-alcohol markets Hyoketsu Honshibori Kirin Kirin Zero ICHI RTD The Strong 55 KIRIN REPORT 2018 A key strategy for achieving these category and brand communication that captures the “four moments of truth (Four strategies is Customer-centered Marketing. In Customer-cenMOTs)” ( please see page 26 for a description of the Four tered Marketing, Kirin Brewery will focus on brands in which MOTs) when customers encounter the brand and strengthenit invests and will continuously create points of contact with ing digital marketing that leverages consumer data. focus brands and consumers by working its long-term brand In this way, Kirin Brewery will maximize the marketing plan. Further, it will market based on customer feelings and return on investment, increase brand equity while reducing behavior at points of contact with the brand. This will enable sales promotion expenses to secure short-term sales volume, long-term customer engagement by creating integrated and grow into a highly profitable business. Kirin Beverage Market environment The non-alcoholic domestic beverage market accounts for more than 60% of sales volume in the three categories of carbonated beverages, coffee, and sugar-free tea. In the next few years, the total non-alcoholic beverage market, though maintaining flat growth or a slight increase, is expected to decline thereafter due to inflow from the hand-brewed tea market in the tea category. Against the backdrop of falling birthrates and an aging population, consumers are expected to grow increasingly health-conscious. Kirin Beverage has worked to revitalize in line with its 2016 while increasing the profit margin in preparation for sustainable MTBP to solve the challenge of fully implementing a profit growth. Its goal is to achieve a normalized operating profit marfocus, strengthening brand equity, and improving cost strucgin of 10% by fiscal 2021. The three pillars of the strategy to ture. Kirin Beverage carried out reforms including the introducachieve this are “growth in existing domains,” “initiatives for tion of target controls focused on highly profitable containers, new domains” and “development of a sustainable framework.” released a new version of Nama-cha in March 2016, captured 1 Growth in existing domains (Figure 4) demand from the hand-brewed tea market, successfully reviThe basis for growth is to strengthen brands in the domestic bevtalized the brand and reduced supply chain costs. As a result, erages business domain, which is now underway. Specifically, Kirin the profit margin improved from 1.5% in fiscal 2015 to 7.6% Beverage will allocate, on a priority basis, marketing investments in in fiscal 2017. the foundational brands of Gogo-no-Kocha, Nama-cha, and FIRE to Kirin Beverage, which has steadily resolved these challengfurther enhance the brands’ equity. It will build a robust brand portes will shift from fiscal 2018 to a stage (Figure 3) of “growthfolio by building brands in the health, Japanese domestic water, based profit generation” that will raise the top and bottom lines and sugar-free tea categories, where further growth is expected. Figure 3: Kirin Beverage growth strategy for 2021 Figure 4: Growth in existing domains 2018 – Growth-based profit Strengthen generation 2018 the foundation Normalized Core of OP margin Approx. 8% the business Coffee 2017 2021 Target 10% Black tea Sustainable Growth in existing domains “profitable growth” -Development of a robust Normalized brand portfolio Development Carbonated 2016 OP margin 7.6% Initiatives for new domains -Sowing seeds for the future Secure profits/ drinks Achieve Development of a sustainable sales volume “profitable growth” framework Specialty drinks Fruit juice 2015 -Strengthening the business OPM 1.5% OPM 4.9% base Challenges Reduction in sales promotion expenses for large PET bottles New initiatives Explore to tap new categories while continuing Management based on sales volume excl. large PET bottles Thorough implementation of profit focus Reduction in supply chain costs Expand into the advance into the health and well-being, new categories own-brand water and sugar-free tea categories Brand equity strengthened Improved cost structure KIRIN REPORT 2018 56 Business Overview Japan Integrated Beverage Strategy 2 Initiatives in new domains Figure 5: Kirin Beverage CSV initiatives With limited growth expected in the domestic beverage marHealth and well-being ket, we need to plant seeds for the future to achieve sustainable In addition to developing products utilizing Lactococcus lactis strain growth. Kirin Beverage will consider all possible new initiatives Plasma, provide health value with food for specified health uses and to expand the world of beverages, including brand alliances and food with function claims overseas expansion. Focus on developing non-sugar and decaffeinated products 3 Development of a sustainable framework Community engagement To raise brand equity and further strengthen the profit base, Kirin Beverage will conduct CSV activities (Figure 5), promote Expanding our support of Sri Lankan black tea farmers to small-scale farmers, to assist in their efforts to acquire the Rainforest Alliance certification greater efficiency, and further reduce costs. Kirin Group’s key Conservation of the water resources of those farmers CSV Issues of health and well-being, community engagement, and the environment will help strengthen the brand and achieve The Environment greater cost efficiency. In addition to addressing issues common Promotion of resource conservation including the reduction of to the industry, alliances with competitors to reduce costs that container weight cannot be achieved independently will be actively considered. Reduction of environmental impact throughout the value chain Mercian Market environment Although an increase in total demand in the domestic alcoholic beverages market is limited, wine, with its diversity and healthy image, is expected to grow steadily over the medium to long term in a category that has grown 1.5-fold over the past 10 years. Wine, which has established itself as a daily alcoholic beverage, is driven by the household market and tends to polarize consumption into daily wine and high-priced/fine wine. As a leading domestic company, Mercian will enhance the produced daily wine, but also of imported daily wine, including appeal of wine and continue to grow by driving market expanChilean wines, which continue to enjoy high growth. sion. It will also continue to improve productivity, minimize Mercian will work to improve productivity at its factories, the impact of fluctuations in raw material prices and exchange headquarters and sales departments, and increase profitability. rates, and improve profitability. To enhance the appeal of diverse wines, Mercian will make a Figure 6: Creating new Château Mercian wineries selective, focused allocation of resources on brands to be strengthened in each area, while it addresses all areas including fine wine, mid-price range, daily wine domestic production, and daily wine Opening in autumn of 2019 imports. In this way, it will build a highly profitable product portfolio. Château Mercian Mariko Winery In the fine wine domain, Mercian will continue to fortify its flagship brand Château Mercian. The raw grapes for the Japanese Nagano wine Château Mercian are cultivated by Mercian or by contract in Prefecture four Japanese prefectures, and Mercian plans to build two more wineries in the future (Figure 6). Mercian seeks to create Japanese wine brands through community engagement by strengthening its Château Mercian business. Yamanashi Prefecture Mercian will also fortify its brands in the mid-price range and daily wine domains and address the polarization of consumption. In mid-price wines, it will maintain its focus on Casillero del Diablo, as well as advertise, promote sales, and To be upgraded develop new products. Daily wine, which is driving the growth Opening in September 2018 in June 2018 Château Mercian Château Mercian of the whole market, will not only boost sales of domestically Katsunuma Winery Kikyogahara Winery 57 KIRIN REPORT 2018 Overseas Integrated Beverages Strategy Lion Market environment Australia’s economy is expected to maintain steady growth thanks to the country’s rich natural resources and growing population. Maturation of the market, changing lifestyles, rising health consciousness, and other trends are expected to continue. Australia’s mature beer market has about one-third of the total consumption (Figure 7) of Japan’s, but consumption per capita is about 1.7 times that of Japan’s. However, consumption per capita is decreasing slightly, and the total market is expected to remain relatively flat or contract. The growth of the mid-strength alcohol and contemporary categories tailored to the modern lifestyle, and the increasing move to craft and premium beers are also expected to continue. Dairy product and non-alcohol drink markets are increasing slightly overall, despite differences in performance across categories. Health consciousness also affects consumption trends in the dairy and drink categories, and these trends are expected to continue. Beer, Spirits and Wine in the growing craft beer market. In fiscal 2017, the Lion Beer, Spirits and Wine business saw In the international premium category, it will focus on profits decrease due to the loss of the ABI brands in Australia, Ichiban Shibori (KIRIN ICHIBAN) and Heineken. Lion has been but the profit margin remained at 28%, slightly above the 27% producing and selling the Heineken brand under a joint-venof fiscal 2015. By 2020, Lion seeks to restore its profit level to ture agreement with Heineken International B.V., but this was that of fiscal 2016, before the loss of the ABI brands, and return dissolved in 2017, and moving forward, Heineken will be fully to sustainable growth. incorporated into the Lion Australia beer business portfolio. In Australia, Lion will reform its cost structure and impleIn addition, Lion will improve price and mix while streamlinment its Post-ABI Strategy (Figure 8) that seeks to increase sales ing costs throughout the supply chain over the medium term. volume and raise the component ratio in growth categories. It In New Zealand, Lion will continue to promote a comprewill seek to bolster sales of Iron Jack beer, a recently-launched hensive alcohol beverage strategy centered on beer. In August product in the growing contemporary category, while strength2017, Lion entered into an agreement to sell ABI’s Australian ening its foundation brands including XXXX Gold in the classic brands in New Zealand. In addition to its key brands, Lion will category. seek to further increase market share and improve its product Lion will take steps to improve product mix by increasing mix by leveraging its brand portfolio comprising ABI brands the sales volume of premium products. In the craft beer busisuch as Corona and ABI’s Australian brands. ness, Lion will bolster its flagship brands James Squire and Little Creatures while continuing to develop products and brands Dairy & Drinks tailored to the regionalization of craft beers that is underway The Lion Dairy & Drinks business will continue to implement its in Australia. It has set up an internal craft-focused team just business strategy based on simplification and growth, through for that purpose and will strive to further increase its presence a continued focus on cost management and the concentration Figure 7: Total consumption of Australian beer market Figure 8: Post-ABI strategy in focus products (Million liters) 200 Classic Contemporary Craft International premium 150 100 50 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (Year) (Kirin estimates) KIRIN REPORT 2018 58 Business Overview Overseas Integrated Beverages Strategy of investment behind focus product categories. The aim of the desire for products that support healthy living by fulfilling its strategy is to become a leading nutritional dairy and beveragOur Goodness Promise commitments. es business to increase profitability to a normalized operating Along with optimizing its operations and supply chain, profit margin of 5%, which is the guidance for 2016 MTBP. Lion will work for the stable procurement of milk through its In the key milk-based beverages category, Lion consoliongoing support for Australian dairy farmers, which is based dated its production in a new plant with state-of-the-art proon delivering competitive pricing, partnerships and purpose. duction equipment in fiscal 2017. It will continue to strengthen Figure 9: Key categories/Brands its brands focusing on the flagship Dare Iced Coffee brand and rebuild its sales network based on improving production capaMilk-based beverages Yogurt Specialty cheeses Dare, etc. Farmer’s Union, etc. Tasmanian Heritage, etc. bilities and expanding sales channels. Lion will also improve price and mix by increasing sales volume in the focus categories of yoghurt and specialty cheese and respond to the consumer trend toward premium products. Lion will also continue to respond to the growing consumer Myanmar Market environment Brewery The Myanmar economy is expected to maintain high single-digit GDP growth and inflation rates in the future. The current rate of beer market growth is expected to be largely in line with the GDP growth rate, and that trend is likely to continue for the foreseeable future. The total consumption and per capita consumption of Myanmar’s beer market is very low (Figure 10) compared to Japan and other Southeast Asian countries. With a population of over 50 million and a low average age, there is much room for future market growth. With outstanding brand awareness of its products including Brewery will work to retain and develop its human resources, Myanmar Beer and a strong distribution network as its strengths, maintain a distribution network that extends north and south, Myanmar Brewery boasts a high market share of nearly 80%. It and enhance its highly efficient production facilities ( for will maintain its high market share by strengthening the brand details about production facilities, please see pages 31 – 32). equity while steadily obtaining market growth by developing its In the area of human resources, it will continue to build a corpomanufacturing base to drive Group growth. rate culture and develop human resources to enable employIn 2015, when Myanmar Brewery became an operating ees to fully demonstrate their abilities. It will push domestic company of the Kirin Group, it lost the international premium and Group procurement to reduce the impact on imported category and premium category brands, which it had been sellraw material costs caused by foreign exchange risks, and at the ing under license. However, shortly thereafter, it launched Black same time reduce costs by improving efficiency throughout Shield Stout in the premium category, and in 2016, Myanmar the supply chain. Premium, and in the international premium category Ichiban Shibori (KIRIN ICHIBAN). With a brand portfolio ( please Figure 10: Beer consumption per capita (FY2016) see page 31 for details) that ranges from international premium to economy across all categories, Myanmar Brewery (Liters) 50 will undoubtedly capture the customer base consisting of the 41.4 43.6 beer entry segment, as well as the consumer segment that 40 upgrades to higher-priced categories, which increase accord30 ing to economic growth. The brewery will focus on its flagship 20 19.5 brand Myanmar Beer, the most important mainstream cate15.8 10 gory, and will bolster it as a brand to arouse the public’s pride. 6.0 0 As a foundation to support volume growth, Myanmar Japan Vietnam Thailand Philippines Myanmar (Kirin estimates) 59 KIRIN REPORT 2018 Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals Strategy Domestic market environment Kyowa Hakko Kirin It is possible that the growth of the pharmaceuticals market in Japan could continue to level off due to the market penetration of generics and significant revisions to the drug price system, along with the progress of measures taken to reduce medical costs so that the public health insurance system can be maintained in a society with a declining birthrate and aging population. Research and development-oriented pharmaceutical companies and the code of conduct that all employees of the Kyowa Hakko will have to accelerate their efforts to shift their sources of revenue Kirin Group around the globe are required to adhere to. Morefrom long-term listed drugs and the domestic market to new drugs over, Kyowa Hakko Kirin makes efforts to build a global goverand the global market. Kyowa Hakko Kirin is a corporate group that nance framework and ensure thorough compliance awareness. continuously creates new value based on state-of-the-art biotech4 Contribution to the health and well-being of people nology, pursuing a pharmaceutical business model that combines Kyowa Hakko Kirin is working to engage in efforts that involve disits biosimilars and bio-chemicals businesses as it leaps forward to covering innovative drugs that satisfy unmet medical needs, addibecome a Global Specialty Pharmaceutical Company (GSP). Under tional indications and dosage formulations of products, and also the Kyowa Hakko Kirin Group’s five-year 2016 to 2020 Mid-term ensuring stable supplies of high-quality products, while taking action Business Plan (Figure 11), the management targets for fiscal 2020, the in response to societal demands for lower medical costs. These final year of the plan, are to achieve a core operating income of at least efforts are part of Kyowa Hakko Kirin’s “CSV Management” philos¥100 billion, an overseas sales ratio of 50% and ROE of 10% or higher. ophy to create shared value with society, and Kyowa Hakko Kirin will In the five-year Mid-term Business Plan, Kyowa Hakko Kirin contribute to helping people with a diverse range of medical needs. is taking steps to achieve its four strategic priorities: In addition, as a member of the Kirin Group, Kyowa Hakko Kirin will 1 Improvement of global competitiveness continue efforts aimed at contributing to the health and well-being Kyowa Hakko Kirin is working toward contributing to the health of people in collaboration with the Kirin Group companies. and well-being of people around the world through its successful launch of KRN23 (burosumab) and KW-0761 (mogamulizumab), In the bio-chemicals business, Kyowa Hakko Bio is addressing the key its global strategic products, in the European and U.S. markets. issues of strengthening the profit base and providing value with a focus ( For information about KRN23, please see page 28.) In Europe on people’s health by taking advantage of its high share of the market and the U.S., Kyowa Hakko Kirin filed a biologics license application in its specialty area encompassing the pharmaceuticals, medical and for mogamulizumab for the treatment of patients with cutaneous healthcare fields. To strengthen its profit base, Kyowa Hakko Bio has T-cell lymphoma, and the drug, like KRN23, was also granted Priormade steady progress in reorganizing its production facilities. As for ity Review status by the FDA. To maximize the value of these global efforts to create high-profit businesses for the future, Kyowa Hakko Bio is strategic products, Kyowa Hakko Kirin continues to take steps to now jointly developing new products, which are launched together with increase market penetration and expand the business area. the Kirin Group, including some products under the “iMIUSE” brand. 2 Creating innovation By combining the expertise Kyowa Hakko Kirin has gained by Figure 11: Kyowa Hakko Kirin Group’s Mid-term Business Plan studying diseases and patients’ needs at the research facilities Investment phase Leaping Forward phase it has established in each of the four categories of nephrology, 2016-2017 2018-2020 Further Growth oncology, immunology/allergy, and CNS, with the cutting-edge technology platforms for drug discovery cultivated in the fields of therapeutic antibodies, one of its areas of strength, small molecule drugs, nucleic acid drugs, and regenerative therapeutics, Approaching Taking off ROE 10% as well as outside technologies through open innovation, Kyowa ¥ 100.0billion Hakko Kirin will aim to build an attractive pipeline as a pharmaConsolidated ceutical company that discovers new drugs. Core Operating 57.7 EX-Japan 3 Continuous improvement for operational excellence Profit* ¥ billion ¥ 51.0 Leaping Forward to ¥ 39.1 billion US/EU Market Kyowa Hakko Kirin is working to heighten its profitability by furbillion Investment for Future Growth ther strengthening cooperation in a consistent manner across Japan Operational Excellence every function from R&D to manufacturing and sales. At the same time, Kyowa Hakko Kirin strives to instill the core values 2016 2017 2018 2020 * Gross profit – Selling, General and Administrative expenses – Research and Development expenses + Share of profit (loss) of investments accounted for by the equity method KIRIN REPORT 2018 60 Financial Status Management’s discussion & analysis In the Kirin Group 2016–2018 Medium-Term Business Plan Bio-chemicals Businesses) and cost cut targets established for (2016 MTBP), a ROE of 15% or more and a normalized EPS each business. Kirin will achieve the ROE target by raising the compound average growth rate of 6% or more have been set margin of profit attributable to owners of the parent through as quantitative targets and key indicators for measuring the higher profitability of each business. At the same time, Kirin revitalization of the Kirin Group through structural reforms. Holdings, Group headquarters, is selling assets and optimizing In addition, the reference value (guidance) at the time the its business portfolio to generate free cash flow of over ¥260.0 quantitative targets are achieved is indicated by consolidated billion, the three-year target. Based on a consolidated payout normalized operating profit. We are managing our business to ratio of 30% or more of normalized EPS, free cash flow will be achieve the three-year medium-term targets by achieving the set aside to provide stable shareholder returns and to repay profit plan for each single fiscal year. interest-bearing debt. This will increase financial flexibility and Profit guidance seeks to achieve the plan by attaining the provide for future growth investment. 2018 guidance (2020 guidance for the Pharmaceuticals and 2016 Medium-term business plan initiatives to improve ROE Improve profitability Increase asset efficiency Control leverage ROE Margin of profit attributable Asset turnover ratio Financial leverage to owners of the parent 2015 2018 2015 2018 2015 2018 2015 2018 –0.3% over 15% –0.1% over 5.5% 0.85 approx. 0.91 3.09 approx. 3.0 Prioritize capex allocation Optimize resource allocation Group Initiatives Consider further optimization of Enhance financial flexibility Streamline HQ business portfolio/asset sales Increase profits by improving product mix and brand power Reduce inventories to improve Operating Business Cut costs to raise competitive power working capital Initiatives (overall Group cost cuts of ¥30 bn planned) Consider further asset sales Raise production efficiency Fiscal 2017 progress In fiscal 2017, the second year of the 2016 MTBP, Kirin Holdachieving our three-year free cash flow generation target one ings managed its businesses based on the above-mentioned year ahead of schedule. The repayment of interest-bearing MTBP policy and achieved better-than-expected results. Each debt significantly exceeded the MTBP target, raised the equibusiness steadily improved profitability to achieve guidance for ty level by increasing profits, and sufficiently enhanced our 2018 (or 2020), cost cut measures steadily produced results financial flexibility. for the entire Group, and consolidated normalized operating profit increased ¥12.3 billion (up 6.8%) from the previous Cost cutting progress (Billions of yen) year to ¥194.3 billion. Cost cut initiatives achieved the 2016 2016 2017 2016–2017 Operating companies MTBP target of ¥30.0 billion one year ahead of schedule. In actual actual total addition to deciding to sell Brasil Kirin, which is positioned as Kirin Brewery 7.2 2.7 9.9 a low-profit business, and completing the share transfer in Kirin Beverage 6.1 1.7 7.8 May, the Group’s structural reforms progressed faster than the 2016 MTBP originally expected thanks to management Brasil Kirin (Sold in 2017) 7.2 1.2 8.4 measures to liquidate non-core assets including property, plant Other 4.5 3.4 7.9 and equipment. These measures generated free cash flow of ¥284.9 billion, Total 25.0 9.0 34.0 61 KIRIN REPORT 2018 excluding liquor tax rose from 11.7% to 12.3%). The status of each 1) Consolidated statement of profit or loss business is as follows. Revenue Japan Integrated Beverages Consolidated revenue including liquor taxes increased by ¥9.8 Kirin Brewery’s normalized operating profit increased by ¥0.6 billion billion (up 0.5%) to ¥1,863.7 billion (an increase of ¥16.4 billion to ¥71.6 billion. In January 2017, after revising its trading conditions [up 1.1%] to ¥1,574.3 billion excluding liquor taxes). Broken down for beer products and reducing sales promotion expenses associatby segment, revenue of Japan Integrated Beverages decreased by ed with beer product sales, retail prices remained higher than those ¥10.6 billion, Overseas Integrated Beverages increased by ¥20.1 of competing products until the end of May in retail channels. In billion, and Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals increased by ¥5.3 June, due to a further increase in retail prices caused by the revibillion. However, Overseas Integrated Beverages was affected sion of the Liquor Tax Act, and the effects of unseasonable weather by foreign exchange rates (+¥20.1 billion), as well as a revenue from summer through autumn, the sales volume of beer products increase of a soft drinks business subsidiary in the United States as a whole declined 4.2%. As a result, the marginal profit of beer due to its acquisition of a manufacturing and sales business in the products decreased by ¥7.7 billion, but marginal profit increased by territories adjacent to its own. ¥5.0 billion due to an increase in RTD sales volume (up 8.4%) and In Japan Integrated Beverages, Kirin Brewery revenue an increase in non-alcohol beer-taste beverage sales volume (up declined by ¥8.4 billion (a ¥1.0 billion decrease excluding liquor 58.7%). Marginal profit as a whole increased by ¥0.6 billion due taxes) due to declining sales volume for beer products (down to a ¥3.3 billion increase in marginal profit owing to difference of 4.2%), while Kirin Beverage revenue decreased by ¥6.8 billion change in composition of products (including an improvement in due to declining sales volume for non-alcoholic beverages (down the marginal profit per liter through the reduction of sales promo2.2%) as a whole. tion expenses related to beer sales). Advertising expenses increased In Overseas Integrated Beverages, Lion revenue decreased by ¥2.0 billion due to the renewal of Ichiban Shibori, but fixed sales pro¥8.9 billion. Lion Beer, Spirits, and Wine business sales volume motion expenses decreased ¥2.4 billion (including a reduction in declined (down 10.5%) due to the conclusion of the ABI brand dissales promotion expenses for beverage channels due to a review of tribution agreement in Australia in September 2016, and declining beer trading conditions). Raw material costs decreased ¥2.6 billion sales volumes due to the sale of the Australian wine business to due to cost cutting initiatives, which offset the increase in distribution focus its resources on the beer business. Revenue declined ¥15.1 2018 and 2020 guidance progress for each business billion, which includes the impact of the foreign exchange rate on consolidation of +¥11.5 billion. On the other hand, if we exclude Strengthen profit foundation of the beer business 2018 guidance the impact of the ABI brand loss and wine business divestiture, Normalized operating profit margin revenue remained in line with that of the previous fiscal year on a Kirin Brewery OPM: 7%+ 19% (excluding liquor tax) local currency basis. In the Lion Dairy and Drinks business, sales No. 2 market position after loss Maintain market volume declined (down 3.0%) in the juice and drinks category Lion Beer, of ABI brands position Spirits, due to a surge in orange juice prices that resulted in a decrease and Wine Normalized OP margin Maintain high OPM approx. 28% in overall sales volume. Revenue increased by ¥6.1 billion, which included the impact of the foreign exchange rate on consolidation Market share of approx. 80% Maintain market maintained position of +¥9.0 billion. Even including the ¥(1.8) billion foreign currency Myanmar Brewery Production capacity improvements effect, Myanmar Brewery revenue increased by ¥3.0 billion thanks to be completed before the 2018 Capture share of market growth fields to higher sales volume (up 17.1%), as well as the effects of price peak demand period hikes carried out in fiscal 2016 and 2017. Restructure and revitalize low-profit businesses 2018 guidance Kyowa Hakko Kirin’s Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals businesses recorded a revenue increase of ¥5.3 billion thanks to a Pave the way for a posiBrasil Kirin Transfer of all stocks is complete tive turnaround in 2019 significant boost from higher technology licensing revenue in the Kirin Normalized OP margin is 8%, overseas market in the Pharmaceuticals Business. Beverage significantly above guidance OPM: 3%+ Lion Dairy Normalized OP margin Normalized operating profit OPM: 5%+ & Drinks approx. 4% Consolidated normalized operating profit increased by ¥12.3 bilInvest to achieve outstanding growth 2020 guidance lion, and Group profitability improved as the profit growth rate in Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals businesses (6.8%) exceeded the revenue growth rate. Operating profit margin Kyowa Hakko Good progress achieved Core operating income: in developing global strategic to revenue improved from 9.8% in fiscal 2016 to 10.4% (revenue Kirin products 100 billion yen+ KIRIN REPORT 2018 62 Financial Status costs and other expenses. The normalized operating profit margin Business, profits increased ¥9.1 billion due to higher gross profit on revenue excluding liquor tax was 19.2%, already exceeding the from higher technology licensing revenue in the overseas business, operating profit margin (J-GAAP) of 17%, the guidance for 2018. and a decrease in R&D expenses. In the Bio-chemicals Business, Kirin Beverage’s normalized operating profit increased a subprofit rose by ¥1.6 billion due to a more highly profitable sales mix. stantial ¥4.4 billion to ¥21.7 billion. Marginal profit declined ¥2.4 billion due to a decrease in sales volume (down 2.2%), but thanks Profit attributable to owners of the parent to an increase in the sales volume of Gogo-no-Kocha and Nama-cha, Equity in earnings of affiliates increased by ¥9.6 billion due to the difference of change in product mix and composition ratio of strong performance of San Miguel Beer, as well as an increase in containers improved and marginal profit increased ¥3 billion, with normalized operating profit. Furthermore, structural reforms promarginal profit increasing by ¥0.6 billion overall. The normalized gressed at a faster pace than initially anticipated due to the sale of operating profit margin improved to 7.6%, far exceeding the 3% Brasil Kirin, which was positioned as a low-profit business, and the operating profit margin (J-GAAP), which was the 2018 guidance. liquidation of non-core assets. Profit from discontinued operations This was largely due to a ¥2.8 billion reduction in raw material increased by ¥76.8 billion due to tax effects associated with the expenses stemming from cost cutting effects. transfer of Brasil Kirin shares, resulting in a ¥93.1 billion rise in profit. Overseas Integrated Beverages The margin of profit attributable to owners of the parent in Lion Beer, Spirits, and Wine Business’ normalized operating profit fiscal 2017 reached 13.0% due to a one-time increase in earnings decreased due to the loss of the ABI brands. The profit impact of a on progress made in structural reforms, but the improved profitsales volume decrease (down 10.5%) was A$122 million, but a A$77 ability for each business excluding this effect was nearly in line with million increase in profits due to unit price and mix improvement progress made in the 2016 MTBP. owing to price increases, an increase in sales volume in focus categoThe tax rate in fiscal 2017 was 22.2%. This was attributable to ries, and other cost decreases, resulted in normalized operating profit the effects of non-amortization of goodwill and brands following of A$632 million, down A$51 million. Normalized operating profit, the adoption of IFRS, a reduction in the statutory tax rate in Japan, which excludes the impact of the loss of the ABI brands, remained in an increase in investment profit accounted for by the equity methline with that of the previous year, and the normalized operating profit od, and other factors. There were no tax effects associated with the margin of 27.9% enabled the Company to maintain high profitability. sale of Brasil Kirin included in profit from discontinued operations. Normalized operating profit, after conversion to yen, came to only ¥0.9 billion due to a positive exchange rate effect of ¥3.2 billion. 2) Consolidated cash flow status and financial strategy progress The Lion Dairy and Drinks Business was affected by soaring orange juice prices, but because the inventory revaluation Operating cash flow was ¥221.7 billion, investing cash flow came conducted in October 2016 pushed normalized operating profit to ¥63.2 billion, and free cash flow was ¥284.9 billion. This was downward in the previous fiscal year, normalized operating profattributable to the improved profitability of each business, progress it remained unchanged with that of the previous fiscal year. The made in structural reforms including the sale of Brasil Kirin, and the impact on profits of a decrease in sales volume (down 3.0%) was liquidation of non-core assets. A$22 million, but was offset by A$23 million, including unit price The Company allocated ¥45.9 billion for shareholder returns and mix improvement effects, due to increased sales volumes in (dividends) based on a consolidated payout ratio of 30% or more of focus categories. Normalized operating profit, after conversion normalized EPS, and ¥147.3 billion for interest-bearing debt repayinto yen, increased ¥0.5 billion, including a consolidated foreign ment. As a result, the repayment of interest-bearing debt over the exchange effect of +¥0.3 billion. two-year period came to ¥258.3 billion, exceeding the target of Myanmar Brewery’s normalized operating profit increased ¥135.0 billion in the 2016 MTBP. Interest-bearing debt, as of the 18.3% on a local currency basis. Although the product mix deteend of fiscal 2017, was ¥486.5 billion. riorated due to a sharp increase in sales volume in the economy category, the increase in sales volume, the effects of price hikes 3) Consolidated statement of financial position in fiscal 2016 and 2017, and cost cutting initiatives had a positive effect. As the impact of foreign exchange rate on consolidation was Assets ¥(0.7) billion, normalized operating profit, after conversion to yen, Total assets decreased ¥23.7 billion to ¥2,399.1 billion (compared increased ¥0.9 billion to ¥9.9 billion. with ¥2,422.8 billion at the end of the previous fiscal year). PropPharmaceuticals and Bio-Chemicals erty, plant and equipment decreased ¥82.0 billion on the sale Kyowa Hakko Kirin’s normalized operating profit increased by of Brasil Kirin, which was a wholly owned subsidiary, as well as ¥10.7 billion (up 20.9%) to ¥62.2 billion. In the Pharmaceuticals the reduction of assets by selling off the brewery site and other 63 KIRIN REPORT 2018 property, plant and equipment. Because of that and other factors, made, normalized EPS increased ¥12 (8.6%) to ¥151. non-current assets decreased by about ¥120 billion. This amount Shareholder returns (dividends) were ¥46, an increase of ¥7 included over ¥40 billion that had been transferred to current per share, based on a consolidated payout ratio of 30% or more assets due to the transfer of Kirin Amgen shares (gain on sale of for normalized EPS. We therefore expect to allocate ¥54.0 billion equity-accounted investees), which was recorded in non-current from free cash flow to dividends in fiscal 2018. However, due to the assets. The shares were transferred in the first quarter of 2018. expected cash inflow from the transfer of Kirin Amgen shares, we Capital expenditures came to ¥85.9 billion, which was lower decided to conduct an own-share repurchase with a maximum of than the ¥89.9 billion in fiscal 2016, and the timing and amount of ¥100.0 billion as an additional shareholder return. investments for nonessential and nonurgent items were reviewed and kept within plan. As mentioned above, revenue increased ¥9.8 billion, but since Outlook for fiscal 2018 it was lower than the 2016 MTBP expectation based on J-GAAP, In fiscal 2018, we expect an operating cash flow of ¥230.0 billion. the asset turnover ratio remained at 0.77. Factors behind the This amount will be used for investment cash flow, repayment of decline in revenue compared to the 2016 MTBP included a deducinterest-bearing debt with repayment deadlines, and shareholder tion of sales promotion expenses linked to sales from revenue due returns, including the above-mentioned own-share repurchase. to the adoption of IFRS from fiscal 2017, the sell-off of Brasil Kirin, Regarding capital expenditures, we will allocate resources the conclusion of ABI brand distribution in Australia by the Lion according to the positioning of each business while limiting the Beer, Spirits, and Wine Business, and a decrease in domestic beer total amount based on the 2016 MTBP financial strategy. In 2018, product sales volume. we plan ¥98.0 billion in capital expenditures, but expect a positive investment cash flow of ¥10.0 billion, which includes the Equity and liabilities cash inflow from the sell-off of Kirin Amgen shares. We expect Profit of ¥242.1 billion, which increased significantly due to the interest-bearing debt repayment of ¥80.0 billion, and shareholder improvement of profitability and structural reforms, contributed returns of ¥154.0 billion, which include dividends of ¥54.0 billion to the increase in retained earnings, and total equity (excluding and the own-share repurchase of ¥100.0 billion. As a result, an non-controlling interests and treasury shares) increased ¥251.9 ROE of 16.0% is forecasted. billion to ¥955.9 billion (¥704.0 billion as of the end of fiscal 2016). Profit attributable to owners of the parent is expected to Financial leverage declined to 2.9 and the debt-equity ratio decline due to a decrease in profit from discontinued operations, dropped to 0.51 (1.14 at the end of fiscal 2015) due to progress which increased in fiscal 2017 on the sale of Brasil Kirin. However, in reducing assets and repayment of interest-bearing debt, the expected decline of both revenue and normalized operating which exceeded the target of the 2016 MTBP, and financial profit in Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals should be covered flexibility improved. by increases in other businesses. Our policy is to maintain an appropriate capital structure considering the balance between cost of capital and financial flexibility 4) Quantitative target progress and shareholder returns while enhancing our capacity to generate cash through profit growth. ROE was 29.1% due to a margin of profit attributable to owners of the parent of 13.0%, including one-time factors. Although adjustments excluding non-recurring items (profit from discontinued Future cash allocation policy operations due to the transfer of Brasil Kirin shares, and other operOur cash allocation policy after FY 2019 will be determined by ating income and expense after taxes and other adjustments) were the financial strategy of the next medium-term business plan, but our priority will be to first invest in growth opportunities, and then 2015 2016 2017 2018 return profits to shareholders after repaying interest-bearing debt results results results forecast with repayment deadlines. As growth investment targets, we will ROE (%) – 0.3 22.0 29.1 16.0 continue to explore opportunities in Southeast Asia, as well as the area of “health and well-being” as future drivers of growth. We will Margin of profit attributable also take a disciplined approach to future investments. – 0.1 8.0 13.0 7.9 to owners of the parent (%) In the years ahead, we will boost investment in human capAsset turnover ratio 0.85 0.77 0.77 0.82 ital, brands, R&D, and supply chain and IT, which are intangible (Times) assets that support the Group’s sustainable growth. ( Please Financial leverage (Times) 3.1 3.4 2.9 2.5 see pages 17 – 20). KIRIN REPORT 2018 64 Corporate Governance Kirin’s Foundation for Value Creation Information related to total shareholder return 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Year-end stock price (Yen) 1,012 1,513 1,497 1,648 1,902 2,840 Dividends per share (Yen) 29 36 38 38 39 46 Cumulative dividend income per share (from fiscal 2013, Yen) 36 74 112 151 197 Amount of increase in stock price per share (from fiscal 2013, Yen) 501 485 636 890 1,828 Total shareholder return per share* Absolute amount (Yen) 537 559 748 1,041 2,025 Rate (%) 53.1 55.2 73.9 102.9 40.0 * Total shareholders’ return per share is calculated at fiscal year-ends, starting in fiscal 2013, as if the investment was made at the closing stock price at the end of fiscal 2012. Stock price and trading volume (Yen) Stock price (left) Nikkei 225 stock average (right) (Yen) 3,000 30,000 2,700 27,000 2,400 24,000 2,1 00 2 1 ,000 1,800 18,000 1,500 15,000 1,200 12,000 900 9,000 600 6,000 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Million shares) Trading volume 150 120 90 60 30 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Company overview Trade name Kirin Holdings Company, Limited Stock listings Tokyo, Nagoya, Fukuoka, Sapporo Date of incorporation February 23, 1907 Note: On July 1, 2007, accompanying the shift to Transfer agent a pure holding company structure, Kirin Holdings Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation, Company, Limited changed its name from Kirin Corporate Agency Division, Brewery Company, Limited 1-1, Nikko-cho, Fuchu-Shi, Tokyo 183-0044, Japan Head office NAKANO CENTRAL PARK SOUTH, 10-2, Tel: +81-3-5391-1900 (business days from 9:00 to 17:00) Nakano 4-chome, Nakano-ku, Tokyo 164-0001, Japan Depositary J.P. Morgan Chase Bank N.A. Paid-in capital ¥102,045,793,357 P.O. Box 64504 Number of employees 31033 St. Paul, MN 55164-0504 (consolidated) * Number of Kirin Holdings employees on Call toll-free from within the U.S.: +1-800-990-1135 a consolidated basis, as of December 31, 2017 Call from outside the U.S.: +1-651-453-2128 65 KIRIN REPORT 2018 Our website The integrated report has been edited to make it easy for stakeholders to understand by summarizing highly important information that has a direct bearing on corporate value improvement from the Kirin Group’s financial and non-financial information and converting it into a story. More detailed activity information and data can be found on Kirin Holdings’ corporate website. KIRIN REPORT (booklet/website) Environmental Report 2016–2018 Medium-term Business Plan Issued: June 2018 Issued: June 2018 Announced: February 2016 https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/ https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/ https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/ english/ir/library/integrated/ english/csv/report/env/ english/ir/policy/medium.html Data Book Corporate Governance Report Updated as necessary Issued: April 2018 https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/ https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/ english/ir/library/integrated/ english/ir/policy/pdf/ e_governance_report.pdf ESG data collection Updated as necessary Financial Statements https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/ Issued: Early April 2018 english/csv/esg_gri/ http://pdf.irpocket.com/C2503/ VKXr/XwLD/tVpX.pdf Third-party evaluations FTSE4Good Index* FTSE Blossom Japan Index* MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN)* CDP Climate Change A-List CDP Water A-List 22nd IR Award “IR Special Award” by the Japan Investor Relations Association WEB Please refer to our website for an explanation of each indicator. https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/csv/esg_gri/ KIRIN REPORT 2018 66 Printed in Japan Published May 31, 2018
