STILL GROWING [Type text] Communication on Progress 2017 Statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles I. Vision, strategy and corporate governance 1.1. Corporate citizenship policies 1.2. Products and services II. The CSR strategy 2.1 Definition 2.2 CSR management 2.3 Memberships 2.4 Commitment to stakeholders III. Sopharma’ Corporate Responsibility Progress 3.1 People matter 3.2 Responsible Employer 3.3 Environment 3.4 Corporate citizenship 3.5 Society Communication on Progress 2017 Statement of continued support Dear stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Sopharma AD supports and implements the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the field of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and AntiCorruption. Permit us to draw your attention to a report on the policies adopted at Sopharma in its capacity of a corporate citizen which demonstrate its active and responsible attitude to the impact of its activities on society. By taking into close consideration the issues of importance to our stakeholders, Sopharma follows the commitments it has made as a business entity targeted at achieving a state of perpetual development and prosperity along with sustainability. Sopharma AD works towards the new 17 Sustainable Development Goals, according to the Strategic plan 2015+ of the GC Network Bulgaria, along with all stakeholders. Sopharma AD communicates its commitments to the stakeholders via all of the currently available communication channels. Sincerely yours, Ognian Donev CEO and Chairman of the Board of Directors SOPHARMA Communication on Progress 2017 I. Vision, strategy and corporate management Our core values We produce the highest quality generics and our own originals medicine We promote the health of our stakeholders through social projects and information We practice and advance environmental stewardship We serve and support our local and global communities We create ongoing win-win partnerships with our suppliers We support team member happiness and excellence We create wealth through profits and growth Communication on Progress 2017 Vision and strategy The vision and strategy pursued by „Sopharma” AD are determined by the corporate philosophy and the mission which the company has undertaken to follow and which serves as the basis for its activities. Corporate philosophy The production of medicines is not a simple technological process; it is a human mission based on the highest standards of quality, safety and medicinal effectiveness. The mission The mission of the company is to contribute to the progress and development of the pharmaceutical industry and from there to the overall economic development and prosperity of the Bulgarian nation. Since its establishment in 1933, the company strives to provide affordable, effective and up-to-date medicines to the Bulgarian patient. Sopharma AD is the successor to the production and pharmaceutical laboratory of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Cooperative Society, founded in 1914. The production of medicines in a wide and modern portfolio, the creation of new jobs, sustainable development and the economic contribution of the company have been the company’s leading principles ever since the establishment of the production laboratory and they are the principles to which Sopharma adheres to this today. Sopharma AD aims to develop, produce and deliver affordable, modern and efficient treatment to millions of patients in Bulgaria and to offer its products on the markets it has been able to access. The company has formalized its sustainable development activities through its 2004 UNGC accession. Since its establishment it has been actively involved in various regional network projects and starting in 2016 has been considered an advanced entity as defined in the Official statement on progress. This highly responsible corporate behavior lies at the foundations of „Sopharma” business development. The CSR strategy is a part of the company's economic program and the various initiatives and projects support „Sopharma's” core business activities forming a part of the company's DNA. 1.1. Corporate citizenship policies As a corporate citizen, Sopharma AD operates on the basis of the constitutional principles, the laws and regulations of the Republic of Bulgaria and in all its actions respects the regulations of the state, the requirements placed by the local authorities and other regulatory organs. The company closely monitors and abides by the changes in the legislation governing its concrete business activities. In preparing its development strategies and daily commitments, Sopharma AD follows the 10 principles of the UN Global contract and creates and participates in the programs supporting their implementation not only within the company but also in society as a whole. Corporate citizenship Description Adoption Last update regulations and rules date Republic of Bulgaria 1879 2015 Constitution 10те принципа на ГД на The Global Compact asks companies to embrace, 2004 2015 SDG ООН/ support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a 10 principles of UNGC set of core values divided in four major categories as follows: • Human Rights: Communication on Progress 2017 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Labor Standards: Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. • Environment: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies • Anti-Corruption: Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. SDG 2015 Code of ethics Defines the rules of ethic and professional behavior 2007 applicable to all activates, preventing bureaucracy, corruption and other illegal practice, aims at increasing public trust in their moral and professionalism and at corporate reputation. Sources of corporate governance Corporate management systems employed for the management and operation of „Sopharma” AD. Code / regulations Description Adoption date Last update Articles of association Sopharma’s Articles of Association define the 2003 2015 corporate purpose, operations on capital and shares, the activities of the corporate bodies and the principles governing their relations. Decisions taken at the The General Meeting of shareholders has the The General 2018 General Meeting of exclusive competence to amend and Meeting of Shareholders complement the Articles of Association of the shareholders Sopharma, to change Sopharma’s capital; to decisions are transform and wind up the Company and to taken minimum resolve on any other matters within its once in a year competence granted by law or by the Articles of Association. Code of conduct of the The Code of conduct is intended to specify the 2007 board of directors of rights and obligations of the Board of Directors Sopharma AD of Sopharma AD Good corporate The Program protects the rights of 2009 governance program Shareholders and other stakeholders GMP The good manufacturing practices are a 2003 2017 Communication on Progress 2017 system of rules and procedures which serves to guarantee the high quality of the medicinal products at every stage of their manufacture. Its major purpose is to protect the patient's health. GDP The good manufacturing practices are a 2003 2017 system of rules and procedures which serves to guarantee the high quality of the medicinal products at every stage of their manufacture. The quality and the integrity of medicinal products can be affected by a lack of adequate control. ICH “Q8 Pharmaceutical This standard applies to the overall process of 2004 2017 Development” creating new products: from the development stage to their official registration. It also includes risk assessment and the related quality assurance systems as a part of the product’s design and relates to the components of the medicinal product in its entirety. ICH “Q9 Quality Risk Principles and examples of tools of quality risk 2006 2017 Management. management. ICH Q9 Quality Risk Management refers to quality control, creationrelated activities, construction facilities, equipment and power capacities, material control and management, the manufacturing processes, laboratory control and testing, packaging, labeling and various other activities. ISO 17025 General requirements for the competence of 2014 2017 testing and calibration laboratories. The standard is intended for use by laboratories which set up their own quality control systems for both the administrative and technical activities. ISO 13485 Quality management system for medicinal 2014 2017 products manufacturing AXAPTA Corporate Process Management System, 2013 2018 Comprehensive ЕRP program for business management Duties and responsibilities Instructions for duties and responsibilities 2007 of insiders related to the Law on Measures against Market Abuse with Financial Instruments 1.2. Products and Services The company manufactures and trades in medicinal substances and forms developing at the same time scientific research and engineering activities in the sphere of photochemistry, chemistry and pharmacy. Sopharma AD has 10 production facilities in Bulgaria generating a range of pharmaceutical forms and substances. The company's activities and production processes are in full conformity with the related national and European legislation, the Good Manufacturing and Laboratory Practices and requirements. In addition Communication on Progress 2017 to the standards required of the manufacturers of pharmaceutical products, „Sopharma” has also standardized its ISO-related activity through risk management programs and corporate management systems. Responsible business for Sopharma is the only sustainable way to do successful business II. The CSR strategy 2.1. Definition Responsible Corporate Citizenship for Sopharma is the only path to a sustainable business development with a clear vision of the goals, the necessary resources to achieve these goals and the impact from the company's business on the economic, social and environmental sphere. Along with the investments made in its business, Sopharma AD works hard on UN’s SDG 2015. Sopharma AD actively shares the information on its activities with all stakeholders. The CSR is a part of the responsible Sopharma AD corporate citizenship. The CSR strategy, initiatives and specific activities are planned and developed, coordinated and implemented by the Communication strategies and the CSR directorate after obtaining the approval of the CEO of Sopharma AD. The Director of the Communication strategies and the CSR directorate is directly subordinated to the Executive Director of the company; the directorate itself is run by a CSR and Corporate communications manager. The policies and specific projects are targeted at four major directions: ✓ Market A responsible behavior towards stakeholders is the only way to do business and to achieve prosperity. The products and business models we create have positioned Sopharma AD among the top 10 companies on the Bulgarian pharmaceutical market and number one in sales /in natural terms/ with a 13% market share. ✓ Stakeholders From the point of view of Sopharma AD, an interested party may be any group which is directly or indirectly related to the company's activities and has the potential to influence on the decision making process regarding the company's business development as a socially responsible organization. The relationship with its stakeholders is the true indicator of the company's success rate; of Sopharma’s place in the economic and social life of the country and an assessment of the viability of the adopted course for its development. Communication on Progress 2017 • For us, “key stakeholders” are the patients for whom Sopharma's products are remedy and the means of improving the quality of their lives. • Shareholders: being a public company „Sopharma” AD is responsible before the investors, who have put their trust in the adopted development strategy and the presented results, for each and every decision made. That is why the CSR programs of the company are presented as a part of each annual report prepared and submitted by the management of „Sopharma” AD. • The state and local government authorities. • Partners: „Sopharma”'s success depends on the success of the companies down the chain of suppliers and partner companies. • Employees: Today’s employees are among the most valuable assets of any company, especially in high-tech manufacturing such as pharmaceuticals and the investments in personnel generate a considerable return. Employees are the first ambassadors of the company's mission, of its corporate culture and reputation. In addition to the healthy and safe work environment, career opportunities and the social benefits which „Sopharma” accepts to be the minimum in its labor relations, the company strives to build an atmosphere of shared common values with its employees and to engage in public projects which are of importance to their own selves. • Local community: „Sopharma” AD owns 10 factories in the country and being a major investor in some regions has undertaken responsibilities far beyond its business commitments. The company invests resources in projects of considerable importance for these regions. At the same time and as the biggest Bulgarian pharmaceutical manufacturer „Sopharma” AD has been able to successfully launch a number of various nationwide campaigns. ✓ Environment Sopharma works entirely on the basis of the prescriptions of the GMP and GDP standards, but it also invests in creating smart buildings, renewable energy sources, the growing of its own crops and so on, the major objective being to reduce the company's negative impacts on the natural environment. ✓ Society „Sopharma” AD uses its extensive expertise and resources to contribute not only to the economic and social development, but also to enhance the cultural environment and the quality of human life through the creation and development of concrete projects. The company supports the development of an Communication on Progress 2017 active civil society in the country and takes categorical positions on a number of socially important issues. 2.2. CSR management Corporate responsibility lies at the very foundations and beginnings of the company the major goal of which was to build an industry in support of people's health, to create a livelihood for the population and to further develop the country's economic policy. These far reaching targets are evidenced and clearly revealed in a 1933 publication by the newspaper “Aptekarska zashtita” (The Pharmacist’s Guardian, Bul.): From the organizational viewpoint, the CSR was defined as an activity in 2003. It was then a part of the Marketing and advertising department commitments and as of 2013 has became a major priority in the work of the Advertising and corporate communications directorate, headed by a CSR manager. By focusing on socially oriented projects, as a tool for boosting the reputation of the company, this unit is named the “Communication strategies and CSR” department and it’s actively engaged in working both with the marketing structures and with the “Investor relations” directorate. Core areas of corporate responsibility Market Employees Environment Community Corporate Citizenship Transparent Responsible Environmental Contribution to Anticorruption corporate employer: Zero management economic governance discrimination systems development regarding the right to work, sex, etc, Guaranteed product Ensuring the right of Reducing the Developing the Work on SDG 2015 quality and safety association environmental healthcare system impacts Sustainability Employee Responsible use of Health prevention Participation in the development resources establishment and implementation of international pharmaceutical standards Ethical Competition Decent labor wages Reduction of direct Providing Affordable Working with impacts healthcare partner Communication on Progress 2017 organizations Responsible Ensuring healthy Reduction of indirect Investing in Joint projects of marketing and safe work impacts education organizations in conditions which „Sopharma” is a member Responsible Social benefits for Participation in Investments in Development of the procurement employees environmental public generic industry in projects communications the country Internal Employee trainings communication on eco related themes and how to reduce everyday ecologic impact 2.3. Memberships In order to adequately create and implement its CSR strategy, „Sopharma” AD works with partner organizations such as the BCAUSE foundation, the Bulgarian Public relations association, the European association of communication directors, the Investor Relations association. The company is a member of a number of business and branch organizations with which it holds discussions and works on the objectives and challenges faced by CSR in Bulgaria. Sopharma is ✓ Member of the Confederation of the Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria (KRIB). http://ceibg.bg/ ✓ Member-cofounder of the Association of Bulgarian Exporters (ABE), wich goal is to develop the National strategy for export Member of AHK, a connecting link between Bulgarian and German economics, with more than 450 German, Bulgarian and multinational companies – members. http://bulgarien.ahk.de/bg/ ✓ Full member of the American Chamber of Commerce in Bulgaria. The American Chamber of Commerce in Bulgaria unites more than 300 American, Bulgarian and international companies operating in the country from all sectors of economy. All members of the AmCham share a common vision of corporate social responsibility and a good corporate reputation is one of the most important criteria for membership. www.amcham.bg ✓ Member of European Generic Association (EGA), an official representative organization of the European generic industry. http://www.egagenerics.com ✓ А founder-member of the Association of Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Manufacturers, at present Bulgarian Generic Pharmaceutical Association (BGPharmA), its priorities being harmonization of interests with regard to the general national and international mechanisms for regulation of drug manufacture and use, improvement of GMP principles application and observation of loyal competition principles. http://www.bgpharma.bg ✓ Member of the European organization of manufacturers of medicines sold over the counter, the so called OTC products – the Association of the European Self-Medication Industry (AESGP). http://www.aesgp.be ✓ Founder-member of the Bulgarian National Committee of the International Chamber of Commerce and elected as a full member of the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC). ICC is the most prestigious organization in the field of international trade and international economic relations. Its principal mission is to stimulate transborder trade and investments and to assist business corporations to face the challenges and possibilities resulting from globalization. http://www.icc-bulgaria.bg www.iccwbo.org ✓ Member-cofounder of the Association of Bulgarian Exporters (ABE), wich goal is to develop the National strategy for export ✓ Member of Global Compact Bulgarian Network Communication on Progress 2017 2.4. Commitment to Stakeholders „Sopharma” AD maintains an ongoing open dialogue with all stakeholders through different communication channels depending on the target group: the official corporate media, official BSE announcements, the social networks. The dialogue with the shareholders, the central and local authorities, business partners and the nongovernmental organizations is carried out both through the traditional communication channels but also via the participation in and the support of a number of various events, discussions and joint projects. Traditional communication channels have been the „Sopharma” AD corporate site, the „Sopharma” group website, the company's activity reports, the progress report submitted to the organs of the United Nations as well as the newsletters published by the partner organizations. The informal communication channels include the „Sopharma” profiles in various social networks, the company’s mobile applications, etc. Stakeholders Communication channels Frequency of communication Patients Product websites weekly Official corporate sites when there is new information; Sopharma use its corporate site Corporate website for news related with European www.sopharma.bg generic association, changes in Website of the group regulations and lows; etc. www.sopharmagroup.com FB, Integra, twitter daily Social platform Zdravi daily Mobile app Zdravi daily Mobile app Ex Smoker daily Market research when needed Shareholders Общо събрание на Yearly at least акционерите Уведомления Meetings Official corporate sites State and Local authorities Annual conference “Business Yearly meet the Government” Pharmacy forums 2-3 summits per year State and Local authorities daily websites Official corporate sites daily Communication on Progress 2017 Working groups related to regularly pharmacy and healthcare system Suppliers meetings regularly mailing employees Intranet When needed FB Daily Corporate websites When needed Табла за обяви Mailing Society Healthy life conferences Daily Public communication conferences 4 conferences FB, Twitter, Instagram Daily Partners Meetings and conferences Regularly Working groups IV. Corporate responsibility 4.1 People matter Sopharma AD takes actions through strategic social investment and partnerships to stand by internationally proclaimed human rights Responsible corporate citizen • We believe that transparent and responsible governance is the only way to succeed in business and to empower society. We keep in touch with all our stakeholders regarding Sopharma business activities and CSR. • We insist our partners and chain suppliers to follow the same responsible governance principles. • We invest in our local manufactures to ensure economic livelihood of local communities. • We support one of the most accessible medicines in our markets to ensure the access to modern treatment, including small packages manufacturing to enable affordable treatment. • We invest in generics according to the EU politics the development of the healthcare system for affordable treatment is mainly through generics. • We continue developing our unique brands, based on plant extracts obtained by in-housedeveloped extraction technologies, well known as Sopharma’s original brands. • Social disease responsibility We bring a market issue of one of our product to a higher level as an affordable way to manage with one of the most serious non-communicable disease in the world – smoking cession. • We run our social responsibility programs to improve lives and to ensure sustainable development of the society. Communication on Progress 2017 • We work in partnership with members of the Global Compact Bulgarian Network, professional communities, local authorities and the government. We strongly believe that partnership towards sustainable development is the way to be responsible corporate citizen. Affordable medicine Sopharma AD has a 4% share of the total Bulgarian pharmaceutical market in value and 13% of sales in volume. (13% for 2016) The positions of the main competitors of the Company in the country are as follows: Novartis – 7% (4% in units), Roche – 6% (0,3% in units), Actavis – 6% (11% in units), GlaxoSmithKline – 4% (2% in units), Abbvie – 4% (0% in units) Sanofi-Aventis – 4% (4% in units), Astra Zeneca – 3% (1% in units), Pfizer – 3% (1% in units), Bayer – 3% (2% in units). 4 0.3 0 1 1 13 4 sopharma actavis GSK 2 Bayer 2 Sanofi-Aventis 11 Pfizer Astra Zeneca Novartis Abbvie Roche As a member of “Medicine for Europe” Sopharma takes part in all activities related to improvement of generic and biosimilar medicines landscapeе. Generic medicines boost economic development and ensure modern treatment to more patients. Millions of European patients have benefited from better access to gold standard therapies. The generic medicines today represent 56% of the medicines prescribed in Europe and the generic medicines industry employs more than 160,000 people in Europe, 10% of which work in Bulgaria. Sopharma AD fully understand its role as a significant factor in the pharmaceutical sector at European level and in the Bulgarian economy. There are 16,000 highly qualified professionals in the pharmaceutical sector in Bulgaria, and since the middle of the 20th century Bulgaria has seen growth in the pharmaceutical sector, with the pharmaceutical market rising by 9.5% in value and by 3.6% in 2016. As a leading vertically integrated Bulgarian manufacturer, exporter and distributor of pharmaceutical products, the company imposes standards for companies along the chain, following the principles of transparency and accountability of management. Corporate Sustainable Corporate Development also requires investment in the areas of science and development, quality management, industrial property, publicity and transparency. Sopharma is among companies that gain sustainable consumer trust according to market research in 2017. Communication on Progress 2017 The market share in Sopharma's natural product as well as the share of OTC products are indicative of the company's position in the minds of consumers. The company's reputation, as a function of the sustainable business model, the quality and availability of medicines, and an adequate CSR strategy also influence the choice of the end user when buying drugs. 4.2 Responsible employer Sopharma guarantees freedom of association, provides inclusive health and educational services for the employees. Sopharma leads zero tolerance politic to any kind of workplace harassment, abuse or threats. The highly technological development and production process of Sopharma medicinal products are licensed according to the GMP. Safe and healthy working conditions are part of the standard but Sopharma extends commitment to ensuring its workers and all employees’ work places, according to their knowledge and skills and invests in their development. Training programs offered to employees, aimed increasing their competence levels. The training policy is specifically aimed at providing high professional knowledge and improving awareness related to health and safety issues. Employees are entitled to higher remuneration, required by applicable law for overtime, night shifts and working weekends and during holidays. Employees who work in specific, harmful or dangerous conditions receive personal protective equipment and allowances. As a part of its social responsibility Sopharma introduced a system providing fair payment of the expended efforts and stimulation of the workers. A direct timely system for actual time worked out and additional material stimulation of the main workers on the basis of a monthly evaluation for manufactured and reported production of quality has been applied in the Plant for Ampoule Dosage Forms since 01.03.2017. The additional material stimulation reaches 30%. The introduction of a similar system for payment is forthcoming in the Tablet Plant as well. Sopharma AD will offer its shareholders to hand out bonuses to their employees in the form of shares as a part of its corporate social responsibility. So the even better presentation of the team and the development of investment culture will be stimulated, according to the words of Ognyan Donev. Beyond its direct commitments as Employer Sopharma creates and develops social projects and programmes and participates in collective such directed at the employees and at their communities. ✓ Healthy life: Communication on Progress 2017 Additional health servicing Gratuitous dental services Availability of nurses in the plants of the Company Annual gratuitous examinations by specialists Fitness free of charge Courses in folk dances free of charge Inclusion in the programme for physical activity Multisport Conduct of a children’s camp in tennis Activities related to the mobile application @Healthy Provision of the employees with possibility to visit free of charge the forums Longevity and the Freedom to Be Inclusion of the employees as @SopharmaTeam in various competitions: Competition in tennis Competition in cycling Creation and active participation in the programme of the Global Compact Network Bulgaria ”Healthy at Work“ with the pilot project “Games for Good”. The Project includes a competition of teams from the companies participants in football, tennis, cycling and volleyball. ✓ @SoSociety, SoSopharma Gratuitous kindergarten on the territory of Sopharma for children of the employees of the Company; Assistance for each first year pupil – a rucksack with all the needed aids A baby set for each new-born baby Creation and active participation in the programme of the Global Compact Network Bulgaria ”Proud of My Parents’ Work”, in which children of the employees visit the place of work of their parents and learn about the value of labor as a manner for creation of welfare Gratuitous library Maintenance of accessible and modern recreation bases of the employees in Vrabevo, Boboshevo, Pomorie and Ocharov Plazh (Shepherd’s Beach) 2017. Sopharma celebrated five years from the creation of the kindergarten in the Company for the employees in Sopharma AD! 4.3 Ecology Sopharma AD stands up for and observes its commitments in conformity with the national legislation in the sphere of the preservation of the environment. The Company applies measures for: Separate collection of the wastes, minimization, utilization and recycling of the production and domestic wastes Provision of appropriate training of the personnel on issues related to the preservation of the environment and the prevention of pollution. Satisfaction of the imperative requirements of Decree of the Council of Ministers 137 and of the Ordinance on Packages and Wastes of Packages The emissions of waste gases in the ambient air from the Phyto-Chemical Plant and the Plant for Solid Dosage Forms are annually measured. Monthly Sofiyska Voda (Sofia Water) measures the emissions in the waste waters on the production sites А and В. The production wastes are handed over to licensed companies for recycling. The conditions from the Permit for Bellmouthing are satisfied. Communication on Progress 2017 Once a month a report is made for the input and/or put onto the market packages in conformity with the kind of the material, which a monthly installment is paid for in Ecobulpack AD, which Sopharma AD has a contract concluded with, for utilization of the wastes from packages. The plants of Sopharma are certified under the GMP, which also controls the degree of pollution of the environment. The emissions of waste gases are less than 50 tons per year, which in conformity with the standards heads for 0. Organic substances for filming the tablets have not been used in the production in the plants of the Company for years now, which guarantees the zero contamination of the waste waters. In parallel with this the use of a water film is a prerequisite for the non-emission of gases into the atmosphere. 4.4. Responsible business and transparency Sopharma, in accordance with the United Nations Convention against Corruption, to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a party since 2006, opposes all forms of corrupt practices both in the company and in society. Intolerance and counteraction of any corrupt practices is the responsibility of every employee in the company system. The company has set rules, preventative control against the risk of abuse and corruption. Sopharma adopted a Code of Ethics in accordance with the National Corporate Governance Code and the respective legislation to ensure that the company’s employees, shareholders and partners do not engage in corruption while conducting business for the company. Ognian Donev, CEO of Sopharma is a member of The Bulgarian National Corporate Governance Committee, which monitors corporate governance in Bulgaria. The Company follows all the sources and rules for transparent corporate governance and shares its duties actively with stakeholders. Sopharma communicate actively through its corporate site www.sopharmagroup.com for the Sopharma pharmaceuticals group. For the first time Bulgarian public company includes interactive instruments for investors and stakeholders related to company shares and group structure. Communication on Progress 2017 Communication on Progress 2017 Sopharma AD with an Award from the Annual Awards of the Investor Relations Association The company received the award „Best Investor Relations Initiatives”. Pelagiya Viyacheva presented the Company and this award is recognition by the professional community of the work of Sopharma towards publicity and transparency of the corporate behavior of the company. Sopharma took part in 12th Annual Investments Summit Deals and Dealmakers Communication on Progress 2017 At the traditional Vienna Economic Forum Award Ceremony, Sopharma was awarded with the Cooperation Partner of the Year 2017 Award Digital Social Responcibility Sopharma communicates actively with her stakeholders through its new corporate site www.sopharmagroup.com for the Sopharma pharmaceuticals group. For the first time Bulgarian public company includes interactive instruments for investors and stakeholders related to company shares and group structure. The company communicates with all its stakeholders through new digital instruments and support digitization of healthcare system. Sopharma AD supports public communication development as a building block of every democracy. Sopharma AD goes beyond the borders of traditional pharmaceuticals investments and support healthy and long living forums and festivals. In digital era Sopharma AD provides all kinds of information, related to our products and different kind of health problems and health care through our digital channels. The company communicates through Sopharma AD’ youtube channel and company profiles in facebook and twitter. Everyone can find us not only through our corporate profile, but using our different profiles related to different themes #Zdravi, #Silenden, #Ilovemyheart. The company created two different apps #Exsmoker and #Zdravi. #Zdravi (means Haalthy) a social platform, that include a mobile application, blog and a facebook society, active not only in all social media but also offline. #Zdravi aims to created social commitment giving advices on physical and mental health and focus the attention on healthy living. Sopharma AD wants to show that “healthy” does not mean “boring” or “tough”. Mobile app #Zdravi won first “Digital Oscar” award for online project and the awards for online project and CSR for business sector of Bulgarian PR Society. Investments in new communication channels, development of mobile apps Sopharma AD Sopharma communicates not only through its corporate website but also through its profiles in facebook, twitter and instagram. The company also created its own blogs related to health and positive thinking: www. healthynewsmedia.bg, http://silen-den.blogspot.bg/. Sopharma AD supports for the 7th year “Just be” festival for healthy living and self development and first edition of The Long Living forum Communication on Progress 2017 Investments in public communication development Sopharma AD is a long-term partner of the Bulgarian Public Relation Society, Medimixx platform and Annual Meeting of Bulgarian Media Abroad. For the 6th year Sopharma AD supports Mediamixx a platform for media communication and development. As the one of the kind platform in Bulgaria and its role in the society the festival brought together representatives from major Bulgarian media. This year Mediamixx is going beyond the national themes and borders and includes participants from South Eastern Europe. 4.5. Society Today, the formula for success expressly includes the human, natural and intellectual capital. This is a revolution. We are looking for more fair, correct and comprehensive company impact on the market and society regarding their customers, employees, investors and local communities. ✓ Local communities Sopharma AD invests in its local manufacturinges sites to protect the economic livelihood of local communities. Traditionally the company was a supporter of different projects in Vrabevo such as trading center with a pharmacy store and a restaurant; St. Archangel Mihail church’s roof repairs. Sopharma AD invested in another 5 guest houses in Vrabevo as a base place for employees’ holidays and there will be 7 guest houses. Sopharma AD works with Veliko Tarnovo municipality starting with projects for donations of medicines for clubs for elderly and retired people, but the program was outspread to investments in rennovations of the clubs, donations for the community centers, free computers for the outstanding students of the Military University in Veliko Tarnovo, etc.. In 2017 Sopharma continue with donations of medicines and tools for health indicators measurement. Communication on Progress 2017 ✓ Citizens We change together the city we live in The “Zdravi” innovative eco-bicycle parking racks are placed near to the tennis courts in the Kniaz Boris Garden and infront of the National Library St. Cyril and St. Methodius.The ”Zdravi” bicycle parking rack is designed for 12 bicycles and is placed. Open air office A joint project with Foundation Credo Bonum, which turns an open-air area into a space for shared work. The office is at the disposal for everyone who wants to replace the usual office by urban nature. The open-air office offers all the conveniences there are at the workplace – high speed wireless Internet, electric power supply for the equipment, portable solar chargers for the mobile devices, recreation places. In parallel with this there is an organized programme with wоrking breakfasts and discussion on various topics, presentations of companies, NGOs and actors in the office. The Project is implemented for the second consecutive year. Communication on Progress 2017 Christmas in Sopharma For the second consecutive year the Company organizes a Christmas holiday for children which is accessible for everyone willing to bring his/her child/ren/. The holiday includes Jazz for Children with Ventsi Blagoev, who provides the children themselves with possibility to be participants in the performances and workshops “The Dwarfs of Father Christmas” for paintings and coloring figures. Reading fairy tales In 2017 Sopharma AD organized for the first time “Fairy Tales in Sopharma”, which met authors of children’s books and actors with the little readers and their parents. SBT were turned into a magical place for reading fairy tales along with the actors Ivaylo Zahariev, Yoanna Temelkova and Simona Halacheva and the author of children’s books Radostina Nikolova and the illustrator and author Maya Bocheva. The older children got involved in the writing of own books with Maya Bocheva from atelier “This and That” In a separate corner the guests and the participants will view hand-made souvenirs which they may buy and the funds raised will be donated for a charity cause. Communication on Progress 2017 Presentation of the book Healthy The children’s book “What Is There in My Lunch Box” published by Sopharma under the Project “Healthy” presents to the children in an understandable manner the products which are contained in the usual things from their daily menu and where the products themselves come from. The book was presented during the day announced as “With Children at Work” through interesting experiments and activities on the subject-matter healthy way of life prepared by Bio Igri (Bio Games). Sopharma donated 300 books for the Bulgarian National TV project “Window to the Homeland” Zdravi, Bio-Games and Muzeiko free project “Human body” for the children of the Sopharma employee ✓ Partnerships Global Compact Bulgarian Network As an active member of Global Compact Bulgarian Network we Sopharma AD participates in joint projects of the Network “‘I Am Proud of the Work of My Parents’, “The Road of the Food”, “Responsible choice” and “Healthy at Work” ‘I Am Proud of the Work of My Parents’ was held for the fourth consecutive year in Sopharma, and in 2017 the factory in Kazanlak was included. In 2017 21 companies participated in 19 cities across the country and 115 jobs have been shown from more than 15 sectors of the economy. The meaning Communication on Progress 2017 for businesses is to show to the children of their employees through specially designed programs and games that their work is important. The “Responsible Choice” Project aimed to show that the companies can, through transparency in responsible production and supply, demonstrate to the consumers that with their actions have the power to change the production practices, to influence the „fashion“ imposed by advertisers and to nurture anticonsumerist culture in themselves and young people. ”Healthy at Work“ Games for Good “Healthy at Work” is a programme for building up healthy habits and way of life of the employees of the companies through sharing good practices and information. The pilot project “Game for Good” includes a competition of teams from the companies participants in competitions in football, tennis, cycling and volleyball. Communication on Progress 2017 Bacause Sopharma AD joined the “Get Ready to Succeed”charity program of the Bacause for the third consecutive year. The program has been helping excellent parentless students from high schools and universities to continue their education. Тhe company chose to support two future medic and/pr pharmacies because pharmacy and medicine have always been inextricably related. “Doctor” and “Pharmacist” are among professions that could not develop without people’s trust, and together, they restore the most valuable asset in life – health.. Rinker Academy From 2016 Sopharma supports the training programme Rinker’s Challenge for starting up traditional and social entrepreneurs of Center Rinker to Foundation BCause. Its first edition was in 2014. Rinker’s Challenge offers a unique possibility to starting up entrepreneurs to pass through a structured system of trainings, to receive personal advice from leading professionals and entrepreneurs in all the spheres of the business and to obtain start-up financing of their business projects. ✓ Pharmaceutical industry Тhe European industry for generic and biosimilar medicines fulfils its mission by providing high quality medicines for patients in Europe, increasing their access to effective treatment and partnering for sustainable healthcare. The generic and biosimilar industry is developing a model for sustainable pharmaceutical innovations associated with the development and manufacture of value-added products that can improve health outcomes and efficiency in hospitals. Sopharma actively participates in the work of “Medicines for Europe” and in 2017 it got involved in various meetings and international conferences. A representative of Sopharma AD in the Executive Bureau of MEDICINES FOR EUROPE for the third consecutive mandate, which is a recognition for the vigorous activity of SOPHARMA as a full member of the Association and simultaneously one of the fastest developing regional leaders in Central and Eastern Europe. Communication on Progress 2017 Sopharma took part in discussions during Innovation and Good Practices in Healthcare sector #Healthy and #ExSmoker of Digital Transformation Pharmacy 3.0 forum Digital Transformation pharmacy forum of journal Enterprise gathered in 2017 in Sofia at the Balkan Hotel representatives of the pharmaceutical branch and the digital companies which together work for digitalization of the health care. We are witnesses of continuous innovations which are already structure determining for the development of each economic segment, according to the organizers. Pharmacy is one of the most innovative and advanced sectors, which resisted the world crisis and continues to develop. Its future depends not only on the new products and productions but also on the new technologies in the communications. IoT, big data, cloud technologies, shared economy and digitalization of our everyday life unavoidably change pharmacy as well. The building up of affordable and modern health care is possible solely with transformation of the pharmacy and of the system of health care in parallel with the digital development of our everyday life. Communication on Progress 2017 Optimum Health, Maximum Vitality Sopharma AD supports the idea that health is not a lifestyle issue, but the only up to date and conscious way of living. That’s why Sophrama AD invests in programs and activities, including digital, related to health. ✓ Social disease responsibility Affordable treatment for smoking cessation According to latest scientific researches from around the world Sopharma’ product Tabex® is best choice for smoking cessation treatment. 2018 Sopharma’s smoking cessation drug with positive preliminary clinical data in the US Sopharma’s (3JR BU) smoking cessation drug with positive preliminary clinical trial data in the US, the Company’s American partner Achieve Life Sciences (NASDAQ: ACHV) announced in a statement. Achieve acquired the rights to commercialize Sopharma’s Tabex in the US in 2015. In 2017 it initiated an Investigational New Drug application with the US Food and Drug Administration and commenced a cytisine clinical development program in preparation to initiate a Phase 3 trial in the US in 2018. Sopharma is to be exclusive supplier of cytisine API and finished product under an up to 20-year exclusivity supply agreement. Now Achieve announced positive preliminary data from the Cytisine Phase I/II Multi-Dose clinical study initiated in October 2017. Following the completion of the phase, the study evaluated the repeatdose PK and PD effects of 1.5mg and 3mg cytisine in 24 healthy volunteer smokers aged 1865 years when administered over the standard 25-day course of treatment. The PK results indicated expected increases in plasma concentration between the standard and higher doses of cytisine with no evidence of drug accumulation. Furthermore, Cytisine was well-tolerated and reported adverse events were mostly mild and short-lived. Dr. Cindy Jacobs, Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer at Achieve said that the abstinence rates observed with cytisine were particularly impressive given the short 25-day treatment period. He also added that subjects did not commit to quitting and received only minimal behavioral support. Dr. Jacobs said that setting an actual quit date and receiving enhanced behavioral support were key factors to improve smoking cessation outcomes. 2017 starts with good news concerning the registration and further development of Tabex® The buyer of the share of Sopharma AD in Extab – Achieve – is undertaking a merger with another strong player in the development and registration of innovative medicines – Oncogenex, a publicly traded company on NASDAQ (http://in.reuters.com/article/idINFWN1EV0QP). The procedure is expected to be completed by mid 2017 subject to approval from the US FSC. Sopharma AD will own approximately 3.5% in the newly created company, which will aim at filing the IND for Tabex in 2017. The new beginning At the end of 2014 New Zealand scientists found out that the medicinal product Tabex® is the most efficient device for smoking cessation. We make our best to spread the news and to ensure further work on the registration of our product Tabex on new markets, especially where this disease is wide spread, with good outlooks. Communication on Progress 2017 Ex-smoker® Tabex mobile application is on run Take extra care of your health – quit smoking assistance – learn, compete, quit quickly and win. ✓ Events Tennis Day with Sopharma The Bulgarian National Tennis Center and Sopharma AD organized jointly a Tennis Day with Sopharma sports festival for company employees and their families for another year. Sopharma AD also provided a free tennis camp for the children of its employees. With coaches and all-day special program, the children acquired new skills in a healthy environment, new friends and positive emotions. Sopharma supports Velorali DRAG Cherni Vrah MTB race More than 150 people took part in the 14th edition of on 21st October. The route covers 38 km from Sofia’s Boyana district up to Bulgaria’s 4th highest mountain peak Cherni Vrah at 2290 meters, and back down again to the starting point. Sopharma traditionally supports the Velorali. Communication on Progress 2017 Impacts from the company’s activity Economic impact Economic and financial data 2017 2016 % Stakeholders change Dividends 0,10 0.10 Shareholders Income taxes & other taxes/ 9 645 10 709 -9,94 State and local authorities Payments to suppliers 120 731 118 062 2.26 Suppliers Salary 40 678 36 273 12.14 Employees Equity investments: 139 153 42 733 225.63 Other companies and individuals Social impact Economic and financial 2017 /mln lv 2016/ /mln lv % Stakeholders data Plants 10/ 1 953 8 / 2076 Employees Trainings 218 197 10.6 Employees Social expenditures 3390 2 459 27 Employees Medicinal expenditures 792 802 -1.25 Employees Donations 372 340 8 Local societies Investments, related to 7 8 -14 All stakeholders generics Investments related to 71 40 43 All stakeholders improvement of the business climate Investments to healthy 67 50 25 Общество/ lifestyle programs Society Communication on Progress 2017 Investments in public 50 68 -36 Society communications Ecologic impact Data 2017 2016 Materials expenditures 17386 14785 15 Separate waste collection -2% Air emission 0* 0 Employees trainings and inclusion Joining to the Joining to the in environmental protection Company Company activities 2 projects 1 project Employees Employees 2017 % 2016 % Women 1291 62 1138 62 Men 778 38 696 38 Employees % Women Man Age 2017 2016 2017 2016 % 2017 2016 % 30г. 210 189 11,11 181 110 64,54 29 79 -63.3 3140 435 390 11,54 280 247 13,36 155 110 40.9 41 – 50. 662 617 7,29 452 416 08,65 210 201 4.48 51 – 60г. 628 530 18,49 383 328 16,77 245 202 21.3 Over 60г. 134 108 24,07 45 37 21,62 89 71 25.4 Employees % education 2017 2016 2017 Higher 893 799 11.76 education Colleges 46 41 12.2 Secondary 1099 965 13.9 school Еlementary 31 29 6.9 education employees Women Man hierarchy 2017 2016 % 2017 2016 % Top management 4 1 1 3 3 Senior Management 39 17 12 41,66 22 21 4.76 Management 148 81 66 22,73 67 60 11.66 Experts 787 511 449 13,80 276 250 10.4 Nonexperts 1095 682 611 11,62 413 365 13.15 Communication on Progress 2017 Sopharma monitors the following risks, identified as significant and potentially affecting its activities: • Risks related to the macroeconomic situation in the country and other markets • Risks related to the markets in which the Sopharma operates • Risks related to foreign exchange rates and the currency board in force in Bulgaria; • Currency risk They are presented in detail in a report on the activity of Sopharma for 2017 Risk Low Medium High Socio political Loss of confidence in The reputation of media (consumers also Sopharma AD may be stop believing the ads affected by misleading or included or additional incorrect information in info); media; Reducing the Changes in legislation and macroeconomic regulations may lead to a stability: Group's expenses The unstable political increasing situation in Bulgaria and countries in which Loss of confidence in the Sopharma operates may expertise of doctors or affect the company's pharmacists activities; Restrictions on household Decline in foreign consumption, including for investment medicines Household indebtedness Employees Fluctuation due to the Shortage of skilled highly competitive market workers with experience Pressure to raise salaries and social benefits Ecological Еnvironmental risks are minimized as a result of GMP and other standarts Potential risk as a result of natural cataclysm Anticorruption Standart оператинг An attempt for involving to procedures for decion non-transparent practices making on the part of monitoring institutions Unethical competition Communication on Progress 2017 What’s next? “With the completion of 2017, the most successful year after the crisis, we welcome the 85th anniversary of Sopharma AD. This is a reason to strive to become even better in the care for people's health, to affirm the tradition in the production of quality Bulgarian medicines following international recognized standards and technologies and continue to develop as a Group of companies in the healthcare sector.” Ognian Donev, PhD, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Executive Director of Sopharma AD
