$$ sS NsxvcsNsxsesst {l }, . .'X' {N..{i} { .s.$} 2018 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER I am satisfied to afhrm thatljazi Investment Companyreaffirms its help of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the territories of Human Rights, Labor, Condition and Anti-Comrption. We are still attentive the details of the Global Compact principles, and strive as much as possible to depict our activities to incorporate the Global Compact and its standards into our business procedure, culture and everyday tasks. We are likewise dedicated to impart this data to our partners utllizing our essential channels of correspondence. We have made many achievements in working on prefabricated houses and renewable energy projects after taking positive feedback from the clients. Our expectation was an as yet concentrating on the ecological issues worry on maintainability and endeavors to make most ideal conditions for our employees. { Ensuring that all representatives are inform and updated to any new advance that will be added to our technique of working which will lead us to accomplish our objectives with various specialized. Mulling over the significance of building up our employee, since they are main part to reach our objectives. Ahmad Hijazi Chief Executive Officer $jan$ # !.nv*:t;tN esx9 {l* *cglv $,Y {9.x.{ l} { .f $} 2018 L Human Rieht principles Ijazi Investment company approves and respects the universal declaration of human rights. In view of our dedication we have set up an implicit rule, distributed'on our site, to make our position clear for every one of our providers, workers and accomplices. Besides we need to build up some center qualities that underline the organization's dedication to the human right standards, since we are working globally the conditions we merit. Taking into consideration our employees are treated equally and having all their rights, as we said previously in our last COP report. Our aim is to share experience between each other and'encouragei-eam work and how to manage it regarding any type of inequality between the employees. Measurement of outcomes In each progression we are concentrating on our representatives and how to take a shot at creating them, so as to accomplish a decent nature of work. We attempt as much as we can to monitor the welfare of our representatives and customers. Our organization tries to present another plans and criteria of overseeing and how to manage any new arrangement. Any repudiation of human rights will be reported and the dependable accomplice will be set on post trial supervision and given a time period to address and resolve the issue. Proceeded with rebelliousness will bring about the accomplice relationship being ended. Senior administration will review providers every year with no notice to guarantee that they are working inside the characterized rules of human rights. Labor Princinles Our organization handbook and arrangements express the privilege for aggregate haggling. Our handbook covers approaches concerning our representative rights and pay and duties. We evaluate work related dangers. We have a devoted asset that monitor and orders natural and dangers. We will keep on.refining our worker handbook as required and join the Global Compact. Our Employee has all freedom to organize themselves the way they want. We respect ILO Core conventions and any local and international standard on this issue. Measurement of outcomes As we can see that our employees are comfortable with all the strategies that our organization is working on, since we are achieving each year a positive steps in our domain. And as it's shown that our team work leads to present our organizatisn in the way that matches the Global Compact. On the other hand illness has been minimized and our employees are quarantined help in case they need it no matter what situation it is required. '$\41 $ :s* X*v*s{sraq:sa$ f,lq} p*axep' $.-$' g { i} , ,'. j { x { .r tr 2018 I Environmental Pri+ciples One of the most important benefits in our business is supporting the precautionary approach of environmental challenges. Prefab houses or Modular houses are built mostly in a factory then shipped to the site for final assembly. This form of construction or assembly has provided the prefab house with many benefits such as minimized waste, reduced construction timelines, limited exposure to the elements, fixed cost, less use of skilled laborers and limited site impact. Environmental concerns and focusing are still among our highest propertibs. Measurement of outcomes The amount it takes to complete a prefab house is considerably less than a customary house as it is conceivable to go from an unfilled land to a completely practical house in a time of three months. Nothing goes to squander and since every single prefab house are developed in a plant; materials are being utilized ceaselessly which brings about a general waste preoccupation up to 85 percent. The development inside the production line has furnished these houses with another advantage which is Limited presentation of materials to climate and contaminants. Working in a controlled, indoor condition means less danger of climate harm, shape and different poisons, making for a sturdier, more beneficial home. Fiber cement which is used in the construction of prefabricated houses is an (environment friendly). This matbrial is less toxic than other materials; also this material is less combustible, than other materials. Moreover we introduce our Solar Power Generator (SPG), which eliminates the use of fuel which may be toxic to both human and environment. So our main aim was and still to make integration with the environment and surrounding in the type of the material used the way of construction and our designs. Anti-Corruption Principles We prohibit comrption in any form, including giving, accepting or authorizing bribes. We do not offer bribes to government officials or tolerate commercial bribery. We expect all of our business partners, such as our distributors, customs brokers and other suppliers, to maintain the same standards as we do when acting on our behalf. These expectations are detailed in our Anticomrption and Human Rights Expectations for Business Partners. We fully support the UN Convention against Comrptions. Measurement of outcomes In the long turn we have never been involved directly or indirectly in matters of comrption and all other issues neither in Lebanon nor in other location. We act in accordance with applicable legislation and rules where we operate and do business with partners who have the sane policy regarding anti-comrption. The company will continue to provide education for all level of employees up to management about comrption, as well as what to do if one shoufd encounter lt. 4,4Sa
