TO: COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT FEBRUARY 2018 GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS UNLOCKING HUMAN POTENTIAL ENABLING SUCCESS FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / FEB 2018 CONFIDENTIAL LETTER FROM THE CEO: MESSAGE TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS / FEBRUARY 2018 FSI has continued to grow its ethical recruitment initiatives and engage in new parallel projects to drive positive change for migrant and domestic workers. FSI has advanced the development of ethical recruitment corridors of disadvantaged female workers from across Nepal into the garment sector in Jordan as part of the ‘Work in Freedom’ initiative funded by DFID. Working closely with ‘Better Work Jordan’ and the International Labour Organization, FSI has engaged directly with factories in Jordan to improve conditions for workers and shape the environment for further improvements and a scaling up of opportunities. FSI continues to progress an industry leading construction project in Qatar with Daruna which, will see FSI deploying up to 2000 ethically recruited workers. There is potential for this project to grow significantly over the next 12 months as FSI becomes increasingly recognised as a leader in ethical recruitment thus becoming a key advisor in this arena and across the Gulf. FSI has engaged directly with the US department of defence to assist them in generating solicitation language to better ensure compliance to combatting trafficking in persons (CTIPs). FSI has run training for the contracting officers of the US DoD in Rock Island Arsenal who are responsible for soliciting and awarding several billion dollars in contracts potentially employing many thousands of migrant workers across the globe. FSI has been voted to the board of the International Stability Operations Association and recognised in the 2017 June awards dinner for our work in combatting labour trafficking receiving the Vanguard award for our business category. We have continued the highly successful anti-trafficking work with the US Department of State and FSI’s ethical recruitment support to US Department of State (US DOS) contractors. Furthermore I am pleased to confirm that the FSI Worldwide Group reaffirms its continued support of the Ten Principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to continue to make the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy and ethos of our company. A key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the submission of a Communication on Progress that sets out FSI’s efforts to implement the Ten Principles. FSI commits to do this annually and thereby record our involvement and improvements in attaining and maintaining the Ten Principles transparently. FSI is also committed in sharing this information with its stakeholders using its primary channels of communications. Yours sincerely Tristan Forster Founder and CEO FSI Worldwide Group FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 2 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / FEB 2018 CONFIDENTIAL LETTER FROM THE CEO: INTRODUCTION FSI Worldwide (FSI) is a Global Workforce Solutions Company with the unique ability to achieve large-scale efficient and ethical recruitment and management of migrant workers from the developing world for employment across multiple sectors and geographies in the newly industrialised and developed world. Founded on the conviction that the adoption of ethical recruitment practice is an imperative, both from a human rights perspective and a business one, FSI has developed an unparalleled reputation for the successful provision of the highest quality ‘FairLabour’ workforce solutions. FSI has an in depth understanding of the challenges faced by workers, recruitment companies and employers in delivering ethical recruitment, which it has used to develop its own unique ethical recruitment model. FSI’s FairLabour model brings together a complex set of processes and infrastructure in both source countries and destination countries that enable FSI to recruit, train, mobilise, and manage workers to a very high ethical and quality standard. FSI wholly owns and controls its recruitment structures in source countries, cutting out the risk of external agents corrupting the recruitment process and regularly interfaces with numerous government departments in several countries as well as advising its continues » FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 3 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / FEB 2018 CONFIDENTIAL clients on the challenges and opportunities presented by migrant labour workforces. This ensures that all personnel are protected from paying any fees and from exploitation frequently associated with the international recruitment sector. The FairLabour model was founded with the aim of bringing international best practice to the recruitment and management of migrant workers from the developing world and is in stark contrast to the widespread practice of debt bondage, which blights the lives of migrant workers the world over and which the International Labour Organisation (ILO) has called modern day slavery. The ILO estimates that there are 21 million people globally in forced labour, however it is recognised that many more than this suffer from debt bondage and the associated exploitation. The company’s ethos is centred on the principle that investing in people through ethical recruitment processes of the highest standards promotes vital human rights, which in turn, enhances productivity for businesses and naturally aligns its practice with the Global Compact principles. FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 4 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / FEB 2018 CONFIDENTIAL INTRODUCTION Illustration demonstrating FSI’s unique and wholly owned ethical staffing system: SELECTION DEMOBILISATION VETTING FSI’s unique and wholly owned ethical staffing system SCREENING MANAGEMENT guarantees full control of the entire recruitment process from recruitment through to demobilisation. MOBILISATION MEDICAL & TRAVEL TRAINING FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 5 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / FEB 2018 CONFIDENTIAL CONTENTS: HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENTAL ANTI-CORRUPTION FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 6 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / FEB 2018 CONFIDENTIAL HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS FSI is wholly committed to respect and promote the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. FSI was established in 2006 on the ethos of fair and ethical recruitment for everyone. It has invested millions of dollars in establishing an ethical business model to bring protection to workers, and quality and increased productivity to employers of migrant labour, which is a viable alternative solution to current systemic debt bondage labour recruitment practices. FSI’s guiding principles and Code of FSI’s FairLabour model is expanding Conduct are based on: its reach rapidly, which requires the organisation to be proactive in reviewing • The UN’s Guiding Principles and developing its organisational policies • ILO Operational Principles to ensure it is not complicit in human rights Posters from the series that form part of FSI's Code of and Guidelines abuses. Expansion of an ethical business into Conduct and Guiding Principles. • ILO Convention 181 new sectors and geographies requires the • Dhaka Principles ability to look honestly at internal structures • Palermo Protocol and business practice, and challenge and • The Verité Framework develop them where necessary. for Ethical Recruitment There is a hugely divisive, global problem that sees hundreds of millions of lowThese principles are at the core of income workers being exploited in their FSI's business model and therefore desperation to find employment. This is enshrined systematically throughout the known as ‘debt bondage’ and in addition organisation’s operations, procedures, to ruining the workers’ lives it also results process and practice, taking responsibility in employers suffering low productivity to ensure the rights of those recruited from an unqualified and demoralised by FSI are respected, as well as those workforce. FSI’s FairLabour workforce of its employees. Additionally, all those solution is working to eradicate this engaged with FSI, such as business exploitation, across the GCC and globally. partners or suppliers are briefed in-depth The aim of this is twofold; to improve the on FSI’s Code of Conduct and ethics and lives of these workers and their families, required to sign-up to operating within whilst also helping employing businesses these boundaries prior to engagement. improve their productivity and bottom line. FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 7 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / FEB 2018 CONFIDENTIAL Images: IMPLEMENTATION be dealt with. All FSI staff sign a nonTop: Candidates during a pre-deplyment briefing. Checking through official documentation, papers and extraction form at the start of their contracts. FSI’s FairLabour model is a vertically employment. A non-extraction form Right: Recruitment activity at the villiage level in Nepal. integrated model of recruitment, meaning is a statement that the FSI employee Bottom: Potential candidates going through a typical it self performs the whole process of understands that no payment is to be screening and testing process in one of FSI's Nepal recruitment under its own license and taken from candidates and clearly states recruiting offices. infrastructure. This ownership of the that the employee will be terminated process from recruitment in villages in the if this happens, which has proven to origin country to the final work placement be very effective. Each department is in the destination country allows FSI to individually and collectively responsible operate a robust mechanism of internal for the day-to-day implementation and compliance ensuring migrant workers are compliance of FSI’s FairLabour model protected from exploitation and widespread with any deviation taken very seriously. corruption from third party agents. All other personnel recruited through FSI’s Code of Conduct and Guiding FSI receive comprehensive orientation Principles at the core of its business training prior to deployment, including are published on its website and posted an overview of FSI, its founding principles publicly in all of its offices. All internal and all the relevant policies of both FSI policy is developed in line with these core and that of any third party employer, documents and enhanced regularly to where this is different. This training ensure the highest of working standards. covers job site country briefs, working All FSI personnel and new recruits, hours, and grievance mechanisms, such whether for internal employment or on as Safecall. This is a toll free number, external contracts receive training on run by and independent organisation to FSI’s Code of Conduct and its guiding safeguard workers’ rights, which anyone principles, ensuring that adoption of these can call anonymously to log any breach policies are incorporated throughout FSI’s of FSI’s ethical standards. All candidates operations at all levels. are briefed on this hotline facility in their induction training and recruitment All new employees are given a and HR offices are required to display comprehensive introduction to these the Safecall posters, so workers can principles when they join and all staff readily access this information. FSI’s attend training annually to refresh their model is unique in that it provides knowledge of these key principles, management and welfare support to all or more frequently when necessary. personnel it recruits, including support Employees are also given a staff to families back in the source countries handbook outlining how grievances where required or management of any and perceived unfair treatment should compassionate leave. FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 8 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / FEB 2018 CONFIDENTIAL Additionally, FSI operates a multiStandards based on FSI’s Code of THE FSI MODEL faceted approach to engagement, Code are an imperative and FSI training not only its own staff but those safeguards this through its process, of partner organisations too. As well from initial due diligence on partners as consistently encouraging senior and clients to signing agreements and executives of client businesses and implementation of projects and ongoing organisations to visit their projects monitoring, This includes asymmetric and their recruitment operations in auditing, which is specifically designed origin countries. The aim of these to expose a real picture of the activities visits is to give key stakeholders a deep being undertaken in the recruitment, understanding of FSI’s FairLabour mobilisation and management process. methodology. FSI was established By its very nature the asymmetric audit with the vision of ensuring migration is dynamic and not prescriptive so and employment with dignity, through that it cannot be planned for by target offering employment opportunities organisations and individuals. to migrant workers via a responsible workforce solution business model, Over the last year FSI has been which is centred on the protection of developing a FairLabour tech platform, personnel (migrant workers). As a which will be piloted in 2018. This result, FSI will only work with clients tech platform will provide a direct, and partners that respect and embrace ethically and legally moderated, link these guiding principles. between employers and employees. This system will overreach the agents FSI does thorough due diligence and fixers whose malign influence is on all its clients before it engages responsible for a significant portion of contractually, which includes an the exploitation of vulnerable workers. initial assessment of work and living FSI sees a number of ways in which conditions to ensure that high standards the system can help all stakeholders, of welfare are met, especially in including in the development of terms of health and safety. Workers education and training for employees are thus ensured the expected salary and in the provision of efficient, but in their contract, working hours ethically sound, recruitment and and leave schedules promised, that management methods for employers. accommodation meets an acceptable However, FSI also recognises that standard and that they have access technology alone will not solve to fair grievance mechanisms. the problems associated with debt Additionally, FSI management visits bondage. This will require a change in each job site regularly, on a 3 to 6 culture and that requires leadership month basis to make sure standards are at all levels. FSI believes that it is maintained and to provide workers with well placed to provide some of that an additional forum to which they can leadership in the political, legal raise any issues and concerns. and commercial space and will be developing its offering. Each project has a robust system of evaluating performance, including external audits. View the interactive version of this model: www.fsi-worldwide.com/about-us/approach FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 9 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / FEB 2018 CONFIDENTIAL MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES member’s labour suppliers, by Verité. . Additionally Amnesty International has FSI has only ever received one staff also been invited to critique FSI’s ethical complaint in relation to a violation processes and standards. of their human rights and this was addressed promptly and seriously with The U.S. Department of State conducts a positive outcome. This was in FSI’s detailed audits of FSI’s operations on early days, before it had established a behalf of prime contractors and has formalised annual training mechanism always found that its standards exceed for staff or before it had introduced their recommendations. a staff handbook, both of these were initiated as a result of lessons learnt FSI has been making a concerted effort from this experience. to grow its influence by expanding its reach and scaling its business into new When Safecall was first introduced in geographies and sectors. This effort 2016, FSI recieved a complaint, but to scale requires front of the curve this was dropped by the complainant investment. Being an implementing after further investigation by a third partner on the ILO Fair Project, part party found the root of the complaint of the ‘Work in Freedom‘, where FSI is was unfounded, not related to any working to create a safe pipeline for wrongdoing, but rather an applicant female migrant workers from Nepal Posters from the series that form part of FSI's Code of being disgruntled at not having been into the apparel sector in Jordan is Conduct and Guiding Principles. selected for employment. a prime example of how FSI puts expanding the practice of FairLabour FSI does work with external suppliers at the forefront of its business agenda. on the provision of air transportation, Compliance of ILO’s Labour Standards, insurance and accommodation, throughout the process, including but these suppliers don’t directly in all contracts is obligatory for all interface with recruits, who are always partnering organisations. chaperoned to their destinations. The ‘Work in Freedom project has Despite this, FSI recently conducted its own thorough monitoring and an audit of its key service providers evaluation mechanisms, which are (medical service providers, tailoring overseen by the ILO. services, hotels and travel agencies) in order to guarantee that there is no form Leading by example, FSI regularly of exploitation within their institutions. consults on how and why ethical Following the audit, the service providers recruitment practices should be are now bound by a tighter formal adopted globally to transform the contract, which incorporates FSI’s ethical paradigm of modern slavery. FSI recruitment principles and includes a works collaboratively with a range of clause of contract withdrawal in the stakeholders, such as the International event the service provider is seen to Labour Organisation (ILO), Humanity breach FSI’s standards. Any contravention United, Verité, Open Society Foundations of human rights will be documented and government to share knowledge, and FSI will work with the responsible best practice and expertise. company establish and then implement, a corrective action plan (CAP), where necessary and appropriate. FSI’s policy of the violation of the Code of Conduct is to take robust action unequivocally at any and all levels of staff, resulting in no dismissals to report this year. FSI operates entirely transparently and opens itself up for external evaluation and scrutiny to identify any gaps in its training, processes and practice. In February 2017 Verité conducted an audit on FSI’s operations in Nepal. This audit being the first carried out on any Responsible Business Alliance (formerly the EICC) FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 10 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / FEB 2018 CONFIDENTIAL LABOUR PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS FSI’s FairLabour model was developed to safeguard workers’ rights, ensuring they are selected on merit only, without the charging of any fees, or through bias or nepotism. All recruits apply through the same open recruitment process and are screened, tested on ability and participate in compulsory statutory medical tests. The clinics carrying out the tests in the Acquisition Regulation of 2015, the source countries are vetted and tested Protections Against Trafficking in for discrepancies by having the medical Persons in Federal Contracts Executive tests repeated in the destination Order. Implements title XVII of the countries. The medical testing centres National Defense Authorization Act are aware of this dual testing process (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2013, Ending and agree to financial responsibility for Trafficking in Government Contracting the costs of participants who fail the Act of 2012. It is also compliant with tests in destination countries, which is UK legislation: the Modern Slavery Act a costly deterrent against malpractice. 2015 and the Bribery Act of 2012. Whilst Any evidence of misconduct would be also actively improving and auditing taken extremely seriously and result its recruitment processes and human in action against the medical centre/ resources mechanisms. clinic in the source country. All recruits are treated fairly and are managed to FSI exists in a context that is widely the highest standard throughout their recognised to be at high risk of period of employment. slavery and debt bondage. As it is one of the only ethical recruiters in this FSI operates under the highest market, it leverages its services to standards and adheres to the ILO’s work against these risks and to offer Operational Principles and Guidelines business an alternative route to what and to Convention 181, meeting the could otherwise be argued as ‘the only best practice standards stipulated choice’. It works with its stakeholders by the Athens Ethical Principles, the to identify, map and quantify their risk, Dhaka Principles, Palermo and Luxor often in complex supply chains and protocols, and UN Guiding Principles on then offers them solutions to mitigate Business and Human Rights. It operates and eradicate future risk. It is one of a no fee policy, without exception; even the few organisations that have the inin countries such as Nepal that still depth knowledge of how to assess and legally allow a basic minimum fee to be plan against risk at both a theoretical charged for recruitment services. knowledge level and one that is founded on a history of practical ground FSI adheres with the U.S. Trafficking experience, over diverse contexts and a in Persons regulations, the Federal growing range of sectors. FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 11 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / FEB 2018 CONFIDENTIAL IMPLEMENTATION FSI’s staff handbook has been translated FSI’s Code of Conduct contains the following provisions, specifically in into all the native languages of all relation to forced labour: its staff, ensuring complete access and understanding. The FSI staff • We do not charge any fees or costs of • We ensure employment contracts handbook covers policies concerning, recruitment to the candidate in whole are understood and translated into equal opportunities, anti-harassment or in part, including costs associated native languages where required. and bullying, whistleblowing, health with travel and visa processing. FSI ensure that employees receive and safety, stress at work and social • We ensure that workers are not copies of their employment contracts responsibilities and clearly sets out who subject to any form of forced labour prior to deployment. Contract should be contacted in the event that and have the freedom to terminate substitution (the replacement of an employee has a grievance. Briefings their contracts. an original contract or any of its and trainings are also carried out in a • We do not withhold identity provisions with those that are less language that ensures comprehensive documents such as passports. favourable) is strictly prohibited. understanding of these policies and FSI’s Where it is necessary to take • We ensure all employees receive Code of Conduct and Guiding Principles. documents from workers (for visa pre-deployment orientation covering processing or similar), or if the topics such as the terms and worker requests we hold them for conditions of work, their rights and safe keeping, a signed receipt is given responsibilities, living conditions to the worker and they may request and grievance mechanisms. the document back at any time as • We ensure that workers are paid in well as a photocopy of the document. full on time every month and that • We ensure workers’ freedom of clear and transparent information movement is not unreasonably is provided to workers regarding restricted. days worked, rates of pay, etc. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES industry and at the White House Forum to Combat Human Trafficking. FSI has its own chairty, ‘Freedom FSI’s actions to date have resulted in Matters’, which supports education protecting approximately 10,000 migrant projects in Nepal and provides much workers from debt bondage. Its commitment Also, FSI engages with a number of needed help to destitute and injured to ethical practices is demonstrated through associations, such as: former Gurkha soldiers recruits and the obvious social impact of its FairLabour their families and which helps child model with workers receiving their full victims of human trafficking. FSI is • The Aim-Progress forum which is salaries and protection from the wider forms also in partnership with the Circus a global initiative made up of “Fast of labour exploitation. Kathmandu Foundation (CKF), which Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) it supported to launch a film (Even manufacturers and common FSI received a honourable mention at When I Fall) about children trafficked suppliers, assembled to enable Thomson Reuters, Stop Slavery Awards into circuses. FSI and CKF are starting and promote responsible sourcing in London in November 2017 to follow on a series of outreach education practices and sustainable supply from having won the UN Global Compact workshops on the human trafficking, chains”, sponsored by AIM in business leaders award in 2013, presented debt bondage and fair recruitment in Europe and GMA in North America. to Founder and CEO Tristan Forster at the March/April 2018. FSI’s Senior VP America, presented World Economic Forum in Davos. FSI had at AIMS main annual meeting and been a runner up for the award in 2010 and a FSI’s Managing Director AMEA, nominee in 2011. ran a suppliers training for them in Dubai at the beginning of 2017. Despite being a small organisation, FSI • Nick Forster, co-founder and SVP allocates significant resources and capacity of FSI is a Board member of ISOA to engage with a broad range of stakeholders and regularly engages on panels across multiple industries to influence their at their annual gatherings. commitments to adopt fair labour practices. • FSI is working with the This includes regularly speaking at public Responsible Business Alliance events, such as speaking at the Houses (RBA) in collaboration with The of Parliament in 2016 on the problem of Fair Hiring Initiative (TFHI) and modern day slavery in the construction Verité. FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 12 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / FEB 2018 CONFIDENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS FSI supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, the undertaking of initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and the development of environmentally friendly technologies. Environmental Principles are not at the FSI’s staff handbook highlights forefront of FSI’s operational policies, the process in which to alert the due to its core business not having a organisation of anyone, including an direct impact on the environment. Any employee suspected of undertaking any impact FSI has on the environment is activity that may cause serious harm to largely secondary, through the work the environment. of its clients. FSI consciously looks to work with companies that operate MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES responsibly. FSI also uses suppliers that are environmentally conscious, To date, FSI has a clean record in terms when purchasing products and of issues involving its staff on or around services to ensure minimum harm issues concerning the environment. to the environment. FSI continues to reduce its general IMPLEMENTATION waste, such as paper and plastic recycling in its offices by embedding FSI is committed to continuously an environmentally conscientious and develop its working practice to achieve responsible culture throughout the a diminished negative impact on the organisation. environment. Its office operates an environmentally conscious culture, conserving water, recycling waste and using energy more efficiently. FSI’s Code of Conduct includes a section on the protection of the environment ensuring environmental principles are taken seriously and given relevant importance. FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 13 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / FEB 2018 CONFIDENTIAL ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS As an organisation working at the forefront of recruiting migrant workers, FSI operates a transparent zero tolerance policy to bribery and corruption. Also more broadly it is committed to continue to challenge endemic corruption, bribery and exploitation in labour supply chains. Its vertically integrated FairLabour and partners are aware that they are Model was designed and developed in a high corruption risk environment to significantly diminish the risk of and that close monitoring reduces corruption and allow for prompt decisive opportunities to stray. disciplinary action in the rare instances it may occur. Policies, drawn from the All audits and inspections are tailored UN Convention against Corruption, the to fit each specific environment and UK Anti-bribery laws, the OECD anticontext. FSI operates within all national bribery convention, the U.S. Foreign and international regulations unlike Corrupt Practices Act and any other many recruitment companies in source similar laws relating to corruption countries and who will pay bribes in source and destination countries to speed processes or circumvent are integral to safeguarding FSI from regulations entirely. corruption and bribery. FSI operates a robust accounting FSI actively abides by all the source mechanism, where the Finance country legislation (employment law) Department cross-checks all records. and regulations, such as minimum The Board, CEO and divisional heads salary standards. It also insists that have full visibility of the accounts, which all stakeholders observe the laws and are audited annual by external auditors. regulations of origin and destination countries. FSI applies the Dhaka MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Principles and if a client cannot comply with them, FSI will not engage further. FSI is regularly audited to ensure no corruption or bribery at any level IMPLEMENTATION through its model. In its history its practices have not been called into FSI’s staff handbook clearly question by any of its clients or other communicates FSI’s zero tolerance stakeholders in relation to bribery or policy to corruption and bribery and corruption. Additionally, FSI has not outlines how any such issues should been involved in any legal cases, rulings be raised. Any sort of misconduct by an or other events related to corruption. employee will result in their dismissal and will be dealt with without delay. FSI also maintains communications with the workers it deploys to get feedback on how their employment is going and how their recruitment and mobilisation was delivered. FSI reserves the right to suspend and/or terminate contracts with business partners who fail to comply with its guiding principles. It uses asymmetric auditing internally and on the operations of its business partners’ to ensure stringent compliance. This auditing ensures that FSI employees FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 14 CONTACT US FSI Worldwide Limited Dubai office: PO Box 213541, Dubai, UAE. T: +971 (0)4 454 1328 (Dubai) E: info@fsi-worldwide.com GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE
