2017 UPDATE Sustainability Report serving the people who serve the world ® Sustainability is a movement at the United Nations Federal Credit Union (UNFCU). As part of our service to members, our Global Sustainability Program volunteers work every day to make a positive impact on the environment and our community. UNFCU is a member of the UN Global Compact. UNFCU Sustainability by the Numbers 100% Carbon neutral 78% of office space 23% Reduction in (since 2016) is LEED Certified paper use (by square footage) (since 2015) 5.9% Reduction in 4 Diversity & Inclusion 50 Employee-volunteers energy use initiatives led by the in the Global (since 2015) new UNFCU Diversity Sustainability & Inclusion Council Program Join the movement We share our sustainability journey to encourage our members, our partners, and other credit unions to address climate change and related global sustainability challenges along with us. Building Momentum Toward Sustainability Our comprehensive 2016 Sustainability Report shared a detailed look at UNFCU’s corporate social responsibility commitments and how we measure progress toward our goals. We publish a comprehensive biennial report every two years. In interim reporting years including this year we share updates on our progress. These include how we are progressing against our established targets for: Carbon Energy Paper use neutrality efficiency reduction Business Sustainable travel purchasing Our Mission is Clear UNFCU strives to increase our positive impact on environmental preservation and resource conservation, as part of our goal to conduct business as a good corporate citizen of the world. We continue to manage our carbon footprint while increasing the number of UNFCU members worldwide. Our Global Sustainability Program (GSP) has grown exponentially. 116,716 126,459 2015 2017 8.3% members Members (since 2015) 50 35% 9.25% increase in of UNFCU staff volunteer employee-volunteers in the volunteer staff with the GSP Global Sustainability Program (since 2015) Progress Toward Our 2020 Sustainability Goals Be transparent and inspire others. Goal: Produce annual sustainability report starting in 2017. Goal Achieved Act as a good corporate citizen of the world. Goal: Incorporate sustainability in strategic planning process and core values. Goal Achieved We are carbon neutral. Goal: Achieve and sustain carbon neutrality in 2016 and beyond. Only two US credit unions with assets greater than $4 billion have achieved this status and UNFCU is one of them. 100% The EPA’s Green Power Partnership program has recognized UNFCU since 2017 for our commitment to supporting clean, renewable energy. GHG emissions offset in 2016 and 2017 Goal Achieved Reduce energy use. Goal: Reduce energy use by 7% in operationally controlled buildings.* UNFCU service to our members is increasingly energy efficient. Even while the number of members we serve grows, our electricity usage is steadily decreasing. 3,381,086 2015 3,181,285 5.9% 13.2% 2017 reduction in reduction in electricity electricity usage usage/member (since 2015) (since 2015) *measurement in kwh How did UNFCU reduce energy use? Improvements in lighting and data center efficiency substantially reduced electricity usage in our two largest facilities. New, higher efficiency cooling equipment will be installed in 2018 to reduce energy use in a third facility. Goal in Progress Reduce paper use. Goal: Reduce paper use by 25%. Ensure 70% of paper is certified sustainable. 80,320 lbs 61,438 lbs 23% 29% 65% vs reduction in reduction in paper of the paper used Total paper usage Total paper usage paper use usage/member is from certified across UNFCU in 2015 across UNFCU in 2017 (since 2015) (since 2015) sustainable sources. Goal in Progress Demonstrate sustainable business practices. As a credit union, we know that it matters where we put our money. That is why, in 2017, our executive team approved a sustainable procurement policy that approaches major vendor contracts and purchases with a sustainability lens. A vendor questionnaire asks about climate impact, energy and paper use, diversity and inclusion, and sustainable business certifications. Our new purchasing policy coupled with the sustainable travel guidelines implemented in 2016, advanced our sustainable efforts. UNFCU continues to explore new product offerings that create an even greater positive impact, for sustainable purchases and energy efficient home upgrades. We look forward to sharing more as the program unfolds. Goal: 1 Goal: 2 Goal: 3 Implement sustainable Develop and launch Develop sustainable travel guidelines. green products. purchasing policy. Goal Achieved Goal in Progress Goal Achieved Air Quality Nearly one third of air pollution in the New York metropolitan region, where UNFCU headquarters is located, is caused by vehicle pollution. In 2017, UNFCU was honored as a Clean Air NY Champion for encouraging employees to carpool, take transit, bike or walk to work. Embracing Diversity A thriving and equitable community is a cornerstone The plan recognizes where UNFCU is having a of corporate social responsibility. Building on a core positive impact toward an inclusive workplace, and value in embracing diversity, UNFCU launched an lays out action steps where there is opportunity internal Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Council in 2017. for improvement. For example, all employees now participate in a mandatory eLearning course on D&I. The Council created a two-year D&I Strategic Plan based on insights from employee discussions, focus Diversity and inclusion focus areas include: Women, groups, and an organization-wide D&I assessment. LGBTQ+, and Multicultural. Community Engagement Advancing Sustainability alongside the UN UNFCU is proud to maintain active status as a member of the UN Global Compact (UNGC). We annually report our advancements in sustainability to the UN. In 2017 UNFCU: Joined Presented  Shared UNGC local network events our first sustainability report best practices in energy, travel, and the UN Foundation’s at the annual meeting of the and waste management with Global Leadership Sustainable United Nations UN Greening the Blue during Summit at United Nations (SUN) Team at World Bank our third year at the UN headquarters in New York. headquarters in Washington, DC. New York Green Fair. Philanthropy that Advances Women, Youth, Health, and Education Our corporate giving supported numerous United Nations Working collaboratively with UN agencies, the Foundation entities helping to build a better world. These included: also contributed to relief efforts in Puerto Rico, the Caribbean, Yemen, and West Africa. ▪▪ IAEA (PACT) Programme of Action for Cancer Therapy programs to support the care of children with cancer in Dr. Erin Anastasi of UNFPA received UNFCU Foundation’s Zimbabwe 2017 Women’s Empowerment Award for her work to end ▪▪ United Nations Women’s Guild projects for underprivileged obstetric fistula. We also participated in the 61st Commission children globally on the Status of Women at the United Nations headquarters ▪▪ UN Foundation Girl Up Leadership Summit in Washington, DC to share ideas and best practices on the impact of effective ▪▪ World AIDS Day awareness and prevention programs, working partnerships. with United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime in Vienna UNFCU volunteers contributed to eight fundraising events In its third year, the UNFCU Foundation supported 11 causes in 2017, spanning Nairobi, Kenya; Vienna, Austria; and in the across eight countries, sustaining the path out of poverty United States Washington, DC and New York to grow the through healthcare and education for more than 18,000 UNFCU Foundation. This included increasing public donations women and children. Among the results of projects supported by 19.9% in 2017. More information about the UNFCU by the UNFCU Foundation in 2017: training and mentoring 300 Foundation is available at unfcufoundation.org. women entrepreneurs in Northern Uganda, and the 100% pass rate achieved by an Afghani girls’ learning center on the Across UNFCU, 52 staff contributed to social impact initiatives national college exam. This compared to the national pass rate as volunteers and individual donors in 2017. All are part of of 56%. a movement to advance equality and access to economic opportunities across the globe. Contact us We welcome your feedback and ongoing engagement in our sustainability journey. Elisabeth Philippe For more UNFCU Senior Manager of Community information, and Media Relations contact: Email: ephilippe@unfcu.com Call: +1 347-686-6776 Photo credit cover image: Joseph, a member of the Samburu Tribe in Northern Kenya, at peace as a custodian for wildlife conservation. By: Natalia Mroz a winner of the 2018 UNFCU Photo Contest.
