For a more sustainable future. CSR report 2017/18 Leverandørselskabet Danish Crown AmbA | Marsvej 43, DK-8960 Randers | Tel. +45 89 19 19 19 sustainability@danishcrown.com | www.danishcrown.com | VAT no. 21643939 Welcome This Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report constitutes Danish Crown’s annual Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact and covers the financial year 2017/18 from 1 October 2017 to 30 September 2018. The report describes our sustainability strategy and activities for the past year in view of the issues that are most material to Danish Crown and our stakeholders. The report is an integral part of the management review of the Danish Crown Annual Report 2017/18, and with this document, we fulfill the requirements of section 99 a of the Danish Financial Statements Act. As part of our reporting obligations, we also issue a Statement on Modern Slavery Act 2017/18 which is available at www.danishcrown.com. We welcome and value any comments or suggestions you may have to this report, our strategy and performance to help us improve and meet your expectations. Please send your feedback to: sustainability@danishcrown.com Welcome 2 1 page 18 Our MEAT2030 forum gave food for thought for 1 the future of 4-6 meat. Reports Reports 5 Letter from the chairman 6 Letter from the CEO page 22 We supply a larger share of outdoor-bred 3 11-15 2 pigs in the UK. Our sustainability strategy 12 Sustainability focus areas 13 Our CSR risks and material issues 7-10 14 Our CSR platform and governance structure About 15 Status on the CSR platform Danish Crown 8 9 Our business model Group financial key figures 10 Group CSR key figures page 7 Food is at the heart of the value chain from farmer 4 to consumer. 16-41 Status on our activities 17 Feeding the world 19 Sustainable farming 24 Sustainable food production 28 Good jobs for everyone Contents Reports 33 Together with customers and consumers 37 Reporting principles 3 41 UN Global Compact index 4 Letter from the chairman Letter from the CEO Greater consumer interest We are going to create a is good for farmers sustainable future for meat A A n important trend in society at the moment Danish Crown’s cooperative members have the skills, ccording to climate researchers worldwide, gether to create a healthy balance which ensures that is very positive and beneficial for the entire technologies and motivation needed to produce meat presents one of the biggest challenges consumers are able to buy the best foods at fair prices. value chain. Consumers want to get closer meat with as small a climate and environmental to planetary health and resilience and thus to to food production. They want to know where food footprint as possible. For example, they are already the living conditions of future generations. This is a Since last year, when Danish Crown defined its new comes from and how farmers grow their crops and leading the way worldwide when it comes to pigs fundamental challenge for meat producers and also a strategy for sustainability – ‘Feeding the world’ – we rear their animals. Food and food consumption have raised without antibiotics and with unparalleled feed huge responsibility for us and for our industry. have been focusing strongly on our dialogue with the become high-interest topics, with consumers extendefficiency. value chain and with our stakeholders to find the right ing their interest to many more parameters of food We need to act on this and speed is of the essence. way of accelerating a sustainable development. and food consumption than we have seen before. In Therefore, I am delighted with the results of a new particular, the parameters that relate to sustainability. analysis which shows that since 2005 Danish pig Meat has always been part of the human diet, and it Even though I wish we were much further down the “ “ producers have reduced the climate impact from will continue to be so in the future. As one of the road, I am nevertheless proud of what we have initiAs farmers we warmly welcome this trend. It always agricultural operations relative to pig weight gain. world’s largest pork exporters, one of Europe’s biggest ated. We are developing. And even more importantly, makes a farmer feel proud showing his farm and We want to The time has now come to capitalise on the value of suppliers of beef and the world’s largest organic abatWe want to we are now doing so together with a full spectrum of production to visitors. It is all about transparency at create transthis achievement, and the farmers are ready to contoir, we want to challenge our own industry and lead work for a stakeholders. We need lots of clever brains and hands its most tangible. And transparency is a keyword in parency in all tinue the journey together with the market. the way to finding sustainable solutions from farm future where to live up to the UN’s 2030 ambition. the sustainability journey that Danish Crown has agricultural to fork, thereby ensuring that future generations can agriculture, embarked on together with our cooperative memprocesses, and At the same time, we must have the courage to exconsume animal protein with a clear conscience. food processThis is why we have organised the first multi-stakebers, and something that we will be working intentogether take plore radical change scenarios to be able to see the ing and the holder forum in Danish Crown’s history. Under the title sively on in the future. sustainability perspectives of thinking differently. With our This is not something that we as a company and coopmarket come MEAT2030, we will produce a catalogue of important „ „ to a new level. MEAT2030 initiative, we have opened the door to erative can do on our own. We can do our share of the together. building blocks and ideas that will inspire Danish Crown We want to create transparency in all agricultural exchanging ideas in this way and to having discuswork by relentlessly exploring new and better ways of and support our 4WD business strategy. processes, and together take sustainability to a new sions among all stakeholders about the value chain making production as sustainable as possible. Danish level. Through a new certification programme for the for foods and agriculture. Crown has already embarked on this journey, and we Letter from the chairman farms of our cooperative members, we will ensure are ready to move forward. greater control of resource consumption and emisLetter from the CEO sions from production. In addition, it requires that customers and consumers are willing to pay a higher price for a better product. At the same time, it will be an opportunity for us to Today, market conditions are putting an unreasonable target our own advisory services to our cooperative strain on farmers who are also challenged by a negaErik Bredholt, members to ensure that we keep moving in the right tive reputation. We want to work for a future where Jais Valeur Chairman, Danish Crown direction. agriculture, food processing and the market come toGroup CEO, Danish Crown 5 6 Our business model Our business structure 2 6.830 farmers are cooperative About members of Danish Crown and Danish Crown is a global food company originating from Denmark. The company is a cooperative society thereby its owners. In line with the and 100 per cent owned by the Danish farmers who supply pigs and cattle to the company. Danish Crown cooperative model, Danish Crown receives animals for slaughter from its suppliers and sells fresh and processed meat. Danish Crown is obliged to accept the animals supplied by the farmer, and our job is then to process the animals in Our owners Our business Our Your such a way that the highest possible earnings are generated for the and resources activities markets meal farmer. All the profit which Danish Crown earns from selling the animals on the world market goes back to the farmer. As a cooperaPharma­ ceutical tive member, your sales are thereindustry fore guaranteed, and you are also paid the best possible price which ood d bl the company can obtain. a an Mucos Casin FoodCasings gs service Our company comprises four business areas: Agriculture, which rears the animals; Fresh Meat, which Market price slaughters the animals; Foods, Supplementary payment Casings which processes the products; and Casings, which sells casings worldwide. Our markets include the food industry, retail, foodservice and the pharmaceutical industry. Food Agriculture Abattoir Foods industry The good meal Our business model is interrelated in a unique value chain from farm to fork, and it gives consumers Deboned meat and cuts the opportunity to follow all steps Market price s Price paid for ta nd of the chain. In this way, Danish pigs and cattle cu ea t Crown’s products go all the way About Danish Crown to the consumer, where they are Our business model m ed n bo transformed into exciting meals. De ts d cu t an mea ebo ned D Retail packed meat Casings Fresh Retail Foods Meat 7 Fresh Meat 8 Group financial Group Share of revenue Employees worldwide Danish Crown in the world Europe 77% Revenue by world region key figures CSR key 61 28,892 figures Sustainability Revenue in DKK In September 2018, Danish Crown invited more than 200 participants from North Asia 13% Denmark and abroad to the conference 53% 40% 7% America Employees 3% MEAT2030. Fresh Meat Foods Casings We operate in a global market Share of EBIT and are close to our stakeholders Danish owners worldwide. Other billion 7% Delivery: pigs and sows 63% 14% 23% 6,830 Cooperative Fresh Meat Foods Casings Nationalities employed Accidents at work CO2 emissions: Animals from organic, free-range 80 38 per 1,000 employees eq per kg body growth of Danish pigs and raised–without–antibiotics production: members 3 kg CO2 Meals supplied 23 million Delivery: cattle Feed efficiency: 765,000 Group financial key figures 29% kg feed units 2.66 10 Group CSR key figures per kg Danish 0.9 million Women in management positions pig 9 billion 10 Responsibility from farm to fork Sustainability focus areas 3 Danish Crown has been working Our systematically with Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) for many years, and since 2011 we Under the heading ‘Feeding the world’, our sustainability strategy covers the entire value chain from farm to fork. It sets the direction for the way in which we tackle the global challenges facing the agricultural sector and meat-based foods as well as setting out our sustainability have signed up to the UN Global Compact principles for companies' contributions to creating a sustainable future. work with corporate social responsibility. strategy As a cooperative owned by farmers, the values and traditions of good farming practices and modern food production are Together with customers and consumers TOGETHER WITH CUSTOMERS AND Sustainable farming CONSUMERS We will build a strong future for our farmers. deeply ingrained in our business, We will earn customers’ and consumers’ conwith food safety, the environment, fidence and preference with healthy, safe and How we contribute: Danish Crown is owned animal welfare and the working responsible products. by 6,830 Danish farmers. We work closely environment as our primary together to develop sustainable livestock focus areas. How we contribute: Each year, we contribute production set-ups of a high quality and billions of meals to feeding consumers worldbased on modern technology, science, trawide. Together with our customers, we are SUSTAINABLE dition and a deep understanding of animals The sustainability strategy defines FARMING our overall focus areas, targets constantly developing new food concepts, FEEDING and ecosystems. and activities for the coming and our focus is increasingly on healthy and GOOD THE WORLD sustainable food products. We are experts in JOBS FOR EVERYONE years. Our ambition is to contriborganics and in farming without the use of anute to promoting and fulfilling tibiotics, and we seek to influence the market the UN’s 2030 agenda with the by demanding more sustainable solutions. 17 Sustainable Development Goals. The strategy is divided into five main tracks that support selected SUSTAINABLE FOOD sustainable development goals PRODUCTION and enable us to act on important Good jobs for everyone Sustainable food production issues and encourage cooperation We will attract and retain people with good We will operate a sustainable, efficient and across the organisation in order jobs and opportunities for everyone. Feeding the world high-performing food production. Our sustainability strategy Sustainability focus areas to achieve our goals. We will find a way to feed the world with How we contribute: We have 28,892 employ­ sustainable meat and protein solutions. How we contribute: For decades, minimising ees with no fewer than 80 different nationthe environmental footprint of our food proalities. More than half of our employees are How we contribute: Every day we produce duction has been part of the daily work in all unskilled. In addition to diversity and social 5,000 tonnes of fresh meat and 2,500 tonnes our business areas, in particular with regard integration in our workforce, we work for safe of processed foods and deliver vital proteins, to the consumption of natural resources, the and healthy workplaces. nutrients and tasty food products to people minimisation of waste and the implemenall over the world. Through partnerships and tation of cleaner technologies. We use the investments in research and development, whole animal, and seek to ensure that none 11 we strive to make our products and processes of the animal raw material goes to waste. 12 more sustainable. Our CSR risks Our most material issues Our CSR Governance and material platform structure Danish Crown AmbA Board issues ‘Feeding the world' addresses the main challenges for which we need new answers to ensure the long-term development of our business. ‘Sustainable farming’ is about the risks and opportunities which are particularly important in our cooperation with our Our CSR platform constitutes the framework Our governance structure is designed to secure progress and implementaowners and other suppliers of animals for slaughter. ‘Sustainable food production’, ‘Good jobs for everyone’ and ‘Together with Danish Crown A/S Board O for realising our sustainability strategy. tion of the sustainability strategy at group level and in all business units. customers and consumers’ concern the most significant risks and opportunities associated with Danish Crown’s core business. cur sustainability strategy builds on issues The CSR board is responsible for the sustainability strategy and ensures I that have been identified as material both to that the CSR efforts form an integral part of our business operations. Our Danish Crown and to our stakeholders. Falling n 2017, we adopted a new CSR Goals Group CFO chairs the board and members include CEOs from four business within the five main strategy tracks, they guide our policy which links the UN SusUN Sustainable Development Goals Executive Management units, SVP HR, VP Group Communications, Agriculture Director Tulip Ltd and thinking and drive our actions towards greater respontainable Development Goals to Director Group Sustainability. The members are appointed annually. sibility for the entire value chain from farm to fork. our CSR commitments, and which feeding the world will contribute to translating our Our materiality matrix has been updated based on a five strategic focus areas into Strategy and purpose CSR risk mapping conducted in 2018 at 51 of our propractice throughout the group and Feeding the world Senior Management Group CSR board duction sites covering the business units in our Fresh in our supply chain. meat, Foods and Casings divisions in Europe. The The policy sets out our CSR tarlargest global platform for managing and sharing Feeding Sustainable Sustainable Good jobs Together with gets and efforts and ensures that responsible sourcing data on supply chains, Sedex, the world farming food production for everyone customers and all our efforts are aligned with the CSR policy and effort was used to assess our existing policies, procedures consumers UN Global Compact principles and UN Global Compact, feeding and governance structures on human rights and lathe UN Guiding Principles on BusiUN Guiding Principles on the world bour standards, health and safety, environment, Meat and climate Farmer’s Environment and Working environment Food safety ness and Human Rights. Business and Human Rights business ethics and anti-corruption as well as supply change impact finances climate change chain management. In addition to the Sedex selfimpact Social integration Sustainable We are in the process of impleassessment, the risk mapping included our perforThe role of meat in Environment and meat consumption menting effective management mance in the areas of food safety and animal welsustainable diets climate change Circular bioeconomics Employee attraction systems and processes to prevent Documentation Tulip KLS fare. The CSR risk mapping will be repeated on all impact and food waste Healthy products and address CSR risks and to acWill be inspired by the Global Pork Beef Tulip Ltd Food Company DAT-Schaub Sokolow Ugglarps ESS-FOOD production sites on an annual basis and will contribFuture farming Employer-employee count for the results of our CSR Our CSR platform and governance structure Reporting Initiative ute to our yearly materiality analysis and reporting. Animal welfare Use of water, relations Sustainable efforts. Our CSR governance modRead more about the CSR risk mapping on page 25. Sustainable energy and other product range el has been developed further to animal feed Veterinary safety natural resources Labour rights help us keep up the speed. In adOur CSR policy is an overarching policy covering the following: Our CSR risks and material issues Appetite for meat We will also continue to involve our stakeholders in dition, more skills in legal and Reporting Alternative proteins Use of antibiotics Supply chain ethics Human rights pinpointing significant CSR risks and impacts. The compliance have been recruited Annual report, for nutrition • Human rights MEAT2030 multi-stakeholder forum that we Human rights Human rights to support business entities and CSR report • Labour rights launched in September 2018 is our best example on strengthen global processes. • Environment and climate change how we intend to engage with stakeholders to unBusiness ethics • Anti-corruption and bribery cover the CSR challenges faced by our industry and • Partnerships and dialogue with stakeholders work together to develop new solutions. Read more • Grievance mechanisms about MEAT2030 on page 18. • Governance structure and CSR organisation • Documentation, CSR reporting and communication 13 14 Status on Health and safety Modern slavery Monitoring and reporting the CSR In all our production facilities we give highest priority Given our presence in many countries worldwide and We have completed a data quality analysis of our 4 to health and safety, be it that of the live animals, our the high number of unskilled workers we employ, we existing KPIs and concluded that our group data in employees or the consumers. Our preventive meashave a responsibility for preventing and combatting Sustainable Food Production are not of a satisfacStatus on our ures are based on food safety certifications, compeforced labour and human trafficking. High-risk areas tory quality. In 2019, we will initiate a targeted proplatform tence development for our employees, systematic include agricultural workers at the farms supplying cess aimed at ensuring high quality standards for all controls of our working processes and a strong focus animals for slaughter, the use of contract workers in our KPIs and measurements and decide on a baseactivities on animal welfare at the abattoirs. In 2019, we are some production units as well as suppliers of transline for our future reporting. strengthening our efforts through more employee portation, logistics and construction services. Read training and the continued standardisation of procemore in our annual ‘Modern Slavery Act – Statement We will use as inspiration the Global Reporting Inidures, controls and root cause analysis group-wide. and Information’, which is available on our website. tiative Standards (GRI), the GRI G4 Food Processing Our efforts to strengthen occupational health and Sector Disclosures, and the UN Sustainable DevelopWe are constantly working safety are described in more detail on page 31. ment Goals (SDG), targets and indicators from the SDG Compass Inventory of Business Indicators. to strengthen our processes and to minimise negative Due diligence processes impacts and risks. Environment and climate We are in the process of implementing CSR due diligence processes to prevent and address potential Today, the environmental impact from our pro­ and actual CSR risks that we may cause or contribduction is handled locally in the countries where ute to, or to which we are directly linked through our we have facilities. In many countries efficient business relationships. In 2017/18, we implemented environmental management systems and high-risk a CSR due diligence process in acquisitions, and in management standards are in place. In 2018/19, 2019 we will roll out further processes for managing we are going to develop a common group managerisks of corruption and any negative impacts on ment system, which will ensure better internal human rights in the areas where we have production controls and more uniform procedures. Read more facilities. about our environmental management on page 26. Code of Conduct A new Code of Conduct for all managers and employees is being prepared and will be launched in 2019. It will give a set of common rules to guide us in our acPersonal data protection tions and decisions. In 2017/18, we have launched a number of initiatives to ensure compliance with the EU General Data ProStatus on the CSR platform tection Regulation (GDPR), which imposes stricter Status on our activities rules for protecting the personal data of employees, Business ethics customers, suppliers, owners and consumers. The initiatives include mapping how the group processes In 2018/19, we will develop our anti-corruption and and handles personal data, as well as the implemenanti-bribery practices into a separate group policy, tation of a group policy and practical guidelines to and prepare guidelines to help our managers and help employees ensure compliance with the regulaemployees systematically and regularly assess and tion. Our efforts to ensure GDPR compliance will manage such risks. continue in 2019. 15 16 Activities 2017/18 Purpose • Hosting MEAT2030 conference at which more We will find a way to feed the feeding than 200 stakeholders from the entire food value world with sustainable meat the world chain ideated new solutions for a sustain­able and protein solutions. future for meat • Workshop on the future of pig production with Jais Valeur Lars Løkke Gunther Pauli Lisa Sweet farmers, customers, chefs, scientists and NGOs Extract from our CSR policy Group CEO, Danish Crown Prime Minister of Denmark Entrepreneur and author of Head of Business Strategy and • Partnerships with European food companies and The Blue Economy Engagement, Centre for Global Feeding industry organisations on the development of We are committed to leading a sustainable development Climate change is the defining We cannot go on like this. Public Goods, World Economic the European Commission’s common European methods for documentation and communication of our business and ensuring a high level of food safety, high-quality products, limited resource consumption and MEAT2030 theme of our time. It is about the We need to act. Change the way I believe that meat production Forum of the environmental footprint of red meat (PEF) continuous sustainable development throughout our value chain and in dialogue with our stakeholders. multi-stakeholder forum future generations, but we are the we eat. Change the way we live. must change fundamentally. ones to change it. With MEAT2030 Change the way we produce. RunBe inspired by nature, it contains Planetary boundaries are coming the world • Meal partner at the People’s Political Festival on We respect human rights to health, well-being and access we have opened the gate for partning a business is not only a matmany of the solutions we need. up on us. Our operating space is Bornholm in Denmark to encourage debate on the future of food to adequate food for all in our own operations and in our How can we rethink our way of farming to achieve a more sustainable nerships to solve this complex ter of doing. It’s also a matter declining, and we must cut 50 per relations with our business partners. production of meat? How can transparency in the value chain drive the challenge and take concrete of listening.” cent of production to secure a • Participation in the National Bioeconomy Panel necessary changes? And how can we accelerate consumer demand for actions for a sustainable future healthy planet. The pathways for in Denmark sustainable, high-quality meat? We need to find good answers and for meat.” tomorrow’s proteins are: alternaOur SDG commitment solutions to these and other important questions to ensure a sustaintives, advance imbalanced producable balance for people, animals, nature and the climate as well as tion system, and drive consumer Goal 2: Zero hunger for our farmers. behaviour. Every day we deliver vital proteins, nutrients and great-tasting food products to End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable people all over the world. Through partnerships and investments in innovation, As we do not hold all the answers, in September 2018 we invited a we strive to make our products and processes more sustainable. Planned initiatives 2018/19 agriculture. large number of key stakeholders to the MEAT2030 conference with Commitment: Target 2.4 the aim of discussing and creating the important building blocks • Share insights and outcome from MEAT2030 By 2030, Danish Crown contributes to ensuring for the Danish Crown of the future. Among the more than 200 partiT forum sustainable food production systems and to cipants were NGOs, farmers, food developers, sustainability thinkers, en billion people are expected to inhabit our more sustainable solutions from farm to fork. Soluimplementing resilient agricultural practices • Continue dialogue and development of retail chains, politicians, researchers and experts with an interest in planet in 2050. It is about 2.5 billion more tions that will make it possible to feed more people that increase productivity and production, help MEAT2030 initiatives maintain ecosystems, strengthen capacity for the future of food production. At the MEAT2030 conference, inspiring people than the current world population, and while using fewer of the world’s resources. The fuadaptation to climate change, extreme • Professionalise dialogues and sharing of speakers from Denmark and abroad zoomed in on the challenges the increase will put a massive strain on the Earth’s ture is about animal welfare and sustainable meat. insights and ideas with stakeholders ­weather, drought, flooding and other disasters, facing the meat production industry. Subsequently, a number of workresources, ecosystems and climate. The developWe are going to create a sustainable meat producand progressively improve land and soil quality. Richard Wang Søren Søndergaard Patrick Holden Claus Meyer • Engage in relevant partnerships shops were held under three headings: agriculture, transparency in ment places new demands on the world’s food protion and a strong foundation for future generations General Manager, Danish farmer and cooperative CEO, Sustainable Food Trust Food visionary and activist, Goal 17: Partnerships for the goal the value chain and changing consumer behaviour. duction, and the UN estimates that the combination – environmentally, socially and economically. • Drive selected agendas to accelerate sustain­able Win-Chain Alibaba member in Danish Crown The Meyer Group Revitalise the global partnership for sustainof population growth, changed dietary habits and a meat by 2030 It is a courageous move for Danable development. The conference was only the first step for Danish Crown. We must growing global middle class will lead to a doubling Addressing these challenges calls for innovation and China accounts for more than 50 I am proud to be a producer of ish Crown to host this stakeholder We do not need meat. At least actively face up to a new reality. We will now examine the contribuof the demand for protein. Meat is a good source of more knowledge sharing. We are entering into partCommitment: Target 17.17 per cent of the global growth in one of the most sustainable meat initiative. There is no doubt in my not the quantities we eat today. Danish Crown seeks to encourage and promote tions received from the participants and then compile a catalogue vital proteins, vitamins and minerals, and if we can nerships where we can contribute with our expertise meat consumption. But more and products in the world. For generamind that livestock will play a key Production continues to increase effective public, public-private and civil society of initiatives which can inspire our own work. The catalogue will also Feeding the world Feeding the world produce meat in a more clever and sustainable way, within meat production, and find inspiration for immore Chinese consumers are aware tions, we have moved towards a role in the sustainable farming faster than consumption, driving partnerships, building on experience and be made available to the public as a source of inspiration for others. we can continue to eat meat in the future. proving our products and processes and making ­resourcing strategies of partnerships. of sustainability. They are looking more sustainable way of farming. systems of the future. To ensure value out of the products. The The foundation has thus been laid for a dialogue forum between all them sustainable. This will take years and it will for fresh, reliable, worry-free foods We farm based on science, facts that such systems become profitindustry is not making money, Completed stakeholders with know-ledge and new ideas for a sustainable future As one of the world’s largest pork exporters, one of require investments. But it is necessary that we – and have concerns regarding aniand care for our animals and the able and mainstream, we need to and consumers are losing interest Under implementation for meat. Europe’s biggest suppliers of beef and the world’s succeed. mal welfare, environmental friendenvironment. And we deliver food eliminate the hidden costs of the in the products. The meat industry Under development largest organic abattoir, Danish Crown wants to challiness and sustainability. with a minimum of resource conpresent food system, so consumhas an obligation to set a new 17 lenge our own industry and lead the way to finding sumption. ers can have trust in us. plan. 18 Lifecycle analysis documents Activities 2017/18 Purpose significant reduction in the Weight gain from birth to leaving the farm The consumption of feed relative (for sows, piglets and slaughter pigs per sow, in Denmark) environmental footprint to the production of pigs is decisive • New certification programme for sustain­ability We will build a strong future Kg for both the farmer’s operating performance management and transparency for our farmers. of Danish pigs 3500 3,421 economy and the overall environmental impact. Feed consumption • Collaboration on sustainable meat is high on the agenda at meetings with our cooperative per sow in Denmark is virtually members Extract from our CSR policy 3000 unchanged from 2005 to 2016, but 2,423 2,487 the figure shows that the weight • New method for lifecycle assessments of 2500 gain in both piglets and slaughter We create a new platform for setting targets for a substanSince 2016, Danish Crown has been working closely with European food the environmental impact of pig production pigs per average Danish sow has Sustainable tial reduction of waste and the efficient use of natural companies and industry organisations to develop the European Com2000 increased in the same period. As • New transport agreement for collection of cattle resources from farm to fork. We will address the need to 1,694 ensure sustainable consumption and for sustainable farmmission’s common European approach to documenting and communieach sow now gives birth to more increases animal welfare and reduces the risk ing through protecting, restoring and promoting the suscating the environmental footprint of the production of red meat (Prod1500 piglets, the total feed consumption of infection tainable use of terrestrial ecosystems. uct Environmental Footprint (PEF). The method is based on lifecycle has increased, while the quantity farming • Collaboration with the value chain to reduce the analyses (LCA) that pinpoint the significant environmental impacts in 1000 752 of feed consumed by piglets and environmental impact of animal feed via Forum 585 slaughter pigs has been reduced the value chain, from the production of feed until the animal is slaughfor the Future on the UK Feed Compass 500 per kg of weight gain. In other Our SDG commitment tered and the meat is ready for further processing. 208 246 words, more feed now goes 0 towards pig weight gain. Goal 2: Zero hunger However, a prerequisite for preparing reliable Product Environmental End hunger, achieve food security and improved Sows Piglets Slaughter pigs Total Footprint declarations is the availability of valid data. In cooperation nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture. with researchers from Aarhus University in Denmark, we have therefore Commitment: Target 2.4 started calculating how pig production and its environmental footprint Danish Crown is owned by 6,830 Danish farmers with whom we work closely to develop a high-quality and sustainable livestock production based on modern Planned initiatives 2018/19 By 2030, Danish Crown contributes to ensure sustainable food production systems and to have developed in Denmark in the period from 2005 to 2016. Environmental impact of agricultural operations implementing resilient agricultural practices (calculated per kg weight gain, in Denmark) technology, science, skills and a deep understanding of the animals We can now document that the environmental impact from the Danish • Introduce a certification programme for that increase productivity and production, help and related ecosystems. Danish pig cooperative members. Target of maintain ecosystems, strengthen capacity for pig has been significantly reduced, and that emissions of greenhouse Five indicators express the most significant environmental impacts 90 per cent certified in 2019 adaptation to climate change, extreme weathgases from agricultural operations have been reduced by 18 per cent in 10 9.45 during the life cycle of a pig: Global O er, drought, flooding and other disasters and the period relative to pig weight gain. This is primarily due to higher • Grow the number of pigs raised without progressively improve land and soil quality. 9 warming potential (GWP) (the reur cooperative members expect Danish Crown The Danish pig is famous in markets around the antibiotics feed efficiency, as feed production accounts for the biggest climate sult of greenhouse gas emissions), to ensure that the price received for the aniworld. Asian, US and European customers are atimpact. However, it is also due to the production conditions and their 8 7.35 Goal 13: climate action acidification (the result of acid mals supplied is as high as possible, while at tracted to our high meat quality and food safety • Start anaesthetising piglets during castration low environmental impact, with farmyard manure being used as a sub7 Take urgent action to combat climate change accumulation in soil and water), the same time delivering a return on the capital which standards. We need future generations to recognise • Intensify collaboration with the cooperative and its impacts. stitute for artificial fertilisers in the fields. Strict Danish rules on when 6 eutrophication (the result of excesmembers on sustainable livestock farming 5.30 sive nutrients in soil and water), has been invested in the company through generahigh-quality meat as part of a healthy diet, and we and how much manure can be spread on the fields ensure that the 4.85 Commitment: Target 13.1 5 use of non-renewable energy and tions. This is a focus across all our business units. will continue to use the strengths of our cooperative • Continue digitalisation and increase trans­parency fields are not fertilised with excessive nitrogen, thereby minimising the Danish Crown will contribute to strengthen resilland use for feed production. The to create a sustainable future for our industry and in the agricultural sector run-off of nitrogen which can be transformed into N2O (nitrous oxide) 4 ience and adaptive capacity to climate-related figure shows that the environmenOver the years, we have worked closely with our our business. We believe that increased transparency hazards and natural disasters in all countries. that has an environmental impact that is 265 times stronger that CO2. 3 2.54 tal impact until the slaughter pig owners and suppliers as well as researchers and asin livestock production is important for ensuring our 2.09 2 leaves the farm calculated per kg sociations in the agricultural sector to develop a licence to operate. Goal 15: Life on land The LCA calculations show that the environmental impact of agriculweight gain declined from 2005 to Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of 1 high-quality and sustainable livestock production tural operations is significantly higher than the overall contribution 0.20 0.16 0.02 0.02 2016, and that this applies for all Sustainable farming Sustainable farming terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage with a strong focus on parameters such as animal Main focus areas are Product Environmental Footfrom the entire production span. The next step will be to include the 0 five environmental indicators. The forests, combat desertification, and halt and GWP, kg CO2 eq Eutrophication, Acidification, Non-renewable Land use, m2 figures document that greenhouse welfare, feed efficiency, the breeding and rearing of print Declarations based on life-cycle assessments reverse land degradation and hat biodiversity loss. emissions associated with the transportation of pigs and the slaughter kg NO3 eq kg SO2 eq energy, MJ gas emissions from agricultural animals, production yield, veterinary health and good and a certification scheme for sustainable pork to process in our calculations. Completed Commitment: Target 15.6 operations have been reduced by working conditions. And, of course, with a strong increase transparency and meet the expectations 18 per cent in the period, while the Under implementation Danish Crown will contribute to strengthen resilfocus on the farmer's finances. from our stakeholders. ience and adaptive capacity to climate-related land use for feed production has Under development hazards and natural disasters in all countries. been reduced by eight per cent. 2005 2016 19 20 New certification of sustainable Examples of parameters included We supply a larger share of pig production on the way in the certification outdoor-bred pigs in the UK. • Climate impact • Feed efficiency • Environmental technologies to reduce ammonia and Market breakthrough odours as well as improved resource utilisation In 2018, Danish Crown has worked intensively to develop a new certification • Feed content: crude protein, phosphorus and zinc programme for sustainable pig production. • Local sources of protein • Utilisation of nutrients from farmyard manure in Denmark for T • Allowance being made for sensitive natural areas pigs raised without he aim of the programme is to work with • Medicine use (including antibiotics) farmers to raise the standards of conven• Energy technologies, renewable energy tional production so that all pigs supplied and heating supply antibiotics to Danish Crown meet a number of sustainability • Mortality of sows, piglets and slaughter pigs parameters. Initially, the programme covers pigs • Workplace assessments supplied by Danish cooperative members. • Vocational training programmes for employees At the same time, the certification is intended to help Core competencies Strengthening direct increase the transparency around farming. We have therefore held stakeholder workshops with researchers, Danish Crown’s cooperative members are global front runners farmers, NGOs, customers, chefs and sustainability of Danish cooperative in providing the market with pork meat from animals specialists to listen to their wishes and recommendations on how a sustainable pig should be reared. members ownership of outdoorraised without antibiotics. bred pigs in the UK E In order to be certified, the farmer must work in a Veterinary health ven though our general medicine conThe market has, however, been hesitant targeted and systematic manner to ensure continuHealthy growth and well-being, low antibiotics trol shows close to zero residues of about adapting the new concept due to ous improvements. Targets and initiatives must be consumption and registration of health data. antibiotics in both conventional and extra production costs, but recently we I defined for all the key sustainability parameters organic production, we chose in 2015 to have achieved a major breakthrough in such as environmental and climate impact, working Environment n December 2017, Tulip Ltd completed the acquisihealth and veterinary standards, as well as the manestablish a production of pigs raised comDenmark through a new partnership with conditions, animal welfare and business ethics. In Low emissions, handling of liquid manure, tion of the family-owned pig farming business agement standards on the farms and the pig haulpletely without antibiotics. a large Danish retail chain. Here the meat addition, the farmer must continuously monitor nutrient use and livestock construction. Easey Holdings Ltd, and we are now incorporating age standards applied. These factors are all key for from pigs raised without antibiotics was and report on performance and progress to Danish the pigs, staff and haulage business into Tulip’s high welfare, safe and traceable ethical pig and pork The main difference between the two prointroduced in 497 shops in August 2018. Crown, and will be audited every three years by Genetics farming operations. This will enable us to supply a production. duction methods is prevention rather than an independent third party. The programme is being Breeding, breeding targets, lean and larger share of outdoor-bred (ODB) pigs from our cure. A conventional pig may have been Danish production of pigs raised without launched at the end of 2018 for a trial group of coophomogeneous product. own farming supply chain: 73 per cent compared to Tulip Ltd supports its farmers through the roll-out of treated with antibiotics during its life time, antibiotics is being followed by an extenSustainable farming Sustainable farming erative members. The programme is voluntary for 58 per cent before the acquisition. It also means that a ‘new build’ programme. ‘New build’ is an airy straw but no residuals are left by the time the pig is sive research project funded by the Ministry farmers, but our ambition is for 90 per cent of Danish Management Tulip Ltd now owns more than 30 per cent of the UK’s barn designed to provide ODB pigs with the highest slaughtered. A pig raised without the use of of Environment and Food of Denmark’s cooperative members and suppliers of pigs to High productivity, high level of animal care, ODB production, including free-range and organic welfare accommodation standards. Not only is it an antibiotics throughout its entire life requires Green Development and Demonstration Danish Crown to be certified by the end of 2019. targeted training and advice. production within the Tulip Ltd farming supply chain. ideal environment for ODB pigs, it is also a very effar more supervision, and farmers need to Programme. The project’s findings will be Aage Lauritzen from Hjortvad ficient design in terms of cost of build, use of buildpay special attention to cleaning the pig used to further reduce the use of anti­ near Ribe in Through the direct ownership of the ODB pigs, we ing materials, management of pigs and other inputs buildings to keep livestock healthy and limit biotics both in Denmark and worldwide. 21 Denmark. have direct control of the pig genetics used, feed, required to run the barn. the spread of infection among the animals. 22 Completed Under implementation Activities 2017/18 Purpose • Strengthened governance within risk manageUnder develment, compliance and sustainable production We will operate a sustainable, efficient opment and high-performing food production. • Mapping of CSR risks at our own facilities as a baseline for supplier requirements • Risk assessment of corruption as a basis for Extract from our CSR policy future anti-corruption policy Environment and climate change • Pilot projects for sustainable packaging as a basis Sustainable Danish Crown supports a sustained and systematic apfor future packaging strategy proach to environmental challenges and is committed to taking action to combat climate change. • Environmental management according to new ISO 14001 standard in Danish Crown Pork Human rights New transportation food production • New training programme in animal welfare at the In all Danish Crown operations and activities we respect abattoirs human rights and avoid infringing the human rights of involved individuals. agreement for cattle improves • Mapping of the potential for reusing process water from abattoirs and meat-processing activities Anti-corruption As a responsible company, Danish Crown works against • Tulip Ltd to switch to green energy from animal welfare and reduces corruption in all its forms. This includes compliance with October 2018 legislation and collective agreements on fair wages, rest • Signed up to the targets of the UK Plastics Pact and leisure, equal remuneration for men and women, antidiscrimination and equal opportunities in access to emMinimising resource consumption in our food production is an integral part infection risk (WRAP), an initiative designed to create a circular economy for plastics ployment and career. of the daily work of all our business units, especially when it comes to the consumption of natural resources, waste minimisation • Partnership on the development of sustainable water and production technologies for the food and the implementation of cleaner technologies. industry (DRIP) Our SDG commitment S Goal 12: Responsible consumption and production ustainable food production in Danish Crown This is mainly due to more automated production In April 2018, we entered into a new agreement for the transportation Ensure sustainable consumption and producis first and foremost about the circular bio­ facilities, and because robots require much more tion patterns. of cattle to Danish Crown Beef’s abattoirs in Denmark. economy. The basic idea is to use the whole water than manual operations. At the same time, animal, so that no part goes to waste. Danish Crown food safety requirements are becoming increasingly Planned initiatives 2018/19 Commitment: Target 12.2 T processes as much of the animal as possible into stringent. This means that even more water has to By 2030, Danish Crown will achieve sustain• Continue and broaden the mapping and assessable management and efficient use of natural he new agreement introduces the concept of This is good for both animal welfare and meat qualfoods, which are exported to consumers around the be used for cleaning. A significant reduction in water ment of CSR risks to all business units in the group resources. ‘readiness for collection’. It means that the ity, as stress has a very negative impact on the meat. world. The residual products are used as feed and in consumption can only be achieved through recycling farmer must segregate the animals to be the production of biogas. We are always looking at and reusing process water. A key focus area is to find • Initiate targeted actions to eliminate any high-risk Commitment: Target 12.3 collected from the herd so they are ready when the The agreement provides a supplementary payment ways of upgrading them into high-value products new water-saving technological solutions that do not areas identified By 2030, Danish Crown will halve per capita Sustainable food production haulier arrives. of ten DKK per animal to farmers who are registered that can be used as ingredients in other productions. compromise food safety. global food waste at the retail and consumer • Implement a Code of Conduct worldwide levels and reduce food losses along producunder the scheme. So far, it is primarily the large Sustainable farming • Develop a joint management system tion and supply chains, including post-harvest Preventing contact between the transport vehicle farms that have signed up for the scheme, which To ensure the best possible hygiene standards, we Other main focus areas are assessment of CSR risk losses. and its driver and the cow shed reduces the risk of covers about 20 per cent of the animals supplied. use a lot of clean water in our productions. Since the at our production sites, environmental management, • Implement a Supplier Code of Conduct for both spreading infection via, for example, the transport The aim is for all cattle suppliers to Danish Crown When the cattle 1980s, we have been working systematically to reresponsible procurement and sustainable packaging meat and non-meat is ready for vehicle’s tyres or the driver’s rubber boots. Beef in Denmark to join within a number of years. duce water consumption by streamlining operations solutions. • Develop a strategy and action plan for food and collection, the and implementing cleaner technologies. However, in process waste transportation Quick loading of the animals onto the transport vehiis less stressful the past 10-15 years it has been difficult to identify 23 cle is also gentler and less stressful for them. for the animals. new water savings. 24 Strengthening governance in CSR risk mapping as baseline for Energy consumption / Produced volume MwH per produced tonne Total organic carbon in waste water / Produced volume Tonnes per produced tonne KLS Ugglarps engaged in Fossil Free Packaging made with fibres from FSC/PEFCSupplier Code of Conduct sustainable food Sweden certified forests production 0.8 0.0050 0.7 In Sweden, KLS Ugglarps has committed For many years, Danish Crown has demanded 0.6 to the Fossil Free Sweden initiative that its suppliers of solid cardboard, cartons I In 2018, we have appointed a launched by the Swedish government and corrugated cardboard – otherwise steering committee that will prepare an action plan for sustainn summer 2018, we conducted a CSR risk mapping at 51 of our production sites covering the The abattoirs in our largest fresh meat business unit, Danish Crown Pork, have been certified according to CSR risk identified 0.5 ahead of the COP21 climate change conferknown as fibre-based materials – meet 0.4 0.0025 ence in Paris in 2015. The ambition is to certain environmental requirements by able food production for impleseven business units in our Fresh meat, Foods the ISO 14001 standard since 2005. In 2017/18, we make Sweden one of the first fossil-free using raw materials from sustainable mentation across the group’s and Casings divisions. The purpose was to identify implemented the revised version of the ISO 14001 0.3 welfare states in the world. forestry operations. A target has now been business units and facilities to potential risks and to set a baseline for requirements standard, which includes stricter requirements for 0.2 set that 100 per cent of the purchased support progress in this area. towards our suppliers prior to launching our new life-cycle assessments as a basis for identifying maTogether with enterprises, municipalities, fibre-based materials must be sourced The steering committee held four Supplier Code of Conduct as part of our responsible procurement practices. terial issues and prioritising our supply chain efforts. 23% 0.1 associations and other types of stakeholdfrom FSC/PEFC-certified forests. Both the 0.0 0.0000 ers that are able and willing to help reduce Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and the meetings during the year and has We have extended the scope of our environmental 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 greenhouse gas emissions, KLS Ugglarps Programme for the Endorsement of Forest initiated a CSR risk mapping of The largest global platform for managing and management to include hotspots in our supply chain has committed to two challenges under Certification (PEFC) are internationally our production sites, which will sharing responsible sourcing data on supply chains, within our sphere of influence. These include the Note: See Reporting principles regarding data correction. Note: See Reporting principles regarding reporting scope. this initiative: recognised schemes for sustainable forest form the basis for identifying and Sedex, was used to assess our existing policies, advising of farmers, the transportation of pigs and management which ensure that forests are prioritising focus areas as well as procedures and governance structures on human fresh meat and packaging issues, looking at the re• The transport challenge managed in accordance with environmendeveloping objectives and KPIs rights and labour standards (including health and cycling of pallets, boxes and other packaging types. Set up a goal for domestic service cars tal, social and economic criteria and ensure for each area. safety), environment and business ethics. The sites Water consumption / Produced volume Non-organic waste / Produced volume to be fossil-free before 2030. traceability throughout the supply chain. completed a Sedex self-assessment questionnaire Our Supplier Code of Conduct will be implemented 62% m3 per produced tonne Tonnes per produced tonne Our customers are also increasingly attachThe committee includes seven comprising more than 200 questions based on the stepwise during the period up until 2021, which will • The solar challenge ing importance to whether our packaging is top-level management repreinternational standards for Social Accountability also improve our score in the next self-assessment. 4.80 0.016 Set up a goal to install solar panels and manufactured with fibres from FSC/PEFCsentatives from both group (SA8000), Environmental Management (ISO 14001), The Code requires suppliers in all parts of the supply 15% produce own energy before 2020. The certified forests. functions and business units, Occupational Health and Safety Management (OHchain to adopt policies and procedures that respect idea is to inspire more to follow this who bring expertise and ensure SAS 18001) and Ethical Trading (ETI Base Code). human rights and labour rights and to set up a sys4.60 alternative energy form. Group Procurement is reviewing all our cata balanced and holistic approach. tem for assessing, handling and reporting on the egories of fibre-based materials. In 2018, The mapping confirmed a generally acceptable risks of infringing such rights. Suppliers are also we started with solid cardboard, and in governance level across the seven business units, required to align with local legislation related to 4.40 0.008 2019 we will move on to corrugated cardbut also identified some high-risk areas, where climate and the environment, and to refrain from board. We are looking at how we can reduce actions will be taken to increase compliance and corruption and bribery. the number of suppliers, optimise conmitigate risk. L ow-risk Medium-risk High-risk 4.20 sumption, drive innovation, exploit synerThe Sedex self-assessment will be repeated on all Sustainable food production Sustainable food production gies between the different business units We will address the high-risk business ethics areas production sites on an annual basis and be overseen and reduce our costs. Today, more than 75 by further developing our anti-corruption and antiby our steering committee for sustainable food pro4.00 0.000 per cent of our total fibre volume is produced bribery into practices and guidelines that will help duction. In addition to the self-assessment ques2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 using material from FSC/PEFC-certified our managers and employees assess and handle tionnaire, the sites completed a specific Danish forests. such risks. The high-risk environmental areas will be Crown questionnaire focusing on food safety and Note: See Reporting principles regarding reporting scope. Our CSR risk mapping was carried out using the Sedex self-assessment queshandled as part of our environmental management animal welfare. We will seek to include these areas tionnaire, which builds on a complex risk scoring system developed by Sedex system. Environmental management systems drive in the risk scores going forward. together with a global risk analytics company. It creates a score of low-, meThe figures show that our relative consumption of resources and emissions per produced volume of food is decreasing. the continuous improvement of our environmental diumand high-risk areas within the pillars of labour, human rights, environ25 performance at all our production sites. ment and business ethics. 26 Danish partnership Pilot project for recycling for Resource and process water Activities 2017/18 Purpose water-efficient • Sokołów winner of the ‘2017 Reliable Employer We will attract and retain people with good jobs and opportunities Industrial food One of the first DRIP projects is taking place at our pig abattoir in Horsens, which is the largest abattoir in ceivable operating situation, with samples of the water quality continually being taken. of the Year’ award in Poland for everyone. • Lean principles in the working environment reduce Production Denmark and also one of the newest and most highly accidents and injuries automated. The abattoir slaughters approx. 100,000 However, the technical possibility to clean the water • Strengthened efforts to prevent muscular and Extract from our CSR policy pigs a week and uses approx. one million cubic meis not sufficient, but it also requires a regulatory Danish Crown is part of the tres of water a year. This corresponds to about 150 change. It is therefore very positive that the food auResidual product skeletal disorders Good jobs Danish partnership for Resource Labour rights with high protein • Continued focus on conceptualising and promotlitres of water per slaughtered pig. Our ambition is thorities are participating in the DRIP partnership. Danish Crown is committed to ensure healthy and safe and water-efficient Industrial ing social integration to reduce this to 110-120 litres of water per pig. value workplaces for our employees and thus respect their right food Production (DRIP). In au• New training and career paths for unskilled to just and favorable conditions of work. Food safety is very much about being able to set up tumn 2017, we mapped water workers • We ensure fair wages, rest and leisure, equal remuneraAll abattoir robots are rinsed and sterilised after each sufficient safety barriers and monitoring routines. for everyone consumption and the potential Danish Crown’s focus on utilising all parts of the anition, anti-discrimination and equal opportunities. pig. This ensures that bacteria are not transferred These are key aspects of the pilot project and of any • We work to prevent corruption in all its forms. for recycling process water from mal also involves looking at the abattoirs’ process from one pig to the next. The cleaning of the abattoir decisions to invest in new plants and new processes. abattoir and meat processing water flow in new ways: All process water may have robots accounts for ten per cent of the abattoir’s Saving one litre of water per pig at the abattoir in activities at our production sites a value, and no process water is waste water. total water consumption. The potential for water Horsens equates to about five million litres of water in Horsens, Aalborg, Esbjerg and Our SDG commitment savings is therefore considerable if it is possible to a year which do not have to be discharged as waste Vejle in Denmark. One of the most contaminated water flows at the treat the process water from the robots to a quality water. This in turn equates to savings of approx. Goal 8: Decent work and economic growth We identified ten possibilities sufficiently high to be recycled and reused elsewhere 100,000 DKK on water bills and drainage charges. pig abattoirs is the process water from the fat melting process, where fat from the meat is melted and Planned initiatives 2018/19 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employfor recycling process water, which in production. In other words, there are real financial and environsold to other food industries. This process water conWe have more than 28,000 employees representing no less than 80 different • Roll out an education programme for blue collar ment and decent work for all. mental benefits to be gained from this project. nationalities. More than half of our employees are unskilled workers. In addition will be investigated further sists of three per cent dry matter with a high protein workers in Denmark to refine a concept for the The risk of bacterial growth is a particular challenge through specific projects. content. Today, large volumes are transported by to diversity and social integration in our workforce, we work for equal and group Commitment: Target 8.8 when reusing water at abattoirs. Together with a All Danish Crown’s pig abattoirs in Denmark are Danish Crown will protect labour rights and tanker to biogas plants, while the rest goes to waste favourable conditions as well as healthy and safe workplaces. promote safe and secure working environtechnology supplier and the Danish Meat Research structured in the same way, and the solution there• Roll out lean principles to decrease work water treatment. accidents ments for all workers, including migrant workInstitute, we are testing a pilot plant which, by fore holds considerable savings potential, both in O ers, in particular women migrants, and those means of UV technology and bacteriological screenterms of climate and economy, if it can be imple• Refine measurements and monitoring of health In spring 2018, Danish Crown tested a pilot plant ur employees are very important to us, and A common challenge faced by the industry is acciin precarious employment. ing, can clean the water from the robots to drinking mented at all our sites. and safety together with a major packaging supplier and the we want to be an attractive workplace and dents at work and the fact that the slaughtering, water quality. The plant is being tested in every conDanish Meat Research Institute under the auspices create different career opportunities for all cutting and deboning of pigs and cattle is physically • Further structure and spread social integration of DRIP. The plant has shown that it is possible to our 28,892 employees across the countries in which demanding work. We work systematically to create initiatives across the group screen the process water to a sufficiently high qualwe operate. healthy and safe workplaces with a strong focus on • Continue the work for diversity in management ity for it to be reused elsewhere in production, for preventing accidents through changing behaviour example for pre-rinsing, which is the first phase of Nearly 80 per cent of our employees are based at our and the physical working environment, where oncleaning at the abattoir. Water for pre-rinsing acproduction sites in Denmark, Poland, Germany, Sweden going investments in new robot technologies and counts for 25 per cent of water consumption at the and the UK. Our sites are mostly situated in rural high-tech auxiliary equipment help us reduce the Sustainable food production abattoirs. areas near small towns where job opportunities can be strain on our production workers. Good jobs for everyone limited, and we contribute to the local communities Recycling the treated process water will save Danish by employing both skilled and unskilled workers and Crown significant waste water treatment charges. by creating jobs for people who have difficulty finding With new techHowever, the main prize may prove to be the proteintheir way into the labour market. This is a specific nology we can Completed rich residue from the screening. This is a residual priority for us, and we are one of the most diverse now clean the Under implementation water from the product of sufficiently high food quality that could and socially inclusive companies in the Danish and Under development robots to drinkbe used in a market with a growing demand for European labour market for production workers. 27 ing quality. protein. 28 Diversity and Distribution of women and men in management Share of blue and white collar employees Employee satisfaction must prepare inclusion is a Danish Crown for the future positions 19% strategic priority Danish Crown has taken the temperature of employee satisfaction regarding motivation and commitment. T Danish Crown is a socially inclusive company where diversity is a strategic priority. he survey on employee satisfaction was based on 34 questions related to working conditions, Drivers of satisfaction and motivation in Danish Crown satisfaction with management, employee W development etc. The questionnaire was submitted e strive to realise the positive potential In addition, since 2006, Danish Crown in Denmark to a panel of both blue and white collar employees 8% inherent in having employees with difhas employed 34 ex-offenders through a partnership 81% representing all Danish Crown business units. With ferent educational backgrounds, genwith the organisation High:five. Of these, 18 are still a response rate of 89, the results provide excellent ders, nationalities and cultural affiliations. employed.  lue collar B White collar input for future actions. 10% C  ooperation All our production facilities in Denmark, Poland, GerWe see these efforts as part of our social responsi­ After a couple of years of declining job satisfaction 30% many, Sweden and the UK are characterised by being bility, and as a prerequisite for being perceived as an scores, we are now back to 2011 levels with a score multicultural working environments, in which we attractive workplace and for attracting the necessary of 70 for ‘Satisfaction & Motivation’ and 79 E  mployee successfully manage the cultural differences and labour. for ‘Commitment’, where 100 is the maximum score. development language barriers resulting from employing as many as 80 nationalities. There are two areas in which we need to further It is Danish Crown’s ambition to be among the Top D  ay-to–day strengthen diversity: We must continue our efforts 40 most attractive workplaces in Denmark. This management Danish Crown is a large workplace for unskilled workers. towards having more women and a stronger multiyear, we have already seen an increase of nine per At Danish Crown, people from very different backcultural dimension in management positions. cent in the number of employees who would re­ grounds can walk in from the street and, after the commend Danish Crown, which is a positive 16% W  orking right training, do well. We are proud of being a workdevelopment. As part of our efforts to measure emconditions place for many unskilled workers. We also employ ployee satisfaction in Danish Crown, people on benefits, some of whom have been outside The intention is for the employee survey to cover we have identified job content and the labour market for more than ten years. In addition, the whole group once the necessary systems are in senior management as the main drivS  enior we employ refugees and young people who have not place, and to introduce similar initiatives in order to ers of satisfaction and motivation. We management Good jobs for everyone Good jobs for everyone yet decided what they want to do for a living. become an attractive workplace in all the countries also discovered with some variation in which we operate. across the group that we need to Since 2014, Danish Crown in Blans, Denmark, has Read more pay special attention to the areas of management, job content and workJ ob content employed more than 100 people on benefits and ing conditions in order to improve refugees from predominantly Syria, who have been Read our full report on the gender composition employee satisfaction, retain people offered an introductory programme with the possiof management according to section 99 b of the within the company, and make 20% 16% bility of employment. In 2017/18, 35 refugees started Danish Financial Statements Act in the Danish Danish Crown an attractive work­place 29 on a programme in Blans. 29% Women 71% Men Crown Annual Report 2017/18. for everyone. 30 Strengthened groupwide occupational Focus on work-related diseases Frequency of accidents at work Number of accidents per 1,000 employees The aim is to reduce the frequency of Career paths and Our leadership principles training help to retain health and safety and retention in the accidents at work to 20 by the end of 2020/21 (in 2017/18, the target was Our new leadership principles are clear management labour market 40 a reduction to a frequency of 30). The average number of accidents pointers for what constitutes good leadership and behavior in Danish employees and covers relatively important local Crown. In 2018, the principles have differences between business units been rolled out to 1,700 managers. Employees must have no doubt that it is safe to We want our employees to be able to have a good 30 and countries. Reducing the accidents The next step is to train managers in work at Danish Crown. As part of our efforts to prejob for as long as they want to remain active in the requires high attention from local how to provide qualified feedback and managers vent injuries, in 2017/18 we strengthened our prolabour market. As part of these efforts, in 2017/18 management, and the remaining coaching to employees, after which the cesses through the introduction of Lean tools. We we sought to raise awareness of muscular and hotspots will have special focus in the employees will also gradually take the have held courses for the Danish organisations in skeletal disorders (MSD), which is the biggest 20 year to come. leadership principles on board. Danish Crown Pork, Danish Crown Beef, DAT-Schaub cause of work-related diseases and sickness leave. and Tulip Food Company, and we can already see The efforts have been centred on Danish Crown that the Lean tools are helping us to more systemPork, Danish Crown Beef, Tulip Food Company, 10 atically examine the injuries that do occur as well DAT-Schaub and Tulip Ltd, and have been about as the root causes. ergonomic working positions, stretching and training to relieve strain in the wrists, shoulders, elbows and Be an In 2017/18, we continued the roll-out of a global oclower back. The efforts have also included mapping 0 Competent employees are the foundation for the successful realisation ambassador cupational health and safety system, which workplaces with special focus on MSD, individual 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 of our 4WD business strategy. strengthens the group’s monitoring of its efforts to instruction for employees and investing in tech­ improve the working environment. It formalises our nology to reduce or eliminate strains. A work across national borders, and ensures uniform ttracting employees is a challenge in our In 2017/18, we prepared and implemented processes registration of work-related injuries, for example In January 2018, we employed a welfare officer in industry, and we therefore want to offer our and tools aimed at building a strong internal pipeline accidents, occupational diseases, near-accidents, Denmark to support those employees who have Absence due to accidents at work Develop and employees favourable development opporof candidates for vacant managerial positions, and empower people prevention, fire and safety inspections etc. unfortunately suffered a serious accident at work, Days of absence per accident tunities when working at Danish Crown. we expect to see the first results in the coming or who have been on long-term sick leave. The welyears. Employee turnover is too high in some of our The system was rolled out in Denmark in 2017/18, fare officer is assigned to the sickness cases which 20 One of our key initiatives is the creation of training business units. Overall, in 2017/18 it was 22 per cent, and is about to be introduced in Sweden, Germany present a challenge for both the employee and the and career paths which allow our production emwhich is on a par with previous years. We have been and the UK. In Poland, it will be rolled out in 2019/20. company. We have already seen a clear improveployees to develop their skills. In the coming year, in dialogue with the individual sites about the reaThe aim is for all our production sites to have an ment in our cooperation with the job centres on we will start to systematically develop the skills of sons for the high employee turnover, and we are imWe are one team occupational health and safety management retaining employees. At the same time, it is our 15 our employees in their local language and in English plementing local solutions that will continue in the system. Danish Crown Pork’s seven facilities in experience that employees are greatly reassured and mathematics – as well as special skills within coming year. One of the initiatives is to promote our Denmark are certified in accordance with the by having a professional colleague to talk to about Lean and food safety. The concept will launch in training opportunities and paths, as well as enhancOHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 standards in an intetheir specific situation. Denmark, and then be scaled to other business ing our managers’ skills. This is an area that will be grated management system. 10 units once the final standard has been decided. the focus of considerable investments in the coming years. Dedicated Good jobs for everyone Good jobs for everyone Trainees and apprentices are also very important for to results 5 the company. In 2017/18 we had 280 trainees and Our group efforts to reduce absence apprentices in Denmark, Poland, Germany, Sweden due to accidents seem to work. The decrease in absence is primarily and the UK, which is in line with previous years. It is New training concept will due to a reduced number of serious very good news that the vocational training proenable blue collar workers 0 accidents together with a focus gramme for abattoir workers has been approved this to have a flexible career 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 on management. year as a pro­fessional discipline, as it helps to imwith less work-related Together with consumers 31 prove job prospects for our younger employees. diseases. and customers 32 Swedish Carbon Valley: Activities 2017/18 Purpose From biochar to hamburgers • Market breakthrough for slaughter pigs raised We will earn customers’ and consumers’ without use of antibiotics in partnership with confidence and preference with healthy, Carbon Valley is a climate-smart agriculture pilot store carbon and fertilise the soil. As a natural next Together with Danish retail chain safe and responsible products. project in southern Sweden. It focuses on using biostep, the harvested crops feed the animals on the • New partnerships working to eliminate killings char as a carbon-capturing solution. Biochar is charfarm, and as a next step KLS Ugglarps will produce of bull calves, including the ‘Dansk Gastro Kalv’ coal produced from plant matter, which is stored in hamburgers of the meat from the farm, which will label Extract from our CSR policy the soil and thereby removes CO2 from the atmosphere. then be sold via the fast-food chain. In spring 2018, customers and • New sustainable products in product range – from the first biochar was spread on the fields. We respect the human rights to health, well-being and organic bacon to vegetarian dishes group-wide access to adequate food for all. Through membership of The pilot project engages stakeholders across the • Partnership between KLS Ugglarps, a Swedish various organisations, we actively participate in developing value chain, and KLS Ugglarps participates in the Research results from SLU have already shown infast-food chain and the Swedish University ways of reducing the inevitable environmental and social project alongside a Swedish fast-food chain and other creased harvest potential. However, it is early days. consumers of Agricultural Sciences on the creation of a circular impacts of our production activities. As part of these efforts, we engage in and promote effective public, publicpartners within innovation, seeds and farming together Many questions still need answering, but the pilot holds system for resources between food producers and private and civil society partnerships.We ensure compliwith the Municipality of Ystad. The project also enconsiderable potential for the food industry as a promconsumers for an improved carbon footprint ance with all human rights-related legislation and have gages Master’s degree students from the Swedish ising carbon-capture solution, which is why we are particular focus on privacy and data protection throughout University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU) focusing on engaged in this project together with our customers. the group. the circular flow of resources between food producers and consumers, and the potential for biochar to conClimate Smart Agriculture tribute to sustainable agriculture in Sweden. Our SDG commitment According to the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), Dansk Gastro Kalv: the aim of Climate Smart Agriculture (CSA) is to enhance Each year, we supply billions of meals to consumers worldwide. Planned initiatives 2018/19 Goal 3: Good health and well-being Ethics, animal welfare and good The circular flow is like this: Food waste from fastthe capacity of the agricultural systems to support food security and incorporate the need for climate change adapTogether with our customers, we are constantly developing new food concepts, Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being food restaurants is converted into biochar by pyro­ and our focus is increasingly on healthy and sustainable food products. • Further develop the sustainable product range for all at all stages quality go hand in hand lysis at the seed company, and the carbon trail is tation and mitigation into sustainable agriculture development strategies. The concept of CSA is evolving and there is quantified by the carbon and biochar innovations no one-size-fits-all blueprint for how it might be pursued. • Partnerships with customers to accelerate Commitment: Target 3.D company. The biochar is then spread on the fields to W responsible consumption of food By 2030, Dansih Crown contributes to strengFor the benefit of both animal welfare and food both raw milk and roughage and are regularly inspecthtening the capacity of all countries, in pare are leaders in organic products and proSales are complicated by the fact that we must sell all • Refine the pathway for the future role of meat quality, in January 2018 Danish Crown Beef entered ed by a veterinarian. ticular developing countries, for early warning, ducts from animals raised without antibiotics, and we are trying to influence the parts of the pig, and that the different parts are usually sold in different markets with different require• Promote premium products based on highest risk reduction and management of national and global health risks. into a cooperation agreement with a large Danish wholesaler on selling meat from so-called crossbred This combination of high eating quality and high Early adopter of the Food Waste market to demand more sustainable solutions. In ments. Whereas consumers in our domestic markets levels of responsibility calves under the Dansk Gastro Kalv brand to Danish animal welfare standards is being sought by chefs Reduction Roadmap in the UK addition to tasty and healthy food, customers and may prefer and be willing to pay for organic, free• Set goals and actions to minimize food waste Goal 12: Responsible consumption and production restaurants and canteens. In so doing, we are adin professional kitchens, canteens and restaurants downstream in the value chain Ensure sustainable consumption and producconsumers are increasingly demanding new sustain­ range pigs or animal welfare-labelled pigs, it may be dressing a long-standing ethical dilemma in our inthroughout Denmark, and Dansk Gastro Kalv is thus Together with customers and consumers Together with customers and consumers tion patterns. able solutions. We are seeing new generations that difficult to recover the additional cost of producing dustry: that non-meat-producing bull calves are put giving farmers, wholesalers and chefs the oppor­ Cutting down on food waste is part of Danish This is a natural evolution of our engagement with the define themselves through the food products they eat, those pigs when many parts of the animal are sold Commitment: Target 12.5 down immediately after birth, because it does not tunity to work together to make the most of the Crown’s CSR Policy, and Tulip Ltd has taken this Friends of Champions 12.3 network, formally pledging and for whom eating less meat is a conscious choice. in more distant markets. By 2030, Danish Crown will substantially repay to rear them. available resources. The concept has been welstrategic focus area forward by committing to a alignment to the UN Sustainable Development Goal of Therefore, an important part of our 4WD business duce waste generation through prevention, comed in the market, and sales have been steadily number of initiatives in the UK food industry. As one reducing global food waste by 50 per cent by 2030. By reduction, recycling and reuse. strategy is to strengthen our posi­tion in the consuThis challenge will not stop us from driving developThe challenge is associated with rearing cattle for increasing since its introduction. of the largest food producers in the UK, Tulip Ltd is way of example, the Waste and Resources Action Promer market by focusing on products build on sument, but it is imperative for us to move the market Commitment: Target 12.8 milk production, which inevitably results in the birth one of the early adopters of a new industry Food gramme (WRAP) organisation indicates that 100,000 stainability parameters. from being a niche to the new normal. We do that by By 2030, Danish Crown will ensure that people of both heifers and bull calves. Danish Crown Beef wants to help eliminate the probWaste Reduction Roadmap launched in September tonnes of pork products which could have been eaten involving customers and consumers in the developeverywhere have the relevant information and lem of redundant bull calves, and has therefore be2018. Through the roadmap, 90 large retailers, food are thrown away every year in the UK. Tulip Ltd has awareness for sustainable development and Many farmers are keen to supply pigs which meet ment of future meals and focus particularly on colDansk Gastro Kalv is a so-called crossbred calf, where come involved in other projects in our value chain producers, manufacturers, and hospitality and food renewed its partnership with FareShare, and in 2017/18 Completed lifestyles in harmony with nature. consumer wishes with regard to animal welfare, laboration across the value chain and with the retail the mother is a milk-producing Jersey cow and the which address the challenge. This includes, for examservice companies are set to further reduce the UK’s they redistributed enough surplus food generated at Under implementation healthy living, environment etc. However, the producand food service industry to create a push in the father is a meat-producing bull. This yields veal of very ple, cooperating with parties in the value chain to food waste problem, and Tulip Ltd has committed to our production facilities for 40,000 meals to charities Under development tion of e.g. organic pigs entails increased costs, which market for sustainable products. high quality. The calves have extra space in the cow find a new business model which can contribute to setting targets, taking action, measuring and reportand community groups. 33 are partly covered by the market. sheds and straw to lie on. In addition, they are fed resolving the issue of putting down bull calves. ing on food waste by September 2019. 34 Market-driven Organic bacon When less meat animal welfare on the rise is a conscious in Denmark choice Danish Crown is one of the main suppliers under the Friland has increased its slaughterings of We are seeing a growing trend among conDanish state-run animal welfare label – ‘Bedre organic pigs by 30 per cent in the past year sumer groups, particularly in our European The Danish animal welfare label requires sigDyrevelfærd’ (Better Animal Welfare) – which we alone, thus consolidating its position as a and US markets, where eating less meat or nificantly stricter animal welfare standards have also helped to develop. The animal welfare label leader on the European market for organic meat substitutes is a conscious choice. than Danish and European legislation. The label is available in three variants, with one, two or three pork. This has enabled Tulip Food Company is subject to state-approved inspection and hearts. More hearts mean better animal welfare, but to increase its supply of organic bacon, and In Poland, market research by Growth from comprises five basic requirements: also higher prices. In other words, suppliers accomthus meet an increasing demand for proKnowledge (GfK) from November 2017 modate different consumer preferences, and signs cessed products based on organic raw mashows that ten per cent of young Polish • Curly tails – no tail docking and no tail biting are that this type of labelling is making an impact on terials. In January 2018, Tulip Food Company consumers declare themselves vegetarians, • More straw for rooting and nesting the market. Therefore, we are also seeing considertherefore launched organic bacon on both and some 57 per cent of Polish consumers • More space able interest in the scheme from countries close to the Danish and the Swedish markets. plan to reduce their consumption of meat • Free-range sows Denmark. and substitute meat with plant-derived • Max. transport time of 8 hours In Denmark, the market for organic bacon food products. In response to these devel• More hearts mean better animal welfare In 2018, we have seen market growth for products has increased by almost 25 per cent in value opments, our business unit Sokołów is but also higher prices with all three variants of the animal welfare label. In over the past year. In the same period, the bringing new veggie products to the Polish particular, sales of products with three hearts, which Danish bacon market has increased by five market to cater for this new niche alongside A label with two hearts requires an additional Danish Crown also cover organic and free-range pigs, have insupplies products per cent in value, while the volume is largea broad range of processed meat products. 30 per cent more space and more straw, while creased, and these products now account for nine per with animal ly the same. This is attributable, among a label with three hearts also requires outdoor cent of Danish Crown’s total sales of welfare pigs. A welfare labels to other things, to the organic products and Tulip Food Company’s new veggie cold cuts areas for the pigs and even more straw. meet customer YouGov survey among Danish consumers published consumer willingness to pay a little extra have also got off to a flying start on the in January 2018 also shows that 77 per cent of Danes requirements. for animal welfare and quality. Following Danish market, and total sales of 78 tonnes The Ministry for Environment and Food of Many of our support animal welfare, and that a majority are willDanish Crown’s acquisition in June 2018 in 2017/18. The Denmark is behind the label, which has been customers want ing to pay a higher price. At the same time, awareto sell products of the Dutch company Baconspecialist level of interdeveloped together with partners from the ness and confidence in the label has spread faster with the Danish Zandbergen, Tulip Food Company now enest in the entire food chain. The label was launched for than expected. The aim was for 40 per cent of Danes state animal joys a particularly strong position in terms new products pork products in May 2017, and is expected to to be able to recognise the label, and that 60 per welfare label, of being able to offer customers and conis considerTogether with customers and consumers be introduced for chicken in 2018. while others have cent should have confidence in it by the end of 2018. sumers organic bacon products across able among However, by the end of 2017 – only seven months their own animal national borders. both customers welfare labelling after the launch – 49 per cent of Danes already knew and consumschemes. In colabout the label and 67 per cent expressed confidence laboration with ers, and we in it. To cater for consumer preferences, in 2019 we our cooperative expect to are expanding the range of processed products under members we launch more Lorem ipsum dolores the state animal welfare label. Altogether, in 2017/18 have upgraded vegetarian our sales of branded welfare pigs accounted for about the Danish Bornproducts in the holmer pig proIn September 2018, Sokołów ex20 per cent of total sales. coming year. duction to meet tended the ‘Z Gruntu Dobre’ prodthe requirements uct line with three new veggie and of yet another preservative-free products: natural animal welfare humus, humus with black cumin 35 label. and humus with dried tomatoes. 36 36 Reporting principles Indicator Units Data and indicator definitions Group financial key figures Revenue Billion DKK Figures derive from the Danish Crown Annual Report 2017/18 for Leverandørselskabet Danish Crown AmbA. Revenue per business activity % Figures derive from the Danish Crown Annual Report 2017/18 for Leverandørselskabet Danish Crown AmbA. EBIT per business activity % Figures derive from the Danish Crown Annual Report 2017/18 for Leverandørselskabet Danish Crown AmbA. Meals supplied Number Figures derive from the Danish Crown Annual Report 2017/18 for Leverandørselskabet Danish Crown AmbA. Cooperative members Number Figures derive from the Danish Crown Annual Report 2017/18 for Leverandørselskabet Danish Crown AmbA. Delivery: Pigs and sows Number Figures derive from the Danish Crown Annual Report 2017/18 for Leverandørselskabet Danish Crown AmbA. Delivery: Cattle Number Figures derive from the Danish Crown Annual Report 2017/18 for Leverandørselskabet Danish Crown AmbA. The report describes our sustainability strategy and Reporting approach Data quality to be improved in 2018/19 activities for the past year in view of the issues that The basic reporting principles are unchanged comIn 2017/18, we completed a data quality analysis of Employees Number Figures derive from the Danish Crown Annual Report 2017/18 for Leverandørselskabet Danish Crown AmbA. are most material to Danish Crown and our stakepared to last year’s CSR report, and the data preour existing sustainability KPIs and data points and holders. The materiality assessment has contributed sented in the report are self-assessed. This CSR reconcluded that quality levels are not satisfactory. to the content of the report. port is generally inspired by the Global Reporting CSR indicators Initiative (GRI) Standards, however without meeting In 2018/19, we will initiate a process aimed at ensurScope of data in the report the in-accordance criteria. ing a high quality standard for all our CSR data Entities included in the CSR report 2017/18 are the points and measurements and thereby a robust Animals from organic, free-range and Number Total number of animals slaugtered which were raised organically as free-range and/or without antibiotics. enterprises included in the Danish Crown Annual Some of the data included in the report are approxibasis for monitoring and reporting on our sustainraised-without-antibiotics production Report 2017/18 (refer to this report for specifications mate figures based on calculations for slightly overability efforts. on the inclusion principles and a complete group list). lapping periods. Feed effiency Feed units Figures derive from Seges: 'Country average for productivity, Pig production Denmark 2017'. The CSR report covers the financial year 2017/18 from In the case of restatement of previously reported Total energy consumption MWh Includes the total consumption of fossil and renewable energy sources. 1 October 2017 to 30 September 2018. data or changes in calculation methodologies or Included energy sources are natural gas, gas oil, fuel oils, other fossil fuels, electricity, district heating, biomass principles, explanations of background and impacts energy, other alternative energy types and own renewable energy production. Enterprises acquired or established during the reportare given.  ing period are included in the CSR report from the Consumption data are based on meter readings, or if such readings are not available, the basis is purchase documents date of acquisition or establishment. The acquisition Due to special circumstances, the figures for 2017/18 converted to tally with the reporting period in the best possible way. is counted from the date when control is actually acregarding total organic carbon in waste water and Defra Conversion Factors are used for calculating the conversion from volumes to energy content. quired. Enterprises sold or closed down are included non-organic waste do not include data for the busiin the CSR report until the date of divestment or cloness unit Tulip Ltd. Note: See Reporting principles regarding data correction. Reporting principles Reporting principles sure. The date of divestment is the date when control of the enterprise passes to a third party. During 2017/18 we have discovered an error in our internal documentation of the split in energy types in Danish Crown Pork. This effects the data for energy consumption. The diagrams reflect the updated figures. 37 38 Indicator Units Data and indicator definitions Indicator Units Data and indicator definitions Energy consumption per produced volume MWh per produced tonne Content in numerator: Total non-organic waste Tonnes Non-organic waste includes all waste types apart from biological waste. This means waste which is not animal by-products Total energy consumption according to the above calculation. or manure. Non-organic waste includes disposable waste, fuel waste, plastics, paper, cardboard, carton etc.  Content in denominator: The weight is usually measured at time of pick-up for transportation, though a standard measurement of weight Produced volume in tonnes. for a sample of batches is used at some facilities. Total water consumption 1,000 m3 Includes the consumption of water from own sources and from public or other external water utilities. Collected Non-organic waste per produced volume Tonnes per produced tonne Content in numerator: rainwater and other sources of surface water are included. Total tonnes of non-organic waste according to the above calculation. Consumption data are based on meter readings, or if such readings are not available, the basis is purchase documents  ontent in denominator: C converted to tally with the reporting period in the best possible way. Produced volume in tonnes. Water consumption per produced volume m3 per produced tonne  ontent in numerator: C Frequency of accidents at work Accidents per 1,000 FTEs Content in numerator: Total water consumption according to the above calculation. A lost-time accident is recorded if it occurs during working hours, and if it causes more than one day of absence after the day of the accident. Content in denominator: Produced volume in tonnes. Both permanent and temporary employees at Danish Crown are included. Employees working for Danish Crown’s contractors and subcontractors are not included. Total TOC in waste water Tonnes Total Organic Carbon (TOC) is a measure of the quantity of carbon contained in the organic material discharged with the waste water. It is an indication of organic content from meat, blood and fat in waste water. Accidents are considered work-related if circumstances in the working environment caused or contributed to the accident. Accidents during travel to or from work are not included. Applicable national standards include BOD5 (Biological Oxygen Demand with sample measurements over five days), COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) and BOD7 (Biological Oxygen Demand with sample measurements over seven days). Content in denominator: A common measure of waste water load is TOC, and BOD5/COD/BOD7 is converted to TOC by using conversion factors. The total number of FTEs in Danish Crown. To calculate total quantities of TOC in tonnes per year, we multiply concentrations of BOD/COD/TOC with total quantities Absence due to accidents at work Days of absence Content in numerator: of waste water over the entire accounting period. per accident Total planned working days of absence due to the lost-time accidents reported. If an accident causes more periods of absence, all days of absence are included. Absence within the reporting period due to accidents in previous periods are not included. At some facilities, the quantity of waste water is measured directly, and at other facilities the quantity of waste water is calculated by means of mass balance principles. Content in denominator: Number of recorded accidents resulting in more than one day of absence after the day of the accident. TOC in waste water per produced volume Tonnes per produced tonne  ontent in numerator: C Total tonnes of TOC in waste water according to the above calculation. Share of women in management positions % A manager is defined as an employee with managerial responsibility for other employees. Content in denominator: Produced volume in tonnes. Reporting principles Reporting principles 39 40 UN Global Businesses should Danish Crown example Page Compact 1 1. support and respect the protection of • Our sustainability strategy 12 internationally proclaimed human rights • Our most material issues 13 • Our CSR platform 14 index 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses • Our CSR policy 14 Human • Sustainable food production 24-27 rights • Together with customers and consumers 33-35 2 3. uphold the freedom of association and the • Our sustainability strategy 12 effective recognition of the right to collective • Our most material issues 13 bargaigning • Our CSR platform 14 4. uphold the elimination of all forms of forced • Our CSR policy 14 Labour and compulsory labour • Sustainable farming 19-23 5. uphold the effective abolition of child labour • Good jobs for everyone 28-32 6. uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 3 7. support a precautionary approach • Our sustainability strategy 12 to environmental challenges • Our most material issues 13 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater • Our CSR platform 14 environmental responsibility • Our CSR policy 14 Environment 9. encourage the development and diffusion • Feeding the world 17-18 of environmentally friendly technologies • Sustainable farming 19-23 • Sustainable food production 24-27 4 10. work against corruption in all its forms, • Our sustainability strategy 12 including extortion and bribery • Our most material issues 13 • Our CSR platform 14 • Our CSR policy 14 Anti• Sustainable food production 24-27 corruption UN Global Compact index 41
