United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Report 2017 Company Profile Knorr-Bremse is the leading manufacturer of CONTENTS braking systems and supplier of additional sub03 Foreword systems for rail and commercial vehicles, with sales 05 Sustainable corporate governance totaling over EUR 6 billion in 2017. In 30 countries, 05 Vision and values some 28,000 employees develop, manufacture, 06 Corporate Responsibility strategy and service braking, entrance, control, and energy 06 Organization of Corporate Responsibility 07 Materiality analysis supply systems, HVAC and driver assistance systems, 07 Involving stakeholders as well as steering systems, and powertrain and 08 Compliance and integrity transmission control solutions. As a technology 09 Due diligence for human rights leader, through its products the company has been making a decisive contribution to greater 10 Responsibility for products 10 Investment and innovation safety by road and rail since 1905. 12 Saving resources 14 Products that benefit people and the environment 19 Responsibility for employees 19 Fair employment practices 20 Promoting diversity 21 Personnel development S T R AT E G Y & MA N AG E M E N T 24 Safety at work 25 Protecting health 27 Operational environmental protection CO M M U N I C AT I O N & CO O P E R AT I O N 27 Environmental management 27 Climate protection targets 2020 28 Energy efficiency 29 Resource efficiency P R O D U C T S & PA R T N E R S 33 Supply chain sustainability 33 Supplier requirements 34 Supplier assessment E M P LOY E E S & L E A D E R S H I P 35 Responsible sourcing of raw materials 35 Efficient logistics 37 Social commitment E N V I R O N M E N T & C L I MAT E 37 Local Care: Involvement at local level 40 Global Care: World-wide involvement 42 Implementation of the ten CO M M I T M E N T & S O C I E T Y UN Global Compact Principles 45 Imprint 3 Ladies and gentlemen, At KnorrBremse, we strongly believe that sustainable corporate governance means behaving responsibly towards our customers, our employees and suppliers, the environment and society as a whole. That is why we systematically plan and implement programs to continuously improve our sustainability performance. Once again, we can be proud of the progress made during 2017. This year, our focus was on product innovation, purchasing, compliance and human resources. As a company with a long tradition of market-leading products that include braking systems and other subsystems, we are extremely well placed to help make rail and road transportation safer and greener. Our preventive maintenance, fleet management and electric drive products lead the way in terms of sustainability. In the rail transportation sector, the iCOM intelligent diagnostics system monitors and analyzes vehicle subsystem data. The resulting knowledge can be used to optimize the systems’ operation and maintenance and reduce overall operating costs. The Profleet Connect intelligent fleet management software supports cleaner and more cost-efficient truck freight transportation by continuously analyzing current vehicle data. It reduces costs, emissions and wear and tear by helping drivers to adopt a more fuel-efficient driving style and providing optimized route planning. With the recent integration of Kiepe Electric into the Group, we are also strongly placed in the field of e-mobility. Our portfolio now includes the development of complete electric drive systems for light rail vehicles, metros and regional trains, trolley buses and In Motion Charging (IMC) buses, which operate as battery-driven vehicles on route sections without overhead lines. Knorr-Bremse integrates sustainability into every value stage of the product life cycle, from the initial vision and product development right through to remanufacturing of products. Since 2017, a cross-divisional eco-design working group has been helping to deliver these ambitious processes. We have been working systematically towards a greater focus on sustainability in our purchasing processes. In keeping with this goal, in 2017 we developed and commenced the global rollout of a Supplier Code of Conduct. Knorr-Bremse also assessed the sustainability performance of 437 suppliers and had two independent sustainability audits carried out. A further milestone in 2017 was the restructuring of our compliance organization. A compulsory e-learning module for all our employees was among the measures implemented. As well as expecting employees to behave with integrity and in a legally compliant manner, we also recognize that training and motivation are key drivers of success. Accordingly, targeted training and continuous professional development measures further develop employees’ individual strengths. The annual global Knorr-Bremse Values Day aims to motivate employees and give them a chance to experience the personal satisfaction that comes from responsibility. In 2017, the corporate value of Passion found expression in the sharing of ground-breaking knowledge and a range of community activities. Our corporate responsibility activities are consistent with the principles of the UN Global Compact, which we first signed up to in 2010. In this report you can read about how we are engaging in this area. Klaus Deller, Chairman of the Executive Board of Knorr-Bremse AG FIELD OF ACTION CO M M U N I C AT I O N & CO O P E R AT I O N Knorr-Bremse endeavors to maintain an open and constructive dialogue with our various stakeholders, regularly providing them with transparent information on our performance in the field of sustainability. 5 SUSTAINABLE CORPORATE SUSTAINABLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE VISION AND VALUES GOVERNANCE CR STRATEGY AND ORGANIZATION Knorr-Bremse’s approach to corporate responsibility is based on the principle of sustainable development and covers not just products and their manufacture MATERIALITY ANALYSIS but also employees, the environment, climate protection and a commitment INVOLVING STAKEHOLDERS to playing an active role in society. COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT HUMAN RIGHTS VISION AND VALUES  Our Supplier Code of Conduct demonstrates our commitment to fair, sustainable business practices within Knorr-Bremse lives by the idea of sustainable, responsible our supply chain. corporate governance – a vision that sets our overarching  Purchasing Quality Standards establish the requireaims. Our values provide the basis for our actions and dements we make of our suppliers – including sustainabilscribe who we are. Internal guidelines and standards spell ity aspects. out precisely how we should implement these values on  In our Health, Safety and Environmental policy we commit a day-to-day basis. to high standards of performance.  Our Leadership principles provide guidance for successful Vision employee management and show what HR responsiAs a global driver of innovative, sustainable systems debility at Knorr-Bremse should look like in practice. signed to increase the reliability, safety and efficiency of  The Principles for Social Commitment set out the framemobility and transportation, we are motivated by a deterwork for our social commitment at site level. mination to create added value for our customers, while at the same time making a positive contribution towards Our sustainable corporate governance is also based on society. international guidelines and conventions. External documents of importance for Knorr-Bremse include the GuidCorporate values ing Principles on Business and Human Rights of the UN Entrepreneurship, Technological Excellence, Reliability, Human Rights Council, the Charter on Sustainable DevelPassion and Responsibility are the company’s five basic opment of the International Association of Public Transvalues that provide a foundation for responsible behavior port (UITP), and the UN Global Compact, which we signed by all our employees. up to in 2010. Principles and guidelines Our internal guidelines provide a basis for the actions of all our employees and for every business area within the Company. They specify how our values should be applied on a day-to-day basis: KNORR-BREMSE DAY PASSION  Our CR guidelines define the principles and strategic Every year, Knorr-Bremse Day focuses on one of our aims for responsible action at Knorr-Bremse. corporate values. In June 2017, the value discussed  Our Code of Conduct establishes our understanding of by employees at all our sites was Passion. In team responsible behavior for all employees world-wide. events, presentations, workshops and entertainment programs, they considered this value and its significance. Many sites honored outstanding achievements in this field by presenting the relevant colleagues with a Local Value Award. Day in, day out, system solutions from Knorr-Bremse make mobility safer all over the world. 6 7 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY OUR ACTIVITIES AND THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS MATERIALITY ANALYSIS With its Group-wide CR strategy Knorr-Bremse implevery high In September 2015, all member states of the United ments its commitment to responsible corporate goverNations agreed on the Agenda 2030, which essentially 1 1 Product-related environmental protection nance. The CR strategy spells out our understanding of lays out 17 universally applicable sustainable develop2 and sustainable innovations our responsibility for employees, partners, the environment goals (SDGs) aimed at responding to global eco3 2 Product and system safety ment and society, and specifies particular areas of focus. nomic, social and ecological challenges. Knorr-Bremse 4 3 Diversity and equality of opportunity supports the implementation of these SDGs and The aim is to establish a reputation – both internally and 5 4 Health and safety at work STAKEHOLDER EXPECTATIONS hopes to make a positive contribution towards achievexternally – as an exceptionally sustainable company by 6 7 5 Initial and in-house training ing them with its sustainability-based corporate stratethe year 2020. 8 gy. In 2017 we started to examine in greater detail the 6 Sustainable corporate governance and links between Knorr-Bremse’s goals and the SDGs, the 9 value creation Operational implementation of our CR strategy takes extent to which we are already contributing to them 7 Sustainability standards in supply chain 10 place in six central action areas: Strategy and Manageand the scope they offer for our corporate develop8 Raw materials ment, Products and Partners, Employees and Leadership, ment. Global Knorr-Bremse Day (see p. 5) will focus in 9 Compliance and fair competition Environment and Climate, Commitment and Society, 2018 on the SDGs. At all our sites around the world we 11 12 10 Energy and emissions Communication and Cooperation. will be looking closely at our current and future impact 11 Waste water and solid waste on the SDGs. 13 14 12 Transparency and credibility Every year, a CR program establishes specific targets and 13 Social commitment measures for these individual areas. It is approved by the 14 Biodiversity CR-Council, and regular checks are carried out to ensure 15 16 15 Logistics that its requirements are met. 17 low 16 Water 17 Employment conditions low IMPORTANCE FOR THE COMPANY very high ORGANIZATION OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Strategy and management Employees and leadership Commitment and society EXTERNAL ASSESSMENTS CONFIRM POSITIVE The Corporate Responsibility department looks after the SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Products and partners Environment and climate Communication and cooperation topic of sustainability and reports directly to the Executive As a supplier to the rail and truck industries, we receive Board. Goals and measures are discussed and decided by enquiries from many of our customers about our susthe Group’s Corporate Responsibility Council (CR Council), tainability performance. In the year under review, we which encompasses a member of the Executive Board, once again took part in assessments on the basis both two representatives of top management from the two of standardized and individualized surveys, and succorporate divisions, the chair of the charitable association ceeded in improving our performance in many differKnorr-Bremse Global Care, and the Head of Corporate Reent areas. 2017 also saw us participate in the CDP SupMATERIALITY ANALYSIS INVOLVING STAKEHOLDERS sponsibility. CR projects from the various specialist deply Chain survey for the first time. partments are reported directly to the CR Council. This At the suggestion of one of our customers a sustainA materiality analysis prioritizes the topics on which the Knorr-Bremse conducts an ongoing dialogue with its organizational structure ensures that the issue of sustainability audit was carried out at our facility in Alderscompany can meet its responsibilities. The results of the internal and external stakeholders. Groups of particular ability is firmly established in the top decision-making bach, Germany. Independent auditors examined its analysis show – against a background of environmental importance to the company are employees, new recruits, bodies within the Group, and relevant issues related to compliance with environmental, social and human and social challenges – what requirements are important customers and suppliers, the company owners, business day-to-day operations are incorporated into decisionrights standards and gave an extremely positive asboth for the long-term economic success of Knorr-Bremse partners, public authorities, trade unions, industry associmaking processes. sessment, only noting minor deviations. and also for the company’s stakeholders. Of particular imations, the media, policymakers, NGOs, and residents and portance for the company are the areas of product-relatlocal action groups in the neighborhood of our sites. ed environmental protection, compliance, product safety Knorr-Bremse maintains a regular, structured dialogue on rail and road, and supply chain sustainability. with stakeholders through its membership of many regional, national and international associations. FIELD OF ACTION S T R AT E G Y & MA N A G E M E N T We are committed to a model of sustainable corporate governance that integrates environmental and social aspects into strategic planning, management and corporate processes. 8 9 KNORR-BREMSE’S MEMBERSHIP OF ORGASUSTAINABILITY active communication by members of management is DUE DILIGENCE FOR HUMAN RIGHTS NIZATIONS AND ASSOCIATIONS (SELECTION) WITH DEUTSCHE BAHN also monitored.  A  merican Public Transportation Association In July 2017 a delegation of Knorr-Bremse employees As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, Knorr-Bremse is (APTA), USA discussed with Deutsche Bahn (DB) the scope for Transparent communication and proper training of emcommitted to observing human rights. In addition we  Association of American Railroads (AAR), USA closer cooperation on the topic of corporate responployees are important requirements if compliance inalso undertake to comply with the human rights conven A usschuss ‘Nachhaltigkeit in der Lieferkette‘ im sibility. At the invitation of Deutsche Bahn, Knorrfringements are to be prevented from the very outset. tions of the International Labour Organization (ILO) and Verband der Automobilindustrie e. V. (VDA), GER Bremse gave a presentation of its proposals to the Employees must be aware of what acting responsibly the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. These Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG), USA DB Competence Center Sustainability, what action actually means and what rules have been defined for it. commitments, together with the relevant national legis  A utomotive Parts Remanufacturer Association could Knorr-Bremse, as a supplier, take to help DB With this in mind, in December 2017 we launched a lation, provide the basis for our actions. (APRA) European Board, USA achieve its sustainability aims as part of the DB 2020+ overall strategy. world-wide e-learning program. By their compulsory  Energieeffizienznetzwerk Oberbayern, GER  F achgruppe ‘Umwelt‘ im Verband der Bahnindustrie participation, employees document the fact that they are The Knorr-Bremse Code of Conduct covers, amongst in Deutschland e. V. (VDB), GER familiar with our Code of Conduct and have understood other things, aspects of human rights such as freedom of  M otor & Equipment Manufacturers Association the requirements it contains. expression, freedom from discrimination and a ban on (MEMA), USA child labor and forced labor, and formulates principles  N ew York and New Jersey Minority Supplier Risk management and rules of behavior that are binding for all employees. Development Council, USA As a global company, Knorr-Bremse’s international busiAt the same time our Supplier Code of Conduct (see  Stifterverband der Deutschen Wissenschaft e. V., GER ness operations inevitably involve both risks and opporpage 33) requires our business partners to respect human  S ustainable Transport Committee of the Union des tunities. The aim of risk management is to reduce risks to rights. The recently launched obligatory training module Industries Ferroviaires Européennes (UNIFE), BEL a minimum and use opportunities to achieve a lasting on the Code of Conduct also provides all our employincrease in corporate value. The focus is on early identifiees with instruction on human rights. And the whistlecation of potential risks, thereby creating scope for effecblowing system for infringements of the Code of Conduct tive risk control. The risk management system established enables us to monitor adherence to human rights more for the Group is constantly evolving and in 2017 was closely. Regular audits by the independent internal audit adapted to the latest requirements. The structure and team also examine aspects of human rights at local level. procedures of the risk management system mirror the COMPLIANCE AND INTEGRITY compliance management. At present, the focus is on general organizational structure of the Company and are In 2018 we aim to further establish and expand our due world-wide corruption prevention, ensuring fair competilaid down in a Group guideline with a clear definition of diligence processes for human rights, basing our actions We put great emphasis on integrity and responsible contion conditions and avoiding conflicts of interest. These responsibilities and reporting structures. A survey of poon the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human duct in our dealings with business partners and employcore topics are the result of a comprehensive compliance tential risks takes place on a quarterly basis, as part of a Rights. ees. We comply with laws and internal regulations, and risk analysis that in future will be regularly updated. world-wide risk inventory that includes all companies our actions adhere to our voluntary commitments as a Regional compliance officers support the CCO and unwithin the Group. The regular risk reporting system inmatter of course. The Knorr-Bremse Code of Conduct derpin the presence of compliance management in the cludes a synoptic risk report that is submitted to the defines the basic principles for the appropriate approach regions. The task of these regional officers is to advise Knorr-Bremse Group Executive Board on a quarterly basis to our day-to-day activities – on the basis of our corporate and train local employees, deal with compliance issues and discussed in the corresponding Board meeting. To values and the principles of the UN Global Compact. The and identify local risks. ensure timely identification of significant risks, there is an Code ensures that there is a consistent understanding internal ad-hoc reporting process in addition to the reguof responsible entrepreneurial conduct that transcends One important element in our compliance management lar submission of reports. For all our business activities we national borders. Amongst other things, the Code of Conis the whistleblowing system that we introduced at the weigh up the chances and risks extremely carefully. Knorrduct includes a ban on corruption, including bribery and end of 2017. This enables employees worldwide, as well Bremse encourages all employees to become involved in blackmail, and also covers aspects of human rights such as people outside the Company, to file anonymous proactive reporting of risks and requires them to handle as freedom of expression, freedom from discrimination reports of criminal activities or serious infringements of such risks in a responsible manner. and a ban on child labor and forced labor. These princithe law. The portal is operated by an external service proples and rules are binding for all Group employees. vider on a secure, independent server, and reports can be A detailed description of the risk management system, UK MODERN SLAVERY ACT In 2018 we will flesh them out further, with new guidesubmitted in a total of 20 countries and 20 languages. Our including descriptions of the most significant risks, can be The issues of modern slavery and associated legislation lines on handling gifts and invitations, anti-corruption, guideline on the whistleblower system defines the legal found in the Management Report section of the Annual are growing in importance. In line with the UK Modern conflicts of interest and fair competition. framework for providing information and ensures that Report. Slavery Act, Knorr-Bremse has published a separate decconfidentiality and data protection are guaranteed. laration on modern slavery and human trafficking on its Compliance management website which contains our guidelines and measures on A newly-created compliance organization ensures that In addition, the internal Group Audit Department supthis topic and our plans for future improvements. we fulfil our obligations on a day-to-day basis. The Chief ports the Executive Board in its monitoring function by Compliance Officer (CCO) reports regularly to the Complicarrying out independent, objective audits aimed at ance Committee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer. improving business processes and identifying possible On this basis the members of the Committee discuss the infringements of the law. As part of the regular auditing most important compliance issues and set priorities for process, familiarity with the Code of Conduct and its 10 RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY FOR PRODUCTS FOR PRODUCTS PRODUCT INNOVATION SAVING RESOURCES As part of our comprehensive responsibility for our products we focus on developing PRODUCT LIFE CYCLE environmentally compatible products and innovative technologies for sustainable mobility. To achieve this, we integrate sustainability aspects into the development VEHICLE AND TRAFFIC SAFETY process, using environmentally compatible materials, remanufacturing products and developing technologies for efficient, networked transportation. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION NOISE PREVENTION CONNECTIVITY As a global technology leader in the development of INVESTMENT AND INNOVATION braking systems and subsystems for rail and commercial vehicles, Knorr-Bremse helps these sectors to future-proof Knorr-Bremse is determined to find solutions for tomormobility, ensuring that it is safe and more environmenrow’s world of mobility. With research and development tally compatible. In doing so, we focus on the following investment amounting to EUR 359 million, the Company aspects of our products: further strengthened its innovative capabilities in 2017. This was reflected in particular in its extensive portfolio   afety. All around the globe, our products make an S of patents, which currently covers some 6,800 active important contribution towards improving road and industrial property rights worldwide. As of 31.12.2017 rail safety. Knorr-Bremse had more than 3,700 employees working in research and development (2016: over 3,200).  Q  uality and reliability. As a manufacturer of safetycritical systems, quality and reliability are top priorities for us. Our products and services conform to stringent safety requirements and meet the highest quality stan2015 347 dards in all areas and processes. 2016 328 2017 359  C  ustomer benefits. We regard our customers as partners, maintaining close links with them in markets all over the world and collaborating with them on an R&D expenditure in EUR millions ongoing basis to develop customized solutions.  Technological competence. The name Knorr-Bremse is synonymous with technological expertise. Our experience, technical know-how, profound knowledge of markets and extensive investment in research and development enable us to offer innovative system solutions for tomorrow’s world of mobility.   Environmental protection and resource conservation. We are determined to make mobility cleaner, more energy-efficient, and quieter, while at the same time reducing its impact on the climate and its use of resources. Our research and development activities are therefore also focused on the requirements of environmental and climate protection. At the new Knorr-Bremse Development Center in Munich there is about one hundred state-of-the-art test rigs and other testing equipment. 12 13 Sustainability in product development SAVING RESOURCES THE ECOLOGICAL BENEFITS OF A ‘GREEN CARTRIDGE’ WITH The sustainability of Knorr-Bremse’s innovations is careREMANUFACTURED COMPRESSOR RECYCLED DESICCANT fully planned, with sustainability aspects systematically We are determined to minimize the use of natural Remanufacturing of a truck compressor genThe Bendix Green Cartridge is an air dryer incorporated into the development process from the resources, and try to do so at an early stage in the product erates 79% fewer CO2 emissions than procartridge that uses recycled desiccant from initial vision, via product development and manufacture, development process. Life-cycle analyses are helpful in duction of a new one. Product-related enerBendix but still offers the same level of qualright down to sales, maintenance and product remanuthis context. Another area of focus is product remanugy consumption is also reduced by 72%, ity of the original. In North America alone it facturing. Ideas for new products are evaluated in consulfacturing. and 75% less new material is required. In is estimated that some 500,000 air dryer addition, logistics costs are reduced, as the cartridges end up in landfill. The Bendix tation with the development engineers on the basis of distances travelled in connection with the Green Cartridge helps to reduce this quantity. sustainability criteria such as energy efficiency, emissions Sustainability in the product life cycle production process can be reduced by 80%. reduction, safety, materials, life-cycle costs and ease Our aim is to minimize the environmental impact of our of maintenance. This is followed by an approval process products. To do this, we carry out life cycle assessments for research and development funding that involves (LCAs) to examine the environmental footprint of selecttop management from the Corporate Responsibility ed products during their entire life – from initial producdepartment. tion to final disposal. These generate valuable data on the use of materials and resources during production and Industrial remanufacturing offers under the EconX® brand. Despite the transportaIn 2017 we set up a cross-divisional working group on also environmental compatibility during the product’s Extending the life of a product can make an important tion costs involved in returning used products, a remanueco-design with the aim of further integrating environservice life. They enable us to identify weaknesses and contribution towards greater sustainability. That is why factured product saves up to three quarters of the CO2 mental aspects into the product development process develop improvements. Such LCA analyses have already genuine remanufacturing of products is becoming inemissions generated by a new product. In 2017 alone, and using synergies from both divisions. Training sessions been successfully carried out for various product comcreasingly important: Used products are refurbished by we saved some 1,400 tonnes of CO2, 416 tonnes of mateand guidelines will support this process. ponents and systems and in some cases certified by the manufacturer in such a way that they can be rederial and 5,069 MWh of energy through remanufacturing. independent experts according to ISO 14040/14044. ployed in identical functions and with identical levels of Our calculations were audited and confirmed by the Sustainable business development Such analysis include Product Carbon Footprints (PCFs), safety. Compared with a newly-manufactured product, independent DEKRA Institute. Knorr-Bremse expands its systems portfolio with a combiwhich examine CO2 emissions across a product’s entire the environmental impact is reduced, as considerably nation of internal development and acquisition of other life cycle. fewer new materials and less energy are required. leading-edge business operations. The main driver of new acquisitions is an assessment of sustainable During the design phase for new products, care is taken Remanufacturing has always played a prominent role in mega-trends. In 2017, for example, the acquisition of to ensure optimum design for subsequent remanufacturthe Rail Vehicle Systems division. For example, when 2015 7.0 Kiepe Electric GmbH was successfully concluded. With ing. Our new internal Product Design Guideline in the Knorr-Bremse overhauls control, load-proportional and 2016 7.5 its efficient solutions and environmentally sustainable Commercial Vehicle Systems division details specific weighing valves for freight car brakes, only those parts 2017 7.5 concepts for local, emission-free public transport, Kiepe requirements, for example for the use of materials or ease that are subject to actual wear are replaced, and more Electric offers scope for new growth and applications. of product disassembly. than 90% of the material is reused. During the year under Percentage of total revenues accounted for In addition to its eco-friendly drive technology for light review, the Service Center in Berlin alone overhauled by remanufactured products rail vehicles, metros and regional trains, Kiepe Electric a total of 45,000 products of various kinds. In China, 2017 is also a specialist in modernization of rail vehicles. The saw Knorr-Bremse industrially remanufacture braking acquisition has also enabled Knorr-Bremse to expand its equipment for over 2,000 high-speed train cars, 1,700 looffer in the field of commercial vehicle systems – Kiepe comotives and almost 1,500 metro trains. In addition, Packaging Electric develops eco-friendly drive technologies for some 1,000 high-speed train entrance systems and 1,500 For packaging our products we mainly use recyclable trolleybuses and battery-powered buses. HVAC units were supplied in remanufactured form. materials and containers. Our Quality Management Knorr-Bremse is expecting demand for remanufactured Guidelines for both divisions also call on our suppliers In order to minimize sustainability risks when acquiring components to increase in the near future, especially in to avoid and/or reduce packaging wherever possible and new companies, aspects of CR and compliance are inChina, as many Chinese high-speed trains will soon be to use recyclable materials. tegrated into the due diligence process. In addition to due for a regular service, having travelled a total of more environmental impact these also cover social aspects. than 5 million kilometers. Increased spending on maintenance and replacement of braking equipment, enWhen new companies are integrated into the Group, trance systems and HVAC systems can be expected. Knorr-Bremse lays down specific requirements in terms of their approach to sustainability management and In the commercial vehicle division, customers return expects these to be implemented. Knorr-Bremse also used products to us for remanufacturing. We disassemregards itself as a learning organization, so the new comble them, clean individual components and examine pany’s approach to sustainability and its existing projects their reusability. Reassembly and inspection of the in this area are discussed, communicated and examined remanufactured products involve the same processes for their applicability to the entire Group. In this way we and approval steps as for the assembly of new ones. ensure that sustainability remains an integral part of our The portfolio of remanufactured products includes alcorporate strategy. most 400 individual article numbers that Knorr-Bremse 14 15 PRODUCTS THAT BENEFIT PEOPLE Vehicle and transportation safety  The Blind Spot Assistant allows the driver to check the Environment and resources AND THE ENVIRONMENT Safe road and rail transportation is our core competence area to the side and rear of the vehicle using a monitor For Knorr-Bremse, environmental compatibility and and a key requirement of our customers – and indeed all that provides a view of the road. When the truck is at an resource efficiency play an important role in the developAs well as meeting the highest quality and safety stantransportation users. The demands made on safety and intersection, the radar sensor and camera monitor the ment of innovative technologies. It is clear that reducing dards, Knorr-Bremse’s products also provide benefits for comfort keep growing, as more and more people and driver’s blind spot. If there is a risk of collision, the driver emissions in the transportation sector will become even society. In addition to informed and correspondingly goods are transported around an increasingly crowded receives an acoustic and visual warning so that he can more important as volumes continue to grow. In addition cost-efficient resource utilization, these include the world. Knorr-Bremse is responding to this trend by providtake the appropriate action. to global and regional requirements, communities are reduction of CO2 and noise emissions. We are particularly ing mechatronic air treatment, door control, brake control calling for zero-emission zones in specific locations such keen to take advantage of the major opportunities and steering systems, together with assistance functions  Intelligent Hydraulic Steering Assist (iHSA) is a hydraulic as inner cities. The same applies to noise restrictions in offered by vehicle connectivity for the development of for vehicle stabilization and collision avoidance. steering system with electronic actuation specially residential areas and in the vicinity of hospitals. This is cutting-edge solutions in this area. developed to meet the demands of automated driving leading to the development of novel vehicle concepts, PRODUCT EXAMPLES RAIL VEHICLE SYSTEMS in commercial vehicles. By providing a full range of safesome adapted in various ways, and some entirely new.  T he enhanced MGS3 wheel slide protection system alty features for trucks and buses, it helps to significantly Knorr-Bremse supplies customized or completely new lows rail vehicles to optimize their braking distances reduce the risk of accidents. As well as the safety funcsolutions for these vehicles. In the commercial vehicle across a range of different weather conditions. This tionality, it offers additional comfort features. For sector, for example, the enhanced accuracy of our electric KNORR-BREMSE IMPROVES SAFETY is made possible by an adaptive control system that eninstance, the degree of steering assist is adjusted to actuators is helping to optimize internal combustion enON INDIAN PASSENGER TRAINS ables optimized adjustment to the current wheel-to-rail match the vehicle’s speed. If the vehicle is performing gine performance, while we can also now provide comIn India, manually-operated doors with no automatic adhesion. yard maneuvers or driving in a city, a higher level of plete electric drive solutions for urban buses. locking system mean it is easy for anyone to open the steering assistance ensures a more comfortable steerdoors on a moving train. This poses a huge safety hazard   erailment detectors detect when one or more wheelD ing experience. on trains that can run at speeds of up to 130 km/h. It is sets have derailed, by registering and analyzing the estimated that open doors are responsible for between vibrations and bumps that typically occur in a derailtwo and three thousand deaths every year. Indian Railways is now addressing this problem – with the help of ment when the running wheels pass over the sleepers. Knorr-Bremse. We have developed a solution to fit the If a derailment is detected, the driver receives a warning current fleet with automatic doors that cannot be opensignal or an emergency braking function automatically ed while the vehicle is in motion. brings the train to a halt. Passenger safety on Indian trains will be improved   ur obstacle detection systems prevent injuries caused O by replacing manual doors with automatic ones. by closing doors. KNORR-BREMSE HELPS DRIVE FORWARD  T he iCOM intelligent diagnostics system monitors and HYBRIDIZATION OF DIESEL TRAINS analyzes vehicle subsystem data. This makes it possible In the past, brake energy recuperation was only possible to optimize the systems’ operation and maintenance in electric rail vehicles, but all that is now changing and reduce overall operating costs. with a new hybridized drive platform developed for Germany’s Erzgebirgsbahn. One core element of Deutsche PRODUCT EXAMPLES COMMERCIAL VEHICLE SYSTEMS Bahn’s showcase project is a new brake control system  T he Lane Departure Warning System features a camera from Knorr-Bremse. The EcoTrain should eventually that monitors the lane markings on the road ahead and reduce fuel consumption by up to 30% compared to warns the driver if the vehicle is about to drift out of its conventional diesel multiple units. As well as the economic benefits for the operator thanks to significant lane. Lane Departure Prevent combines this feature with energy cost savings and lower carbon dioxide emissions, an automatic braking and/or steering function. If the people living in the vicinity of rail stations also stand to driver fails to react to warning signals, the system brings benefit from the EcoTrain. Switching to the all-electric the truck safely to a halt. drive allows the trains to operate particularly quietly when approaching and leaving stations.  T he Advanced Emergency Braking System (AEBS) is an automatic assistance system that progressively applies the brakes if the truck comes within a minimum distance of the vehicle in front. 16 17 PRODUCT EXAMPLES RAIL VEHICLE SYSTEMS  T he Active Caliper Release mechanism fully retracts the Noise PRODUCT EXAMPLE RAIL VEHICLE SYSTEMS  Weighing  in at just 180 kg, the CFCB Light compact brake pads from the disc once the braking operation Most technologies aimed at increasing efficiency provide  The key connectivity product developed by Knorrfreight car brake offers maximum weight savings, helphas been completed, reducing residual friction by up to financial benefits for the operator through a range of Bremse for rail vehicles is the iCOM open digital ing to reduce CO2 emissions. 90% when the brake is not in use. The resulting reducsavings. However, rail vehicle technologies face the platform, which provides the basis for a wide variety of tion in fuel consumption can cut emissions by up to added challenge of reducing noise levels for people who functions and applications, from driver assistance  The modular IFE Generation 4 entrance system is 20%  one ton of CO2 per vehicle per year. live near railroad lines. Knorr-Bremse is very conscious of to measuring power consumption and a range of differlighter and uses 25% less energy than its predecessor. this concern and engages in a close dialogue on matters ent diagnostics functions. iCOM’s open architecture Moreover, the use of new insulating materials means  T he control module for automatic gearshifts enables the such as noise mitigation with both the vehicle operators means it can be employed by any subsystem or vehicle the door leaves now provide improved noise and heat driver to anticipate gearshifts and also speeds up the and the people who are directly affected by this issue. manufacturer. As a result, it provides the operator with insulation. shifting operation itself. Ideally combined with a fastWe recognize that our product portfolio must address the a direct overview of the status of different subsystems operating clutch, this reduces fuel consumption. important goal of reducing noise emissions. – regardless of whether or not they form part of Knorr The VV 180-T oil-free compressor is particularly light and  Bremse’s portfolio – across all their vehicle fleets. quiet-running. Its low-friction design means it uses up  K iepe Electric produces electric drives for bus applicaThe LL composite brake pad is used in whisper brakes. to 20% less energy than its predecessor. tions. It can supply complete systems for trolley buses LL stands for Low Friction, Low Noise – unlike conventionPRODUCT EXAMPLES COMMERCIAL VEHICLE SYSTEMS and battery-powered buses. A particular highlight is the al pads, the LL pads do not roughen the surface of the  Knorr-Bremse’s Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) system  New components and intelligent design make the  In Motion Charging (IMC®) function, which allows the wheel during braking. This reduces noise emissions from assists convoy vehicle drivers by automatically mainKnorr-Bremse HVAC air conditioning and ventilation systraction battery to be charged while the vehicle is in moving freight trains by some 10 dB(A), which is pertaining a safe distance from the vehicle in front for the tem up to 400 kg lighter than its predecessor, resulting motion. This makes it possible to significantly extend ceived as a halving of the noise level by the human ear. current speed. As well as helping to prevent rear-end in energy savings of up to 32 MWh per year per railcar. the bus’s zero-emission range on parts of the route The so-called K pad has a similar effect. While the LL pad collisions, ACC technology also enables efficient road where there are no overhead lines. It means that a reliis designed for retrofitting, the K pad is the version for capacity utilization. PRODUCT EXAMPLES COMMERCIAL VEHICLE SYSTEMS able new electric bus fleet – even with long articulated new-build vehicles. For some years now, it has been  T he ProFleet Connect intelligent fleet management or double-articulated vehicles – can still be introduced compulsory for such vehicles in the EU to be fitted with  Knorr-Bremse has already delivered a prototype imple software continuously analyzes current vehicle data in in areas with only a limited overhead line network. this type of pad. mentation of a fully self-driving truck with the aid of its order to provide the driver with visual information that IMC roads with overhead lines can make a valuable conAutonomous Yard Maneuvering system. Radar, video helps him to adopt a safer and more fuel-efficient drivtribution to sustainability – IMC buses require signifiOptimizing the noise levels of air supply systems is also cameras and other chassis sensors continuously survey ing style. Further fuel and driving time savings are cantly fewer batteries than standard e-buses which can key to reducing noise emissions. To this end, Knorrthe truck’s surroundings, allowing it to safely perform achieved through optimized route planning that is only be charged overnight and have to carry a full day’s Bremse supplies VV-T generation noise-optimized oil-free autonomous yard maneuvers. If an obstacle is encounupdated online even during the trip. Intelligent logistics energy supply around with them in their batteries. compressors and air dryer silencers that reduce the blowtered, the truck is brought to a halt and automatically module integration reduces empty runs, with every off sound pressure level by up to 20 dB(A). Intelligent continues on its way as soon as its path is clear. mile knocked off the journey time also contributing to Air Control allows the compressors to be controlled lower costs, emissions and wear and tear. according to their current operating situation. For  iTAP Fleet Remote is an integrated system for monitor example, the compressor speed can be reduced when ing tire temperature, tire pressure, distance traveled,  T hanks to its optimized design and combination of the train enters a station, providing a reduction in noise braking patterns and error messages. The data is sent via materials, the new Synact disc brake generation delivers levels of up to 6 dB(A). an integrated WLAN transmitter directly to the Fleet weight savings of up to 10% compared with the current Remote Server, where it is analyzed for critical mainSN7 series, resulting in significantly lower energy Vehicle connectivity tenance requirements and made available to the consumption. Knorr-Bremse regards the megatrends of automated drivoperator online. ing and connectivity as important drivers of innovation within the industry. The underlying goals of these trends include more efficient vehicle operation, accident prevention and improved infrastructure utilization. In order to keep costs down, it is necessary to use individual vehicle sensors for multiple functions, thereby increasing the systems’ complexity. There is huge potential to drive efficiency in both the commercial vehicle and rail vehicle sectors through vehicle-to-vehicle and vehicle-toinfrastructure communication, as well as telematic commuFIELD OF ACTION nication between vehicles and operators, GPS systems P R O D U C T S & PA R T N E R S and other information sources. Knorr-Bremse is using its We work on developing innovative products and solutions systems expertise to actively shape these developments. that combine customer benefits with a contribution towards sustainable development. Top levels of safety are our highest priority. 19 RESPONSIBILITY FOR EMPLOYEES As a family-owned company, we are particularly aware of our responsibility for our employees. We want to be a fair, reliable employer who takes account of individual strengths and circumstances. We have high expectations of our staff and support them with further training opportunities and varied career paths. The Knorr-Bremse Group’s progress over the years is FAIR EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES something for which all our employees can take credit. With their willingness to work hard and their excellent Knorr-Bremse respects and protects the rights of emperformance, they made 2017 a very successful year. ployees. Clear commitments set out in the Knorr-Bremse Knorr-Bremse wants to be seen as an attractive employer Code of Conduct are core elements of our corporate worldwide and to recruit and retain the most talented responsibility: complying with high standards for a safe, employees. We achieve this by creating safe workplaces, healthy working environment, providing fair working challenging jobs, scope for individual decision-making conditions, respecting freedom of association and ensurand opportunities for personal and professional developing equal opportunities for and equal treatment of our ment. We see these as the foundations for the company’s employees around the world. We firmly oppose all forms success over the long term. of forced and child labor. And we demand the same from our business partners and suppliers as well. At the end of 2017, Knorr-Bremse employed 27,705 people worldwide. This is an increase of 12.8% over the previous year (24,565). 80% were working at sites outside Germany – a strong indicator of the Group’s international focus. TOP EMPLOYER AWARD Our HR policy places a great emphasis on increasing the Group’s attractiveness as an employer, both in the eyes of the general 2015 24,275 public and among highly qualified young 2016 24,565 professionals – the group that is particularly 2017 27,705 important for the future of the Company. We have been recognized as a Top Employer RESPONSIBILITY FOR EMPLOYEES Number of employees in the Group at 31.12.2017 for engineers in Germany by the international Top Employers Institute (Amsterdam) since WORKING CONDITIONS 2014. In the judges’ views, Knorr-Bremse provides ‘an outstanding working environment EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY and a wide range of creative initiatives, from working conditions to performance manWORK-LIFE BALANCE agement programs that are fully in line with PERSONNEL DEVELOPMENT the corporate culture.’ SAFETY AT WORK PROTECTING HEALTH As an employer, Knorr-Bremse has received many accolades for its working conditions and performance management. 20 21 General working conditions In addition, employees benefit from a whole range of volIn view of demographic developments and a predicted Work-life balance In line with our position on fair working conditions, we set untary extra benefits, which vary from site to site. These shortage of skilled workers, particularly in technical occuOne of the aims of our HR policy is to promote work-life out minimum standards in our employment contracts. may include subsidized meals and transport, as well as pations, it is important for Knorr-Bremse to attract more balance – especially in countries which, like Germany, face Our employment contracts are based on voluntary agreesport and health provision. Depending on local possibilihighly-trained and qualified women. In 2017, the propormajor challenges as a result of demographic change. ments. Employees can exercise their right to terminate ties, Knorr-Bremse pays voluntary additional contributions tion of women in the Knorr-Bremse workforce was 20.2% To help employees reconcile the demands of work and the contract unilaterally as long as they respect certain to the company pension scheme, while complying with (2016: 19.7%). Whereas the world-wide proportion of family – from highly qualified women with children who notice periods. legal requirements and tax and social security legislation. women in management across all areas is 11.2% (2016: wish to stay at work, or fathers wanting to play a bigger 11.6%), the average proportion of female managers in part in bringing up their offspring, to those with depenEstablishing an atmosphere of trust and cooperation non-technical areas is 32.3% (2016: 32.8%). dents requiring care – Knorr-Bremse offers the following across all levels of the hierarchy is something Knorr-Bremse assistance, as required: regards as particularly important. This includes an objecPROMOTING DIVERSITY Knorr-Bremse makes a point of using and supporting tive exchange of views with employee representation programs that aim to increase the proportion of women  Flexible working hours and working time accounts  bodies such as the Group Works Council. We respect We consider the cultural diversity of our workforce to be in management positions. These include the Knorr Part-time employment employees’ freedom of association and assembly and one of our key economic success factors. People’s differBremse Management Evolution Program (MEP). The  Leave lasting several months (sabbaticals) their right to collective bargaining, where this is possible ences and their unique qualities are an enrichment for the proportion of female participants in 2017 was 36% (2016:  Teleworking and legally permissible in the country concerned. Members Company. As a Group that operates around the world, we 42%). In North America, our Bendix subsidiary offers  Support for the family e.g. assistance in finding childof employee representation bodies and trade unions are promote understanding and appreciation of different female managers the chance to take part in a special care and nursing care for dependents, holiday programs neither disadvantaged nor given preferential treatment. cultures and lifestyles and actively promote the integratraining program for women in leadership positions. Over  Family support programs, e.g. contributions to healthtion of employees from other countries. We support this a period of six months there are regular workshops, an care and health insurance, special financial assistance, Remuneration and employee benefits with intercultural training, language courses and periods important aspect of which is the opportunity to days off to care for sick children or other dependents, Knorr-Bremse is a fair employer and we make sure that our spent working abroad. In order to ensure the necessary exchange ideas with women in management positions maternity leave and parental leave even in countries employees are paid a fair market rate. At many of our sites proximity to our markets and customers and make use of in other companies in the sector. with no legislation in this area we pay wages and salaries that exceed the minimum country-specific language skills and cultural competence,  Offers such as health programs and facilities rates negotiated in collective bargaining processes. Our we attach particular importance to employing local As part of a joint initiative with the Technical University of high qualification requirements mean that statutory executives at our international sites. Munich, we provide support for female students of scienThe ‘Audit Beruf und Familie’ certificate from auditing minimum wage levels are not relevant for the majority of tific and technical subjects. In a program entitled mentorcompany berufundfamilie gGmbH, which is highly our workforce. We do not differentiate between female Equal opportunities ING, the female students are provided with mentors who regarded in Germany, provides confirmation of the familyand male employees when it comes to pay. RemuneraTreating our employees equally, regardless of gender, age, help them to build up their first networks relevant to their friendly personnel policies in place at Knorr-Bremse. tion is based exclusively on an employee’s qualifications, nationality, religion, health or other circumstances, is studies and future professions. The program also includes Knorr-Bremse has held the certificate since 2012. performance and personality. something we do as a matter of course. When recruiting seminars and training courses tailored to specific target new staff and managers, all that counts is their qualificagroups. At management level, all positions are graded according tion for the job. This principle is firmly enshrined in the to a standard global system and measured against exterKnorr-Bremse Code of Conduct. We have created contact Severely disabled employees and those with serious PERSONNEL DEVELOPMENT nal benchmarks to ensure that managers receive fair points for employees needing advice: all employees can health conditions receive special protection and assis­salaries that can be compared across national borders. take questions to their managers, the Compliance tance at Knorr-Bremse. The disabled employees’ represenExcellent products and services can only be developed in The more responsible the position, the higher the variable Organization, the HR department or the Works Council. tative helps to find the right workplace for them within an excellent team. Knorr-Bremse supports the developpay element, which is based on the company’s results and In addition, our whistleblower system gives employees the Company. The proportion of severely disabled emment of excellent teams with systematic, targeted staff on individually agreed targets. These targets are agreed the opportunity to report infringements of our equal ployees at our German locations in 2017 was some 6.0% development measures and the option of international between the manager and their superior during the Staff opportunities policy anonymously, wherever they are in (2016: 5.1%). assignments all over the world. In line with the principle of Dialogue (see page 23), a global appraisal system. the world. lifelong learning, we make it possible for our employees ­Depending on the role, the targets may also include to carry on training and earning qualifications – for their ­sustainability aspects. professional and personal development – throughout 16TH KNORR-BREMSE FOR KIDS PROGRAM their careers. Knorr-Bremse for Kids is a holiday program run at the Munich site. It gives children between Vocational training the ages of 12 and 14 a chance to get to know Young people can receive training in a variety of technical the company their parents work for. In 2017, and commercial occupations at our sites around the the children were given the task of building a world. The most popular specialist areas include industrial locomotive out of aluminum following clear mechanics, machining technology, electronics, mechaquality and cleanliness guidelines. They tronics and IT. As of December 31, 2017, a total of 248 FIELD OF ACTION presented the finished item to 70 guests. The young people were completing an apprenticeship with us. EMPLOYEES & LEADERSHIP program is designed to encourage girls and boys to choose technical careers. We create an attractive working environment based on trust, teamwork, diversity and equality of opportunity, as well as fair and respectful treatment of one another. 23 KNORR-BREMSE TRAINS EMPLOYEES Further training and qualifications OF THE FUTURE We want to improve our ability to identify our employees’ At its Acuña site in Mexico, Bendix is working potential and support them along their individual develin partnership with the ICATEC institute, offeropment paths. Managers talk to their staff about qualiing a one-month technical training course fications once a year. We have standardized our annual and the possibility of a job afterwards. appraisal meetings throughout the Group under the 200 young people between the ages of 18 heading Staff Dialogue and have refined the assessment and 25 who were not in work or education criteria and talent management system. This includes have already attended the monthly course. individual written target agreements as well as assessAround 80% completed it successfully and around 60% could be offered employment at ments of performance and potential. As a result, both Bendix. In addition, the site is supporting the sides are clear about the employee’s performance and extension being built by the local technical potential, and the employee receives a personalized training college CECyTEC and in future will be further development plan. offering a dual-track training program for selected students (see page 40). At the Knorr-Bremse Academy we bring together a numEmployees at the Commercial Vehicle ber of different qualification and training activities that Systems production site in Pune/India, are have been tailored to Knorr-Bremse’s requirements. The teaching vocational school students how to aim of the Academy is to offer a modern, future-oriented, repair brake components. The service training efficient training landscape, where the focus is on center for brake equipment set up in 2010 by employees’ further development. Knorr-Bremse and Don Bosco improves job prospects for young people. More than 1,500 Promoting new talent young people have now undergone training. As far as possible, we strive to fill our management vacanKnorr-Bremse Rail Systems in Budapest/ cies worldwide with in-house talent. Following the Staff Hungary invested in a new training center in Dialogue, employees who demonstrate potential are in2017, where an initial cohort of 30 students vited to an in-house Assessment Center where they are have started a dual-track training program. assessed by experienced managers and external experts. Here, Knorr-Bremse is working closely with Through these measures, Knorr-Bremse is making a conthe Technical Training Center Budapest, the certed effort to develop talented young employees and Loránd Eötvös vocational school and the secure the future of its workforce. Kálmán Szily technical school. Through this dual-track system we are not only training Personnel development at Knorr-Bremse includes a good skilled workers, but also passing on Knorr-Bremse's working culture. number of other important programs and measures:  Management Evolution Program (MEP): Here, trainees  spend 18 months familiarizing themselves with three different departments, gaining experience in international projects and working at a foreign location for six months. Mentors from management support the trainees.  International Management Potential Group (IMPG): This support program gives first-level managers around the world the opportunity to develop their abilities further through training courses and projects, to strengthen their leadership skills and expand their personal international network.  Engineering Development Program (EDP): This program enables American college graduates with degrees in technical subjects to receive two years of further training in mechatronics – for example, through crossdivisional transfers to other departments or through work experience in Mexico. The training provided at Knorr-Bremse’s sites world-wide meets the highest standards of quality. 24 25 Leadership Our occupational health and safety management system KNORR-BREMSE MELKSHAM WINS In 2017 we adapted the surface treatment process at our Personnel development is an important task for leadermeets the requirements of the international standard ROSPA AWARD site in Palwal/India, to make it safer: instead of using ship, and Knorr-Bremse has formulated guidelines that OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety AssessKnorr-Bremse Rail Systems in the UK has a chemical with a flashpoint lower than the average cover five core topics – Reflect, Step Ahead, Engage, Dement Series) and takes the form of our own company HSE received a gold RoSPA award, the prestigious summer temperature in India, the site now uses a velop and Execute – and describe ways of putting leaderprocesses, with internal audits being conducted at regular annual prize awarded by the Royal Society for water-based chemical. This has not only eliminated the ship into practice. intervals. 39 global production and service sites in our Rail the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA). RoSPA risk of fire, but also removed the solvent fumes. Vehicle Systems division are already certified according to Award applicants are assessed in terms of One expression of our culture of open dialogue is LeaderOHSAS 18001. In the coming year, we will be adapting our their health and safety management systems. Further measures include health advice, stress manageThe award provides evidence of the site’s high ship Feedback. This takes place at least every two years or occupational health and safety management systems in ment seminars, fitness programs and medical examioccupational health and safety standards. as required, and enables managers to receive feedback line with the new ISO 45001 international standard and nations. At many sites – for example in Germany, the from their staff regarding their style of leadership. The reapplying for certification for the sites in our Rail Vehicles UK and the USA – special health days with medical sults are used as a basis for jointly drawing up measures to division. We are taking our responsibility to all our emscreening, advice and sporting events for employees optimize their teamwork. ployees seriously and looking at both positive and negaare offered. tive aspects that have an impact on the Company. PROTECTING HEALTH International exchanges In-house medical care is available to our employees at all For many years now, Knorr-Bremse’s commitment to interUsing standardized processes, we record and analyze the An extensive range of measures aimed at maintaining our sites, in addition to important preventive check-ups, national exchange has resulted in improved intercultural key indicators for occupational safety, and derive approand promoting our employees’ long-term health and vaccinations and pre-travel consultations. In the USA, our skills, particularly among its management. The company‘s priate measures from these. In order to maintain and furtailored to the local needs of individual sites is available Bendix subsidiary offers its employees an extensive range international locations provide ideal conditions for such ther improve our high standards of health and safety at throughout the Group. Workplace design is constantly of activities and information on subjects such as breast exchanges to take place. Expatriates posted abroad for work, we provide internal training at regular intervals and improved, for example by the introduction of lowcancer prevention, healthy nutrition and physical fitness periods of between six months and five years are all supoffer those responsible for HSE the opportunity to take vibration electric machines for assembly work or through as part of its Bendix Be Healthy program. ported centrally by a team of specialists in the Internationpart in international congresses, conferences and projadvance planning of assembly processes to take ergoal Transfers department – from the initial preparations to ects. Awareness is also increased by internal work safety nomic aspects into account. their return and reintegration into their former workplace. campaigns such as Bendix Stars in the USA. All work teams In addition to long-term international assignments, shortare called on to undertake training in awareness of workterm exchanges related to specific topics are another place safety issues, and the best teams are rewarded on a main focus at Knorr-Bremse. By frequently giving employmonthly basis. ees project-specific assignments around the world, we help ensure skills acquisition, sharing of specialist knowledge and transfer of expertise. Working conditions at Knorr-Bremse comply with top safety and health standards. SAFETY AT WORK We ensure a safe and healthy working environment by Accident rate promoting the prevention of injuries and impairment to health. This principle is laid down in our Group-wide 2015 0.7 Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) policy. Key as2016 0.8 pects are risk assessments of machinery, workplaces and 2017 0.8 work processes, the promotion of safety awareness in the workforce through training courses and information camNumber of accidents resulting in absence paigns, the analysis of accidents and subsequent introfrom work per 200,000 hours worked duction of accident-prevention measures. 27 OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT OPERATIONAL CLIMATE PROTECTION TARGETS 2020 ENERGY EFFICIENCY ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Knorr-Bremse makes responsible use of resources and constantly endeavors RESOURCE EFFICIENCY to reduce CO2 emissions, minimizing – and where possible completely avoiding – undesirable impacts on nature. Knorr-Bremse is committed to comprehensive environSince 2001 we have also been driving a step-by-step mental protection in its production processes and process of Group-wide certification of all sites under the through the development of resource-saving products international environmental management standard and services. We are continually improving our environISO 14001. By the end of 2017, 59 production sites had mental protection measures, collecting and analyzing key achieved certification. environmental performance data and setting environmental targets at Group and site level. By regularly inspecting and servicing our plant and machinery and carrying out preventive maintenance and repairs on the CLIMATE PROTECTION TARGETS 2020 entire infrastructure, we minimize the negative environmental impact of our operations. At the same time, we Our measures to reduce carbon dioxide emissions (Scope promote environmental awareness and appropriate 1 and Scope 2 as defined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol) conduct amongst our employees through a range of are grouped together under the Efficient Cut of CO2 communication measures and training courses, annually (ECCO2) initiative, which was launched in 2009. Our origiassessing the need for these on a site-by-site basis. nal aim was to achieve a 20% reduction in our specific CO2 emissions by 2020 and to increase our specific energy efficiency by the same amount. However we had already achieved this by the end of 2014, so we now have a new ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT target: climate-neutral organic growth up to the year 2020. In specific terms this means that in 2020 – despite Knorr-Bremse’s environmental principles are set out in our a sharp increase in production capacity – CO2 emissions Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) policy, which from operations at our sites will not exceed the figure for includes, amongst other things, regulations on the use of 2015. An annual Group-wide analysis identifies the bigenergy. In our HSE policy we commit to preventing or gest generators of CO2 emissions within the company and minimizing the impact of our processes, services and draws up a list of short, medium and long-term measures products on the environment and our fellow human to reduce CO2 output. Another target – which includes beings. In order to achieve this aim, the Group has intronew sites added to the Group as a result of acquisitions – duced an environmental management system at all its involves energy efficiency being improved by a further production sites. This is coordinated by central HSE 10% by 2020 compared with 2015. departments for the Rail Vehicle Systems and Commercial Vehicle Systems divisions. A cross-divisional HSE Board enKnorr-Bremse also aims to implement an energy managesures maximum coordination and standardization of HSE ment system according to the international ISO 50001 work in both divisions and encourages the leverage of standard at its most energy-intensive production facilities. synergies. A Group-wide HSE report provides regular inBy the end of 2017, 34 European legal entities within the formation from production sites worldwide on the Group had a certified ISO 50001 energy management most important health and safety and environmental system. Our global guideline for the purchasing of elecprotection data and events. tricity aims to increase the proportion derived from renewable sources provided by external companies. Knorr-Bremse minimizes or avoids any impact on people and the environment caused by its processes, services or products. 28 29 ENERGY EFFICIENCY BENDIX RECEIVES ENVIRONMENTAL ALDERSBACH Energy consumption* PROTECTION AWARD FROM OHIO EPA At the Aldersbach/Germany facility, energy savings of Knorr-Bremse identifies potential for energy savings In October 2017 the EPA (Environmental Protection some 400,000 kWh have been achieved in production 2015 311,000 throughout the company, with a main focus on buildings, Agency) in Ohio gave Knorr-Bremse subsidiary Bendix a and assembly operations by reducing the pressure of plants and production processes. At some of our sites we silver Encouraging Environmental Excellence (E3) Award compressed air from 7.0 bar to 6.0 bar. This has not only 2016 306,000 have installed sub-meters to provide a detailed breakfor preventive environmental protection. The E3 program increased energy efficiency at the facility but also im2017 352,000 down of energy consumption that helps us to identify honors companies and organizations for outstanding proved the safety of employees who use tools powered voluntary achievements in environmental protection. areas where savings can be made and to develop with compressed air. Absolute energy consumption in MWh Bendix received the award for several measures: measures to reduce energy consumption. Examples of local best practice are publicized throughout the Group in  Reducing  waste and conserving resources in production SUZHOU order to encourage synergies. For example the following processes by prolonging the life of brake components. The new facility at the major rail site in Suzhou/China energy-efficiency measures have been adopted within  Recycling  80% of original materials for refurbishment of sources some of its energy from its own photovoltaic the Company. new components plant, which generates some 240,000 kWh of electricity 2015  53.5 every year. A lighting concept that includes a new day Waste  reduction measures that ensure that some 84% 2016 light reflection system means that in many areas of the 55.6 of waste no longer has to go to landfill. plant additional lighting is not required. A further 210,000 2017 56.4  Saving  some 495,000 kWh of electricity through new kWh of electricity is saved by feeding compressed air genlighting systems. erated for compressor testing back into the general comSpecific energy consumption pressed air system for production operations. in kWh per thousand euros turnover BOWLING GREEN With a new lighting concept, the installation of energyefficient air compressors and further energy-saving Emissions* measures, a total of USD 350,000 are saved every year in  Bowling Green/USA. For this achievement this site was presented with a Green To Gold Award by the Bowling 131,000 CLIMATE PROTECTION AT KNORRBREMSE 2015 Green Area Chamber of Commerce. 117,000 FOCUS ON THREE AREAS  13,000 134,000 2016 119,000 RESOURCE EFFICIENCY 15,000 FOCUS ON ENERGY 152,000 FOCUS (Scope 1, Scope 2*) Knorr-Bremse endeavors to make sparing and efficient 2017 ON PRODUCTS 133,000 (Scope 3**) ECCO2 PHASE II (2015 – 2020) use of materials in its production processes. In particular 19,000 Assessment of environmentally Emissions reduction target: this applies to steel and iron materials, light metals, friendly product portfolio -10 % of relative CO2 emissions polymers, fuels and lubricants and packaging materials. Total CO2 emissions Implementation of life cycle (CO2 emissions/thousands of euros) In the product development process there is therefore a Indirect CO2 emissions (scope 2) assessments Aim: climate-neutral organic growth Analysis of environmental impact growing focus on the scope for using environmentallyDirect CO2 emissions (scope 1) Energy efficiency target: of substitute materials improving energy efficiency friendly, resource-saving materials. The aim is to continuSustainable energy management target: ously increase the proportion of such safe, environmenDirect and indirect CO2 emissions in tonnes Introduction of an internal energy management tally friendly materials used. Thus, for example the new system according to ISO 50001 painting facility for door leaves at the IFE production plant FOCUS in the Czech Republic has been designed to ensure a ON LOGISTICS (Scope 3**) 2015 22.4 sustainable production process, with no use of cleaning agents containing solvents during chemical pre-treat2016 24.5 Optimization of the transport network, warehousing structures and route planning ment. Furthermore, the use of adsorption zeolite filtration 2017 24.3 Use of fuel-efficient vehicles by means that any solvents that have to be used during the logistics service providers Reduction of transport-related later hardening process are retrieved and recycled. Waste Specific CO2 emissions in kg per CO2 emissions **Direct and indirect emissions from the air from the zeolite wheel is also used for controlling the thousand euros turnover use of natural gas, heating oil (Scope 1) temperature in the workshops and storage area. and electricity, district heating (Scope 2). **Indirect emissions from use of fuel and from product manufacturing and use *In 2017 new and hitherto unconsolidated sites were included in (Scope 3). the calculations. These accounted for around 9.6% of overall energy consumption. 30 Waste generated at Knorr-Bremse consists primarily of Water is used by Knorr-Bremse primarily for surface treatscrap metal, paper, and packaging as well as residual ment and cleaning of products, for test applications and waste. In addition, surface treatment of our products for drinking water and sanitary purposes. We obtain our results in electro-plating sludge. Measures are being fresh water from local authority suppliers and dispose taken to steadily reduce waste and improve material of our waste water via public sewage systems. In order to cycles. Smart utilization of waste offers considerable save drinking water, some of our sites use rainwater for Photovoltaic arrays help potential for reducing the use of resources. Our subsidiary cleaning, in their sanitary facilities and for watering green generate electricity at various Bendix has launched a comprehensive waste managespaces. It is our aim to use water with maximum efficiency Knorr-Bremse sites. ment program that aims to reduce landfill waste to zero and to recycle it as often as possible. For example, the site by 2020. The company has already achieved almost 84% in Palwal/India operates a treatment plant for process of its target. Waste audits help Knorr-Bremse identify the water that makes it available for re-use in industrial scope for waste reduction. A solvent recycling plant has processes, thereby significantly reducing fresh water rebeen in operation in Palwal/India since 2017 and already quirements. And new dry ice cleaning technology in recycles some 60% of solvents, significantly reducing the Suzhou/China helps to ensure more efficient water use. amount of toxic waste generated. When parts are sent to be overhauled or repaired, they are usually covered in oil and dirt. As well as cleaning them more thoroughly, blasting them with a jet of dry ice saves some 600 tonnes of fresh water every year compared to conventional techniques and prevents the same amount Water consumption of waste water from being generated. 2015 80.0 2016 75.1 2017 77.9 Specific use of fresh water in liters per thousand euros turnover FIELD OF ACTION E N V I R O N M E N T & C L I MAT E Our aim is to use resources responsibly, consistently reduce CO2 emissions, minimize – and where possible avoid – undesirable impacts on nature and the environment and actively use opportunities to protect the environment. 33 SUPPLY CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLY CHAIN SUPPLIER REQUIREMENTS SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT SUSTAINABILITY SOURCING OF RAW MATERIALS Our suppliers are an important part of our value chain and make a crucial contribution to the Company’s success. Working with them, we intend to improve the entire EFFICIENT LOGISTICS value chain and meet our social and environmental responsibilities. This is the key to future-proofing the Company. Knorr-Bremse’s Group-wide Supplier Management 49% of suppliers have now confirmed receipt and their System works with our partners to continuously improve acceptance of the Code of Conduct. During the coming the sustainability of our supply chain. For this reason, year, distribution of the Supplier Code of Conduct will when suppliers are selected, in addition to purely comcontinue. mercial considerations such as quality, price, delivery reliability and availability, other aspects such as trusting The cross-divisional purchasing guidelines for indirect cooperation, safety and environmental protection are materials (not used in production) require sustainability also taken into account. As an international company, criteria to be taken into account when selecting suppliers. Knorr-Bremse works with a large number of different supIn addition there are precise guidelines on the use of pliers whose goods and services are mainly purchased renewable energy and the purchasing of energy-efficient locally. For both divisions the local content – the proporproducts, equipment and services. tion of the total volume purchased that comes directly from suppliers in the region surrounding the manufacturSuppliers of direct material must comply with the relevant ing site – is around 70%. Such a high level of local content quality management guidelines for the business unit promotes sustainability by supporting the regions, reducconcerned. Both divisions expect the ten principles of the ing transportation requirements and cutting CO2 emisUN Global Compact to be adhered to, and ISO 14001sions. compliant environmental management systems to be in place (and if possible, certified). More than 70% of our toIn 2017, both Knorr-Bremse divisions drove forward tal purchases come from suppliers who have agreed to be process optimization across the entire supply chain, with bound by the principles of the UN Global Compact. Supa view to integrating sustainability more closely into their pliers collectively responsible for more than 58% of the supply management. total purchasing volume in the Commercial Vehicle Systems division have a certified environmental management system. We are currently working on updating our quality manSUPPLIER REQUIREMENTS agement requirements, which will refer to the Code of Conduct for Suppliers and also establish minimum Our Group-wide Supplier Code of Conduct sets out the requirements for sustainability. Signing a new supply requirements that we make of our suppliers in terms of contract will involve a commitment on the part of new working conditions, human rights, environmental protecsuppliers to adhere to our sustainability standards and tion, safety, business ethics and compliance. The Code apply them to their upstream supply chain. was drawn up in 12 languages in 2017 and in the first rollout phase was sent to some 3,600 direct suppliers. Knorr-Bremse is constantly improving logistics processes across the entire value chain. 34 35 RAILSPONSIBLE KNORR-BREMSE HONORS RESPONSIBLE SOURCING OF Another important part of our global transport strategy At the start of 2015, the Rail Vehicle Systems SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIERS RAW MATERIALS involves making optimum use of existing container division launched the Railsponsible initiative In May 2017 Federal-Mogul Bremsbelag capacity. To improve the environmental impact of logistogether with Alstom Transport, Bombardier GmbH was named Supplier of the Year 2017 Every year Knorr-Bremse spends more than EUR 300 million tics, we largely avoid break bulk transportation. In 2017 Transportation, Deutsche Bahn, Nederlandse in the Sustainability category by the on raw, ancillary and operating materials. Most of the raw we achieved 70% utilization of containers used by the Spoorwegen, and French rail operator SNCF, Commercial Vehicle Systems division. The materials consist of metals, friction components, electronCommercial Vehicle Systems division on main routes, and with a view to achieving sustainable purevaluation was based on the following criteria: ic components and plastics. In 2017 we set up an ecowe are continuing to adjust quantities and packaging chasing within the rail industry. The initiative high level of sustainability assessment, envidesign working party that we tasked with analyzing indiconcepts to make even better use of the weight and also aims to encourage railway industry ronmental management system, responsible vidual risk materials in detail with regard to sustainability volume limits of shipping containers. customers and suppliers around the world to HR management, voluntary commitment to subscribe to ethically and socially responsible and drawing up appropriate recommendations for action. ethical conduct and sustainable supply chain environmental and business practices. Since management. The strategic supplier’s activiIn order to improve the efficiency of our transport netit was first set up, a number of additional ties demonstrated genuine commitment to In our sustainability questionnaire (see page 34) our supwork and reduce transport-related CO2 emissions, we companies have joined the initiative: sustainability and corporate responsibility. pliers are questioned about the sourcing of minerals in require our logistics partners to use modern, fuel-efficient SKF (Svenska Kugellagerfabriken AB), SBB conflict and high-risk areas and required to inform us of vehicles that meet the current European emissions stan(Schweizerische Bundesbahnen) and RFI their status in this regard. Our subsidiary Bendix in USA dards for trucks. In 2014, Knorr-Bremse introduced (Rete Ferroviaria Italiana). requires annual disclosure of the origin of minerals used a contractually-agreed reporting system according to by its suppliers. We are also working within the German DIN ISO 16258 in order to monitor transport-related Automotive Association (Verband der Automobilinduspollutants. This obliges transport service providers not trie) on finding effective solutions for the entire sector. only to adhere to the statutory emissions standards but also to take the most direct route for their deliveries. Knorr-Bremse is also continuously improving its internal logistics. EFFICIENT LOGISTICS SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT supply chain management now depends partly on their participating in a sustainability assessment. In both divisions, Knorr-Bremse is working on improving Strategic and preferred suppliers for both Knorr-Bremse logistics along the entire supply chain – from suppliers, via divisions are asked by external service providers about Independent sustainability audits of two high-risk supthe production processes at all our sites, right down to their sustainability performance, and their responses pliers were also carried out in 2017, and further audits delivery of the finished product to customers. The aim is validated and assessed. Currently, 437 of our suppliers, for high risk suppliers are planned. We also intend to into standardize and optimize processes and methods accounting for 42% of our purchasing volumes, have creasingly include sustainability aspects in our internal at our sites, and improve inter-site cooperation. The result undergone such an assessment. quality audits. Appropriate audit questions are being will be better service in all distribution channels – pardrawn up and employee training will be offered. ticularly in relation to delivery reliability, quality, and We intend to increasingly integrate this sustainability lead times. assessment into the process of awarding supply conWe are determined to further integrate sustainability tracts. The first steps in this direction were taken during into our purchasing processes, and are currently workWe already make full use of the scope offered by rail, road the year under review: In the Rail Vehicle Systems diviing on our approach to supplier development. If an auand sea transport to minimize the environmental impact sion, preferred European suppliers and those of strategic dit or assessment reveals infringements or scope for of moving our products. For intercontinental transportaimportance are required to have undergone a valid susimprovement, we intend to work with the supplier to tion we try as far as possible to make use of rail or sea tainability assessment. In the Commercial Vehicle Systackle these deficits and improve their sustainability freight and avoid air freight. Consolidation of deliveries WAREHOUSES MERGED FOR GREATER tems division the decision to include a supplier in our performance. also reduces the number of freight movements and cuts EFFICIENCY CO2 emissions. At our Suzhou site in China, the merging of three separate storage facilities into a single Knorr-Bremse is working on optimizing operational transwarehouse within easy walking distance of the factory has enabled us to avoid some port management with the support of external service 1,000 internal shipments per year. Processing providers who handle the planning, consolidation and costs have also been reduced, as goods from implementation of deliveries to Knorr-Bremse as well as different facilities no longer have to be contransportation of products to our customers. Optimum solidated into a single delivery. This not only coordination of the various transport modes has enabled results in cost savings and reduced throughput FIELD OF ACTION Knorr-Bremse to further improve the sustainability of its times but also cuts CO 2 emissions by some P R O D U C T S & PA R T N E R S logistics operations. Logistics service providers also bundle 7.4 tonnes per year. We take into account and support the endeavors of our incoming material flows at strategically-positioned business partners to improve their environmental impact consolidation hubs within Europe. and social compatibility. 37 SOCIAL COMMITMENT Knorr-Bremse concerns itself with social issues and plays an active role world-wide as a good corporate citizen. Responsibility’ is a Knorr-Bremse corporate value and one An autonomous organization based in Munich, it is fundthat the Group lives by, day after day – not only through ed by an annual donation from the Knorr-Bremse Group. its products, which make global mobility safer, and Both Local Care and Global Care offer employees a wide through its climate-friendly, resource-efficient production range of opportunities to become involved in community methods, but also through its active involvement in comprojects in the area around their workplace and beyond. munity projects. Taking part in the life of the community, having a positive impact in the areas around our sites, and playing a constructive role in shaping them are a key part of our company’s identity. Our community involveLOCAL CARE: INVOLVEMENT ment covers both global and local social issues. In 2017 AT LOCAL LEVEL Knorr-Bremse spent a total of some EUR 3.9 million on such activities. Local Care is the name given to the community activities carried out by our sites and their employees all over the Knorr-Bremse’s social commitment is based on two pillars: world on the basis of the Principles for the Social CommitLocal Care and Global Care. Local Care covers all the local ment of Knorr-Bremse which formulate goals and stancommunity activities at Knorr-Bremse sites. Knorr-Bremse dards and establish areas for funding and the criteria inGlobal Care is a charitable organization that promotes volved. The Local Care Donation Guideline establishes longer-term projects with bigger financial implications all standard principles for the local distribution of donations. over the world. Knorr-Bremse Global Care was founded at the beginning of 2005 by employees of the KnorrLocal Care covers donations, projects and activities that Bremse Group in the aftermath of the tsunami disaster in are selected, financed and supervised autonomously by Southeast Asia. the sites in question. Instruments include  V  oluntary donations of time and money in aid of charitable causes and for projects in our main funding Donation expenditure  categories: education, health, environment and social cohesion; 3,245 2015 1,745   C  orporate volunteering, in which staff are allowed time 1,500 off work to support charitable organizations; 2,902 2016 1,357  T he Get involved initiative, which provides donations 1,545 to support the personal voluntary work carried out by 3,918 employees in their free time for charitable organizations 2017 2,415 and projects in the support categories mentioned 1,503 above; SOCIAL COMMITMENT LOCAL CARE Knorr-Bremse Group  M  atched giving programs in which donations from of which to Local Care the workforce are topped up by the company, which GLOBAL CARE of which to Global Care matches or multiplies every donation made by employees. Donations made by the Knorr-Bremse Group (in EUR thousands) 38 39 Central record keeping for all projects facilitates the comWe place a special emphasis on networked projects that Both projects were financed by Knorr-Bremse Global Care the elderly and a facility for people with disabilities. In munication of transferable best practice. There is a dediinvolve both Local Care and Knorr-Bremse Global Care. and supported by local employees, who invested a Mödling, the residents of the women’s refuge are cated communication platform where users can share Two current examples that demonstrate how the two considerable amount of time and effort in them. The delighted with their refurbished kitchen area. Staff at the information and ideas between sites. Projects that enable pillars can be combined in a meaningful way are the Knorr-Bremse Rail Systems site in Budapest created a comKnorr-Bremse and Zelisko sites in Mödling worked hard to us to contribute our own expertise are considered particrefurbishment of a women’s refuge in Austria and plantmunity garden in a suburb of the capital, which is run and create an attractive temporary home for women and chilularly good examples of best practice. ing and maintaining a community garden in Hungary. maintained by Knorr-Bremse staff. The garden is for the dren who have been the victims of domestic violence. benefit of socially disadvantaged people, a local home for SELECTED LOCAL CARE PROJECTS BY SUPPORT CATEGORY ENVIRONMENT HEALTH EDUCATION SOCIAL COHESION  Planting and looking after a community garden for  Staff supervise a healthy breakfast for schoolchildren  Refurbishing nurseries and primary schools and helping  Refurbishing a common room in a support center for local residents in need (Budapest/Hungary) (Munich/Germany) with equipment and healthcare (Kecskemet/Hungary) people with disabilities (Melksham/UK)  Funding purchase of seed for a nearby area affected  Producing artificial hands for land mine victims in  Financial support for a facility for young patients with  Helping to refurbish a women’s refuge (Mödling/ by forest fires (Madrid/Spain) developing countries (Berlin/Germany) autism (Wolverton/UK) Austria)  River clean-up as part of an environment day  Financial support for an organization that promotes  Financial support in the field of robot programming  Christmas presents for children in the women’s refuge EUROPE/ EUROPE/ (Florence/Italy) physical health (Melksham/UK) for children (Budapest/Hungary) and in the Horizont-Haus for homeless mothers and AFRICA AFRICA  Financial support for the conservation of a nature  Staff involvement in supporting various cancer charities  Financial support for an education center for their children (Munich/Germany) and bird reserve (Budapest/Hungary) (Wolverton/UK) disadvantaged children (Cape Town/South Africa)  Funding school dinners for socially disadvantaged children (Madrid/Spain)  Donations of clothing and food for street children (Port Elizabeth/South Africa)  Beach clean-up (Hong Kong/China)  Financial support for an organization that promotes eye  Donation of school materials for disadvantaged young  Funding a roof over a school yard for disabled children health (Hong Kong/China) people (Pune/India) (Dalian/China)  Planting trees, which staff will personally look after and water for three years (Pune/India)  Financial support and participation in sporting events  Funding sanitary facilities and helping refurbish a school  Actively helping a food bank prepare and distribute (Suzhou/China) (Pune/India) meals to socially disadvantaged people (Hong Kong/  Participation in a lakes and rivers conservation project ASIA/ Funding scholarships and supporting a technical China) ASIA/ (Pune/India)  Participation in charity cycle races to support patients  AUSTRALIA with multiple sclerosis (Granville/Australia) university (Suzhou/China)  Financial support for a facility for the homeless AUSTRALIA  Funding a covered outdoor area at a facility for disabled (Granville/Australia) schoolchildren (Dalian/China)  Funding new equipment and the refurbishment of a primary school (Nankou and Daxing/China)  River bank clean-up (Elyria/USA)  Donating blood to the American Red Cross  Funding schoolchildren’s participation in a one-week  Collecting donations (money and donations in kind) (Westminster/USA) environmental project (Westminster/USA) for the victims of hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria  Supporting a rehabilitation and species conservation Funding scholarships for socially disadvantaged (Elyria, Watertown and Westminster/USA) center for wild animals (Itupeva/Brazil)  Collecting donations for socially disadvantaged families  to secure healthcare for them (Westminster/USA) youngsters (Watertown/USA)  Building homes for the homeless in Elyria and for victims  Scholarship for a student of sustainability and AMERICA Financial support for schools, especially in the sciences of the tornado in Acuña (Acuña/Mexico; Elyria/USA) environmental sciences (Watertown/USA)  Collecting donations for a heart health organization  AMERICA (Watertown/USA) (Quebec/Canada)  Renovating rooms for socially disadvantaged women Building and equipping an industrial laboratory for a (Westminster/USA)  Funding medical equipment for the local medical  service (Elyria/USA) high school (Acuña/Mexico)  Donations of toys for disadvantaged children (Watertown/USA) 40 GLOBAL CARE: Through its education projects, Knorr-Bremse Global Care WORLD-WIDE INVOLVEMENT aims to give young people new prospects and a chance to secure their own livelihood. Together with Bendix Since it was set up in 2005, Knorr-Bremse Global Care has Commercial Vehicle Systems and ICATEC, a local workworked with partner organizations to improve the living place skills institute, Knorr-Bremse Global Care has conditions of over 670,000 people in 59 countries through launched a training project in Acuña in Mexico. Each around 245 projects. Funds totaling around EUR 18 million month, the Light Manufacturing Skills for Youth at Risk have been made available. In 2017, Global Care supported program trains 15 to 20 young people between the ages 60 projects in 28 countries at a cost of around EUR 2 million, of 18 and 25 who left school with poor qualifications, reaching more than 36,300 people. or none at all. The full-time program runs over four weeks, each week consisting of four days of theory in the comKnorr-Bremse Global Care focuses most of its project work pany’s own training center, and a practical day on the on countries with Knorr-Bremse sites. In addition, the Bendix production line. The timetable includes topics like organization supports development projects in ten other safety, quality and measuring techniques, as well as countries with which it has a longstanding connection, practical skills such as driving forklift trucks and assembly. (Cambodia, Colombia, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Myanmar, Students who successfully complete the training receive Peru, Sri Lanka, Tanzania and Ukraine). Knorr-Bremse an ICATEC certificate. The program is tailored to meet local Global Care’s development activities are focused on two social challenges and also helps with staff turnover at main areas: WASH (water, sanitation and hygiene) and Bendix. The result is a win-win situation that helps the education. In individual cases, the organization supports young people improve their education and job prospects, emergency relief measures following disasters, including while at the same time generating added value for in regions outside its focus countries. Bendix. Recently, 60% of young adults completing the program have been offered employment with the comThrough its WASH projects, the organization aims to bring pany. about long-term improvements to clean water supplies and hygiene conditions, especially in developing counFurther project examples and information on the tries and emerging economies. In 2017, Knorr-Bremse activities of Knorr-Bremse Global Care can be found at Global Care supported World Vision in its efforts to www.global-care.eu and in the Knorr-Bremse Global Care develop a sustainable water supply system in the region 2017 Annual Report. around the city of Miraj in India. By installing drinking water treatment plants, it has provided access to clean water for 1,370 families in four of the villages severely affected by drought. 100 small-scale farmers and their families also received assistance to set up a drip-irrigation system for some of their fields. Indian experts trained the farmers in the best way to irrigate crops planted in rotation, and how to carry out simple repairs. FIELD OF ACTION COMMITMENT & SOCIETY As a member of society, we support social projects and play an active world-wide role as a good corporate citizen. In 2017, Knorr-Bremse Global Care funded 60 projects in 28 different countries. 42 43 IMPLEMENTATION OF THE TEN UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES Knorr-Bremse has been a signatory to the UN Global Comsystems that help us integrate the principles of the Global pact since 2010, and we report annually on how we Compact into our business processes. The index also implement the Global Compact’s ten principles in our provides references to the relevant content regarding the company. The following table provides an overview of the Global Compact and its implementation in 2017. voluntary commitments, guidelines and management PRINCIPLE KNORR-BREMSE GUIDELINES, PAGES/SEC TIONS PRINCIPLE KNORR-BREMSE GUIDELINES, PAGES/SEC TIONS REGULATIONS AND REGULATIONS AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS H U M A N R I G H T S E N V I R O N M E N T A L P R O T E C T I O N PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and Code of Conduct (p. 5, 8, 19) 5 Sustainable corporate governance PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support Code of Conduct (p. 5, 8) 5 Sustainable corporate governance respect the protection of internaCorporate Responsibility 8 Compliance and integrity a precautionary approach to Supplier Code of Conduct 10 Responsibility for products tionally proclaimed human rights. Guidelines (p. 5) 9 Due diligence for human rights environmental challenges, (p. 5, 9, 33) 10 Investment and innovation Health, Safety and 19 Responsibility for employees Climate protection strategy 12 Saving resources Environmental policy (p. 5, 24, 27) 19 Fair employment practices PRINCIPLE 8 undertake initiatives to promote with Group-wide targets (p. 27) 14Products that benefit people and Businesses should make sure PRINCIPLE 2 UITP Charter on 20 Promoting diversity greater environmental Health, Safety and Environmental the environment they are not complicit in human Sustainable Development (p. 5) 24 Safety at work responsibility and policy (p. 5, 24, 27) 19 R esponsibility for employees rights abuses. Compliance Management System 25 Protecting health Group-wide Environmental 24 Safety at work and Organization (p. 8) 33 S upply chain sustainability PRINCIPLE 9 encourage the development Management System (p. 27) 27 O perational environmental Supplier Code of Conduct 33 Supplier requirements and diffusion of environmentally Energy Management System protection (p. 5, 9, 33) 34 Supplier assessment friendly technologies. (p. 27) 27 Environmental management 35 Responsible sourcing of raw 27 Climate protection targets 2020 materials 28 Energy efficiency 29 Resource efficiency 33 Supply chain sustainability 33 Supplier requirements L A B O R S T A N D A R D S 34 Supplier assessments 35 Responsible sourcing of PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the Code of Conduct (p. 5, 8, 19) 5 Sustainable corporate governance raw materials freedom of association and the Corporate Responsibility 8 Compliance and integrity 35 Efficient logistics effective recognition of the right Guidelines (p. 5) 9 Due diligence for human rights 37 Social commitment to collective bargaining Compliance Management System 33 S upply chain sustainability and furthermore uphold the and Organization (p. 8) 33 Supplier requirements PRINCIPLE 4 C O R R U P T I O N P R E V E N T I O N elimination of all forms of forced Leadership Principles (p. 5, 24) 34 Supplier assessments and compulsory labor, 35 Responsible sourcing of PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against Code of Conduct (p. 5, 8, 19) 5S ustainable corporate governance PRINCIPLE 5 raw materials corruption in all its forms, includCompliance Management System 8 Compliance and integrity the effective abolition of child ing extortion and bribery. and Organization (p. 8) 9 Due diligence for human rights labor PRINCIPLE 6 Supplier Code of Conduct 33 Supply chain sustainability and the elimination of (p. 5, 9, 33) discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Imprint Publisher Knorr-Bremse AG Moosacher Straße 80 80809 Munich Germany cr@knorr-bremse.com www.knorr-bremse.com Responsible for the content Stefan Bräuherr, Knorr-Bremse AG Layout, design and production KB Media GmbH Photo credits Jann Averwerser, Munich Caroline Gräther, Munich Andreas Pohlmann, Munich Additional image rights P. 05: Imgorthand/istockphoto.com Since 1905, Knorr-Bremse has P. 16: Pavel Laputskov/istockphoto.com pioneered the development, P. 27: Matthias Lindner/istockphoto.com production, marketing and servicing of state-of-the-art braking systems. P. 31: LL28/istockphoto.com P. 32: Pixelci/istockphoto.com P. 36: Save the Children Deutschland e.V. P. 41: World Vision Deutschland e.V. English translation Hugh Keith Printing Weber Offset, Munich Paper: Lessebo smooth white
