Healthy Future SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 2 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 | 3 Our Company W.O.M. WORLD OF MEDICINE GmbH (WOM) is a pioneer and global leader in the field of Minimally Invasive Medicine. As an international medical device company, we have been developing and producing innovative products that make surgeries as easy on patients as possible for over 40 years. The needs of our customers are always at the center of our efforts. Worldwide leading system providers for medical technology rely on our competence and experience. 4 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 | 5 FOREWORD DEAR READERS, DEAR CUSTOMERS AND EMPLOYEES, INSIGHT(S) PAGE 7 WOM has earned wide acclaim in recent We are committed to the principles of decades in the field of Minimally Invasive responsible business practices that have Medicine: Our products help doctors and been succinctly formulated by the United WOM AS A COMPANY 13 clinics to examine and operate on their Nations Global Compact (UNGC). In Depatients with minimal intervention. cember 2016, we joined this worldwide network. This first sustainability report is also the first annual report for the WOM PRODUCTS 19 implementation of these principles in our Group. We wish to provide you with an in-depth PEOPLE AT WOM 25 look at where WOM stands in terms of sustainability management. We will not stop here: The work involved with this stocktaking effort has shown us interENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AT WOM 31 nally where we can improve in the next few years – our sustainability program gives you an impression of this. WOM’S COMMITMENT 37 The quality, performance, and safety of We would like to inform you about the our devices are the trademarks of our state of progress every year. Your suggesGroup. Our claim, however, goes much tions and opinions are a valuable help in further: WOM’s goal is also to be one of this endeavor, so please let us know what OUTLOOK(S) 43 the most sustainable providers in its secyou expect from WOM! tor – not only economically but also socially and ecologically. ABOUT THE REPORT & CONTACT 46 DR. CLEMENS SCHOLZ PUBLISHER INFORMATION 47 Managing Director 6 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 | 7 Insights(s) Our economic success is linked to our commitment to a socially and ecologically sustainable economy. MANAGEMENT BERLIN AND LUDWIGSSTADT 8 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 | 9 INSIGHTS(S) SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY WOM VISION DECEMBER 2016 and environmental protection, and the JULY 2017 development of the company. This award DECEMBER 2017  Worldwide OEM supplier of highSigned UN Global Compact prohibition of forced or child labor: These Achieved Silver Status is confirmation that we are on the right Signed “Diversity Charter” quality solutions for the field of WOM signed the United are some of the demands that WOM placThe consulting company EcoVadis, which path by merging our ideas and the innoWOM signed the “Diversity Charter” – Minimally Invasive Medicine. Nations Global Compact es on its suppliers in a Code of Conduct. specializes in sustainability assessments vation management. this is another commitment to diversity (UNGC), thus commitfor suppliers, took a close look at us on in our company.  Attractive employer in the medical >> See page 23 ting itself to its ten Prinbehalf of a customer. The result: WOM OCTOBER 2017 industry. ciples for Good Goverachieved 59 out of 100 possible perforExpanded Cleanroom Facility nance. mance points right from the start, and In Ludwigsstadt, we celebrated the expanJUNE 2017 thus reached silver status. Our goal: gold sion of our cleanroom facility, which allows WOM MISSION >> See page 16 Received “TOP 100” Award >> See page 26 status at the next time of monitoring. us to serve seven additional production WOM is one of the most innovative “TOP lines. The facility, supplied by a combined  Thanks to our profitability and 100” companies among SMEs in Germany: SEPTEMBER 2017 heat and p ower sustainable investments, we create –⅓ MARCH 2017 We received this coveted award in 2017 for DECEMBER 2017 “Received European Innovation Award” plant, is trimmed for healthy workplaces together. Published sustainability magazine the third time for exceptional innovation Conducted Employee Survey WOM is extremely innovative. This is evenergy efficiency. “Sustainable. Caring. WOM.” This is the and above-average innovation success. Three out of four employees (77%) who idenced, for example, by the “European CO2 emissions Compared to a con We meet the global requirements name of our brochure providing an overparticipated in our latest satisfaction >> See page 22 Innovation Award” in the category “Best ventional cleanwith proximity to customers and view of our sustainability commitment. survey rated their job at WOM as “very Innovation Management in Healthcare,” room facility, approx. one-third less CO2 are committed to Germany as a good.” >> See page 46 awarded to us by ideasEurope, a network emissions are generated. company location. JULY 2017 of innovation experts from companies. >> See page 26 Environmental Management The jury praised the clear structuring of OCTOBER 2017  We are committed to the patient APRIL 2017 System Audit our integrated innovation management Expanded Compliance Training and the customer. Started Corporate Volunteering Program Our locations in Ludand the large value added for the further We launched enterprise-wide training on DECEMBER 2017 In future, all employees of WOM will be wigsstadt and Berlin have work ethics, harassment at work, and Supported Refugee Project  We are committed to the environentitled to a paid leave of up to two once again passed the bribery. by UN Women ment and future generations. working days per year (Voluntary Time annual environmental WOM again supports the work of UN Off) if they are volunteering for charity management system auNOVEMBER 2017 Women in Jordan with a donation for  We create innovative solutions for projects at their location. dit according to the international standard Implemented Whistleblower-Hotline Christmas: Camp Za’atari provides shelter – customers, from development to ISO 14001:2004, carried out by TÜV RheinOur new Whistleblower-Hotline can be and work for women and girls who fled production and logistics to after>> See page 39 land. Both locations are preparing for contacted anonymously by all our employSyria. sales service. certification according to the new stanees worldwide. >> See page 38 APRIL 2017 dard version ISO 14001:2015. Implemented Code of Conduct for Suppliers Correct business practices and integrity, active commitment to occupational safety 10 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 | 11 INSIGHTS(S) WOM SUSTAINABILITY GUIDELINES WOM believes that to act successfully ENVIRONMENT WOM AS AN EMPLOYER also means to act sustainably. For more than 40 years, WOM’s business decisions Nature is the basis of our life – we at We are open, compassionate, and apprehave been made by accepting responsiWOM are committed to the efficient use ciative with and of one another – this is bility for the future and have turned us of natural resources. In this sense, operapart of our corporate culture. This results into a global leader in the field of Minitional environmental management is in the cultural diversity of our employmally Invasive Medicine. Sustainability continuously further developed and imees. Diversity makes us strong and conand social responsibility are our values proved through appropriate measures. tributes directly to our global success. and are part of our mission. The Product Life Cycle Management and WOM has numerous benefits for its workWe therefore full-heartedly face the chalour ongoing activities to reduce emissions force and pays fair wages. Occupational lenges that today are grouped under the reflect our responsible and careful use of safety and health are a high priority for term corporate social responsibility (CSR). natural resources. With our self-imposed us. We support the reconciliation of work, We define CSR as a holistic corporate conobjectives, we pursue raising resource effamily, and personal life with more than cept that integrates all sustainability dificiency and raw material productivity as 30 working time models. mensions, which includes all social, enviwell as the use of renewable energies. For ronmental, and economic contributions of this, WOM won the 2015 “Lean & Green We established the WOM ACADEMY feaa company within the scope of voluntary Award” and will continue on this path. turing a continually expanding course proacceptance of social responsibility, includ© zlikovec – Fotolia gram for the professional and structured ing regulatory compliance. further education and training of our emprovide the best treatment possible for As a globally active company, WOM has a ible contribution to our direct social enployees. To increase the ability to innoThis sustainability guideline describes our patients and improve human well-being. social responsibility towards customers, vironment in the long term. BigShoe e.V. vate, we have established a professional position on aspects of corporate social reThe focus on Minimally Invasive Medicine suppliers, business partners, and employis a charitable association we are cominnovation management system, the sponsibility and are the binding basis for was an early step in this direction and is ees. In this context, we always comply mitted to across all locations. This assoWOM InnoHub, to ensure our competidaily business at WOM. Processes, meacontinued staunchly by us. with all applicable laws and regulations, ciation provides urgent medical aid to tiveness and strengthen our profitability. sures, and actions should be aligned along respect ethical principles, and act sustainneedy children. those guidelines, in accordance with our We want to provide our customers with ably. The Code of Conduct defines the Synchro philosophy of lean production. consistent quality and position ourselves binding guidelines and standards of conWe support grassroots initiatives and soas a partner of a clean supply chain. We duct for all employees of WOM. cial activities of individual employees or trust and respect our suppliers and make groups of employees by granting up to SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY sure, in the spirit of partnership, that they WOM is actively engaged in charitable, two days of special leave per year. Berlin, December 19, 2016 also operate sustainably. Compliance at non-profit activities across all locations. Social responsibility is part of our DNA as WOM is integrated into the entire value Special focus is also on sustainability in a company in the field of medical technolchain and is thus an essential factor for the selection of local projects, because ogy. We create innovative solutions that the supplier qualification. we want to provide a significant and vis12 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 | 13 HEALTHY GROWTH WOM AS A COMPANY The highest quality in all respects and a great willingness to innovate have made us a market leader in our sector. DR. CLEMENS SCHOLZ MANAGING DIRECTOR 14 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 | 15 Berlin Ludwigsstadt and Reichenbach Orlando Hong Kong WOM AS A COMPANY A groundbreaking invention was the craCOMPLIANCE These guidelines are a binding guideline Gifts or donations of any kind by employdle of our company: In 1972 the engineer for ethically and legally sound conduct in ees of WOM to public officials, which inPeter P. Wiest developed the world’s first Our key values and principles were inieveryday work for all employees. The clude, for example, all doctors employed hysteroscopic insufflator, which made it tially defined by the “WOM Code of ConCode of Conduct also governs our collaboin the public sector, are only permitted if possible with the help of carbon dioxide duct,” the first version of which came into ration with our healthcare customers. written authorization of the employer is (CO2) in the uterus to create a stable cavforce in March 2013. As a result of the available. Only in exceptional cases can a ity to bring in an endoscope and surgical takeover by Novanta Inc., the Code of EthWOM does not tolerate any form of corsocially adequate gift or donation be reinstruments. Two years later, with his colcompanies W.O.M. WORLD OF MEDICINE ORGANIZATION ics has been in force since October 2017; ruption, bribery, corruptibility, or any leased after prior consultation with our league Hubert Fuchs, he founded a small USA, Inc. (Orlando, USA) and W.O.M. our rules for dealing with gifts and gratuother unlawful granting of advantages. legal department. company in West Berlin for further develWORLD OF MEDICINE Asia Ltd (Hong The managing directors of WOM during ities continue to apply: Our employees may not accept gifts or opment and sales. Today, this would be Kong). Our production sites are in Ludthe reporting period were Dr. Ing. Clemens other compensation exceeding reasonAnd for payments of studies or observacalled a start-up. wigsstadt and Reichenbach (Upper FranScholz and Oliver Kupka.  No acceptance of gifts, gratuities, able limits in connection with their busitional studies, WOM has the following conia). donations, etc., with a value exceedness activities; the acceptance of occarules: In such cases, we provide these diIn 1991, it was transformed into W.O.M. The head of our department “Global Huing €25. sional gifts is only permitted up to a value rectly to the medical institution or to a WORLD OF MEDICINE GmbH (WOM), Today, the WOM group is one of the man Resources & Innovation Manageof €25. Gifts with a higher value, which third-party funding account of the instiwhich made a name for itself worldwide world’s leading manufacturers of medical ment” is also the sustainability officer of  Maximum limit for gifts to third cannot be rejected in view of the business tution – not to the doctors entrusted with in the development of Minimally Invasive technology for the field of Minimally Invathe WOM group; he reports directly to parties: €25 relationship, must be transferred to the the implementation. Medicine (MIM) devices for OEM (original sive Medicine. We sell in over 30 countries the management. The human resources company. We auction them off in an interequipment manufacturer) customers. Toin Europe, America, and Asia. Our customdepartment manager at the Ludwigsstadt  No gifts, gratuities, donations, etc., to nal raffle and donate the proceeds to day, we design and manufacture cameras, ers are major, leading international sysproduction site also takes on a cross-lopublic officials. charitable causes. MEMBERSHIPS insufflators, medical pumps, and tubing tem providers for medical technology and cation function (around half of our emthat make diagnosis and therapy easier specialty retailers – among them Aescuployees work here). Together with the  Providing meals to public officials is When awarding gifts and other donations WOM is a member of the Berlin Chamber and safer for patients and doctors. lap, Stryker, and Olympus. head of our corporate communications, generally not permitted unless there (e.g., events without direct business relaof Commerce and Industry. We also belong they form the team “WOM Corporate is a written approval of the employer tionship) to business partners (suppliers, to the German Healthcare Export Group From 2012 to 2017, WOM was a wholly At the end of 2017, the WOM group emSustainability,” which coordinates the beforehand. In individual cases and service providers, or customers), WOM (GHEG) and are participants in the United owned subsidiary of the holding company ployed over 500 women and men (inwork in the group. after prior consultation with the legal acts extremely restrictively. Their finanNations Global Compact. ATON GmbH (Munich). In June 2017, ATON cluding trainees). We also remained on a department, WOM may approve a social framework must be such that their sold all of its shares in Novanta Inc. (Bossolid growth path in the 2017 financial cially adequate meal. acceptance by the recipient does not have ton, USA); the company is a leading global year, with sales growth in the doubleto be concealed and does not put him or provider of advanced technology soludigit percentage range compared to the  In the context of medical training and her in a binding dependency; here too, a tions to OEM customers in the industrial previous year. events, meals and entertainment must maximum limit of €25 applies. The award and medical device industries. be subordinate in relation to the duraof higher-value gifts is only allowed in WOM has its home office in Berlin. Its 500 tion of the event and may not represent the main attraction of the event. special cases and must be approved by our legal department. wholly owned subsidiaries are W.O.M. employees Novanta’s Corporate Guidelines and Code WORLD OF MEDICINE Produktions-GmbH of Ethics are available in the “Downloads” (Reichenbach) and the sales and service section of our website www.wom.group 16 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 | 17 WOM AS A COMPANY OUR COMMITMENT TO THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT A commitment to sustainable corpoHuman rights – Environment – Economic Indicators of W.O.M. WORLD OF MEDICINE GmbH rate governance by WOM is reflected by Companies are to ... Companies are to ... 2015 2016 Changes 2015-2016 our participation in the United Nations Total revenue (EUR K) 60,175 71,135 10,960 18.2% Global Compact (UNGC) since Decem01 support and respect the protection 07 follow the precautionary principle Sales by divisions ber 2016. By joining, we have commitof international human rights. when dealing with environmental Insufflators & Pumps 21,982 24,824 2,842 12.9% ted ourselves to the ten fundamental 02 make sure that they are not comproblems. principles of the Global Compact (see plicit in human rights abuses. 08 implement initiatives to promote Disposables 22,636 28,169 5,533 24.4% below). The UNGC is the world’s largest greater environmental awareness. Cameras & Photonics 4,717 5,386 669 14.2% network of companies dedicated to the 09 accelerate the development and Others 10,840 12,756 1,916 17.7% vision of sustainable development. The Labor standards – diffusion of environmentally Global Compact was launched in 2000 Companies are to ... friendly technologies. by then-Secretary General of the United Nations, Kofi Annan. 03 preserve the freedom of association and effective recognition of the Corruption prevention – Participants are required to publish an right to collective bargaining. Companies are to ... annual progress notice informing on of 04 support the elimination of all forms the state of implementation of the prinof forced labor. 10 advocate against all types of corciples. Our sustainability report is also 05 support the abolition of child labor. ruption, including blackmail and our report for the UNGC. 06 support the elimination of discrimibribery. nation in hiring and employment. WOM supported the work of the UNGC in 2016 and 2017 with donations to the German Global Compact Network; the purpose of the foundation is to finance the German Global Compact Network (DGCN), which unites the German participants and supports them with webinars, network meetings, and hands-on guidelines. WOM intends to use these services for the further development of its sustainability manAdditional information about the UN Global agement. Compact is available at www.unglobalcompact.org and www.globalcompact.de 18 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 | 19 HEALTHY PATIENTS WOM Products We are one of the world’s leading partners for Minimally Invasive Medicine – for the benefit of our customers and patients. ANDREAS LUTZ GLOBAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 20 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 | 21 WOM PRODUCTS WOM provides pioneering medical techThe healing and recovery time is also OUR CORE COMPETENCES nology to large customers, so that doctors shorter. The length of stay in the hospital FOR MINIMALLY in Minimally Invasive Medicine can work is shortened and financially relieves INVASIVE MEDICINE as safely and reliably as possible. Our healthcare systems in general. products enable surgical teams to treat  Insufflators & Pumps their patients optimally through gentle WOM products are now being used in Insufflators and pumps provide the procedures and to achieve excellent medthousands of clinics worldwide. right pressure conditions for working ical results. We are experts in the field of in body cavities during surgery. cameras, insufflators (which deliver CO2 Important areas of application gas into the patient’s body), pump sysare as follows:  Disposables tems, and tube set systems.  Gynecology: Hysteroscopies and Our in-house developed tube sets and other procedures filter systems for our devices are proAs an original equipment manufacturer duced and packaged in our own clean(OEM), WOM is today a quiet world market  Surgery: Laparoscopies and room. leader in its field, a “hidden champion.” other procedures For example, if an irrigation pump is used  Cameras & Photonics in womb surgery, this comes from our  Orthopedics: Arthroscopies Cameras and light sources ensure company in about two-thirds of the cases. and other procedures optimal visibility and colorfastness during surgery – GammaFinder and We offer service to our business partners  Urology: Cystoscopies, ureteroscopies, laser complete the portfolio. right from the start, from joint research and other procedures and development to certification and re Cardiac-Thoracic Instruments liable production “made in Germany.” In  Oncology: Localization of sentinel Especially for bypass patients, WOM addition, we offer medical disposable lymph nodes and other procedures provides an innovative tool for gentle and reusable products, complex assemvessel harvesting, thus shortening Since 2004, our production has been charThis applies to the entire process chain. Synchro is an important building block for blies and precision parts in the field of  Cardiac Surgery: Endoscopic vessel lengthy healing processes. acterized by the lean management phiIncoming orders, production, and delivery WOM to minimize, as far as possible, the medical contract manufacturing. harvesting in bypass surgery losophy “Synchro”: Lean and efficient proare synchronized in order to deliver the risk of insufficient deliverability, for ex Contract Manufacturing cesses ensure that we consistently detect parts required by the customer in the reample due to delays in the procurement Minimally Invasive Medicine has conPrecision parts and assemblies as well and reduce waste of any kind in the valuequired quantity and quality at the reof components or quality problems. This vincing advantages for patients, physias medical device contract manufaccreation process – we want to avoid misquired time with the least possible use of flexibility and delivery reliability also sets cians, and healthcare providers alike: turing. takes from the outset rather than having personnel, material, equipment, and us apart from the competition. Because only very small incisions are reto fix them. capital. quired, patients experience less pain and have a lower risk of infection. 22 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 | 23 WOM PRODUCTS RESEARCH AND In development and production, it is our strate the conformity of our products OUR CODE OF CONDUCT FOR SUPPLIERS DEVELOPMENT claim to use ecologically harmless matewith the Medical Devices Directive of the rials or to optimize energy and resource European Union. WOM acquires more than 5,000 items The code obliges compliance with the In the interest of our customers and their requirements. from around 750 suppliers, most of country’s law applicable to the supplier, patients, WOM invests heavily in research The approvals under the respective law which are based in Europe. We not only a non-discriminatory working environand development. Almost every fifth emThis also means that we think about the of the country in which our product is to consider the quality, safety, and cost of ment, humane working hours, and safe ployee at WOM works in this area. subsequent return of equipment. In orbe used are obtained either by our custhe goods when selecting our suppliers working conditions. The use of child lader to facilitate recycling, we will expand tomers, by an authorized dealer, or di– the integrity of our partners counts bor, forced labor, bribery, and corruption Through intensive development activithe specification for all new designs in rectly by us. At WOM, our Regulatory as well. is prohibited. We are also pleased if ties and close cooperation with rethe year 2018. Components should be Affairs department looks after the apsuppliers have certified environmental nowned reference physicians, university clearly marked in the future to identify provals. In Germany and the European management and if they keep their enclinics, and OEM customers worldwide, exactly which materials are included Union, the Medical Devices Act (MPG) vironmental impact as low as possible. WOM secures market proximity and even after many years of use. and the Medical Devices Directive of the maintains a high degree of innovation of EU must be complied with primarily. Our suppliers also have to assure us that its own products. We cooperate with We are also working to improve the entheir delivered materials or products do over 20 reference clinics, in Berlin, for vironmental footprint of non-reusable Our WOM ACADEMY trains customers not contain so-called “conflict minerexample, with Vivantes, Helios, and insufflator tube sets. We want to impleand their service technicians to know als.” This concerns the raw materials Charité. Their experiences and suggesment promising opportunities for imhow to install and service and, if necestantalum, tin, gold, and tungsten, if the tions flow into our product development. provement in the medium term. sary, repair our equipment. The specially extraction and trading of them contribdeveloped learning module “Advanced ute to the financing or other support of WOM products comply with the requirePlus” makes it possible to get a realistic armed groups in Central Africa. ments of the EU Directive on the Restricimpression of how our products work in tion of the Use of Certain Hazardous a real operating room. If a violation of the code is suspected, Substances in Electrical and Electronic the suppliers or business partners must Equipment (RoHS) as well as the EU For our production, we mainly use tubes assist us in clarifying the facts. In the Chemicals Regulation (REACH). made of plastics as well as boards and event of a violation, we reserve the right other electronic components. Starting at to reasonable responses that are depenthe latest in 2021, tube products will be dent on the severity of the violation – The “WOM Code of Conduct for SuppliPRODUCT SAFETY manufactured entirely without the plasthis can go as far as termination of the WOM is one of the most innovative “TOP ers,” which has been in force since April ticizer DEHP. contract. 100” SME companies in Germany: We 2017, formulates the central principles Patient safety comes first at WOM. In received this coveted award for outfor the ethical conduct of suppliers and particular, we ensure compliance with Animal testing is rarely required to test standing achievements in innovation service providers – in line with the printhe demanding legal requirements that the safety of our products; there was one management for the third time in 2017 ciples of the UN Global Compact. medical technology products have to test in 2017. We strive to minimize animal (awarded by compamedia). meet by means of certified quality mantesting by conducting product testing in The text of the Code of Conduct for Suppliers agement for medical devices (EN ISO an in vitro environment. is available on our website www.wom.group 13485), which also enables us to demonin the “Downloads” section. 24 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 | 25 HEALTHY EMPLOYEES People at WOM We offer people an innovation-friendly working culture with flat hierarchies and a pronounced team spirit. BARBARA SCHÖFFEL HUMAN RESOURCES 26 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 | 27 PEOPLE AT WOM At the end of 2017, the WOM group had flextime. They can use up to twelve days of WOM has participated since 2002 in the teams contribute their als and Chemical Industry). There were 478 employees at its five locations (exflextime a year. If the job and work environannual “Girls’Day” in Germany. In this knowledge and experionly twelve work and commuting accicluding managing directors, trainees, ment permit, employees also can someway, we want to encourage female stuence in order to jointly dents in the whole Group in 2017; luckily and students). This was a 7.4% increase times work from home offices. WOM will dents from the 5th grade onward to take develop and implenone had serious consequences. in personnel compared to the previous provide the necessary equipment in these a closer look at technical, hitherto malement future-oriented year. +20% cases. And those who have been with us for more than five years can apply for a sabdominated professions for their future career choice – and to get to know them solutions for the entire process chain. In the meantime, we have As a medical technology company, the topic of health also has significant internal A satisfaction survey conducted by the batical break of three to twelve months, at this “try-out day” in our company. had good experiences with “Design importance. That is why we support our Great Place to Work institute in 2017 perhaps to take that long-planned trip Thinking” workshops approach – in the employees to stay healthy and fit with a 77% shows that WOM is around the world, for example. interest of our customers. variety of events. Among others, we offer an attractive emregular check-ups, flu shots, and consultaployer. Of the emThe share of men and women working at tions at the sites, and organize workshops “very good” ployees who particiWOM is almost equal. At the end of 2017, REMUNERATION WORK SAFETY/ and health days. pated in the survey, 77% rated their job the group had a female quota of 48%. But HEALTH PROTECTION with us as “very good.” we still have to catch up in the next few Each year, we participate in a benchmark We also keep our eyes on upcoming acaEvery month, our employees can be masyears in order to increase the number of on wages and salaries, the results of demic talent. In 2017, 27 working students We want maximum safety at work for saged by experienced physiotherapists women in executive positions. which are our basis for remuneration. It and two dual-study program students our employees. Safe production facilities and there are also regular courses for DIVERSITY is a matter of course for us not to distinwere able to work for us, for example, to in medical technology and ergonomically back exercises and relaxation techniques. guish between the sexes when it comes write their bachelor’s and master’s theoptimized workplaces are therefore a If you travel abroad for WOM, you will People from around 30 nations work toto wages and salaries. Men and women ses. We also offer internships to students matter of course for us. Height-adjustreceive a first-aid kit as well as detailed gether at our locations in Germany, the are not paid differently for equal work (2017: 4). able work desks are as important as optiinformation on potential health risks in USA, and Hong Kong – we see this diverWith the signing of the “Diversity Charter” (“equal pay”). mally adjusted monitors and chairs. your host country. sity of cultures as an invaluable human in December 2017, WOM has underscored WOM supports its employees to congain. WOM’s “Conduct Guidelines on its commitment to a diverse work environstantly expand their professional knowlAccording to the legal requirements, safeWOM teams are active beyond the comNon-Discrimination” oblige all workers to ment. TRAINING AND edge and know-how. This starts on the ty officers and specialists as well as first pany premises as well. In company relay never “discriminate” on grounds of racial FURTHER EDUCATION first day at WOM. In the first months of responders are designated at the German races, football tournaments, and cycling or ethnic origin, sex, religion or belief, distheir work, all new colleagues will be aslocations. An occupational safety commitraces, they have already done very well ability, age, or sexual identity and to acWORKING HOURS WOM is an accredited training company. sisted by experienced mentors, who will tee (ASA) coordinates the measures – in several times. In Berlin, a team even meets tively commit themselves to eliminating At our locations in Germany, we train juprovide their new colleagues with advice 2016/2017, for example, this included the for a jog every week – a good opportunity such disadvantages and/or harassment.” We offer a variety of working time models nior staff in twelve technical and comand support. For all relevant topics and signposting of all locations with the new to get to know each other after work. Neither in 2017 nor in 2016 were comsuch as part-time work. WOM introduced mercial professions – including electrontasks, our WOM ACADEMY offers a comrescue, warning, and fire protection signs plaints filed under the “General Equal flextime as early as 1990. Our current “Flexics technician, mechatronics engineer, IT prehensive range of training courses. in accordance with the ISO 7010 standard. A proof of our commitment is the high Treatment Act” (AGG). time Rule” provides for a weekly standard specialist, and industrial clerk. At the end health rate of 95.5% in 2017. working time of 39 hours at the German of 2017, 21 young women and men comNew innovative ideas and projects are For accidents at work, our employees in 95.5% locations (USA and Hong Kong: 40 hours). pleted training with us, which was a designed by our teams in the WOM InGermany are insured with the professionThis makes it possible for our employees to training rate of 4.9% (based on the worknoHub. It is our think tank and idea forge al association ETEM (Energy Textile Elecwork in the mornings and afternoons in force at the German locations). where employees from the most diverse trical Media Products) or RCI (Raw Materi28 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 | 29 PEOPLE AT WOM OUR FRINGE BENEFITS Because we know that our business suc Subsidies for Childcare cess is due to the commitment and It is often a great challenge to reconcile knowledge of our employees, we not professional and family requirements, Personnel Figures of the WOM group only create attractive, future-proof jobs especially for single parents. WOM sup2015 2016 Changes 2015-2016 and a work environment characterized ports its employees at its three German Workforce (as of 31.12) by mutual respect – WOM offers some locations and participates in the costs Salaried employees 372 445 73 voluntary benefits as well. for kindergarten or preschool. Trainees 22 20 –2  Annual Profit Sharing  Subsidies for a Move Management 2 2 – When we achieve our set annual targets, If employees have to change their place Students/interns 20 16 –4 our workforce also benefits from a profit of residence for professional reasons, Female quota (as of 31.12) 45% 48% +3% points bonus, the amount of which is currently whereby the previous one is more than Training quota based on the positive return on sales for 100 kilometers away from the workplace, 6.2% 4.5% –1.7% points (Germany locations) the past financial year. Our trainees rewe provide a staggered subsidy to the Turnover quota 4.1% 3.5% –0.6% points ceive a bonus as well. moving costs. This applies to new enAverage age of employees 39 years 41 years +2 years trants as well as those changing jobs  Employer-funded within the WOM group. Health quota 96.74% 96.65% –0.1% points Pension Scheme Work and commuting accidents 8 8 – Because the statutory pension scheme  Special Leave will no longer be sufficient for many We support our employees with special people, a pension plan for companyleave if they marry, become parents, or funded pensions has been in existence if there is a death in the family. since 2002. In addition, our employees benefit from a collective benefit fund, to And there is no “kitty” for coffee, tea, and which WOM makes contributions annumineral water at WOM. These beverages ally after five years with the company. are always free for our teams. And finally, a part of the gross pay can be converted into a pension insurance, tax-free and social insurance-free; we as an employer make an attractive copayment as well. Additional information about WOM as an employer is available on our website www.wom.group in the “Careers” section. 30 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 | 31 HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT Environmental Protection at WOM We design production as energyand resource-consciously as possible. TIMO BAUERNSACHS GLOBAL PRODUCTION 32 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 | 33 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AT WOM The environmental management system uled for 2019. pooling, if this is possible locally. from a pitcher. in Berlin and at our production site in Two further measures: At the end of 2016, The jury praised the efficient energy MOBILITY PROCUREMENT In order to reduce the consumption of reLudwigsstadt in Upper Franconia has we have resolved detected leaks in the management in our newly opened cleansources and cut waste, we print on both been certified according to the internacompressed air network, which reduces room facility in 2014 and in particular the For business trips within Germany, for The purchase of office supplies and consides if possible and use packaging matetional standard ISO 14001:2004 since the electrical energy requirement for “high reform capability of the organizaexample, when traveling to our customers sumables is in the hands of our local sites; rial several times – for example, the return2009. Both locations in Germany are curcompressed air by about 5%. In addition, tion,” because at WOM, improvement or locations, we mainly use Deutsche Bahn they are encouraged, whenever possible, able packaging send back by our customers. rently preparing to pass the 2018 certificawe have replaced an unregulated air projects are mainly initiated by employand its BahnCard – on the long-haul routes to choose environmentally friendly matetion according to the new standard vercompressor with a regulated one. The ees, who receive fast and unbureauwe are therefore mobile with eco-electricrials or to reuse materials several times. sion ISO 14001:2015. Environmental goals improved control, the more even pressure cratic support for implementation from ity. For trips using regional traffic, we book WASTE for the entire Group are set by managecurve, and the waste heat that can be the environmental surcharge to compen At our three locations in Germany, for ment at the beginning of the year in used in the heating circuit reduces the sate for the CO2 emissions caused. example, we only purchase copying There is strict waste separation at all sites consultation with the environmental energy requirement by another 6%. paper that has either the PEFC or the in order to be able to recycle as much management officer (see also our sustainWOM has a small fleet of company cars FSC seal for sustainable forestry. We waste as possible. Of particular imporability program on page 44). At the same location, we replaced the (15 cars) at its German sites. We record the now use 100% recycled (FSC) paper to tance here is the waste at our production fluorescent lamps and energy-saving fuel requirement annually and have comprint our brochures. site in Ludwigsstadt. In 2016, WOM lamps with more efficient LED lamps. This pensated it since 2017 by acquiring atmosachieved an overall recycling rate of 85%. CLIMATE PROTECTION reduces the power requirement for lightfair CO2 certificates (2017: 111 t CO2).  In order to reduce paper consumption, the Berlin location uses replaceable WOM is strongly committed to climate protection and is making its contribution the management. At our second, smaller production site in By now we are also recording the greenhouse gas emissions resulting from uncotton towel rolls instead of disposable paper in its sanitary rooms. However, 85% to gradually reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Our German locations are al–25% nearby Reichenbach, we have also recently put a regulated air compressor into avoidable air traffic. In the 2017 financial year, this amounted to around 335 tons of this would not be economical for the small Hong Kong site; here, disposable ready climate-neutral in terms of electricoperation. The conversion from oil to a CO2 equivalents, which was almost 5% recycled paper is in the dispensers. ity. All three sites use eco-electricity. wood pellet heating system and the instalmore than in the previous year (see also Unfortunately, in Orlando and Hong lation of new windows with triple glazing our sustainability program 2018/2019,  The social rooms in Ludwigsstadt offer Kong, this is not yet possible due to a lack ing by 25%. were further energy-saving measures. page 44). ready-to-use dishes and utensils so Thanks to careful handling, we did not of supply (but their power requirements For its “outstanding energy improveour employees can easily dispense have any accidents involving the release are low as they are two smaller locations). ments,” our Ludwigsstadt site was awardIn 2015, an energy audit in accordance with We motivate our employees to use public with disposable plates and cups during of hazardous substances in recent years. ed the 2015 “Lean & Green Management DIN EN 16247-1 was carried out by EDAG transport as far as possible or to use cartheir breaks. Plastic water bottles are Our production location Ludwigsstadt has Award” in the category “Manufacturing Production Solutions GmbH & Co. KG at also not needed in Orlando. Our team the largest energy requirement. In 2014, SME Businesses” by Growth Consulting the Berlin, Ludwigsstadt, and Reichenbach in the US prefers filtered tap water we put into operation an efficient comEurope and Quadriga Consult. locations. Selected findings, such as the bined heat and power plant (CHP) here switch from conventional to LED lighting, that uses natural gas. A small solar therhave been incorporated into the environmal system serves as an environmentally mental action plan and implemented step conscious heating alternative for the four by step. The next energy audit is schedcompany apartments. 34 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 | 35 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AT WOM OUR CONTRIBUTION TO THE “AGENDA 2030 FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT” WOM supports the “Agenda 2030 for  Goal 8 of UN Agenda 2030 Sustainable Development” adopted by “To promote long-term, inclusive, and Ecological Indicators the United Nations in September 2015. sustainable economic growth, produc2015 2016 Changes 2015-2016 This agenda formulates 17 sustainable tive full employment, and decent work Eco-electricity requirement in kWh* 1,461,440 1,652,294 13% development goals that the world comfor all.” Heat requirement (natural gas) in kWh* 910,012 904,498 –1% munity wants to reach by 2030. Fuel requirement >> WOM is on a solid growth path. New, 20,012 16,634 –17% of the fleet in l diesel** We want to contribute to the success of attractive jobs, our investments in the Fuel requirement this United Nations Agenda, focusing on next generation, and a high tax revenue 4,760 3,343 –30% of the fleet in l gasoline** three main goals: are a contribution to the common good. Water consumption in m³* 2,174 2,947 36%  Goal 3 of UN Agenda 2030  Goal 13 of UN Agenda 2030 Office paper requirement in sheets* 1,250,000 1,450,000 16% “To ensure a healthy life for all people of “To immediately take action to combat Waste volume total in kg* 196,489 158,993 –19% all ages and to promote their well-being.” climate change and its effects.” Waste recycling quota in %* 90.3 84.7 –5.6% points >> In fact, this is our original company >> Within our environmental managemission. The medical technology from ment, energy conservation and climate * Data refers to the production site Ludwigsstadt. WOM contributes to the gentle treatprotection have a special significance. ** Data refers to the production sites Ludwigsstadt and Berlin. ment of patients and shortens the conWe want to expand this commitment valescence period. even further. In 2018, we want to use the “Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development” to develop a sustainability strategy for the group, which is to define our priorities and the “roadmap” for the coming years. 36 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 | 37 HEALTHY FELLOW CITIZENS WOM’s Commitment With great passion, our teams are committed to their fellow human beings at their respective locations. WOM EMPLOYEES LUDWIGSSTADT 38 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 | 39 WOM’S COMMITMENT WOM is committed to the common good OUR CORPORATE VOLUNTEERING PROGRAM at all locations. Particular focus in the selection of local projects is on continuity, because we want to make a visible contriWOM does not only support the social For example, there may be volunteers bution to the local people not just in the common good through donations. As a needed in the area of caring for disabled short term, but in the long term as well. medium-sized company, we want to do people, child and youth work, help for In order to support the commitment of more than simply donate money. That seniors or refugees, or the protection of our employees, we launched our own is why WOM also motivates its employnature and the environment. “Corporate Volunteering” program in April ees to become involved in, and volun2017 (see box). teer for, social and ecological matters. At the same time, we support personal development with this program. Anyone Our corporate volunteering program, who comes into direct contact with DONATIONS © BigShoe e.V., photographer: Joachim Umbach launched in April 2017, is a visible sign of people in need of help gets to know their this. All employees receive up to two diverse problems in everyday life up In fiscal year 2017, WOM spent around money for sick children, especially in deWhen it comes to ideas to help needy local days’ paid special leave each year if they close and personal rather than from the €22,000 on donations and sponsorship of veloping countries, in order to be able to people, the trainees of WOM are always volunteer during this time. Internally, newspaper, which also provides new charitable initiatives and projects. WOM finance vital surgical procedures for these particularly resourceful. An example: Our this program is called “Paid Voluntary insights and perspec tives. It also abstains from any political influence in its children. The association has been able to trainees at the Ludwigsstadt location Time Off” (VTO); a strong public title for strengthens local social cohesion at the business activities. There are no payments, help over 1,200 children since it was baked around 200 tasty muffins in April the program is planned during the locations. By the end of 2017, we had gifts, or donations to parties, politicians, founded in 2006. For large sporting events, 2017 and sold them to other employees. course of 2018. donated a total of 22 working days to or governments. the club can make a handcrafted large The proceeds of €310 was donated to the the common good. symbolic shoe – in the run-up to the EuroBigShoe charity. pean Football Championship in 2016, WOM hosted the public presentation of this In the same month, our young colleagues “BigShoe.” As a premium partner, we have helped the Evangelical-Lutheran Church €22,000 supported the children’s aid project in 2017 with €15,000. for the third time to load up relief supplies for transport to the Ukraine. A few weeks later, they supported the kindergarten In favor of refugee aid, WOM has for years “Haus für Kinder St. Michael Ludwigsstadt” GERMANY dispensed with the customary small by moving to a new home, which the Christmas presents for customers: Inkindergarten had to temporarily move Our locations in Germany have been workstead, we donated for the third year in a into due to a general refurbishment of the ing very closely since 2014 with the assorow to a UN Women project in 2017 – and main building. Social commitment has a ciation BigShoe. In the context of football called on our partners to follow suit. UN high priority in our training, because it tournaments, the children’s aid project Women has set up three sheltered camps promotes teamwork and the trainees from Wangen (in the Allgäu region) colfor female refugees in Syria, helping them learn to get involved. lects donations in “BigShoe Cups”, i.e., build a new livelihood. 40 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 | 41 WOM’S COMMITMENT USA The employees of the WOM branch in Orlando (Florida, USA) are involved in helping local people in need of assistance. An example: In 2016, our staff helped a day nursery in Orlando look after some 170 boys and girls of preschool and kindergarten age with low income parents. Referred by the local volunteer initiative Hands On Orlando, WOM helped beautify classrooms and their own vegetable garden. HONG KONG Local commitment and medical help also unites our small team in Hong Kong. Since 2016, the local colleagues have been supporting the association Succeed & Advance Hong Kong (SAHK). The initiative helps people in the megalopolis who have physical or mental development problems due to neurological disorders. In addition to financial help, our employees look after those in need of help during joint excursions. Further information about our commitment is available from the WOMBlog at https://blog.wom.group/blog/ 42 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 | 43 Outlook(s) We want to constantly improve and expand our sustainability management in a targeted manner. STEFAN KÜRBIS GLOBAL HR & INNOVATION MANAGEMENT – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY 44 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 | 45 OUTLOOK(S) WOM SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM 2018/2019 Company  Develop the sustainability strategy  Expand the sustainability organization  Refine sustainability reporting Products  Expand supplier monitoring  Continue DEHP replacement for tube sets People  Developing a beginners’ sustainability management course for new employees  Subscribe to the “Women’s Empowerment Principles” (WEP)  Develop a concept for more female executives  Sign the “Luxembourg Declaration on Workplace Health Promotion” Environmental Protection  Implement certification according to ISO 14001:2015 at German locations  Expand environmental indicator system to all locations  Carry out a survey among employees on the choice of transport  Purchase e-bikes for small office-related runs (Berlin)  Draft a purchasing guideline for office supplies and consumables Commitment  Create a donation balance sheet (money, material, and time donations)  Record actions more precisely at the locations 46 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 | 47 ABOUT THE REPORT & CONTACT “Sustainable. Caring. WOM.” This was the This sustainability report is also our first PUBLISHER INFORMATION title of our small CSR magazine, which we “progress announcement” for the UN published in March 2017 and which proGlobal Compact. We plan to release our Publisher vided an initial overview of our sustainnext report in early 2019. W.O.M. WORLD OF MEDICINE GmbH ability commitment. The first sustainSalzufer 8, 10587 Berlin, Germany ability report presented here builds on Phone +49 30 39981-550 E-mail info.berlin@wom.group this and informs you more comprehensively and according to the classic fields Responsible of action about our current status in Dr. Clemens Scholz (Managing Director) sustainability management. WOM Editorial Team An important help to us was the so-called Xenia Rabe-Lehmann, Barbara Schöffel, G4 standard of the Global Reporting Stefan Kürbis Initiative (GRI). Nevertheless, we do not (yet) claim to fully fulfill this requirement Concept & Text Design when it comes to the core option, which Marc Fritzler, textkonstrukte, Munich is why we have also omitted the “GRI CONTACT Graphics & Production content index.” Rather, we used the work W.O.M. WORLD OF MEDICINE GmbH involved in preparing this report to idenFor further questions about our tify where we stand and where we should sustainability management, CircleSilk Premium White made of 100% catch up or strengthen our profile. Corplease contact recycled paper, FSC®-certified and responding measures are listed in our with EU Ecolabel sustainability program 2018/2019. The Xenia Rabe-Lehmann report was reviewed and approved by the WOM Corporate Sustainability Climate neutral printed – WOM supports managing director of WOM. Phone 030 39981-660 the project “Water treatment in Odisha, India” E-mail csr@wom.group All pictured objects, images, and texts are copyright-protected. Any wrongful duplicaFurther information is available on our website tion, copying, publication, or reproduction is www.wom.group. Here you can find our punishable by law and requires our express sustainability report and our sustainability consent concerning the works produced by us. magazine as well as further documents in the “Downloads” section. © 03/2018 W.O.M. WORLD OF MEDICINE GmbH W.O.M. WORLD OF MEDICINE GmbH Salzufer 8 10587 Berlin, Germany Phone +49 30 39981-550 E-mail info.berlin@wom.group W.O.M. WORLD OF MEDICINE GmbH Alte Poststrasse 11 96337 Ludwigsstadt, Germany Phone +49 9263 877-0 E-mail info.ludwigsstadt@wom.group W.O.M. WORLD OF MEDICINE Produktions-GmbH Körnergasse 21 96358 Reichenbach, Germany Phone +49 9268 973-0 E-mail info.reichenbach@wom.group W.O.M. WORLD OF MEDICINE USA, Inc. 4531 36th Street Orlando, FL 32811, USA Phone +1 407 438-8810 E-mail info.orlando@wom.group W.O.M. WORLD OF MEDICINE ASIA Ltd. Suite 2401, 24/F, Chinachem Exchange Square 1 Hoi Wan Street, Quarry Bay, Hong Kong Phone +852 2187 3557 E-mail info.hongkong@wom.group Further information: www.wom.group
