UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 ABOUT THE DANISH AGRO GROUP Danish Agro is an international agricultural We are an independent cooperative comgroup, with 5,000 employees in 16 countries, pany, owned by approx. 10,500 Danish farmainly in Scandinavia and the Baltic Region. mers. The group is a member of industry trade organisations DAKOFO (Danish Grain All the policies referred to in this report have and Feed Trade Association) and the Danish been adopted by the group and apply to all Agriculture and Food Council. subsidiaries. The group operates mainly within the sale of feed mixes, ingredients and vitamin mixes, fertiliser, crop protection, seeds and energy, and purchases crops from farmers. The group distributes a number of leading farm machinery brands and runs an extensive chain of hobby and leisure retail outlets. Danish Agro was founded in 1901 and has become a leading agribusiness group in Northern Europe. 2 FOCUS ON SUSTAINABILITY Respect for the environment, society and or child labour. In 2017, we focused even economy is fundamental to Danish Agro. more on our trainee programme, in which Without a sustainable development of we take direct responsibility for the youngsociety, we cannot run a productive, compesters on the programme, sharing our knowtitive and efficient business. We believe that ledge and experience, and giving them a contributing to sustainable development is good start in the agribusiness industry. the only responsible course of action. When it comes to our own business praThis is Danish Agro’s third Communication ctices, we oppose any form of corruption, on Progress report. The report is to be regarincluding blackmail and bribery. We conduct ded as the group’s mandatory report on our commercial activities in accordance with social responsibility. international, national and local laws and regulations relevant to our business. Our During the past year, we have focused on trading on the world market is based on the activities that are directly relevant to our principles of free competition and in accorbusiness and the environment we are part dance with competition laws. We respect any of. Our CSR activities focus on those areas trade restrictions issued by the UN. in which we have expertise and know-how. We take a proactive approach to social and We look forward to working further with the environmental responsibility throughout the Global Compact principles this year. value chain based on the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. With regard to climate and the environment, we strive to make as little impact as possible. In January 2017, we signed a climate partnership agreement with our Danish energy supplier, Ørsted A/S. In the agreement, Henning Haahr Danish Agro in Denmark undertook to CEO, Danish Agro reduce our energy consumption by 20% by 2021. We seek to make this partnership a template for similar projects elsewhere in the group. Within social responsibility, we focus on a staff policy with emphasis on safety at work, training and a healthy working environment. We pursue constructive and innovative dialogue with our suppliers based on the principles of human and labour rights. This includes focus on health and the working environment. We do not tolerate forced 3 HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS UN principles regarding social ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS responsibility and sustainability The group’s support and respect for interAs a company, we should: national conventions on human rights are reflected within the company, e.g. in our HR 1. Support and respect the protection policies, and externally via the collaborative of internationally-proclaimed human and trading activities we engage in internarights, and tionally. 2. Ensure that we are not complicit in In 2017, the Board of Directors at Danish human rights abuses. Agro (hereinafter referred to a “The Supervisory Board) has applied the recommendations of the Committee for Good Corporate Governance, dated 6 May 2013. ’Good Corporate Governance’ is a universal term for a POLICIES number of actions and initiatives that form part of good management of large compaDanish Agro supports and respects internatinies. The recommendations are accessible on onally recognised human rights throughout the committee’s website at corporategoverits organisation, which means that we supnance.dk. port and respect international agreements on human rights. The Supervisory Board takes these recommendations into consideration. They are part We do not accept forced labour and/or child and parcel of any Board discussion or evalulabour. We respect employees’ rights to ation of the need to bring in experience and freedom of association and to take part in expertise, and the guidelines compiled for its collective wage bargaining. dealings with the Executive Board. Throughout the group, we observe relevant The recommendations were applied when standards regarding working hours. Finally, the 2018 general meeting considered a prowe ensure that wages comply with the law posal from the Supervisory Board to amend and industry standards in the countries in the group’s Articles of Association. The which we are active. amendment describes the setting up a delegate assembly as the company’s supreme body, which will be responsible (among other things) for electing the Supervisory Board The objective is for such a body to strengthen the democratic representation to include all regions, farm types and the competencies of the company’s members. We have also quantified targets and policies for gender equality in the management team, and reporting for the same. We operate in a male-dominated industry and we are a relatively male-dominated business. It is difficult to attract women to board and management positions within the agribu4 HUMAN RIGHTS siness industry. Nine members were elected maximum support for group strategy. For to the current Supervisory Board, all of them this reason, subsidiary boards are often commen. posed of members of group management in Danish Agro a.m.b.a. plus the owners’ Danish Agro believes in diversity – including representatives. These boards also include gender equality in the Supervisory Board. members representing external minority Diversity must be prioritised, although not shareholders. at the cost of competence. The Supervisory Board therefore intends to increase female Danish Agro has set down the following representation on the Board to 15%, cortarget figures for the percentage share of responding to one member, by the annual women members (“the under-represented general meeting (AGM) in 2018. gender”) on group subsidiaries’ respective boards. We set target figures for the group’s The Board believes this to be an ambitious Danish companies. These figures reflect that yet realistic goal, given the gender breakthe subsidiaries also operate in a male-domidown on the boards of comparable businesnated business. ses. In effect, Danish Agro must attract a higher proportion of women to the board than In 2017, there was positive development in that represented by self-employed female the percentage share of the under-represenfarmers. Our aim to achieve gender diversity ted gender on the Board of Dansk Vilomix in the Supervisory Board was not met in 2017 A/S. This company met the target for female as none of the Board members have been representation on the Board. changed. The boards of the remaining subsidiaries The above-mentioned target figures apply continue to reflect management representaonly to Board members elected by the AGM tion and there is no change in their gender and regions. Employee-elected Board membreakdown. bers are not included. The composition of subsidiary company boards is based on group considerations for No. of No. of % share the underTarget SUBSIDIARY Total Period males females represented gender figure DANISH AGRO MACHINERY HOLDING A/S 3 0 3 0% 33% End 2022 DANISH AGRO MACHINERY A/S 3 0 3 0% 33% End 2022 DA AGRAVIS MACHINERY HOLDING A/S 4 0 4 0% 33% End 2022 DAVA INTERNATIONAL HOLDING A/S 5 0 5 0% 20% End 2022 DAVA AGRAVIS INTERNATIONAL HOLDING A/S 5 0 5 0% 20% End 2022 VILOMIX INTERNATIONAL HOLDING A/S 5 0 5 0% 20% End 2022 VILOMIX HOLDING A/S 4 0 4 0% 25% End 2022 DANSK VILOMIX A/S 3 1 4 25% 25% End 2022 HATTING A/S 4 0 4 0% 25% End 2022 DAN AGRO HOLDING A/S 5 0 5 0% 20% End 2022 HEDEGAARD A/S 3 0 3 0% 33% End 2022 DAVA FOODS HOLDING A/S 5 0 5 0% 20% End 2022 DAVA FOODS DANMARK A/S 4 0 4 0% 25% End 2022 DLA AGRO A.M.B.A. 7 0 7 0% 14% End 2022 SCANOLA A/S 5 0 5 0% 20% End 2022 5 LABOUR RIGHTS LABOUR RIGHTS UN principles regarding social POLICIES responsibility and sustainability. We will provide an interesting, attractive, As a company, we should: effective and involving workplace for all group employees, i.e. we will provide a mul3. Uphold the freedom of association and tifaceted and inclusive workplace, offering the effective recognition of the right to equal opportunities to everyone. Our emplocollective bargaining; yees will be at liberty to progress in their job and develop as leaders who can inspire 4. Support the elimination of all forms of their staff to perform at their best. We will forced and compulsory labour; persistently strive to ensure efficient working processes throughout the group. 5. Support the effective abolition of child labour; and We offer competitive terms for our employees and focus on creating a safe, healthy 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of working environment. Finally, we offer woremployment and occupation. king conditions that comply with the law, relevant guidelines and the standards of the UN Global Compact. Danish Agro has a working environment committee tasked with ensuring the best conditions for our employees. The group also has a works committee, in which both management and employees are represented, to promote job satisfaction and dialogue within the group. 6 LABOUR RIGHTS ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS believe that we have a responsibility to share our know-how and experience with young Danish Agro is a member of the GLS-A people who show an interest in the industry. employer’s federation. Membership acts as Agricultural education and training gives a guarantee for decent conditions for the young people an excellent academic backcompany’s employees, via collective and local ground, on which Danish Agro then builds, wage agreements. providing the trainees with commercial skills and practical work experience. Danish Agro In 2017, the group HR function was expanintends to take on a further five trainees in ded and continues to work on a process 2018. to strengthen management in the group through training, workshops, etc. The goal In addition to the trainee programme, is to boost commercial activities and enable Danish Agro intensified its cooperation with Danish Agro managers better to tackle universities and other educational instituchange management, communication and tions in 2017. We now have three student personnel management. groups who are developing proposals for new solutions and working processes. Their Again in 2017, we focused on the group’s research is based on issues defined by Danish trainee programme, aimed at young people Agro. with an agricultural background interested in training to sell in the wholesale sector. In Lithuania, Baltic Agro (a Danish Agro The first batch of trainees completed the group subsidiary) entered a partnership with programme in summer 2017. A new intake “DO NOT DELAY”, an organisation that increabegan their training in autumn 2017. We ses awareness of breast cancer and raises now have six trainees in Danish Agro. The funding to fight this type of cancer. 230 Littrainees follow a customised course focuhuanian farmers wrapped hay in pink plastic. sing on pigs, cattle, plant breeding, poultry The colour was chosen to attract attention to or logistics, and make acquaintance with the cause. Six mobile clinics travelled all over every inch of the agribusiness industry. The Lithuania, testing women for signs of breast course includes in-house training courses cancer. and secondments to the parent company and subsidiaries with focus on sales. We 7 8 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE UN principles regarding social ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS responsibility and sustainability. Corporate social responsibility and care As a company, we should: for the environment are integrated into the way we do business. Sustainable 7. Support a precautionary approach development of society is dependent to environmental challenges; on productive, competitive and efficient business. 8. Undertake initiatives to promote grea ter environmental responsibility; and Danish Agro is a member of the UN’s voluntary ”Global Compact” program, adopting its 9. Encourage the development and ten principles on human rights, labour rights, diffusion of environmentally friendly environmental protection and the combatechnologies. ting of corruption to form the framework for the group’s CSR reports. All such reports come under the ”Communication on Progress” report, sent annually to the UN. POLICIES The report is published at danishagro.dk/csr, providing an overview of all the group’s CSR Danish Agro seeks to reduce the group’s activities in 2017. It represents the Danish carbon footprint to an absolute minimum – Agro group’s mandatory report on corporate primarily in the communities, in which the social responsibility, including on gender group is active. We encourage sustainable representation on the Supervisory Board and processes within the group and consistently management as a whole. discuss environmental challenges with other stakeholders. We focus on saving energy and reducing consumption of materials by conHIGHER ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN 2017 stantly monitoring and optimising our operations. We comply with all relevant legislaThe Danish Agro group continuously focuses tion and requirements, and take a proactive on its environmental impact, and in recent approach to the principles of the UN Global years has concentrated on energy efficiency Compact. in Denmark. We entered into a climate partner agreement with Danish energy provider Ørsted A/S in 2017. The agreement commits Danish Agro to reducing energy consumption in Denmark by 20% by 2021 compared to 2015. As part of the agreement, Ørsted will provide consultancy and implementation of energyefficiency measures, whilst we have undertaken to buy a certain amount of electricity from sustainable sources. Danish Agro’s eight most energy-intensive locations, involving feed production, dry9 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE ing plant etc., account for 75% of our total Our energy review in 2017 showed new energy consumption in Denmark. We replapotential for reducing energy consumption ced a lot of our lighting in 2017 with enerin 2018 and onwards. A couple of our focus gy-efficient LED bulbs at such locations. We areas will be the control of humidification also invested in forklift trucks that run on to rationalise grain drying, and the replaceelectricity rather than gas or diesel, achieving ment of low pressure boilers by high presa considerable CO2 saving and noise reductisure boilers for more effective energy use. ons. The inclusion of energy efficiency when we replace and renew machinery and equipThe long-term plan calls for the enegy-saving ment also makes a big contribution towards measures above to be rolled out to the rest of achieving our target of reducing energy conthe group. sumption. Energy consumption adjusted for increased Our overall energy consumption (includgrain drying in 2017 (total electricity). ing electricity and gas) was higher in 2017 (73,341 MWH) than 2016 (51,561 MWH). This is due to two factors: The harvest in 2017 was larger and wetter than in 2016, meaning there was considerable need for grain drying, resulting in higher energy consumption To be more precise, our energy-saving meathan in 2016. Our gas consumption figures sures meantthat consumption per tonne of also increased as a result of access to more dried grain was 5% less in 2017 than in 2016. accurate data from template meters installed in 2017. Energy per tonne grain dried with water content: When we adjust for the extra volume of grain dried and overlay that factor on the 2016 figures, we can see the true effect of our energy-saving efforts. The downward trend of the graph for electricity consumption below illustrates the result. 10 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE FOOD QUALITY AND SAFETY the availability of organic ingredients at home and abroad. Unfortunately, this can Danish Agro focuses strongly on food safety also give rise to the falsification of ingrediand quality through consistent quality ents, making supplier approvals and goods management. received inspections all the more important. Quality management for the group concerns We prove quality assurance within organic feed and food product safety, plus quality in egg-layer feeds by being certified according general. The level of detail for quality manato KAT (KAT – Verein für kontrollierte alternagement was generally increased in 2017. tive Tierhaltungsformen e. V.) to be able to supply products to the German market. Danish Agro wants to cover the entire chain from farm to table with the same standard, bringing together management responsibility, resource management, the production of safe products, validation, verification and improvements in an all-encompassing system. All Danish Agro group agribusiness and support companies supplying feed products are GMP+ certified to ensure the free movement of crops and feeds nationally and internationally. Vilomix is certified according to FAMI-QS (specifically for vitamins, minerals and additives) and gives the same free trade between group companies, plus the option of operating on national and international markets. The amount of organic production in Denmark within livestock and arable farming in 2017 is therefore the amount sold within Danish Agro and on the neighbouring markets. That results in increasing pressure on THE DANISH AGRO GROUP HOLDS THE FOLLOWING CERTIFICATIONS: ISO 9901 — Management standard GMP + B1, B2 OG B3 Management standard for production, sales, ISO 22000/TS 22002-6 — Management stanwarehousing and transport. dard focusing on feed products and feed. KAT — FEED/ PRODUCTS Exported to Germany ISO 14001 — Management standard – environment FAMI QS — Quality assurance for special feeds, vitamins, minerals and additives ISO 17025 / AKKREDITERING — Requirement for testing laboratories ISCC — Sustainability certification — rapeseed oil for the diesel industry. VLOG — Non-GM certification, Verband Lebensmittel ohne Gentechnik. 11 ANTI-CORRUPTION ANTICORRUPTION UN principles regarding social ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS responsibility and sustainability. Danish Agro employees are obliged to folAs a company, we should: low the Danish Agro group’s set of internal competition rules at all times. The rules are 10. Work against corruption in all designed to ensure that our employees abide its forms, including extortion and by the law in Denmark and corresponding bribery. national legislation in the countries in which we operate. The objective of such legislation is to protect free enterprise in a healthy, competitive POLICIES economy, which is essential to Danish Agro’s business. Danish Agro group managers At Danish Agro, integrity is in focus in every declare that they will abide by our internal aspect of our business, i.e. we set high stancompetition rules as part of their contract dards of commercial ethics throughout the of employment. Furthermore, we have hired value chain and the group. We tackle dilema group policy compliance officer to cement mas according to our values, and strive for our internal competition rules and comtransparency in our commercial decisions pliance work. No breaches of competition and practices. We abide by all applicable legislation were recorded in the group’s laws and adopt a proactive approach to the companies in 2017, which we regard as very principles of sustainability in the UN Global positive. Compact. Danish Agro will not accept unethical business practices. 11 Danish Agro a.m.b.a. Køgevej 55 4653 Karise Tlf. 7215 8000 mail@danishagro.dk danishagro.dk
