SICPA Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 Enabling trust CEO INTRODUCTION July 2017 marked SICPA’s 90th anniversary. The world has changed greatly since we were founded, indeed the pace of change has constantly accelerated. We have changed too, innovating continually. In recent years we have adapted to meet the new demands of an increasingly dematerialised world. Our vision of Enabling Trust has remained a constant however and the leitmotif of our history, ensuring the well-being of citizens, is ever more relevant. As we celebrated the anniversary, we had numerous opportunities to reflect on, and recognise, the many achievements of our SICPA family. We look forward to continuing to deliver solutions and services with positive social impact over the next years, as we head for our centenary. We know that working in a sustainable way is essential if we are to fulfill our ambitions. Sustainability at SICPA means that we must invent and deploy new solutions as we have always done – whilst embracing organisational change and seeking resource efficiencies, promoting ecological ways of working and striving constantly for improvement. We must continue to invest in the development and exploitation of new technologies, valuing the unique contribution of our expert staff and offering a work place where they are motivated to give their best. We must continue to build and nurture our partnerships, being open to the feedback of our customers and of our suppliers, whilst also holding them accountable to the high standards for which we strive. This is the 5th annual CSR report we have published. I am pleased that it shows the constant progress we have made. Importantly it also provides the opportunity to identify where we can do better and to underline our commitment to doing so. My continuing personal commitment and that of my top team is another constant. CEO and Chairman Philippe Amon II EXECUTIVE SUMMARY S SICPA’s approach ustainability is deeply rooted in SICPA’s OUR PEOPLE culture and has been a feature of our In terms of professional excellence, SICPA’s workvalues for decades. SICPA’s approach ing environment reflects the importance attributrespects and capitalises on the company’s herited to ensuring the highest technical and scientific respects and age, while adapting to a future where sustainability standards and capabilities. The company mainis ever more essential. The company’s approach is based on 4 key pillars: our markets, our peotains its work on integrated talent management processes and continues to develop its Employcapitalises on ple, communities and the environment. SICPA integrates sustainability in its strategy at three ee Branding programme. In terms of training and development over 2000 learning programmes the company’s levels: compliance, reputation and business were delivered. We maintained our ranking in the integration. TOP 100 Best Employers awards in Switzerland, for the 4th year in a row. heritage, SICPA has launched a number of initiatives over recent years, which enable us to demonstrate COMMUNITIES while adapting to a future where our commitment to key market issues, such as In 2017, SICPA contributed over CHF 2.25 milethics, sustainable products and more recently lion to 88 community initiatives, mainly scientific, products that contribute specifically to minimiseducational, cultural and environmental projects. ing environmental and social impact. SICPA has also improved its performance in other aspects The SICPA FitForCharity programme in Switzerland has expanded and now includes walking sustainability such as material and resource utilisation and waste reduction. and cycling events, in its on-going mission to promote a healthy work life balance. More than 110 is ever more employees participated along the year in various As a member of the UN Global Compact, SICPA’s activities celebrating SICPA’s 90th anniversary. essential. aim is to integrate the world’s best practices in The objective of the year ‒ to collectively comsustainability in its business and operations. The plete 90’000 km by walking, running or cycling ‒ company has an overall positive environmental was achieved. and social performance, in particular in terms of market, products, environmental and health and ENVIRONMENT safety indicators. The environmental footprint of the company is closely monitored. SICPA’s production processes OUR MARKETS are energy intensive and the company is impleSICPA is currently taking on the challenge of menting projects to optimise energy use. In 2017, linking the security of the physical world with its SICPA reduced its FTEs (Full-time equivalent digital counterpart in order to protect goods and employee) by 500, while its energy consumption people from the vulnerabilities created by today’s remained stable, resulting in an increase by FTEs global digitalised economy and governance. of 17% in electricity and 1% in fossil energy. It is During the year, SICPA was a key sponsor and important to note that SICPA reduced its fossil participant at the 2017 Currency Conference in fuel use, now representing 39% of all energy conKuala Lumpur – an opportunity for broad engagesumed, compared to 67% in 2016. Over 75% of ment with leaders of that industry. SICPA also waste is recycled and treated. 42% of this waste maintained its Banknote Ethical Initiative (BnEI) is classified as dangerous or hazardous, requiring accreditation as well as its ISO 9001, ISO 14001 special treatment. and ISO 18001 certifications. SICPA Enabling trust 5 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH Corporate Responsibility is important for SICPA’s business and markets. Customer In 2013, SICPA launched a Group-wide initiative requirements have evolved to include social and environmental issues. This applies on Corporate Social Responsibility consisting of not only to the selection criteria for choosing partners, product and solution providers, 4 key pillars: but also to their attitude to developing lasting business relationships. Our markets Communities Environment Interaction and impact on the Our people Participation within Impact of the company’s sustainability of economies Engagement with employees. the communities where operations on the environment. and markets. the company operates. The approach reflects the manner in which SICPA conducts its business and how it Since 2016, the company measures and monitors impacts economies, society and the environment. its sustainability actions at 3 strategic levels: Since launching the programme, SICPA has initiated multiple programmes and monitors and manages its social and environmental performance closely. Including regulatory and product compliance compliance, and elements of risk management. Ensuring sustainability is a driver for positive reputation and managing negative reputation reputational risks. Including closer cooperation with key stakeholders SICPA SUSTAINABILITY DAYS on sustainability issues 2015 business The role of People in Sustainability Community Projects Enabling trust Human Rights Ethics and the development integration of sustainability technologies Health & Safety Women in Business Water & Nutrition Stress Management Innovation for Sustainability Mobility Employee well-being and solutions. DATES INSCRIVEZ-VOUS ! QUE RECYCLEZ-VOUS FLORISSANT REGISTER NOW ! AU BUREAU ? je/Thu ve/Fri WHAT DO YOU RECYCLE 8 -9 Agenda & inscriptions AT WORK ? LA ROCHELLE on CONNECT. Answer the quiz lu/Mon ma/Tue me/Wed 12 13 14 in CONNECT and maybe you can win a prize. octobre / October 2015 6 SICPA Enabling trust 7 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT Safe products S CT Sustainable and safe materials E Major Security practices P AS Secure supply chain E AC PE Business ethics EC L s O ON TP righ OCC health and safety t Ethics OM AR KE eq ce PLE Corporate governance EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS s IC Hum ua M Prod ou lo pp Talent acquisition, reward and retention an r or n, t Child labour re tu tio en uc Significant s ni en tie pm ts ret s, velo Diversity and equal opportunities Go an io n, d de ver H and ui sit g an Learning and development na Di u ve m ity q ac arn in nc nt d, le Climate change e rs le ta war grity ASPECTS SOCIAL re l inte Waste management HOW WE DO na Stakeh ratio Sustainable innovation and improvement o lders BUSINESS Opelth and safety Responsible investment Hea Water management Energy efficiency Water IMPACT Stakeholder engagement ON MARKETS Com Sustainable packaging Moderate ste en munit Biodiversity ga y Wa ge Community engagement me y nt En e er sity Phil economic EN g Climate chang ive M y EN r rop social ON IT Y anth VI Bio d UN VIR RON Moderate Significant Major environmental M M EN OM EN INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS TA T C L AS PE CT S In 2017, SICPA used the Sustainability MaterialMATERIALITY ASPECTS SECTIONS (STATUS AND ACTIONS) ity Assessment conducted the previous year as a tool to audit both internal and external stakeEconomic aspects holders. Materiality aspects were defined based on SICPA’s experience with CSR and the Global Corporate governance Governance Reporting Initiative Guidelines. Late in 2017, SICPA Business ethics Business ethics launched an internal business oriented transforSustainable and safe products, materials Quality / Procurement mation programme, which represents an opportuand supply chain nity also to further review and refine aspects such as Governance structure. Major and significant Social aspects aspects of the materiality assessment include: Occupational health and safety Operational integrity Talent acquisition, retention and reward Workplace excellence Learning and development Workplace excellence Diversity and equal opportunities, Workplace excellence / Human rights non-discrimination Security practices Human rights Child labour Human rights Environmental aspects Waste management Environment / Waste and climate change Climate change Environment / Waste and climate change 8 SICPA Enabling trust 9 ECONOMIC ASPECTS OUR MARKETS GOVERNANCE The company’s governance structures reflect its long term view on markets and economic sustainability. The company is headed by a Board of Directors made up of shareholders and external non-executive directors. The company’s strategy and opPolicies Revised, implemented erations are overseen by the Executive Committee, supported by a number of comand relevant mittees addressing strategic topics; these included in 2017 the Technology Board, Internal Standards the Business Strategy Board and the Project Qualification Committee. SICPA policies reflect a set of robust governing principles and rules. These are revised to reflect the latest best practice according to international standards. STAKEHOLDERS Focus on: SICPA is currently taking on the challenge of linking the security of the physical world “Happy Cash, When with its digital counterpart in order to protect goods and people from the vulnerCash Connects People” abilities created by today’s global digitalised economy and governance. In this context, we seek, establish and nurture strong partnerships with both academia (EPFL, In 2017, CashEssentials launched a photogCSEM, IMD, HEC Lausanne) and industry ‒ from long established companies to raphy competition in collaboration with Wipplay, Happy Cash, When Cash Connects new-comers in blockchain or data analytics. This creates an evolving ecosystem for People, to illustrate the multiple facets of co-innovation and new market approaches, from which we all derive network effects banknotes and coins around the world. and economic growth. The contest invited photographers from all walks of life to take creative and artistic phoSICPA was a key sponsor and participant at the 2017 Currency Conference in Kuala tos illustrating cash in different forms. Over Lumpur – an opportunity for broad engagement with leaders of that industry and to 1,000 entries were submitted. discuss policies, efficiencies, best practices and new strategies, as well as the latest The collection of pictures offers a unique technologies and solutions that benefit their operations. journey into the world of cash and illustrates the numerous social, economic and artistic Throughout the year SICPA teams were also active in a range of traceability and inattributes of cash. ternational fora enabling discussion and briefing of government representatives and www.cashessentials.org policy makers and other key stakeholders. BUSINESS ETHICS SICPA’s long-standing commitment to conducting its business in an ethical manner and with integrity is reinforced by the public availability of its core principles on the PROGRESS: 2017 ACTIONS SICPA corporate website. The Code of Business Conduct, the ABC Policy and the Renew BNeI accreditation Competition Law Policy are pro-actively shared with and signed by all partners and Complete stakeholder analysis (Materiality) available for consultation as part of the general governance of the company. These Review grievance mechanism documents are also provided to customers and suppliers to ensure they are aware of the standards of practice that SICPA expects of them in their dealings. Legend: completed on-going pending SICPA ensures that all key stakeholders, including the company’s management and LOOKING FORWARD: 2018-2020 related third parties are aware and receive training on integrity and ethics principles. – Actively support and apply UN Global The company keeps records of all staff and third parties who have read and approved Compact principles these documents. – Update grievance mechanism – ISO9001:2015 and ISO14001:2015 certifications (new version) Under the leadership of the Board Audit Committee, Compliance and Risk specialists – Food and Pharma business integration oversee the business and operational application of the Principles and ensure any of best practices incidents or potential breaches are appropriately investigated and dealt with. 12 SICPA Enabling trust 13 PRODUCTS SICPA products and solutions have an underlying social benefit. The company contributes to the well-being of society-at-large by actively contributing to ensuring cash systems, value documents and sensitive goods are safer and more secure for use or consumption. QUALITY tion for plastic medical devices brings security as Around 500 delegates from Central Banks, IssuThe quality and safety of its products and solutions close as possible to the medication. As part of this ing Authorities and Industry suppliers coming from is key to the sustainability of SICPA as a successeffort, SICPA, working with Clariant, hosted two free 76 countries took part in this premier Industry conful company and this is reflected in the company’s webinars on counterfeit plastic medical devices ference. All attendees at the event were invited to consistently renewed ISO 9001 certification. SICPA and pharmaceutical packaging. To bring new pervisit the dedicated SICPA booth and had the opseeks to minimise the negative environmental imspectives to this topic, SICPA invited independent portunity to test and assess the study on banknote pact inherent in the use and disposal of its prodsubject-matter experts in anti-counterfeiting, busiperception for the blind and visually-impaired. The ucts. Substitution programmes for a number of ness consulting and criminal investigations. objective was for the audience to immerse themchemicals continue to contribute to the manageselves in the experiment by engaging and interactment and reduction of risks for human beings. In 2017, SICPA continued to establish itself as a ing with the intuitive tactile system. Important work was done to integrate the new catraceability solutions provider that helps minimise pability acquired through purchase of GFI to mark negative environmental impact from counterfeit This conference was also the occasion to celoil, reviewing risks and moving certain operations and sub-standard products and the prevention of ebrate 90 years of constructive relationships with to our secure Swiss facility with dedicated ‘Readyenvironmentally harmful activities such as the adulour partners. to-Use’ production. A programme was launched teration and illegal “cleaning” of fuel products. As to develop a broader range of markers minimising an example, during the year SICPA signed a conFuture of Cash environmental impact and risk. tract with the City of Dubai to trace drinking water Initiative to promote and defend cash sold in carboys. Water is a scarce resource in the In May 2017, SICPA launched the CashEssentials PROCUREMENT region and health and safety implications are a mainitiative to promote the use of cash and to ensure The economic sustainability and quality of SICPA jor concern for local authorities. its longevity as a sustainable payment method. products is closely linked to its suppliers. This is Inspired by Guillaume Lepecq’s Cash Essentials reflected in the company’s Supplier Code of ConFurther, SICPA sponsored the Atlantic Council to – Beyond Payments white paper, CashEssentials duct – this code sets out requirements for busiundertake a comprehensive study on the harmprovides an overview of the benefits of cash for ness continuity and contingency plans, product ful economic, environmental and human effects society which includes the universal use of cash, changes and phase out. Further, SICPA pays parof oil fraud. Two ground-breaking reports where efficiency, reliability and connecting people. Social ticular attention to environmental and social issues published during the year, one of which is entitled inclusion and cash as a support to critical national in its dealings with suppliers. The Supplier Code of “Downstream Oil Theft: Global Modalities, Trends, infrastructure planning are key drivers for maintainConduct covers ethics, security, environmental and Remedies”. ing well-functioning national cash systems. The and human rights rules and principles. In terms of website provides fact-based information about human rights, particular attention is given inter alia 2017 status and achievements cash and payment methods and also includes an to employment conditions, child labour and nonIn 2017, SICPA completed a study on banknote opinion based weekly blog as well as a repository discrimination guidelines. perception for the blind and visually-impaired of documents and reports. with DEMAIN, a design company that specialises AUTHENTICATION AND TRACEABILITY in ‘inclusive design’. The study focusses on conMoving forward, the next stage of this initiative is to Authentication and traceability are becoming tinuous responsible development – facilitating the transform CashEssentials into a think tank promotincreasingly important in a growing number of identification of banknotes by the visually impaired. ing fact-based research and information on cash to industry sectors, such as food or pharmaceutiThe technologies developed contribute to the efinform decision making. cals, especially as e-commerce expands. There ficiency and usability of banknotes with the objecis growing pressure on brand owners to demontive of finding the best possible solution for ALL, strate supply chain integrity and transparency, and including the blind, visually-impaired, colour-blind manage associated economic, social and environand sighted people. The outcome of this study lead mental risks. to the design of an intuitive tactile system that we LOOKING FORWARD: 2018-2020 believe will empower banknote users of all ages On-going replacement of harmful substances As part of our commitment to make this world a and abilities in years to come. Sustainable solutions safer place, SICPA has been working with global specialty chemicals leader Clariant, to bring Findings of the study and proposal were presented Legend: completed on-going pending PLASTIWARD® to market. This in-product protecat the 2017 Currency Conference in Kuala Lumpur. 14 SICPA Enabling trust 15 SOCIAL ASPECTS 16 SICPA Enabling trust 17 OUR PEOPLE The SICPA workplace reflects the importance of technical and scientific excellence and capabilities to the company, as well as the long-term and diverse nature of its business and markets. +600 55% increase of women female employees in management out of 2300 positions WORKPLACE EXCELLENCE business partnerships including a Student ChamNatural turnover % of employees that leave of their own volition The three topics below are major and significant pion network. aspects of SICPA’s Materiality Assessment. Learning & Development Talent Acquisition, Retention & Reward In 2017, more than 2000 learning activities were 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 During the year SICPA embarked on an internal delivered, including formal and distance learnrestructuring to align skills with the increasingly ing and on-the-job knowledge transfer. SICPA digital focus of the company and to enable the has specific programmes to develop leadership, Performance reviews % employees with formal performance review on-going globalisation programme. In line with management and innovation capabilities and SICPA’s strong commitment to its staff, those skills. In total, 28 managers participated in the who left the company were compensated with SICPA Management Tool Kit Training, gathering a generous departure package including reparticipants from a variety of countries including 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 training provisions. In parallel SICPA continued Malaysia, Morocco, Pakistan, and Switzerland. working towards implementing integrated talent management processes. The initial focus is on Diversity & Equal Opportunities Training hours Number of annual training hours acquisition, i.e. to strengthen recruitment proEqual Opportunities and Non-Discrimination are per employee cesses overall and roll out procedures, tools and part of SICPA’s values and Code of Business Concommon practices globally. New processes and duct. This is reflected in SICPA’s workforce with tools are objective driven focusing on quality of more than 70 nationalities and ethnicities repre2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 new hires, which is reflected in the retention rate sented. In 2016, SICPA undertook an independof 93% in 2017. ent third-party assessment on gender equality. A Average training ratio high proportion of women were identified as top % of total employee costs spent on training During the year, various employer branding initiatalents with high-performance ratings. In 2017, catives were launched by targeting key stakeholdreer transition charts show a higher proportion in ers and engaging people internally and externally. management positions, 14% are held by women The company continued its extensive efforts to compared to 26% of the workforce being female. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 build its engagement with young graduates and The company continues to monitor actions conprofessionals, through a variety of academic and cerning equal opportunities at work Gender ratio % of employees (male/female) male Focus on: PROGRESS: 2017 ACTIONS female SICPA – Top 100 Quality of Life at Work survey 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Employers Employee of Choice Maintain low health and safety incident rates Equal opportunities SICPA was selected amongst the Top 100 % of employees in management – grade 11 Most Attractive Employers in Switzerland for Legend: completed on-going pending and above (male/female) the 4th year in a row, by students and professionals, in particular in the IT and Natural male Sciences fields. This is another milestone LOOKING FORWARD: 2018-2020 – Complete competency model and job as the company builds its Employer brand in architecture projects female Switzerland and abroad. This follows the ef– Integrate talent management processes – Implement equal opportunities actions 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 forts to create Employer brand content and – Finalise human rights impact assessment reach out to our target audience through a Note: Figures for 2013 and 2014 represent – Roll out grievance mechanism series of social media campaigns. Switzerland only. Following years include 80% of SICPA worldwide employees except for the training ratio. Starting in 2017, the training ratio is calculated based on the figures from SICPA Group annual consolidated financial accounts. It includes all training costs worldwide except related travel expenses. 18 SICPA Enabling trust 19 The health and safety of SICPA employees and the communities in which the company operates is essential for the operational integrity and sustainability of the company's business. HUMAN RIGHTS applied through a trade union as and when deterSICPA aims to conduct its business in full respect mined by staff. of prevailing human rights standards and legis0.10% 0 lation. Human Rights elements such as nonThe 2016 Materiality Assessment results identiOccupational Lost days of total discrimination and respectful labour and security fied several human rights aspects, such as secudays worked illnesses practices are incorporated in the company’s polirity practices and child labour, as important for the or fatalities cies, in particular the Code of Business Conduct, company’s business. The UN Principles on BusiHR and Security Policies. The Supplier Code of ness and Human Rights and the Global Reporting Conduct looks closely at issues, such as freeInitiative (GRI) is used as a basis for internal asdom of association, child labour, employment sessments. SICPA has an on-going programme conditions, human treatment and freely-chosen employment. to identify potential gaps and address them accordingly. Focus on: SICPA Spain 10th 2017 status and achievements OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY Anniversary SICPA ensures that all relevant human rights isThe health and safety of SICPA employees and In 2017, in conjunction with SICPA’s 90th sues are covered by the company’s policies and the communities in which the company operanniversary, SICPA Spain celebrated its guidelines and communicated accordingly to ates is essential for the operational integrity and 10th anniversary of the Alcalá de Henares staff worldwide. Due to the nature of its business sustainability of the SICPA business. SICPA has Ink manufacturing plant. To celebrate this SICPA maintains the highest security standards. rigorous health and safety processes and OHSAS milestone, a special customer event was There is an on-going requirement to ensure we 18001 certification. The company provides periorganised, followed by a party for employidentify the impact these practices may have on odic and continuous training to its employees on ees on a well-known terrace in Madrid. At the respect of human rights, in particular in relaoccupational hazards and professional safety. this event, SICPA Spain employees took tion to physical and data security, and ensure that turns pedalling on a fixed bicycle and raised adequate guidelines and training are given to 2017 status and achievements EUR 10’000 for Fundación Theodora, a chilsecurity personnel, both SICPA and third parties. In 2017 SICPA continued to maintain a low incidren’s charity that contributes to the welldent rate with only 21.7 incidents per million hours being of children in hospitals, clinics and SICPA staff in Switzerland voted in 2015 against worked, which is below the industry average. The special care centres. the establishment of a staff association explicnumber of accidents with or without lost time deitly renewing their trust in management when creased by 27% compared to 2016. It is important it comes to the management and resolution of to highlight that there were no reported occupalabour issues. In other countries, the freedom of tional illnesses or fatalities during the year. Focus on: association and collective bargaining principal is USA: National Safety Month SICPA takes seriously the health and safety of its staff. In June 2017, SICPA offices in the USA participated in the annual National Safety Month, focusing on reducing leading causes of injury and death at work. The campaign provided a set of weekly topics which were communicated to employees, focusing on avoiding falls, fatigue, ergonomics and active shooters. This campaign was critically important to generate enthusiasm and awareness at all levels within the company about why safety must be an integral part of the business. 20 SICPA Enabling trust 21 COMMUNITIES SICPA continues to engage with the communities in which 2,252 it conducts business and operates by being involved KCHF invested in community and participating in social, cultural, education and scientific projects activities. The focus of the company’s corporate sponsorship and donations is in Switzerland, the home country and main production centre, and in countries where SICPA has existing 88 businesses and operations. Community projects supported 2017 STATUS AND ACHIEVEMENTS The programme was a success – covering 12 difTotal financial contributions (KCHF) Sponsorships and donations to community In 2017, SICPA contributed approximately CHF 2.25 ferent sport activities in total and gathered over 110 million to 88 community initiatives, mainly to culparticipants completing over 90’000 km. tural, education and environmental projects. Some examples of SICPA Community projects 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 In Switzerland, SICPA continues to be a proud outside Switzerland this year include SICPA Pakisponsor of La Nuit des Musées, a local cultural stan’s collaboration with the Citizen Foundation, event that takes place once a year in Lausanne one of the largest national non-profit institutions in Number of community projects supported and Pully, near the SICPA Headquarters. At this the field of education – providing education to unevent, participating museums around the area are derprivileged children in Pakistan. SICPA Pakistan open for an evening – providing fun art activities employees volunteered their time and effort at a losuch as animations, performances, movie procal primary school in Saudabad, Karachi. Employ2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 jections, and artists meet and greet and address ees also visited and spent time at Dar-ul-Sukun, workshops and conferences. In 2017, SICPA para home for senior citizens located in Karachi that ticipated in the design and production of the event ensures that elderly people are always treated with Average project value (CHF) entry tickets using UV security inks that were noncare, respect and dignity. visible to the naked eye but contained surprising elements depicting a photo camera with a flash Another example comes from Morocco, where light, once viewed under UV lights. SICPA organised a workshop , October 6-7, through 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 its scholarship programme, with the Central CasaIn addition, as part of SICPA’s on-going mission to blanca School. 64 students participated under the Impact assessment and follow up* promote a healthy work life balance, SICPA Switcoaching of SICPA staff, working on innovation in Number of projects with implemented zerland continued its RunForCharity programme, technology to fight counterfeiting in specific busiimpact assessments and development programmes renamed FitForCharity, encouraging health and fitness areas such as auto parts, food industry, cosness activities for employees and collecting funds metics and documents authentication. for selected charities. FitForCharity To celebrate SICPA’s 90th anniversary, employees 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 set themselves the objective to collectively com* A substantial number of donations plete 90’000 km by walking, running or cycling. are given to cultural events as one-off Focus on: contributions which do not require follow up. 90th Anniversary Community Programme Note: the above figures are indicative and exclude, to the extent that it was possible to identify them, commercial In 2017, as part of SICPA’s 90th anniversary donations, membership of associations, celebration, SICPA launched a world-wide subscriptions and documentation. Community Programme in its main business and operational locations. In some countries the programme involved donating in-kind contributions to a variety of projects mostly in education (including scholarships) and +90,000 healthcare. Examples include the funding of KM a 3-D printing laboratory in a school in Vlora, completed in 2017 in sports events Albania; Scholarships for the George Washington Teacher Institute at Mount Vernon, LOOKING FORWARD: 2018-2020 – Continue awareness sessions USA; helping +5000 girls going to school – Continue FitForCharity programme with sanitary packs in the Bushbuckridge – Follow-up the SICPA 90th Anniversary Community Programme Region of Mpumulanga, South Africa. 22 SICPA Enabling trust 23 ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS ENVIRONMENT SICPA is highly conscious of the importance of halogen & mercury lights were replaced by LED Electricity intensity Annual kWh electricity consumed/FTE optimising the environmental footprint of its opertechnology and building isolation, heating system ations. This is reflected in the company’s QHSSE and ventilation flows were optimised. The compapolicy and relevant processes developed as part ny reduced its reliance on fossil fuel, this energy of ISO 14001 certification. Throughout the year source representing 39% of energy consumption 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 SICPA continued to evaluate the environmental compared to 67% in 2016. Water intensity has impact of the company’s business and operaslightly increased by 10% per FTE. tions, including human health, climate change, Fossil energy Annual kWh consumption/FTE resource and ecosystems impact. SICPA’s enviWaste & Climate Change ronmental performance is closely linked to the inWaste Management and Climate Change were tensity of its operations, in particular ink manufacidentified amongst the top significant aspects in turing. This continued to account for over 80% of the Materiality Assessment. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 the company’s resource utilisation (i.e. electricity, water) and waste generation. In 2017, environmenIn 2017, over 75% of generated waste was recytal initiatives and projects were related mainly to cled or required special treatment. It is worthwhile Water intensity Annual water purchase/FTE energy and waste management. noting that 42% of SICPA waste is categorised as dangerous under European and national waste 2017 STATUS AND ACHIEVEMENTS rules, which requires special treatment. 66% of Energy and Water such waste is generated in the company’s Swiss 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Energy efficiency is an important factor for SICPA manufacturing facility which has partnered with given its manufacturing operations. The energy CRIDEC for disposal and reuse. CRIDEC uses Waste intensity KPIs calculation is based on the number of FTEs such waste to generate materials and energy for Total annual waste (kg)/FTE in December of the year. In 2017, SICPA reduced a nearby cement plant, an example of SICPA’s its activities in Brazil, impacting also some staff contribution to the concept of circular economy. in Switzerland. As a result, the FTEs decreased Greenhouse gas emission actions continue to be by about 500, from 2875 in 2016 to 2371 in 2017. regulation driven and by contractual obligations in 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 At the same time, the global operations of the some cases. company did not decline, hence the energy and Hazardous waste intensity water consumptions per FTE have increased. In Annual hazardous waste (kg)/FTE 2017, the electricity intensity per FTE increased by 17% and fossil energy intensity per FTE by 1%. Focus on: During this time, SICPA continued to install energy ConTREEbute in efficient solutions, such as in Switzerland where Colombia 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 In Colombia, SICPA is working closely with Non-hazardous waste intensity its customer, Banco de Colombia, which Annual non-hazardous waste (kg)/FTE strives for carbon neutrality. Under this scheme SICPA continued its support to the ConTREEbute initiative, planting trees with a selected provider, to offset its own carbon LOOKING FORWARD: 2018-2020 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 footprint related to the country’s operaEnergy efficiency obligations tions. In 2017, 7300 trees were planted in Waste management solutions the Tolima and Cundinamarca regions as Recyclable and recoverable Industrial waste (kg)/FTE well as 3000 “Palma de cera” (Ceroxylon CO2 measurement (regulatory compliance) quindiuense) in the Quindío region. ReNote. The time horizon for these actions is 3-5 years. seeding and maintenance activities were also performed as well as follow-up visits Legend: completed on-going pending 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 and project monitoring. Note: figures are based on 90% Full Time Equivalents (FTEs), compared to 86% and 80% in 2015 and 2014 respectively. 26 SICPA Enabling trust 27 OTHER CSR ACTIONS +500 SICPA employees +50 and managers New employees contributed to CSR briefed on CSR in 2017 The CSR section The company’s approach to sustainability was formally approved by the Executive Committee sponsibility Award 2017’ by the National Forum for Environment and Health (NFEH), for a second six years ago. Since then, over 800 employees consecutive year. on the corporate and 300 SICPA managers, including corporate functions, divisional management and country The CSR section on the corporate website and website and entities management, participated in CSR awareness sessions. intranet was regularly updated with over 50 news and alert articles published in 2017. The CSR reintranet was port has been distributed to interested customers In 2017, 4 CSR training sessions were held as and partners. part of the SICPA Induction Programme and over regularly updated 50 new employees were briefed. SICPA has also communicated selectively on sustainability issues with peer groups, through with over 50 news The company continues to ensure its approach to sustainability issues is communicated exterthe UN Global Compact Network and the CSR International Forum, and plans to continue such nally. In 2017 SICPA produced a corporate video actions in 2018. and alert articles in Switzerland for its 90th anniversary illustrating employee commitment to the company and its published in 2017. customers and internal multi-media materials around the importance of innovation. In Pakistan, SICPA was awarded the ‘Corporate Social ReFocus on: Pakistan CSR Communication In 2017, SICPA Pakistan published and distributed its Annual Newsletter, “SICPA Buzz”, to its employees and partners. The newsletter covered its CSR activities in the country, including partnerships with deserving institutions in health and education. It also describes several initiatives such as health awareness sessions or the education and safety champion awards. 28 SICPA Enabling trust 29 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 CSR REPORT 2017 PRINCIPLE ACTIONS 2017 REFERENCE/SECTION Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection — Policies inclusive of human rights Human Rights of internationally proclaimed human rights — Grievance mechanism and remediation Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human — Policies inclusive of human rights Procurement / rights abuses Human Rights Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom — Policies inclusive of Labour Practices Human Rights of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced — Code of Conduct Procurement / and compulsory labour — Supplier Code of Conduct Human Rights — Clear contractual basis Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour — Code of Conduct Procurement / — Supplier Code of Conduct Human Rights — National labour laws and regulations — Verification mechanisms Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect — Code of Conduct Procurement / of employment and occupation — HR police and procedures Professional Excellence / — Records of recruitment, training and promotion Human Rights — Grievance and remediation Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach — Policies inclusive of environment Governance / to environmental challenges — Stakeholder engagement Stakeholders / — Governance structures Environment — Grievance mechanism Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater — Sustainable products programme Products / environmental responsibility — Target and objectives Quality / Traceability Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion — Lifecycle assessment Products / of environmentally friendly technologies — Product design Quality — More sustainable materials Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms — Code of Conducts, and related Policies Business Ethics — Business ethics training — Group Compliance Committee — Grievance mechanism 30 SICPA Enabling trust 31 ABOUT SICPA SICPA is a leading global provider of secured authentication, identification and traceability solutions and services. Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Lausanne, the privately owned Swiss company is a long-trusted advisor to governments, central banks, high-security printers, and industry. SICPA’s mission is to Enable Trust through constant innovation. For more than 70 years SICPA has been at the forefront of research and innovation in security inks which are at the core of the company’s expertise. SICPA inks and special features protect the majority of the world’s banknotes, security and value documents from counterfeiting and fraud. The company also integrates these security features with digital technologies, such as software and data management systems, to offer solutions and services to governments, ensuring product authentication, traceability and protection as well as tax reconciliation and production control. SICPA also provides solutions and services to industry clients who need to protect their products and ensure supply chain integrity. Such solutions and services have already been delivered to companies in industry sectors as diverse as healthcare, food and beverage, fast moving consumer goods, luxury goods and spare parts. Today, SICPA is a global company with offices and factories on five continents. With about 2,500 staff of over 50 nationalities, the company provides technologies and services to most nations worldwide. www.oxyde.ch SICPA World Headquarters Tel +41 21 627 55 55 Worldwide locations: Av de Florissant 41 Fax +41 21 627 57 27 Visit www.sicpa.com/map 1008 Prilly info@sicpa.com Switzerland www.sicpa.com © 2018 SICPA HOLDING SA, Switzerland PLASTIWARD ® is a trademark of SICPA HOLDING SA, registered in Switzerland and other countries or otherwise protected by law. SICPA is certified to ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007, according to a worldwide deployment programme, in the framework of a unique Integrated Management System. All material CSR.REP.00005.V1.06.18 in these pages, including text, layout, presentation, logos, icons, photos and all other artwork including any derivative work, is the intellectual property of SICPA (for the purpose of this document the word “SICPA” shall mean SICPA HOLDING SA or any of its parent or affiliate companies) unless otherwise stated, and is protected by trademark, patent or copyright. No reproduction, derivative, or commercial use of any material is authorized with-out the prior express written permission by SICPA. Information contained in, or derived from, these pages shall not be used for development, production, marketing of any product or service, or for any other purpose, without the express prior written permission of SICPA.
