S. No. Content Page No. 1 Chairman’s Statement 3-4 2 About Us 5-6 3 Mission, Vision & Policies 7-16 4 Awards & Accolades 17 5 Our Stakeholder 18-20 6 PBC’s commitment to UNGC’s ten principles A. Human Rights Principle 1 Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 21 Principle 2 Ensure that the organization is not complicit in human rights abuses 22 B. Labour Standards Principle 3 Upholding the freedom of association and effective recognition of the 23 right to Collective Bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 23 Principle 5 The organization supports effective abolition of child labour 24 Principle 6 Organization promotes elimination of discrimination in respect of 24 employment and occupation SDG 10 Reduce inequality within and among countries 25 SDG 5 Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls 26-30 C. Environment Principle 7 The organization support a precautionary approach to Environmental 30-37 Challenges SDG 7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all 37-39 SDG 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages 39-43 Principle 8 The organization initiates promotion of greater environmental 44-45 responsibility SDG 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts 46 Principle 9 Encourages the Development and Diffusion of Environmentally 46-49 Friendly Technologies D. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Business should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and 50 bribery 7 The Road Ahead………. 51 8 News Buzz 52-53 Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 2 of 54 Chairman’s statement of continued commitment to UN Global Compact and its Ten Universal Principles “A Unique Experience Centre for Health, Wellness, Productivity & Cognitive Ability of building occupants at an affordable cost and in a sustainable manner” Dear Stakeholders, I am delighted to present Paharpur Business Centre’s (PBC) Communication on Progress (COP) for the year 2017-18. In this report, we once again share our progress with regard to the Ten Universal Principles of UN Global Compact, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and our engagement process with all our Stakeholders and Business Partners in furthering the cause of these ten principles. PBC has endeavored to internalise the principles of UN Global Compact in its stated business objectives & owes the success & progress of its business model to UNGC & Triple Bottom line principles. BC We are extremely sensitive to the fact that we need to operate within the principles of UNGC and Corporate Governance and therefore be accountable, fair, transparent and responsive to the needs of all our stakeholders, specially the primary ones. Understanding the imperative that there is an intricate relationship between occupant’s health & well-being, and the built environment, PBC worked upon ‘CII-IGBC Health & Well-being Rating’ for built environmentthe first of its kind green building rating system. We have experienced this at Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) By providing superior quality of Indoor Environment Quality (IEQ) to the occupants, results in 360 degrees health and business benefits to all. PBC has an effective system to clean the indoor air using over 7,000 special indoor green plants. PBC’s superb indoor air quality is powered by Breathe Easy Labs (www.breatheasylabs.com). PBC has found that there is a 42% probability of one’s blood oxygen levels going up if one is in this building for about 8 hours. Harvard University, in recent published studies, has found that there is an increase in cognitive ability of occupants by up to 299% with extra ventilated indoor air with CO2 of < 600 ppm and TVOC’s of under 50ug/m3) and our own experience of increasing blood oxygen levels by 1% with a 42% probability. This study can be viewed on www.thecogfxstudy.com Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 3 of 54 This truly has been one major paradigm shift in our Business Strategy. People working in Buildings need to keep well and it is a well known fact that indoor air is 10 times more polluted than outside or ambient air. CII Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) Environment Conclave, held at Goa, Paharpur Business Centre (PBC), was awarded a ‘Platinum Rating’ under ‘IGBC’s Health & Wellbeing Rating’ system, by its Chairman, Dr. Prem Jain. This is the first in India! This rating system addresses the physical, intellectual and social wellbeing of building occupants. PBC is delighted to receive this important recognition. Buildings are primarily built, for the benefit of its occupants, and we wish that all buildings existing, or to be built in the future are certified as healthy, with focus on occupant health, happiness, cognitive ability & productivity. This will enable the occupants of such buildings to reach their full potential, by way of improving personal cognitive ability, thus giving them an advantage over others, for success in life! Going forward, this is a great opportunity for buildings, both existing and to be built in the future, including, for schools and residences, to make us and our future generation smart, happy and healthy” A new vision is emerging for India. We wish to live in Smart Cities. We wish to have Smart Cities that are livable, with Smart people, who are Healthy Happy, and Achievers. Such a Smart City can have an affordable system that we can rely on – not only to diagnose and cure disease, but to help us in achieving and maintaining good health. We look forward to your continued support, cooperation and patronage. Your feedback would be more than welcome, as we believe that learning is a lifelong exercise. Best wishes for a successful financial year ahead. Kamal Meattle Chairman Emeritus Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 4 of 54 PBC is a green mSME which has been a pioneer in the Indian real estate and service sector for over two decades now. For many years now, PBC has been walking on the path of sustainability by focusing on two major issues: 1) Ways to reduce energy in the urban maintenance without sacrificing quality (International standards) 2) To provide best air quality, which one would find up in the mountains of Gulmarg, Davos or Switzerland PBC, a 30 year old building built to compulsory Govt. design, is the first retrofit office building in India that is USGBC LEED Platinum EB Certified (under O & M category) in 2010. It is also a BEE 5 star rated building with an annual average hourly energy rating (AAhEPI) of 28 Wh /hr/Sqm. Currently, PBC is operating at < 20 whr/m2/hour, a reduction of 28.5 % and the internal target is to bring it down to 15 Wh/hr/Sqm. It is also a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP), and the only mSME among the 6 signatories to WEP from India. PBC and its suite of 27 support services are certified to ISO 9001, 14001, 22000; OHSAS 18001 and FSSAI standards. PBC, a safe and healthy heaven, offers 24 x7 Access to “Fresh Air Offices and Conference Facilities”, on plug-n-play basis. However, it’s much more than just a space of world-class amenities. It looks at different aspects that enhance the health and comfort of the building occupants, consequently leading to better business growth. It gives all the businesses, a platform to grow personally and career wise just by working in a healthy indoor environment – a twist in the commercial business centre model. Somebody aptly quoted, “to bring a change in the world, one has to bring a change in oneself”. PBC follows the same. Therefore, its CSR deeds begin with internal stakeholders, then rolls on to external associations. PBC follows the CSR practices as per the Company Act 2013. It has a pro-active CSR/ Sustainability Committee in Place, which decides the activities; their compliance as per the Act and the end results. Every year, PBC publishes its CSR (Sustainability) report as per GRI guidelines. The report includes the salaries of the employees working for the CSR committee and make contributions to the related activities. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 5 of 54 PBC firmly believes in the convergence of Triple Bottom Line. Paharpur Business Centre is also a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP). PBC is the only mSME among the 6 signatories to WEP from India. Led by “People First” approach, PBC’s focus has always been on Health and Wellness of the occupants. This has been an intrinsic part of PBC’s business strategy since inception. Its USP, “Indoor Air Quality” (IAQ) is a proof of it. As the ambient air in Delhi is extremely polluted, PBC grows its own fresh air with the help of over 7000 air purifying plants. These plants not only detoxify indoor air but also enriched with oxygen. PBC has a fresh-air treatment plant/ air washer in the Green House at the rooftop which is integrated with our IAQ system. IAQ at PBC conforms to American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and AirConditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) and World Health Organization (WHO) standards. It helps the occupants in the building to have better functioning lungs; a fresher mind; reduced number of sick days and 15-20 per cent higher productivity. IAQ system adds value to the human experience in the building. PBC is a preferred choice for eco-business partnership for companies that undertake sustainable initiatives or planning a foray into the Indian market. Our past and present clientele includes leading multinational & fortune 500 companies from across the Globe Microsoft, Hewlett Packard, Mobil, Motorola, British Telecom, SAP, Singapore, Telecom, Converse Network, GEC Alsthom, Intel, Matsushita Electric, Sun Microsystems, Alta Vista, Hitachi, Daiken, Associated Press, Symantec and more. This reflects the confidence and trust that organizations have reposed in the services and offerings of PBC. PBC aims to be an excellent, world-class business support services company; committed to deliver benchmarked, quality oriented services to address customers' specific needs, whilst caring for the environment & people around us. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 6 of 54 OUR MISSION To become an eminent world-class business support service provider; committed to delivering benchmarked, quality services and address customers’ needs, whilst also caring for their health and environment. We aim at creating an exquisite platform of growth and wellness for all our stakeholders. OUR VISION To stand out as an organization that takes a focused approach on ensuring consistent delivery of quality services, care for environment and people around us. Since, we believe in keeping customers as our first priority, we stay inspired from within to provide end-to-end business solutions to them. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 7 of 54 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) a provider of serviced offices along with a suite of 27 support services is committed to perform its business in a responsible manner to produce an overall positive impact on society and environment. In doing so, we shall strive towards: Marketplace Leadership – We aim to run our business in a way that singles us out as a great provider of high quality services and preferred partner of choice to do business with. Our aim is to work with our stakeholders to develop long –term sustainable relationships. Environment – We are an environment driven company and are aware of the scale of impact, our operation has on the environment. As such, we are committed to exploring ways to reduce the impact of what we do. We take a responsible attitude and lead the way in developing initiatives to further improve our environmental footprint. We shall be fully accountable to our clients, employees and the society that we operate in. We will strive to create business opportunities for our stakeholders and follow the core values, norms and ethics that are in-built in the way we conduct our business. Workplace – We are committed to offer a rewarding and challenging workplace to our employees. We aim to become the best employer in fact employer of choice, demonstrated amongst other things, by current and past employees recommending the company as a great place to work. We are channeling our efforts towards making PBC a fun place to work for. We do believe people are core to any business and are one’s most important asset and therefore we focus our energies in taking good care of them as we believe that it makes good business sense to hire and retain great employees. The idea is to synergize our efforts in order to create wealth for all. Inclusivity and Equal opportunities for all is at the core of our human resource policy. We are strictly against discrimination of any kind. We are committed to create awareness of HIV-AIDS at work place and have an adequate policy in place to handle it. Community – We strive to be good corporate citizens, we work to support the sustainability of both global and the local communities in which we operate and actively encourage our employees, customers, suppliers to consider the needs of others and involve themselves in public service through public private partnering. We are sensitive to the requirements of the community around us and our business strategies are closely interlinked with their aspirations. High standards of corporate governance care for environment and health & safety, override everything else that we do. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 8 of 54 INTEGRATED POLICY FOR QUALITY, ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH & SAFETY Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) is committed to perform its business and related activities in a responsible manner so as to achieve continual improvement in Environmental performance, achieving Quality in service by providing quality services and facilities that consistently meet and exceed customer expectation and a safe & healthy environment, to prevent injury & ill health to its employees, occupants, visitors, guest, external providers & other interested parties. Integral to this commitment, PBC indoor environment enhances health, productivity, wellness and cognitive ability of its occupants, in a safe environment, at an affordable cost. PBC will ensure compliance to all the regulatory and legal requirements / law of the land and will strive to go beyond the statutory compliance for Health, Safety, Environment and other legal requirements. PBC has endeavored to internalize the requirements of ISO 9001:2015 (Quality Management Systems), ISO 14001:2015 (Environmental Management Systems) and in accordance with the principles of OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational Health and Safety Management System) in its stated business objectives & owes the success & progress of its business model to management systems. With these as our guiding principles and a vision to reshape the commercial buildings in India, we have surged ahead by focusing on people / occupants, on their interaction with the various facilities provided to them, their sense of health and well being while at work. We have created a business model that cares for people, environment and committed to protect the environment, satisfy applicable requirements, responsible business & sustainability. We move ahead with the interdependencies between human health, wellbeing and sustainability. On the surface, we know that a changing climate is already making a significant impact on the ability of human beings to enjoy healthy lives. In doing so, we strive towards:  Working positively towards UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) manage business risks; collaborate with likeminded companies in creating a more level playing field.  To have a motivated and committed team by sustaining a working environment where each employee is encouraged to excel.  To create awareness among our occupants, customers, employees, external provider and other important stakeholders, for better and improved environmental performance. The Policy is communicated to all interested parties for effective implementation and will be reviewed periodically for adequacy, continual improvement & suitability. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 9 of 54 FOOD SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM POLICY We at Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) are committed to provide fresh, safe & healthy food to our customers. We are the end processor of the food chain and then the food directly consume by the consumer. In doing so we strive towards:  Ensuring compliance to all applicable regulations and legislations.  Ensuring all raw materials is purchased under controlled conditions and from best possible supplier or source.  Meeting the specific needs and exceeding expectations of our customers by followed the application food safety norms and at the same time providing delicious and nutritious food.  Creating awareness among our staff, customers and suppliers about food safety. It will be our constant endeavor to take regular feedback from our clients to ensure improved performance and continual improvement. ENERGY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM POLICY Paharpur Business Centre is committed to perform its business and related activities in an environmentally responsible manner and to use energy in the most cost effective, efficient & green way. We are committed to conserve PBC™ energy consumption by using innovative methods and by using green and clean technologies available for reduced operation & maintenance cost of the building. It will be our constant endeavor to continually improve the energy performance of PBC™ by reducing our average annual energy intensity against business as usual. To accomplish this we try to:  Improve energy efficiency continuously by implementing effective energy management programs that support all the operations and customer satisfaction while providing a safe and comfortable work environment.  Become one of the most energy-efficient organizations in our industry on a kilowatt-hour per 100 square foot basis.  Measure, Monitor, Manage and control the daily energy consumption by adopting energy conservation initiatives.  Establish an Energy Management Team to identify and drive energy efficiency initiatives and to provide an integrated organization-wide response to energy management.  Set Energy objectives and targets and ensure that the adequate information and resources are available.  Measure our Carbon footprint on a year to year basis.  Comply with applicable legal requirements and the requirements of LEED-EB (O&M) guidelines and the requirements of BEE five star rating systems.  Promote purchase of energy efficient products and services and up gradation of existing systems for energy performance improvement.  Develop communications strategies to raise awareness among staff and all the interested parties.  This policy will be documented, maintained, communicated and reviewed periodically to ensure that it remains relevant and appropriate to the organizational Energy Management objectives & goals. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 10 of 54  Training will be imparted to all the persons working under the control of the organization for effective implementation.  We will also endeavor to train our vendors / suppliers / sub-contractors and effectively engage with them by organizing awareness sessions periodically focused on issues relating to energy conservation & and creating awareness on the same. ENVIRONMENTAL TOBACCO SMOKE CONTROL POLICY  The indoor air quality at PBC confirms to the ASHRAE standard and Tobacco smoking & use of E-Cigarette inside the building is strictly prohibited. Restricting smoking at the workplace is a part of complete health and safety promotion program in the business centre.  Employees & clients will be informed of this policy through signs posted in buildings.  Any violations of this policy will be handled through standard disciplinary procedures. SUSTAINABLE PURCHASE POLICY At PBC, we strive hard to ensure that we purchase in an environmentally sensitive manner. Whether it is a simple purchase of paper or pens, computers, laptops, food raw material, carpets to heavy duty engineering equipments, our preference will be to buy “Clean, Green and Energy Efficient” product and services. We are in the process of developing an environmentally preferable purchasing system in order to promote the concept of “Green Buying” and by doing so we will reduce our carbon footprint and promote Green Purchasing Processes. We find & evaluate information about green products & services and include the necessary specs in our product / service / vendor evaluation form and wherever possible, based on availability and financial viability purchase green and environmentally sustainable products and services, without compromising on the quality of life at PBC. We will consider the following environmental attributes at the time of purchasing:  Encourage local suppliers based in within 100 km radius of our location  Durable and not single use or disposable wherever possible and applicable  Made of recycled material Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 11 of 54  Biodegradable and Safely Disposable  Made from rapidly renewable material  Energy Efficiency  Will prefer procuring from companies and organizations that have responsible & sustainable environmental track record  Reduced packaging – financially viable also  Reduces Green House Gas Emissions  Scalable / Upgradable  Water Efficient Technologies  Use of renewable wherever applicable and possible. The above attributes will not be limiting & will be subject to change & review on a regular basis. The Objective Of our Purchase Policy is to reduce the adverse environmental impact Of Our Purchasing Decisions & 80% of our total purchase to be done through locally based suppliers. And it will be our constant endeavour to develop and redesign as per the requirement of the organization. By including environmental considerations in our purchasing procedure, along with concerns about price, quality and availability, we will remain fiscally responsible while attempting to promote practices that improve public health and safety, reduce pollution & carbon emissions and conserve natural resources. GREEN CLEANING POLICY The policy is introduced by PBC to provide a safe, clean, and healthy environment for staff and visitors. It is to maintain a position at the forefront of cleaning maintenance technology by employing safe, effective cleaning methods and equipment. It is strongly committed to “Green Cleaning” through its use of chemicals, equipment and techniques that are environmentally friendly. Our policy encourages all our staff and visitors to participate, support and help sustain this commitment to the environment. Green Cleaning includes a number of elements choosing cleaning products and equipment that are not detrimental to the environment and effective in their application as cleaning maintenance. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY POLICY Paharpur Business Centre & all its related properties and holdings support equal employment opportunities for everyone. We are committed to the ten principles of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) i.e. Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. PBC’s Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) policy states that every person has the same human rights and privileges without regard to his or her race, color, religion, sex, age, handicap, disability, marital status, national origin or economic status. Equal employment opportunity means that every applicant for a job should be considered solely on the basis of his or her qualifications. It also means that every employee should be treated equally with every other similar employee, without discrimination because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, age, handicap, disability, marital status, national origin or economic status. The Company expects full cooperation of everyone associated with it to make sure these principles are Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 12 of 54 upheld. Furthermore, the Company expects that all matters related to recruiting, advertising, hiring, training, compensation, benefits, promotions, transfers, layoffs, recall from layoffs, educational assistance, and social and recreational programs and all treatment on the job, be free of any discriminatory practices. It is PBC’s constant endeavor to spread the message of Equal Opportunities for all through various interactions and meetings with its supply chain and other stakeholders. ANTI-CORRUPTION & ETHICAL POLICY As employees in PBC, we:  Will ensure to behave in an honest & ethical manner  Will set a good example by being trustworthy  We will make sure that our behavior complies with the policies and rules of the organization / PBC.  We will use the resources of our company in the best interest of the company, and not for personal & gainful reasons. We will not misuse these resources  We will not pay or accept bribes / anything of value / cash/ gift / gratuities, offer of employment etc, for the purpose of influencing placement of contracts, obtaining a business advantage or any other reason  We will make a clear distinction between the interests of our company and our personal interests, and avoid possible conflicts of interest; we do not accept gifts, invitations or other advantages, which could contradict this principle or influence our business decisions that are against the norms of our company  Ensure that we comply with law of the land, including National legislations & statutory compliances.  All commissions and fee contracts shall have prior approval of our CEO  Report incidents, risks and issues which deviates from our policy, to your immediate reporting authority, or HeadHRD or CEO  Complete and Implicit support / protection to the employee / whistleblower who reports unethical behavior  Encourage Employees to be continuously conscious about our ethics and values and ensure each employee maintains their integrity, thereby maintaining the integrity of the organization  All employees must adhere to this policy and any violation to the above may result in termination / legal action, as deemed fit by the management. The CEO must approve any exceptions to this policy. As the owners of PBC, we:  Commit ourselves to this policy and to an ongoing effort to maintain our integrity  Make sure that PBC complies with the applicable National and International norms and commit PBC to an open and transparent Management Approach  Expect our stakeholders i.e. partners and other business associates to respect this policy and wherever possible, we will influence and encourage them to also adopt this policy Thereafter the policy mentioned above was shared / circulated to all the team members / employees of PBC, who are required to ensure strict adherence to it and behave in a manner suited/appropriate to the stated policy and rules of the organization at all times. The organization expects them to not only behave in an honest and ethical manner but they are also expected to set a good example by acting in a responsible and transparent manner. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 13 of 54 POLICY ON AFFIRMATIVE ACTION  PBC affirms the recognition that its competitiveness is interlinked with the well being of all sections of the Indian society.  PBC believes that equal opportunity in employment for all sections of society is a component of its growth and competitiveness. It further believes that inclusive growth is a component of growth and development of the country.  PBC affirms the recognition that diversity to reflect socially disadvantaged sections of the society in the workplace has a positive impact on business.  PBC will neither practice nor support conscious discrimination in any form.  PBC does not bias employment away from applicants belonging to disadvantaged sections of society if such applicants possess competitive skills and job credentials as made public.  PBC's selection of business partners is not based on any considerations other than normal business parameters. In case of equal business offers, PBC will select a business partner belonging to a socially disadvantaged section of society.  PBC will have a written policy statement on Affirmative Action in the workplace.  PBC will have an employment policy that is the public domain. It may place such policies and employment opportunities on its website to encourage applications from socially disadvantaged sections of society.  PBC will make all efforts for up-skilling and continual training of employees from socially disadvantaged sections of society in order to enhance their capabilities, and competitive skills.  PBC will have a partnership programme with educational institutions to support and aid students from socially disadvantaged sections of society.  PBC will have a senior executive accountable to the MD to oversee and promote its Affirmative Action policies and programmes. The senior executive will present a biannual report to the Board of the Company about such policies and programmes.  PBC further has a policy to maintain records on Affirmative Action.  PBC makes available its learning and experiences as a good corporate citizen in Affirmative Action to other companies desiring to incorporate such policies in their own business. POLICY ON HIV / AIDS PBC recognizes that HIV/AIDS is an issue at workplace and would like to address it proactively PBC will provide a safe and healthy environment to the team members by developing nondiscriminatory policy and programmes on HIV/AIDS. PBC will provide regular HIV/AIDS prevention education to all its team members and their families at various levels through formal and informal sessions. HIV status of the team member will be kept confidential Any Team Member living with HIV/AIDS will be kept in employment as long as they are in position to work. If necessary, employee will be shifted to another appropriate position considering the health status at that point in time. PBC will not discriminate against any Team Member infected by HIV/AIDS with regard to promotion, training and any other privileges, applicable to all employees of the company. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 14 of 54 At PBC HIV/AIDS test will not be a part of recruitment process or any health check-ups. PBC will educate its Team Members and encourage them to participate in Voluntary Counseling and Testing for seeking advice related to HIV/AIDS. SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY PBC is committed to provide a work environment that is free of discrimination and unlawful harassment. Sexual Harassment is strictly prohibited at PBC. Actions, words, jokes, or comments based on an individual’s sex, race, ethnicity, age, religion, or any other legally protected characteristic will not be tolerated. If an employee believes that he/she has been a victim of harassment or is aware of another employee who has been harassed, he / she should immediately report it to HRD or any member of the Harassment Redressal Committee. Employees can raise concerns and make reports without fear of retaliation. Any Superior who becomes aware of possible harassment should promptly advise Management or HR Representative, who will handle the matter in a timely and confidential manner. All employees are responsible for helping to ensure & assure a workplace free of harassment. The Company forbids retaliation against anyone who has reported harassment or participated in an investigation. All of us must recognize that such behavior not only violates the rules of common courtesy and is a violation of the Company's policy, but is also a Human Rights violation & therefore illegal under law. It is the Company's responsibility to investigate all reports or complaints of harassment thoroughly and promptly. If an investigation confirms that harassment has occurred, the Company will take appropriate corrective action, up to and including termination. POLICY ON DIVERSITY AND INCLUSIVITY At PBC, we believe in having a multi-skilled, motivated & a diverse workforce. A Diverse work culture is encouraged by: Respect – for all our stakeholdersemployees, customers, suppliers, and communities that we operate / live in, who come from different geographical, demographical, cultural and social backgrounds. Inclusivity for all genders –Women Empowerment by encouraging women employees to take on responsible positions at workplace and most importantly have women friendly policies and processes in place that facilitate their growth, development and active participation at the Workplace. Our aim is to include all in our sustainable business process and growth. Respect everyone’s view & perspective. Respect, listen to, help and appreciate others. Diverse ideas converging in for the same goal:  We believe that by encouraging diversity at the Workplace we are able to be more competitive, acceptable and appreciated in the markets that we operate.  Each one brings with them a special skill set and together we create a robust, sensitive and profitable organization and create value for our clients, employees and business partners. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 15 of 54  Appreciation – of our differences – Promoting a culture of Unity in Diversity, which is embedded in the Indian Ethos. STATEMENT OF SUPPORT FOR THE WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT PRINCIPLES We, at Paharpur Business Centre (PBC), are committed to support the cause for advancing equality between women and men. It’s  An important Business case for us – Equality Means Business, it  Brings the broadest pool of talent to our endeavors;  Furthers our company’s competitiveness;  Meet our corporate responsibility and sustainability commitments;  Model behaviour within our companies that reflects the society we would like for our employees, fellow citizens and families;  Encourage economic and social conditions that provide equal opportunities to both women and men, girls and boys;  Foster sustainable development in the countries in which we operate. Therefore, we welcome the provisions of the Women’s Empowerment Principles – Equality Means Business, produced and disseminated by the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and the United Nations Global Compact. The Principles present seven steps that business and other sectors can take to advance and empower women. Equal treatment of women and men is not just the right thing to do – it is also good for business. The full participation of women in our enterprises and in the larger community makes sound business sense now and in the future. A broad concept of sustainability and corporate responsibility that embraces women’s empowerment as a key goal will benefit us all. The seven steps of the Women’s Empowerment Principles will help us realize these opportunities. We encourage & urge business leaders to join us and use the Principles as guidance for actions that we can all take at the workplace, marketplace and community to empower women and benefit our companies and societies. We will strive to use sex-disaggregated data in our sustainability reporting to communicate our progress to our stakeholders. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 16 of 54 IGBC – Health & Well being Rating for Building Occupants PBC is the first building to be certified for IGBC Health & Well being Platinum Rated Building Paharpur Business Centre has attained Platinum Rating by accomplishing parameters as: The IGBC – Healthy Building Rating for Occupants standard broadly covers the following:  Indoor Air Quality – This requirement covers Fresh Air Ventilation, Smoke Control Policy, Monitoring of Indoor Air Quality and Reduce Indoor Emissions.  Water Quality – This requirement covers Access to Drinking Water, Quality of Drinking Water and Monitoring Quality of Recycled Water.  Comfort – This requirement covers Visual, Thermal, Acoustic, Olfactory, Ergonomics and Comfort for Differently Abled Occupants.  Health & Sanitation – This requirement covers Housekeeping practices, EcoFriendly Chemicals and Control of Outdoor Dust Pollutants.  Fitness & Nutritional Choices – This requirement covers Fitness Facilities, Awareness on Physical Fitness and Nutritional Choices  Emotional and Intellectual Well-being – This requirement covers Exterior Connectivity to Occupants, HR Policies and Spiritual Well-being.  Social Well-being – This requirement covers Recreation and Culture, Employee Safety and Service to Society.  Innovation & Design – This is the last requirement of this standard. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 17 of 54 CONTINUING WITH OUR COMMITMENTS – OUR STAKEHOLDER CENTRIC APPROACH: We firmly believe in balancing stakeholder priorities and expectations – this is absolutely essential for responsible business performance – by doing this we effectively manage our business risks. At PBC we meet and have a meaningful dialogue with our primary stakeholders, at least twice a year. For this we use surveys, awareness campaigns, training sessions and face to face interactions, training & awareness campaigns, joint pitching, sponsoring common interest programs etc. During the current year, PBC initiated a broader stakeholder engagement; listening and acting on the inputs received from our stakeholders/interested parties to further improve the business performance & services. Useful & Effective collaboration with our stakeholders to meet the challenges, ever changing business needs and demands, while consistently delivering sustainable value to all our primary stakeholders i.e. Employees, Suppliers, clients, communities in which we operate. Our goal is not only to adhere but exceed conformance to the law & with this intent we have gone all out to include our important stakeholders i.e. customers, subcontractors, employees, etc in our various engagement processes From our consultation with our major and critical stakeholders, the nature of challenge facing the company is clearly understood. Our new cross business CSR approach is based upon a consistent framework, capable of accommodating the wide levels of achievements across our various business verticals and by taking cognizance of different social, environmental and economic priorities. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 18 of 54 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Sl. Stakeholder ENGAGEMENT BENEFITS TO No. [by priority] Method Frequency Business Stakeholder 1 Shareholders Management Half yearly Financial and budgetary Clients get value for Meeting / / Yearly approvals for investments money services Board Meeting in green and clean technologies, business strategies get ratified. Valuable inputs to improve performance, positive brand image 2 Employees Staff welfare Monthly Enhance Productivity and Increase motivational meetings, Efficiency, increase in levels and enhance their Departmental business, positive brand capabilities, clarity on Meetings with image goals and objectives, CEO, Interpersonal and professional departmental growth, monetary meeting, emoluments management review meetings, committee meetings, events and celebrations. 3 Customers Letters / Daily / Enhance the business, Quality services, Presentations / Weekly / Building up of Trust and Increased service Meeting / Customer Monthly loyalty, positive brand efficiency and Satisfaction / image, inputs on effectiveness Surveys/ Feedback / Annually improving the services Annual Parties / Get and business together 4 Family of Picnic / Family Annually Motivated Team and Sense of Pride, employees Day Happy workforce, achievement, oneness, / Annual Loyalty, retaining Sense of belonging Gettalent. (part of PBC family) together Endorsement by family of an employee’s choice of employer Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 19 of 54 5 Suppliers / Visits and Annual Regularly Relationship building, Strong Business Vendors / Meeting / Building of trust and relationship, trust level Subcontract or Yearly faith, transparency, increase, credit safety, better negotiations and learning and awareness better value for money process, out of the box as credibility is innovation / established, branding, customization of learning and awareness product and services, process, out of the box increase business and innovation / orders customization of product and services 6 Government New Policies / Regularly Get a platform to Support from the planning for place their concerns to industry and corporate business / the government industry, Laws 7 Community Initiatives on Regularly Credibility/positive Better engagement community brand image, Goodwill process for the development of people, perceived as community, community and various a responsible corporate gets a platform to important days voice their concerns, apprehensions appreciations and suggestions 8 Investors Meetings, Regularly Access to money, To deal with Presentation grants / loans. Growth responsible corporate, s, Seminars and diversification technology partner, and opportunities, new Growth and conferences business segments and diversification projects opportunities, new business segments and projects, last but not the least attractive returns on their investments and risk hedging 9 Media Electronic and Regularly Positive brand image, It’s a win-win Print media Creating awareness situation media gets Publication, about the business story to tell especially Articles, entity, indirectly it when it is innovative interviews impact the sales and and new and create a market value niche 10 Industry Meetings, Regularly Knowledge sharing, Credibility Enhances, associations Presentations, bridge between industry get more corporate / Seminars, and govt. for framing members / followers trainings, policy that aid workshop and businesses. conferences Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 20 of 54 PBC’s COMMITMENT TO UNGC’S TEN PRINCIPLES A. HUMAN RIGHTS I. SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS We believe that business has an important role to play in promoting and respecting the advancement of fundamental human rights, while not supplanting the primary obligations of Government to protect the human rights of all people within their borders and as members of the international community. Supporting human rights is not only the right thing to do, but also makes business sense—companies that violate internationally recognized human rights are not sustainable. Ethical behavior towards our employees and suppliers, including the payment of decent wages and the provision of safe and hygienic working conditions, are the essential building blocks for our current and future business. We recognize the rights of our employees and treat our staff with dignity, respect and fairness within a safe working environment. Health & Safety are the two key factors guiding our business. “We recruit locally, encourage high degrees of local autonomy and share ownership where appropriate”. We pursue with a mission to educate our employees about organizational commitment to human rights through regular trainings & workshops. These trainings help our employees to understand the principles of human rights and how these are to be implemented in their respective business verticals. We also make sure that each Head of the Department clearly understands the risk emerging by not following these. We ensure strict adherence to laws enacted by the Government of India, to protect the interests of the workers. We follow Shops & Established Act. Through this, PBC reinforces its commitment to basic rights, freedom to all, fair wages, equal opportunities without discrimination on any account, inclusivity, training & skill development, health, safety etc. A fair and open channel of communication is maintained for all personnel at the work place. Human Rights are clearly identified as a non-negotiable instrument and are addressed in detail in our Management Standing Instructions (MSI) Our Code of Conduct expresses implicit support to the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 21 of 54 II. ENSURE THAT THE ORGANIZATION IS NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES There has been no instance of the company having abused human rights in any manner. Our organization realizes that the prompt handling of grievances of employees and customers is of paramount importance in upholding of human rights and accordingly, we have framed procedures to address such grievances. We encourage the development and growth of our staff through regular appraisals, personal improvement & development plans.  We do not permit any kind of harassment or abuse of our employees.  We regularly monitor the working practices and the employment policies of our suppliers and promote improvement. Under Company’s Management Standing Instruction (MSI), we have a separate process on Grievance Handling, through which all employees are able to voice their concerns, queries, doubts, clarifications, grievances etc. The purpose of this procedure is to establish, maintain and ensure a suitable and effective method for handling grievances of personnel deputed at PBC, including workers provided by the sub contractors. The idea is to have a workplace that is sensitive to our most important stakeholders i.e. our workforce & that ensures their well being, while they are with PBC. This is taken very positively as part of our continual improvement programme. Any grievance or suggestion is not taken adversely by the management, wherein our team members get apprehensive about filing any grievance. On the contrary these are considered as opportunities for improvement. No records of an employee’s use of the grievance procedure are kept in their personnel file and during their performance evaluation; this is not taken into accounts. As stated earlier, there has been no instance of the company having abused human rights in any manner. Apart from this, we encourage employees to express views; raise issues in forums meant for their interaction with management, where they are free to give suggestions and seek clarification for any doubts, in a fair manner. We have a suggestion box for our team members so that they can give their ideas/suggestions without any apprehensions. This can result in overall improvement in our system. We also have a unique communication systeminternal mailing system. All employees have quick and easy access to HR personnel & Senior Managers, in case of any urgency. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 22 of 54 B. LABOUR STANDARDS III. UPHOLDING THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING PBC realizes the collective strength of its employees and treats them as effective partners towards the goal of achieving continuous sustainable growth and hence no objection is raised on employees to join any trade unions thereby ensuring freedom of association to all its employees. However it is stressed that they do it in a disciplined manner without harming the sanctity of the workplace. This is communicated through various training programmes and meetings organized for subcontractors, vendors & other stakeholders. Till date, no instances of strikes / lock out etc have ever taken place at PBC. A noteworthy point here is that a large part of our crew members have been with us for more than five years, this shows the trust and faith that they repose in the management of PBC and also proves the management’s commitment to their personal development and welfare. There have been several instances when a lot of our crew members who had left, rejoined us. This once again proves PBC’s commitment to fair business practices. We also have a “Workers Representative” (WR), who engages with our crew-members and understands their queries, requirements, needs, grievances, issues etc. and brings them to the notice of the management, on a monthly basis. These are then discussed with the Management Committee and HR. Actions are then taken to resolve shortcomings if any. The Workers Representative (WR) is part of all Review Meetings, Audits & Internal meetings with the management, so that the workers perspective is thoroughly presented to the management. IV. THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR PBC believes in voluntary labour and does not believe in all forms of forced & compulsory labour right from its inception. Regular & Periodic Audits, both external & internal are conducted for compliance with requirements of labour law, OHSAS & UNGC principles. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 23 of 54 V. THE ORGANIZATION SUPPORTS EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR We prefer business partners / suppliers who treat their employees the way we do. PBC follows the Delhi Shops and Establishment Act, according to which, the age limit prescribed for child labour is below 15. However, we have gone beyond this and have prescribed the minimum age limit as 18 years for employment at PBC. No person below this age can be employed in PBC, whether directly or indirectly, thereby ensuring that child labour is not practiced. By setting the minimum pay scale as per the government norms we ensure that our employees get decent wages and working conditions encouraging them to send their children to schools rather than to work. All our contractors & vendors are also required to scrupulously follow the laws/ rules and regulations in respect of engagement of Child Labour. This is addressed through our contract agreement, vendor declaration & regular engagement programmes with our Vendors and suppliers. In PBCHR Process, we have a separate process defined on Child Labour – Remediation Plan. The purpose of this procedure is to establish, maintain and ensure a suitable and effective process for detection & prevention of child labour & its remediation, which covers all personnel deputed and also include workers provided by subcontractors. VI. ORGANIZATION PROMOTES ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT The organization does not believe in any kind of discrimination at workplace. At the time of recruitment only, qualification of a candidate to deliver effective performance is considered and if all is equal, we give special preference to women, candidates from marginal / economically weaker sections of the society and differentlyabled. There have been “Zero” incidents of discrimination in the reporting period. In the above sense we do practice “positive discrimination” to have a diverse workforce. We have adequate policies in place to firmly deal with these and apart from this; it also is detailed in our MSI and processes under ISO. We ensure 100% compliance to these. Our objective is to go beyond compliance. The organization does not believe in any kind of discrimination based on caste, color, gender, religion or region. We strongly believe in inclusivity and vehemently oppose discrimination at workplace. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 24 of 54 Sustainable Development GOAL – 10 Reduce in-equality within and among countries PBC supports & confirm to UNDP Goal No. 10. We does not believe in any kind of inequality based on caste, color, gender, religion or region and we strongly believe in inclusivity and vehemently oppose discrimination at workplace. It is evident from the chart given below that Schedule caste & tribes constitute almost 10% of our total workforce and we hire people based on competencies and their ability to carry out the defined tasks. Any other factor apart from this is not considered. We practice Affirmative Action, as it promotes a diverse workforce and gives opportunities to all in order to have sustainable livelihoods. We also strive to create awareness about the importance of Affirmative Action to enhance social stability & cohesion and to make it into a practical solution for the corporate sector and businesses. We recognize the need to reorient people’s attitude towards persons with disability & persons from the marginalized sections of our society. Inclusivity Data: Category No. of Team Members Percentage wise General 76 89% OBC 7 8% SC 2 2% Grand Total 85 100% The organization does not believe in any kind of discrimination at workplace & at the time of recruitment only qualification of a candidate to deliver effective performance is considered and yes if all is equal, we give special preference to women candidates, candidates from marginal sections of the society & differently-abled. Yes in the above sense, we do practice “positive discrimination” to have a diverse & inclusive workforce after all the benefits of progress are for one and all. PBC firmly believes in inclusivity and strongly opposes all kinds of discrimination in hiring, remuneration, access to training, promotion, carrier development etc at work place. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 25 of 54 Sustainable Development GOAL – 5 Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls PBC welcomes the provisions of the UNDP Goal No. 5 and Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) – Equality Means Business, produced and disseminated by the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and United Nations Global Compact. We are one of the seven signatories to WEPs and the only mSME to demonstrate commitment to Women Empowerment. PBC has adopted seven steps in order to empower women employees. We have a policy in place to address this as part of our business strategy. An important business case for us – Equality Means Business. Equal treatment of women and men is not just the right thing to do – it is also good for business. At PBC, we constantly work towards removing barriers that help in changing the mindsets & stereotypes. Model behavior within our organization reflects the society we would like for our employees, their families, fellow citizens and communities where we operate in. We have women friendly policies at work to facilitate them and simultaneously help them balance their work, home, children and family.  Flexible working hours, part-time jobs, work from home option, ‘be consultants’ and ‘come-onspecific days’ etc. are some of the provisions tailor-made for our women employees  Extended Maternity Leaves  A medical insurance policy in place that covers maternity from day one  Providing manned cab facilities to the women employees after 7 pm and until 7 am PBC recognizes that Sexual harassment is an issue at workplace and addresses it proactively, by having regular awareness and interactive sessions with PBC team members. We encourage “Open Door Policy” for our women employees to ensure that their specific grievances are addressed in a timely manner. PBC enjoys the reputation of being a safe and secure place for women employees. As an organization, we strongly feel that synergies between the two genders can truly result in sustainable development of an entity, organization & a nation as a whole. Women at PBC hold the highest management positions. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 26 of 54 PBC top management promotes women empowerment encourages their participation and recognizes their contribution at all levels. Chairman Emeritus received the award for Exceptional Leaders of Excellence 2017 from Women Economic Forum. The Women Economic Forum is a global conference to foster empowering conversations and connections among both men and women of extraordinary commitment to gender parity and equal opportunity for all so as to foster constructive change and growth in ALL walks of life. The overall theme of Wealth and Wellness covers under it all aspects of our lives and our workplace where, with our innovative ideas, we can bring economic wealth, sustainability and inclusiveness in all sectors of our economy, from manufacturing to services to education and research for the wellbeing of ALL. PROMOTING GENDER EQUALITY & CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT BY CELEBRATING BIRTH OF A GIRL CHILD “NANHI CHAAN”With the motto of supporting Equal Opportunity for all while standing against the crime, female foeticide, every year PBC organizes a sapling plantation on the name of girl child born to PBC team member. Wherein all the PBC members celebrate the birth of a girl child by making the proud parents plant a sapling in her name. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 27 of 54 They also take an oath to take care of that plant the way they do for their child. This is a CSR initiative, and is known as, Nanhi Chhaan”. PBC Team Members planting trees to celebrate the birth of girl child INTERNATIONAL MOTHER’S & WOMEN’S DAY CELEBRATION @ PBC Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 28 of 54 PBC Celebrates Woman Power: We realize that women do bring with them a special skill set that meets our operational standards, especially in terms of multitasking, handling people and taking up leadership roles. Women at PBC hold the highest management positions and our women friendly policies facilitates them to work hard & yet look after their homes / children and family. We are proud to say that PBC enjoys the reputation of being a very safe and secure place for women employees. PBC has always celebrated the International Women’s day & this year specifically on the occasion, our theme was “Log Out, Shut Down, Do Yoga”. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 29 of 54 Positive Discrimination We at PBC do everything possible to promote Inclusivity. Discrimination at workplace of any sorts is unacceptable. There are a number of interventions that we have in place to include women, physically challenged, employees from other nationalities, people from the marginal sections of our society, in our workforce. Our top management encouraged us to implement hiring of women employees at all levels including giving them leadership roles in the organization. The principle of “Perform or Perish” applies to all irrespective of genders at PBC – the work environment that we offer equally facilitates both men & women to give their best – Work hard & yet keep it fun!! Above all, we feel that by giving opportunities to women at work, our businesses have access to a large pool of talented & skilled workforce. PBC is striving & working hard in order to create conditions that facilitate the work-life balance or mobility. C. ENVIRONMENT VII. THE ORGANIZATION ADOPTS A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES With regard to our environmental initiatives – relating to energy management, water conservation, reduction of our carbon footprint, use of sustainable resources, waste management, local procurement, indoor environment etc, we manage them on a day to day basis, the results are tangible and our system addresses it very substantially. MONITORING BUILDING PERFORMANCE A REAL TIME MONITOR Green Building is a necessity, like a high school degree. To move forward, one has to constantly improve. LEED Arc allows us to keep its sustainability goals focused in real-time and not merely on the basis of a one-time green certification. It is about staying relevant at all times. It almost forces us to go out of our comfort zone and keeps us on our toes by displaying near real time performance numbers across the five categories. Arc is intentionally disruptive, which leads to fundamental changes in human behavior and our building’s functions. It is a remarkable monitoring system that accounts for energy and water consumption, waste generation, and the human experience. It’s a unique platform that comes with a phenomenal scope of bringing in a revolution in the green buildings and their performance. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 30 of 54 The arc has become an integral part of our entire operational and analytical system. It assesses the performance of a building constantly and keeps you motivated to do well. It gives us all a great opportunity to improve our performance on a daily basis. We have received positive response from the occupants. They sincerely appreciate and abide by the rules and regulations that help maintain the quality of air. Our occupants understand the importance of air quality and its impact within the building compared to the air outside. A lot of clients also say that our services have optimized their comfort to a greater extent. Moreover, they now know that green buildings actually boost their growth by keeping them healthier and more productive. When they heard about the LEED Arc, they had a comprehensive understanding of the metrics. Ultimately, anything measurable is believable. The plaque displays the performance score which reflects the measured performance of any building across five categories: 1. Energy 2. Water 3. Waste 4. Transportation, and 5. Human experience The LEED performance score corresponds with the globally recognized LEED certification levels. It has helped us in various ways: 1. Constant real time monitoring of the building’s performance 2. Accurate data flow 3. The best part is: one gets to know immediately about the problem areas of different parameters and we can set about fixing them right away, and also for further improvements. 4. A certificate definitely adds worth, but the Arc is like a cherry on top which makes everything more comprehensive and believable due its scoring platform. 5. Keeps us actively engaged in internal monitoring and analysis of data, which is even further recorded. Ultimately, a more refined system/ procedure is put on role. 6. The Arc has also alleviated our motivation level. After tracing the scores regularly, we could get to know that our building is constantly, on average, performing on Platinum benchmarks (Score: >80). This boosts our confidence that our quality of operations has not deteriorated. In case, there is any lapse, then we try to resolve it and back to the track. 7. For example, during summer season, our scores went down slightly as the water efficiency was low due to high consumption. 8. It helps, and in a way authenticates the quality of services that we offer. Thus, proving us more responsible for the betterment of the building occupants and environment. It is a unique platform that helps buildings to learn and grow. One must go for it, if one wants to move further in the direction of sustainability. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 31 of 54 It is one of our key ongoing projects. We have a team who works in coordination with the Quality Assurance team to take necessary actions, to keep the plaque operational. Majorly, all the activities can be categorized as:  Ensuring that data management is done on a daily basis  Waste audit and data input (Annually)  Alternative Commuting survey (Annually)  Monitoring Consumption of resources and analyzing the gaps (if there are any)  Coordination with USGBC team The Arc has helped us in sustaining the performance monitoring of our building – Since, we have to provide data for the interface so as to keep it updated, we to have to be really stringent with the data management process. Since it gives us measurable data, we can identify and resolve the problem, immediately. However, one possible improvement can be made in the “Human Experience” section of the plaque. As this category also encapsulates Air Quality, the same sub-category can be further detailed out by adding few more parameters like PM 2.5, 10, Bacteria and Fungal count for monitoring, apart from just VOCs and CO2. As PMs (Particulate Matter) have posed a grave threat to global health conditions, it is imperative that they are not spared from monitoring. This modification will generate awareness and also help people in understanding it better. At PBC, we take a 360 degree approach while looking at energy management. It is an on-going process. We plan and implement our interventions keeping all the aspects of business relevance in mind and constantly put in efforts to maintain them. There are huge challenges while retrofitting a building like ours as we are a 24x7 operation and we cannot afford shutting down for any of our retrofit activities A deep energy retrofit in the original certification was monitored and optimized using the LEED Arc to ensure we maintained building performance at the Platinum level. Sophisticated mechanical upgrades and energy recovery systems are all managed via a BMS to ensure proper operation. Some of the most impactful energy saving strategies from the original certification include:  30KW capacity Solar PV panels  LED lights with motion sensors  Installation of advanced Cooling Towers  Condensate water in Air Handling Unit is returned for reuse to cool incoming air.  Energy Recovery Wheel  Use of Variable Frequency Drives in all pumps One of the challenges that we face in attaining score is taking control of the energy usage during different seasons. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 32 of 54 For example: During Summer season, the energy consumption levels (due to cooling load) and increases. As a result the efficiencies of the energy meter drops down; further, affecting our scores. The same goes for water usage, which is usually high during summer and the same thing takes place. Water Conservation Measures: Some of the water conservation techniques that we follow are:  Motion sensors on water taps.  Grey water recycling  Water quality PH sensor with automatic shutoff  Water saving toilets  Rain Water Harvesting Waste Management Practices: Waste separation and closed loop composting on site  Minimize waste generation in the office by using digital platforms and reusing paper when possible. Our Score on date is below (a snap shot) Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 33 of 54 Covered by USGBC-LEED mentioning PBC as an Example ENERGY CONSERVATION MEASURES Energy conservation practices followed at PBC help in reducing our operating costs without impacting the quality of life. Direct energy consumption from primary energy source is from BSES (utility provider) and we don’t have any source for Indirect / Renewable energy. ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND SUSTAINABILITY IN HVAC The following are the major retrofits in the HVAC system.  Chiller has a COP of 6.1; it’s an efficient 212 TR water-cooled screw chiller from Trane.  Two-way valve regulate the chilled water inlet into the AHU coil as per the heat load.  CO2 sensors have been put to regulate the fresh air inlet inside the air-conditioned space. Its demand controlled ventilation.  All Pumps and motors in the HVAC system are VFD controlled.  Cold condensate water from AHUs fed to cooling towers after UV treatment  Cooling tower, with 1 degree reach, over wet bulb  Heat exchanging coils in the fresh air unit in conjunction with air washer to reduce the air temperature, resulting in a continuous 2 degree centigrade saving.  UVC light have been installed on the AHU cooling coils to keep the air & coil clean of indoor air contaminants.  The new system has VAV in air circuits to regulate the air supply as per heat load.  New Double skin AHU help reduce the leakage & noise. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 34 of 54  Heat Recovery wheel unit ensures that incoming fresh air is pre-cooled before it is let in into the system  Complete system is managed centrally through BMS The business relevance / benefits of the above energy conservation measures implemented in HVAC are: 20-25% Energy Saving compared to Old system  Increased Customer Satisfaction on account of thermal comfort  Operational manpower reduction  Automatic Controls, reduced manpower dependence  Important parameter monitoring & logging in BMS for diagnosis PBC has experienced a reduction of maximum 30% in the electricity bills due to its energy conservation measures. We are working on these practices to further improve our energy efficiency. Energy Consumption Category 2017 HVAC 148213 Lighting (KWH) 67975 Miscellaneous (KWH) 270798 Energy Consumption 2017 HVAC Lighting (KWH) Miscellaneous (KWH) Energy Consumption Last 3 Years Year (KWH) AAhEPI (Wh/hr/Sqm) 2015 569988 22 2016 508332 19 2017 452316 17 Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 35 of 54 Energy Consumption Last 3 Years (KWH) 600000 500000 400000 300000 Energy Consumption Last 3 Years (KWH) 200000 100000 0 2015 2016 2017 ANNUAL AVERAGE HOURLY ENERGY PERFROMANCE INDEX FROM JAN 2014 TILL DEC 2017 AAhEPI AAhEPI for Jan to • 21 for Jan to • 21 Dec 2014 Wh/hr/Sqm Dec 2015 Wh/hr/Sqm AAhEPI AAhEPI for Jan to • 20 for Jan to • 17 Dec 2016 Wh/hr/Sqm Dec 2017 Wh/hr/Sqm WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES At PBC, water has always been considered as a precious resource, which is monitored at all inlet and outlet points on daily basis. As water demands and environmental needs grow, recycling & reusing of water plays a major role at PBC, helping us to conserve and manage our vital water resources in a sustainable manner. Source of Water at PBC™: Primary Source is Delhi Jal Board (Utility Provider) and for any additional requirement of Water, water is sourced & bought. Monitoring & Reporting System Daily monitoring and recording of the water consumption at each area of consumption is done in Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 36 of 54 order to control any kind of water wastage. Monthly Water Consumption Data The Bench Mark for water consumption is 45ltrs per person per day as per building by laws. WASTE MANAGEMENT PBC has integrated its waste management system in its daily operations. The mantra is: Reduce, Refuse, Reuse and Recycle. Some of the waste management strategies are:  Waste is segregated at its origin. PBC has placed separate bins for different types of waste like food, plastic, paper etc. Food waste at PBC is converted into organic nature manure through vermiculture with the help of worms. Further, this manure is used for indoor plants.  Effluent from the kitchen is treated through Oil and Grease trap installed in the Kitchen and as per Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) norms, the parameters of the discharge is periodically tested from DPCC approved Lab. Results are within the specified parameters.  PBC also uses discharged water from effluent treatment plant: Discharged treated water from Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) is used in Vermi-compost Pit and for gardening purpose.  PBC recycles paper and plastic waste. Several trees are chopped down in order to produce papers. At PBC, they try to minimize the usage of papers by following various simple practices. Instead of circulating paper notes/chits, we prefer using our emails, setting up reminders in the computers etc.  The team is advised to reuse one-sided paper & promote communication through I-mail/ E-mail. Sustainable Development GOAL – 7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all To Enable Built Environment to enhance Wellness, Productivity, Cognitive Ability of its occupants in a safe environment at an affordable cost, CAPEX and OPEX. PAHARPUR BUSINESS CENTRE (PBC) is the first retrofit office building in India to be certified USGBC LEED Platinum for O&M. It is a BEE 5 star rated building with an average annual energy use of 28whr/m2/hour. It was NABERS; Australia 4 Star certified in 2015 – a first outside Australia, for IEQ. It is CETEC 5 star certified in 2015. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 37 of 54 CPCB, GOI and Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute, Kolkata have rated it as one of the healthiest buildings in Delhi PBC made it to the top 10 buildings in India, to be included in the Hall of Fame of ACREX in 2017, organized by ISHRAE and CII-IGBC. The parameters were Energy Performance Index, Indoor Air Quality, Energy saving, 1 year operational data from BMS and building commissioned on or after June 2013. We qualified for the last pre condition as we have made significant changes in our equipment leading to high level of energy efficiency. Delhi is known for its poor air quality. The PM 2.5 and Ozone levels remain consistently higher than prescribed limits given by WHO. We has experienced over the past 25 years that there was 42% probability of one’s Blood Oxygen going up by 1%, if one were to remain indoors at PBC for around 8 hours. We grow our own fresh air at PBC. It is a natural way of air purification by using special indoor green plants. To find out which, please ‘Google’ -Kamal Meattle and view his TED talk that has been viewed by over 2.9 million people. We use bio-technology to cleanse the indoor air and remove its VOC’s, with the help of three common indoor plantsAreca Palm, Mother in laws Tongue & Money Plant. PBC has a specially designed hybrid air filtration system that includes mechanical equipments and airfiltration plants, grown in Hydroponics. It had set-up a pretreatment air plant and the building is kept at a positive pressure in order to avoid ingress of outside polluted air. We have over 7,000 indoor plants. We have also installed a Heat Exchanger coupled to a specially designed Cooling Tower with a 1 degree reach over wet bulb, and a VFD on the screw chiller to reduce energy use at PBC. We wished to offer our occupants pure air to breathe, at an affordable cost, and a practice that could be easily duplicated and run in other buildings. Thus, the building HVAC system was designed in such a way that it can maintain thermal comfort meeting ASHRAE standards, and also offers better air quality to its occupants. Harvard University published a study in October 2015 showing that one could increase the Cognitive ability of occupants, on an immediate basis, by 61%, if the CO2 levels indoors were below 600 ppm and the TVOC’s were ,50 ug/m3 with a give that PM 2.5 were < 15 ug/m3. This information led us to plan to have PBC meet these very conditions in our building. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 38 of 54 Hence, this project PBC is a Building that enhances occupant Productivity, Wellness and Cognitive Ability while keeping them safe, all at an affordable cost. The results are measurable and can be replicated in other buildings. This is our contribution to GOI’s program on Smart Cities. We believe that Smart Cities should have Smart Buildings with occupants as Smart People who have achieved their full potential. Built environment can contribute to Wellness, Productivity and Cognitive Ability – in homes, offices, schools and public places that are air-conditioned or air cooled, at an affordable cost. We have been able to bring down the Average energy consumption from 28 wh/m2/hour to < 20 whr/m2/hour, a reduction of 28.5 % . We at PBC constantly try and headed towards conservation of energy and we make annual plans with budgets and resource mobilization to achieve our targets. We hope to be one of the most energy building on the demand side. Another Harvard study was published in October 2016 and this confirmed that for occupants who used information for their work, were able to increase their cognitive ability by as much as 299% in a Green + environment. Please check out www.thecogfxstudy.com This environment is similar to what PBC offers today. Hence we feel that our building occupants also experience an increase of cognitive ability. Sustainable Development GOAL – 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages BUILDINGS CONTRIBUTE TO ONE'S WELLNESS, COGNITIVE ABILITY AND HIGHER PRODUCTIVITY & AT THE SAME TIME, REDUCE ENERGY COST A PATH TOWARDS SUSTAINABILITY While the entire world is grappling with the plight of air pollution, PBC invented an effective solution to air pollution – Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) system. Not a mask or AC, IAQ system is a unique bio-technology that is a combination of both mechanical and natural air purification system. It is the brainchild of PBC. It is due to this IAQ system, PBC has been able to offer mountain fresh ambience to its occupants. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 39 of 54 Air Quality Indoors, at PBC conforms to ASHRAE & WHO standards:  Temperature Maintained 22±1° C in winters & 25±1° C in summers.  RH 70 % ± 10 %  PM 2.5 < ~15µg /m3 all the time  Sox, BDL and in any case < 80 ug /m3, as per ASHRAE standards  Nox, BDL and in any case < 100 ug /m3, as per ASHRAE standards  Ozone, BDL and in any case < 51 ppb  TVOC’s are under 500 ug /m3  CO2 level is ~ 200 250 ppm over ambient The IAQ team monitors the work and effects of IAQ system, and takes corrective actions for it as and when required. Every day, the team publishes its IAQ readings on its website www.pbcnet.com and detailed readings for the building including all the floors are displayed at the Entrance / Reception. Below, is a snapshot of reading displayed on October 17, 2017 and October 31, 2016. IAQ Reading at Paharpur Business Centre on 31st October 2016 (the day after Diwali – the most polluted days in Delhi) Readings are taken at 10:30 am on October 31, 2016 Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 40 of 54 So once again this year, a day after Diwali i.e Friday, 20th October 2017, the most polluted day of the year in Delhi, PBC has invited many dignitaries – VVIPs, Ambassadors, Corporate etc. to experience the mountain fresh air. Below is the invitation for reference. Day after Diwali (a festival of lights, which is celebrated across length and breadth of our country), is generally the most polluted day of the year. th This year Diwali was on 19 October, 2017. Even after various steps taken by government including implementation of burning fire crackers, the day after Diwali (20th October, 2017), Delhi became a Gas Chamber. The PM 2.5 readings had gone sky high at a level of 1500 µg/m3 A snapshot of the IAQ and combining with smog all reading at US embassy is as over, it literally chocked every follows: Delhi resident. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 41 of 54 PBC has again managed to control “Indoor Air Quality” as per the international standards. We have again proved that PBC is the healthiest building in Delhi. People are the most valuable resource in organizations. The salary and wage bill of people working in buildings is one of the major costs of any organization. We focus on rental of buildings only! We need to map out the Productivity increase benefits of occupying a building and also take it into account, in our calculations. Wellness result in fewer sick days and in a motivated work force. This is besides the energy efficiency of the building, resulting in lower OPEX for the owner/ operator. It is the duty of an employer to care for the wellbeing of their employees and provide a healthy and comfortable workplace. Occupant satisfaction should be measured. A small increase in individual productivity leads to significant gains for an organization. We invited various VIPs and dignitaries including the Ambassadors of various countries to visit us on th 20 October and experience the fresh air at PBC. Following is the snapshot of the feedback shared by some of our guests: “Thank you for extensively walking tour and Congratulations on your efforts. We have to make our earth green” H.E. Mr. Tomasz Kozlowski”, Ambassador of EU to India “Many Thanks for the kind invitation. Great experience and very useful solution for preserving the mother Earth and our health” H.E. Mr. Hatem Tageldin, Ambassador of Egypt to India Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 42 of 54 “WELLBEING AND GREEN BUILDINGS OF INDIA” The Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) is glad to announce that we recently executed a research project titled, Impact of green buildings on occupant’s wellbeing in India. The project has been awarded to IGBC by WGBC as a part of the Better Places for People Campaign. The objective of the study was to understand the perceptions of people living and working in green buildings and use this information to strengthen the case for health, comfort, hygiene and wellbeing in green buildings in India. The final project report, captured the experiences of green building occupants of 25 buildings certified under various IGBC green building rating systems from 7 major cities in India. PBC was also one of them. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 43 of 54 VIII. THE ORGANIZATION INITIATES PROMOTION OF GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY PBC believes in environmental awareness among PBC team members & stakeholders. Our values encourage and motivate us to have partnerships with our customers, employees & other important stakeholders, driving the organization towards sustainable development. Due to our inherent values and environmental sensitivity, we are perceived as a great place to work for. Some of the initiatives for promotion of our environmental responsibility towards community & stakeholder are as follows: EARTH DAY CELEBRATION Earth Day in Schools The Climate Reality Project India and Paharpur Business Centre in partnership with Earth Day Network celebrated Earth Day 2018 in Delhi-NCR schools, by inviting schools to hold Morning Assembly contest to commemorate Earth Day 2018. Morning Assembly contest is a campaign by Earth Day Network India, where schools are requested to host a special morning assembly on any day between 1st April to 30th June 2018, on the theme to End Plastic Pollution. As an outreach partner, Climate Reality India sent e-mailers to its school network, requesting them to participate in the contest and host special assembly in their school. Morning Assembly by SD Public School Earth Day was celebrated on 21st April by Eco Club students of SD Public School Pitampura in the school assembly. They presented short speeches on the importance of celebrating ‘Earth Day’ and discussed about this year’s theme of curbing plastic pollution. A power point presentation on this theme was shown to all students to sensitize them and make them more environments conscious. Students sang a beautiful song praising mother earth and thanking her for her generosity. Children took resolution to nurture mother earth and planted saplings in the school premises. More picture here. Environment week in The Foundation School Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 44 of 54 The Foundation School observed Environment Week from 16th to 21st April, 2018, which culminated on April 22nd which is celebrated the world over as Earth Day. In fact, the whole month of April was observed as Earth month in the school. The children were introduced to the reasons why it is critical for everyone to protect and preserve our Mother Earth and her environment, through activities spanning the week. To make the week more exciting for students, they were encouraged along with their parents to design a costume using trashthe Trash Fashion Parade. On the last day children were asked to come up and speak about what they do to keep beloved Mother Earth clean. They were provided with card cut outs on which they wrote points. To begin with, in the Pre-primary section children were made aware of the importance of cleanliness through a story titled ‘Bubbles – The Litterbug’. The children enjoyed the story and answered questions indicating they understood the need for cleanliness. The week ended with much learning and awareness. The children were given an opportunity to express their love for their planet and show their concern for the same. WORLD ENVIRONMENT DAY @ PBC On the occasion of Earth Day 2018; Theme: Beat Plastic Pollution, PBC took initiative of banning usage of plastic straw and plastic cups in the business centre. To promote the awareness PBC communicates the initiatives with the occupants through e-mailers. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 45 of 54 Sustainable Development GOAL – 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts PBC has been proactive in the activities of The Climate Reality Project. Our Chairman, Mr. Meattle is the trustee to The Climate Reality Project – India Chapter (TCPI). The Climate Reality Project, founded and chaired by former Vice President and Nobel Laureate Al Gore, is dedicated to unleashing a global cultural movement demanding action on the climate crisis. The Climate Reality Project, Indiaan independent chapter of this international organization was established in March 2008 with the help of Al Gore and Dr. R K Pachauri. Their mission is to catalyze a global solution to the climate crisis by making urgent action a necessity across every level of society. PBC has partnered with TCPI in various awareness campaigns and other initiatives, and has also been rendering continued support to its Teacher’s Training Program to be undertaken in collaboration with Delhi Government. This program aims at taking the climate message to 10,000 teachers from 5,000 Delhi Schools, ultimately reaching out to 1 million children. This will inculcate climate-based solution metrics in the children and further help them in understanding the factors behind climate crisis and how one can act wisely to reduce the adverse effects of climate change. IX. ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES BELIEVING IN GREATER ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY Environmental awareness amongst PBC team members & stakeholders is always encouraged. This motivates us in establishing partnerships with our important stakeholders, driving the organization towards sustainable development. Due to our inherent values and environmental sensitivity, we are perceived as a great place to work. We have initiated several awareness programs for school children, employees, clients, community on climate change. Some of the initiatives for promotion of our environmental responsibility towards community & stakeholder are:  Celebrating Earth Day & Environment Day in order to create awareness & scale the critical issues concerning our planet and relating them to the sustainability of our business.  Regular interaction with school children to sensitize them to issues relating to environment i.e. water and energy management, planting trees for a better air quality, etc  In-house employee awareness programs Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 46 of 54 Designing for diversified India The Economic Times Architectural and Design Summit 2017 held on 6th September 2017. The grand event witnessed the presence of leading architects, interior designers and other senior delegates from renowned organizations from the across country. The theme of the evening was Designing for Diversified India . Primary objective of the workshop was to engage the audience into the theme of the conference by way of soliciting their observations, points of view and ideas on a given topic. This has been achieved through a moderated workshop, consisting of architects, engineers, developers, academicians, product manufacturers and other industry experts. Mr. Kamal Meattle Chairman Emeritus, PBC has been invited to participate in the summit for a panel discussion on Chaos Theory: Designing for diversified India, which gave an insight on how technological or technical solutions don't really bring out the real architecture of our past or the real India. TAKING THE “GREEN” MESSAGE TO THE KEEN LEARNERS PBC believes in sharing its knowledge to enhance capabilities to create a better future, and that can happen by inculcating sustainable values in the students (the future of the world) PBC has been proactively spreading awareness on green concepts amongst school and college children. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 47 of 54 We create awareness on the importance of energy & water conservation, waste management, resource optimization and natural ways to combat air pollution. We demonstrate them our initiatives so as to make them aware of the viable measures. Each individual can contribute in making our World a greener and more sustainable home for all and the coming generations. And, we show them how such things are possible. INTERACTIVE SESSION & HEALTH SCANS BY ENVIRONICS Factors like lighting, noise levels, air quality, ventilation, building material and electromagnetic use of equipment, influence the state of health, of people. We are pleased that Environics, (www.evironics.co.in) has recently checked and also corrected radiations from Geopathic Stresses magnetic grid lines and underground water streams, microwave radiations by Wi-Fi routers, servers, lap tops, mobile phones and other negative ground radiation, at our building, at PBC. We were accorded a “Silver Rated Healthy Building Certificate”. Environics has also developed a non invasive Health Check. It has been done after extensive research and interaction with health experts from India and overseas. To create awareness among building occupants, we have conducted an interactive session and health check in collaboration with Environics. They have done heath check and conducted a session educating occupants about their techniques. It was a non-intrusive diagnostic system used for diagnostics, to indicate health conditions that need to be addressed by the person. This Program was designed to make the occupants of PBC healthier and more productive. The session was aimed toward educating occupants on everyday health matters, and the effect on our health & wellness, such as the effect of earth’s radiations on sleep quality, body aches and ways to protect ourselves from the harmful radiations coming from mobile phones, computers, Mobile towers, Wi-Fi, etc. GREEN DIWALI Delhi is unfit for living between Diwali and Holi because of the elevated levels of air pollution. Therefore, PBC decide to organize campaigns that can raise awareness as to why everyone should say no to fireworks and yes to a green Diwali while promoting Community fireworks as a corrective measure to celebrate this festival. All our employees at PBC actively participated in this campaign to spread the word, “Say No to Fireworks” and we let it free on social media platforms for people to join this revolution. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 48 of 54 Green Diwali Celebration 2017 NANHI CHHAAN Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 49 of 54 D. ANTI-CORRUPTION X. BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST ALL FORMS OF CORRUPTION, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY PBC believes in doing business in a sustainable and ethical manner. This is why we practice, promote and safeguard the anti-corruption laws at all levels of business. We are deeply committed to the principles of UN Global Compact. We have partnered in various initiatives of GCNI, quite proactively. One of them is, “Business Case for AntiCorruption in India” which is an anthology of case studies on anti-corruption. GCNI had taken up pressing corruption issues in Indian context, in a phased manner that addresses the sphere of public procurement, supply chain transparency, bribery and fraud, sustainability, ethical governance and more. Various renowned companies participated in this study and PBC was one of them. PBC is the only mSME that is a signatory to UNGC. To assist GCNI in building a bioscope of anti-corruption and ethical practices being carried in different Indian organizations, we conducted internal audits to check the compliance of the procedures and update the same, so as to ensure that correct message is disseminated. By analyzing various internal case studies, we could project how we maintain integrity in business by adhering to anti-corruption and nine other principles. Under the “Zero Tolerance Policy” we have clearly indicated that PBC does not tolerate any unethical conduct or violation of policies. To show our complete support to the GCNI’s initiative we came forward with some instances pertaining to the anticorruption policy. While citing one instance of violation of ethics, conduct and policy, we have shown the way we tackled the situation and resolved it. We have a dedicated Quality Assurance (QA) team that ensures that quality of services and business ethics are adhered to. It works conjointly with Finance, Human Resources and Legal Departments to check meticulously, that the standards, codes, regulatory and statutory requirements are met whilst controlling and monitoring PBC’s daily operations. Regular internal audits are conducted for the same. We propagate the same to all our stakeholders (internal and external) to ascertain that all of us are on the same page. At PBC, we have maintained transparency in the business policies to nullify corruption and encourage ethical work culture. In addition to the internal audits, we also organize Third Party Audits of different management systems. Each department has different set of SOPs and legal requirements which are modified and updated as and when required. Our policy on Gift and Hospitality, mandates that no gifts or monetary favor should be taken by any employee or any member of their immediate family, from the contractors, suppliers, clients/ customers or anyone else having dealings with the company. In the circumstances where it is customary to do so, employees are permitted to accept such gifts of nominal value or favors provided that such gifts or favors are not extended and/or accepted for the purpose or with any personal interest or unethical purposes. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 50 of 54 ROAD AHEAD Roadmap for the year 2018-19  Further reduction in Energy Consumption with the target to achieve AAhEPI as 15 Wh/hr/m² through following up-gradation and modification in existing systems.  Preventive Health measures for building occupants Diabetic check  Helping IGBC in drafting standard for Healthy Homes  Announcement in conference in started by Conference Ops team for better communication to conferee for Emergency situation.  RESET Certification for Indoor Air Quality  As part of Hygiene practices Touch Free toilets  Introduce Kent Pitcher for occupant instead of water bottle to ensure better quality water is given with controlled ORP & PH values  To check British Sword of Honour award. Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 51 of 54 MEDIA BUZZ Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 52 of 54 Alpine air at work? Delhi eyes novel ways to battle smog Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 53 of 54 Copyright © 2018 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 54 of 54
