Sustainability Report 2017 Intrum Sustainability Report 2017 1 Content 03 CEO foreword 04 Intrum in brief 05 Introduction 07 Social sustainability – Human rights 1 1 Social sustainability – Labor 14 Environmental sustainability 1 7 Economic sustainability 2 Intrum Sustainability Report 2017 CEO foreword It has now been two years since I had the honor of announcing Intrum’s participation in the United Nation’s Global Compact initiative. Since then, we have worked committedly to advance Intrum’s efforts to integrate its principles into our business strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. In this report, we would like to share our progress towards meeting the principles, stipulated in the United Nation’s Global Compact, with regard to human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Effective from 2017, Intrum is obliged to report its progress on sustainability in accordance with the EU Directive on the Disclosure of Non-Financial and Diversity Information, and this report has been developed to meet the requirements of that directive. As the undisputed market leader in the credit management services sector, we have a strong responsibility to contribute to and lead the way to a sound economy. Both for individuals, companies and for the entire society. It is my pleasure to confirm our continued support for the United Nation’s Global Compact. At Intrum, we are dedicated to continuously advancing our integration of the Global Compact and its ten principles into our business. Starting in 2018, Intrum will also be making the utmost effort to work towards and advance the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. Mikael Ericson CEO and President, Intrum Intrum Sustainability Report 2017 3 Intrum in brief Intrum is the undisputed market leader in credit management in Europe. We help companies prosper by caring for their customers and considerately helping people to become debt-free. There are more than 8,000 of us working in 24 European countries. Intrum is working actively to lead the way towards a sound economy where payment flows work, and people become debt-free and achieve sound private finances. We offer a complete range of credit management services that cover companies’ entire credit management chain, from credit optimization and payment services to collection services. With Intrum’s financial services, such as factoring, payment solutions for e-commerce companies and purchased debt, we help our customers to succeed. Intrum has around 80,000 clients in Europe that operate in virtually all sectors. We work with tens of thousands of small, entrepreneurial companies and medium-sized companies that see the benefit of focusing on their operations rather than on payment management. Lindorff was founded in 1898 and Intrum Justitia was founded in 1923. Together, we became Intrum in 2017. With more than 100 years of experience in the credit market behind us, Intrum is today Europe’s leading credit management company. In addition, we partner with representatives in some 160 other countries to assist clients with their operations and to help people become debt-free both within Europe and beyond. 4 Intrum Sustainability Report 2017 Introduction Leading the way towards a sound economy is Intrum’s purpose. Our foremost contribution to sustainability is our commitment to promoting financial sustainability and a sound economy for individuals, companies and entire societies. In order for us to approach our vision of being trusted and respected by all who provide or receive credit, pursuing sustainable business practices is a prerequisite. Economic sustainability Payments being made on time are fundamental to sustainable communities. By ensuring that companies are paid on time while helping people to become debt-free, Intrum contributes to the growth of society and to a sound economy for all. We are keen on pursuing our business with high ethical standards, including zero tolerance towards corruption and bribery and other illicit behavior. Environmental sustainability Intrum’s environmental policy stipulates that we are to limit our climate impact to the greatest possible extent. We work actively to reduce our direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases. Social sustainability Efforts in social sustainability comprise an important process not only internally within Intrum, but also externally. For us, this means dedicated work to promote the fundamental human rights, as well as providing our employees with the best possible working conditions. As the undisputed market leader, we bear a great ment as signatories of the Global Compact is responsibility, particularly in terms of sustainable incorporated into our principal policy – our Code development. Financial sustainability goes hand in of Conduct. hand with environmental and social responsibility. As the market leader, promoting the development Code of Conduct of a sound economy, we are required to pursue We are committed to high standards of busidedicated efforts in economic, environmental, as ness conduct and integrity in everything we do. well as social sustainability. Intrum’s Code of Conduct provides the framework within which all employees and business Framework practices involving Intrum and our subsidiaries Intrum has been a signatory of the United Nations are governed, conducted, managed and reguGlobal Compact since 2016. Accordingly, we are lated. The Code of Conduct forms a substantial committed to integrating the Global Compact part of Intrum’s corporate governance structure and its ten principles into our strategy, culture and is outlined through Group-wide instructions and daily operations. The ten principles originate providing further guidance, procedures and inforfrom internationally recognized conventions mation on how to manage particular situations. and declarations relating to human rights, labor, The Code of Conduct affirms our long-standthe environment and anti-corruption. These ing commitment to comply with laws and reguprinciples serve as our guiding framework in our lations, but also to conduct our business in alignsustainability work and reporting. Our commitment with our core mission: to help companies Intrum Sustainability Report 2017 5 prosper by caring for their customers, guided by be reported to the assigned officers, or escalated our contribution to sustainable development, and directly to the Group Compliance Officer or the our defined values of Empathy, Ethics, Dedication Head of the Group Internal Audit. and Solutions. Reports can also be made anonymously Our ambition is to secure the integration the through a whistle-blower mechanism – our Code Global Compact and its principles throughout of Conduct Hotline. The Hotline is a multilingual our operations and our value chain. The Code service available through the web and by teleof Conduct shall be signed by a wide range of phone. Reports made through the Hotline system those involved in our business, ranging from our are forwarded to the Ethics Council. The Council employees to independent contractors, supevaluates and assess the information received in pliers, field collectors, agencies, consultants, strict confidentiality and determines the appropriexternal board members or anyone representing ate course of action. Intrum. We only cooperate with clients, business We apply a strict policy of non-retaliation partners and suppliers who operate in compliagainst reports of known or suspected misconance with laws and regulations, good business duct or violations. Regardless of whether an issue practices and who maintain high ethical stanis escalated anonymously or not, the assigned dards. It is mandatory for all of our employees officers receiving such reports treat all information to complete a training program on our Code of in strict confidence. Conduct. As signatories of the United Nations Global The Code of Conduct is approved by the Board Compact initiative, Intrum has committed to of Directors. The Compliance function is responoperating responsibly in alignment with the ten sible for monitoring, control and annual review of Global Compact principles. the policy, and also ensures that material breaches We report our progress annually, making the or incidents are immediately escalated to the CEO Global Compact and its principles an integral and the Board. part of our company. Reporting breaches of the Code of Conduct We encourage all of our employees to report known or suspected misconduct under our Code of Conduct and related policies. Failing to report an infringement may itself be a breach of the policy. Reports shall, to the greatest extent possible, 6 Intrum Sustainability Report 2017 Social We support the vision of a world where everyone everywhere fully sustainability enjoys universal human rights. That vision can only be realized if we, as a company, take responsibility by respecting and promoting human rights. We are role models in our sector, which affords us both the opportunity and the responsibility to support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Human rights Significant impact areas 1. Data protection Intrum’s overarching goal for all social, environThe nature of our business involves dealing with mental and economic topics covered by this large quantities of personal data. Misuse of sensireport is to limit our negative impact and to seize tive information could inflict major harm, for peoopportunities to enhance our positive impact. ple and for our own reputation. For us, the human We have identified the areas where we have the right of freedom from arbitrary interference with most significant impact in relation to our busiprivacy is a central premise. We have clearly forness – positive as well as negative. Based on our mulated policies to ensure that this fundamental significant impact areas, our goals for the near right is met. future are set out in alignment with the relevant Confidential information such as personal sustainable development goals (SDGs) for data can only be discussed among employees each topic. when necessary to carry out required work tasks. Personal data is any information relating to an The significant areas of impact on Human rights, identifiable natural person, directly or indirectly, where our business is concerned are: by reference to an identification number, and/ 1. Data protection or specifics like physical, physiological, mental, 2. Equality and non-discrimination economic, cultural or social factors. The protec3. Labor rights tion of natural persons in relation to processing 4. Education personal data is a fundamental right, whatever 5. Stakeholder engagement the background, nationality or residence of the 6. Philanthropic activities. individual. This is stated in our Code of Conduct. In addition, we have a Data Protection Instruction Our impacts are considered under each section, that applies to all of our employees. Each of our as well as our policies and actions relating to the operational entities has a Data Protection Officer respective topic. who is responsible for compliance with legal Intrum Sustainability Report 2017 7 Social sustainability – Human rights requirements, promoting awareness and provid4. Education ing guidance, among other things. We consider everyone’s right to education as an In 2017, we worked rigorously to enhance the opportunity where we can make a lasting contriprotection of personal data and to ensure complibution, particularly with regard to financial literance with the General Data Protection Regulation acy. Throughout Europe, we are pursuing a num(GDPR). We are prepared to be compliant with ber of educational initiatives. In Germany and GDPR by the enforcement date of May 25, 2018. France, for instance, we have local initiatives with the purpose of educating and informing people 2. Equality and non-discrimination about the consequences associated with credit. Violations of the fundamental principle of equalIn Sweden, we have launched the concept Spenity and non-discrimination could inflict major dido, which is an interactive web-based lecture harm for a considerable number of people. for high-school classes. The lecture discusses the For us, this principle is highly relevant for all implications of buying on credit, consequences with whom we interact. That includes our own of nonor late payment, and the processing of employees and everyone who represents us and debt. We plan to spread the Spendido concept extends to our customers, clients and all of the to other European countries within the near consumers with whom we seek to communifuture. Our educational initiatives are important cate. We only cooperate with clients, business in preventing indebtedness. This work is particupartners and suppliers operating in compliance larly important in order to prepare the next genwith laws and regulations, good business praceration for today’s complex economic reality. tices and who maintain high ethical standards. We desire to share our knowledge and experAll of our employees have completed a training tise for the common good. Since 1998, we have program on our Code of Conduct which informs conducted annual studies regarding the impact them about how to interact with different stakeof late payments on European businesses. We holders in our daily operations, including clients, also study the household economy of European customers, business partners and society. consumers on an annual basis. Data from our For us, this fundamental right, entails both reports, European Payment Report and Euroopportunities and responsibilities. The right to pean Consumer Report, are used by actors, equality and non-discrimination is protected and ranging from policymakers in the European explicitly formulated in our Code of Conduct Union, to media channels throughout Europe and Human Resource (HR) Instruction. Intrum and our own customers. expressly prohibits any form of discrimination, intimidation or harassment based on race, color, 5. Stakeholder engagement gender, national origin, religion, age, sexual oriAddressing the potential impacts of our operaentation, gender identity, disability, or any other tions on our stakeholders is relevant for a number status protected by law. This is formulated in of human rights, such as the human right to an our Code of Conduct, and applies to everyone adequate standard of living, the right to health, who represents Intrum, ranging from employees the right to free, prior and informed consent. to suppliers. Addressing the views and perspectives of stakeThe principle of equality and non-discriminaholders is not only relevant for the purpose of tion also comes with the opportunity to actively human rights, but also with regard to impacts empower women and to promote inclusion of related to labor standards, environment and minorities. We consider diversity factors such as economic matters, such as corruption. For these gender, age, nationality, religion and sexuality to purposes, we identify the need to engage with be assets. Intrum strives to create and maintain our stakeholders on sustainability matters for our a work environment in which people are treated future sustainability work. with dignity, decency and respect. In order to The United Nations Sustainable Development achieve such a work environment, equal opporGoals (SDGs) guide us to understand how we tunities and other fundamental labor rights are of can contribute to sustainable development as vital importance. well as the direction of future policy at the international, national and regional levels. To consider 3. Labor rights the perspectives of stakeholders in our sustainThe well-being of our employees is important to ability work, we have aligned our impacts with us. Our ability to succeed is highly dependent on regard to human rights to the SDGs. In order for the well-being, skill and motivation of all of our us to reduce our potential negative impact and employees. In the area of human rights, we have enhance our positive impact, we have identified identified labor rights as a salient issue for our a number SDGs as particularly relevant for our business. Due to the proportion of the subject business. The relevant SDGs guide Intrum’s labor rights, this area is handled separately under targets for 2018 with regard to Human Rights the section Labor, page 11–13. and the aspects of sustainability addressed in this report. 8 Intrum Sustainability Report 2017 Social sustainability – Human rights 6. Philanthropic activities contributions to the community and its members. To accelerate the progress of meeting the SusThe program has led to improved economic tainable Development Goals, Intrum can make a conditions, which in turn have made families meaningful contribution by entering partnerships self-sustainable. The training provided for women with companies or organizations. Through finanhas made them self-reliant and contributed to cial support to the initiative Hand in Hand, our financial support for their families. The awareness objective is to promote the progress of meeting of the importance of education has increased the SDGs outside of the sphere in which we and is predicted to increase employment opporoperate. The aim of the Hand in Hand initiative is tunities in the future. The living environment has to eradicate extreme poverty by providing eduimproved and a movement towards efficient cation, training and, where necessary, financing management of natural resources has been initito promote the creation of local businesses – ated. Hand in Hand continues the work with the particularly for women. community members to safeguard the sustainIn 2017, we received a 24-month progress ability of the various programs in the village. report from the Indian village Chithanakavoor, In 2017, we also initiated a new village-uplift which we supported between early 2015 and the program together with Hand-in-hand in northern end of 2016. The report shows that the project India. The new program has the same objectives has been successful and has made major positive as the program that ended in 2017. Composition of Group Management Team 4 females, % 10 males, % 29 71 Composition of the Board 2 females, % 6 males, % 25 75 Intrum Sustainability Report 2017 9 Social sustainability – Human rights Progress We are dedicated to continually Targets for 2017 Status Comments improving our performance in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. All employees shall adhere to Intrum’s All employees are provided with training Code of Conduct. for our Code of Conduct, thereafter Principles 1 and 2 of the Global the policy is signed. In 201 7, we had 25 Compact refer to human rights. Our cases reported to our Code of Conduct progress in relation to the goals we Hotline which indicate breaches of our had established for 2017 is communiCode. cated below. Improved Personal Data Protection In 201 7, we have enhanced the by implementing the European Data personal data protection and prepared • Principle 1: Businesses should Protection Regulation within all of our for compliance with the GDPR by the operational entities in order to safeguard enforcement date 25 May 201 8. support and respect the protection customer data and data related to our of internationally proclaimed human employees. rights; and • Principle 2: Make sure that they Disseminate our financial education Target partly achieved. We have dissemacross our markets in order to raise inated our financial education through are not complicit in human rights awareness on the importance of a sound our reports in 201 7. Our ambition to abuses. household economy and equipping increase the geographical scope of our youth for a financially complex reality. local educational initiatives remains as a goal for 201 8. Identify possible risks regarding Potential risks regarding human rights human rights in relation to our partner in relation to our partner networks have networks. been identified. Our Code of Conduct now include human rights. Partner networks as well as suppliers and other actors are required to comply with our Code of Conduct. Update and clarify instructions in our Target successfully achieved. Code of Conduct Hotline to clearly include human rights matters. Inform and encourage our employees to raise and report human rights matters, e.g. anonymously to our Code of Conduct hotline. Achieved Ongoing Not achieved Goals Deriving from the significant impact areas on human rights in relation to our business, we have formulated targets for our sustainability work with regard to human rights for the upcoming year. SDG 4: Ensure inclusive and SDG 1 1 : Make cities and SDG 1 7: Strengthen the equitable quality education human settlements inclusive, means of implementation and promote lifelong learning safe, resilient and sustainable. and revitalize the global opportunities for all. partnership for sustainable development. • Engage in philanthropic activities • Expand the geographical scope of • Initiate a forum for dialogue with our that support the achievement our educational initiatives. external stakeholders. of the sustainable development • Provide our employees with training • Make the views and perspectives of goals through multi-stakeholder and education to raise the awareness our stakeholders an integral part of partnerships of human rights. our sustainability work. 10 Intrum Sustainability Report 2017 Social Our employees are the key to our success. We seek to be the credit sustainability management sector’s most attractive employer. To achieve our highly ambitious objective, we are dedicated to providing our employees with the best opportunities and the best possible working conditions. That entails being committed to the personal development of our employees, safeguarding the motivation and security of our employees, as well as instituting non-discriminatory practices and embracing diversity and inclusion. Labor Significant impact areas In addition to our Code of Conduct, our approach The labor-related risks in relation to our business to human rights and labor is formulated in our are primarily associated with the provision of set of human resource (HR) policies. Our Chief fair treatment and security for all of our employHuman Resources Officer is responsible for ees. Fair treatment refers to the right to equality reviewing the main HR policy. Each local Manand freedom from discrimination in respect of aging Director together with the HR manager is employment and occupation. Security for our responsible for ensuring that Intrum is compliant employees refers to the right to just and favorable with local regulations, as well as communicating working conditions, the right to a safe working internal instructions and guidelines to HR. environment, the right to form and join trade The main HR policy, our Human Resource unions and the right to collective bargaining. Instruction, provides the framework of rules appliThese aspects are all fundamental labor rights, cable to all HR activities within our operations. as well as human rights. We are committed to safeThe purpose of the policy is to provide all of our guarding that each and every employee, throughmanagers with guidance in their daily work to out our operations, enjoys their substantial rights. ensure that our employees enjoy their fundamenFor our business, we also perceive considertal human and labor rights, as well as ensuring able opportunities related to labor. As we strive the personal development of our employees. The to be the most attractive employer in our indusmain HR instruction is accompanied by a number try, we see the opportunity to advance relevant of interrelated policies to provide further guidance sustainable development goals by providing in specific areas, such as payroll and recruitment. good health and well-being, as well as decent We endorse important rights and freedoms in work for all our employees. our HR policies and in our Code of Conduct – and this is a requisite for their realization. To Policies ensure that these fundamental rights are observed, We have a set of policies in place to make sure we conduct an annual employee survey, reviewthat our employees enjoy their fundamental ing our employees’ compensation and we rights related to labor and human rights. Our provide a whistle-blower mechanism through Code of Conduct sets out our general approach which breaches of our Code of Conduct can regarding human rights and labor standards. be reported anonymously. In addition, our chief These rights apply to all employees and to anyhuman resources officer is accountable for comone else who represents Intrum, including indepliance with our HR policies and is also responsipendent contractors, suppliers, field collectors, ble for an annual review and update of the poliagencies and consultants. cies when applicable. Intrum Sustainability Report 2017 11 Social sustainability – Labor Diversity Composition of employees At Intrum, we consider diversity to be a major asset. We strive to have a diversified workforce to bring in additional perspectives into our busiMen, % ness. We take this perspective into consideration Women, % whenever we set up a job profile, when choosing recruitment channels and in the selection process. For us, it is of fundamental importance 37 that equal opportunities be afforded to all. Furthermore, we apply the principle of equal pay for equal work. We do not tolerate any discrimination on the basis of race, color, gender, national 63 origin, religion, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability or any other status protected by law. These fundamental rights are formulated in our Human Resource Instruction and in our Code of Conduct. Non-discrimination Composition of employees The right to freedom from discrimination is formulated in our Human Resource Instruction and in the Code of Conduct. The fundamental right is < 30 years, % carefully considered in the provision of employ30–39 years, % 15 ment opportunities, compensation and benefits, 40–49 years, % 23 working conditions, promotion, recruitment 50 years or older, % and performance evaluations. We are committed to upholding a work environment in which people are treated with dignity, decency and 24 respect. Our policies state that we do not tolerate unlawful harassment of any kind, including sexual harassment, or harassment in any verbal or physical form designed to threaten, intimidate 38 or coerce an employee, co-worker or any person working for or on behalf of Intrum. Consultation with our employees The views and perspectives of our employees are important for us. Intrum implemented a new organization in 2017, merging Intrum Justitia and Lindorff into Intrum. Our employees have been very committed to our journey to combine the good job, and how to further develop Intrum to two companies and update our corporate become the sector’s most attractive employer. culture. By means of a large-scale workshop The survey covers topics such as Intrum’s repuand an extensive development program, thoutation, local management, employees’ immedisands of employees have helped formulate our ate managers, cooperation between teams and new values. countries, day-to-day work procedures, salary All of our employees are entitled to an annual benefits and personal development. The insights Individual Performance Management (IPM) from our employees articulated in the survey assessment meeting with their immediate manare used to prepare action plans in each of our ager. The review results in an individual developerational units. We are confident that this is opment plan for each employee based on past an essential ingredient to meet the needs of our performance and personal goals for the ensuing employees and provide the best possible workyear. Each individual development plan is subing conditions. sequently followed up in order to advance the In 2017, the results of our employee survey personal goals that have been set up. reflect improvement at all levels. We want to provide the best opportunities for Among other things, this is demonstrated by our employees to be able to thrive. To continually a strong increase in commitment within Intrum improve the working conditions and the developin general, a positive trend in employees’ views ment of our employees, we conduct an employee on leadership, and an increase of 27 percent in survey on an annual basis. We ascertain how our the employees’ net promotor score, that is, the employees perceive their work, what is importproportion of employees who would recommend ant for them to feel job satisfaction and to do a Intrum as an employer. 12 Intrum Sustainability Report 2017 Social sustainability – Labor Progress To advance the Global Compact Targets for 2017 Status Comments principles related to labor, we had four targets set up for 2017. To start measuring the composition of We measure the composition of all management throughout the various employees with regard to gender and The table below details our progress operations in terms of diversity factors, age. However, we do not measure the in relation to the goals that we set up such as gender and age. composition of managers throughout for implementing Global Compact our operations. This goal is postponed to 201 8. principles 3-6. To clarify our recruitment process to Target successfully achieved. • Principle 3: Businesses should secure an objective evaluation and equal uphold the freedom of association opportunities with regard to diversity factors such as gender, age, ethnicity, and the effective recognition of the religion and sexuality. right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all Update and clarify instructions on Target successfully achieved. forms of forced and compulsory harassment and discrimination in the labor; Intrum’s Human Resource Policy. • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and • Principle 6: the elimination of Update our Human Resource Policy with Target successfully achieved. a clear statement on the principle of discrimination in respect of equal pay for equal work, independent employment and occupation. of gender, ethnicity, religion and sexuality. Achieved Ongoing Not achieved Goals To conduct sustainable business practices, we are responsible for limiting our potential negative impact and enhancing our positive impact with regard to labor. Deriving from the substantial impact areas on labor in relation to our business, we have formulated targets for our sustainability work with regard to labor for 2018. SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives SDG 5: Achieve gender and promote well-being for equality and empower all all at all ages women and girls • Start collecting information of • Start measuring the composition of work-related injuries among our management with regard to gender employees and age throughout our operations SDG 8: Promote sustained, SDG 1 1 : Make cities and inclusive and sustainable human settlements inclusive, economic growth, full and safe, resilient and sustainable. productive employment and decent work for all • Improve our employees satisfaction • Initiate a dialogue with our with Intrum as employer employees and make their views and perspectives an integral part of our sustainability work Intrum Sustainability Report 2017 13 Environmental We acknowledge that despite being a service company, we play an sustainability important role in global efforts to limit negative impact on the environment. In order to achieve urgent global environmental goals, such as halting the global increase in temperatures, we all need to make our greatest efforts. At Intrum, we believe in conducting business in a manner that preserves the environment. We are responsible for taking action to safeguard a sustainable future for the coming generations. We believe that a sustainable business creates a more attractive company for employees, clients, suppliers, as well as shareholders. Environment Significant impact areas tions function is responsible for following up and The material environmental risk related to our monitoring compliance with our Environmental business derives from our activities contributing Instruction. The purpose of the Instruction is to to greenhouse gas emissions. In particular, this provide all of our employees with guidance in involves how much we travel and how we travel, their daily work to ensure that the Intrum’s enviour consumption of electricity from renewable ronmental impact is as limited as possible. and non-renewable energy sources, our use of Our environmental instruction stipulates that environmentally friendly office materials, our all of our employees are obliged to contribute to handling of waste and our consumption of water. the endeavor of reducing Intrum’s environmental We strive to limit our greenhouse gas emissions footprint. This includes reusing office materials to the greatest possible extent. In order to do so, to the greatest possible extent, decreasing the our goals for the near future are aligned with the use of paper by using e-mail and electronic docrelevant SDGs and focus on limiting our negative uments, limiting energy consumption and striving impact on the environment. to use technology for distribution and communication within and outside the Group, thereby Policies avoiding travel. All company cars within Intrum Intrum’s environmental approach is formulated shall be considered environment-friendly and in our Code of Conduct, which is applicable shall therefore not exceed the carbon dioxide to a range of actors involved in our business; in emission limit of 130 grams per kilometer. These our Environmental Instruction and in our local requirements are also formulated in our Code environmental manuals. The Environmental of Conduct. Instruction constitutes the minimum baseline Adding to our Group Environmental Instrucfor all of our operations and is mandatory for all tion, each of our local subsidiaries has locally employees. The Group Brand & Communicaformulated environment policies that follow local 14 Intrum Sustainability Report 2017 environmental laws and regulations. The local Environmental impact by business travel environmental policies are aligned with the over(CO2 tonnes) arching Group Environmental Instruction. On an annual basis, both the local environmental manuals and the Group Environmental Instruction are Train 3,000 55 revised and updated as necessary. Aircraft 2,851 2,500 2,000 Environment certificates The property in which Intrum’s Stockholm head1,500 quarters is located has been awarded a BREEAM 1,000 certificate with four out of five possible stars. In addition, we have BREEAM-certified office build500 ings in Poland, Hungary, Lithuania and Romania. 0 BREEAM is the most widely used environmental certification system in Europe with more than Grams of CO2 per passenger kilometer: Train (1 4) Aircraft (285). Calculation based on the two million buildings having been registered European Environment Agency. for certification. To obtain the certificate, the 3,000 property is assessed in areas such as energy con2,500 Source: EEA report TERM 2014 eea.europa.eu/transport. sumption, water management, waste manage2,000 ment and environmental impact. In addition to our BREEAM-certified office 1,500 buildings, we have a range of other environmen1,000 tal certificates for our offices in the UK, Slovakia, Poland, Norway and France. 5,00 0 Intrum Sustainability Report 2017 15 Environmental sustainability Progress The table below declares our progress in relation to the environmental Targets for 2017 Status Comments goals that we set up for implementing Global Compact principles 7–9 To implement internal awareness-raising In progress. In 201 8, we will launch an and training on our environmental policy education initiative for our employees in 2017. for management and employees. that will include awareness raising and training with regard to our environmen• Principle 7: Businesses should tal approach. support a precautionary approach To start measuring the environmental Target successfully achieved. to environmental challenges. impact and carbon footprint in relation • Principle 8: Businesses should to travel. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. To set targets for waste reduction. This target is postponed for 201 8. • Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and To set a requirement for business partTarget partly achieved. We have updiffusion of environmentally friendly ners to adhere to Intrum’s environmental dated our Code of Conduct to include technologies policy. elements from our environmental instruction. Our Code of Conduct applies to our business partner among other actors. Achieved Ongoing Not achieved Goals Based on our significant areas of impact with regard to the environment, we have formulated goals for 2018 in alignment with relevant SDGs. SDG 1 2: Ensure sustainable SDG 1 3: Take urgent action consumption and production to combat climate change patterns and its impacts • Initiate recycling initiatives at all of • Update and develop our our offices Environmental Instruction to mitigate our environmental footprint • Enhance our collection of data to improve our measurement of progress in relation to our climate impact 16 Intrum Sustainability Report 2017 Economic Our foremost contribution to economic sustainability is our undersustainability taking to promote financial sustainability for individuals, companies and entire societies. This constitutes the core of our business model. We are the undisputed market leader in credit management services. As such, we act as role models for our colleagues in the industry. Our position gives us an important role in combatting corruption and other illicit behavior such as bribery and extortion. Our purpose is to lead the way towards a sound economy. In a sound economy, there is no place for corruption. Naturally, Intrum has zero tolerance of corruption and bribery. Sound economy Significant impact areas contribution to sustainable development and Like any other business, Intrum is part of society ensure long-term business success. and thereby faced with all of the risks that are associated with bribery and corruption. Corrupt Policies practices threaten sustainable economic To mitigate the risk of illicit acts in relation to development, which is at the heart of Intrum’s our business, we maintain clearly formulated sustainability promise. anti-corruption and bribery policies. Our policies Businesses thrive in environments that are staalso serve as guidance for our employees on how ble, where institutions are effective and impartial, different situations should be handled to ensure where operating costs are predictable. Payments compliance with our zero-tolerance approach being made on time constitute a substantial towards corruption and bribery. element to sustainable societies. A fundamental Our approach towards corruption and bribery prerequisite for the growth and development of is formulated in our Code of Conduct and in companies and organizations is that they are paid our Anti-bribery Instruction. Our Group Comon time. We ensure that companies are paid on pliance Officer is responsible for compliance time while helping people to become debt-free. with the instructions. These policies apply to all By promoting a sound economy, conducting companies, units and employees of Intrum and responsible business, curbing corruption and anyone who represents us, including indepensupporting the rule of law, we can make a lasting dent contractors and agencies, among others. Intrum Sustainability Report 2017 17 In addition to these policies, we have an Antito the respective immediate manager or to the Money Laundering, Counter-Terrorism Financing local or Group Compliance Officer for instance. and Sanctions Compliance Instruction and we We also provide a whistle-blower mechanism comply with all applicable local laws related to for those subject to our principles, to which anti-corruption. reports can be made anonymously. Reports Each business partner and client of Intrum made through the Hotline system are forwarded is carefully selected. We only cooperate with to our Ethics Council. In strict confidentiality, the partners, clients, suppliers and other actors that council evaluates and assesses the information maintain high ethical standards and pursue good received and determines the appropriate course business practices. Clients are properly identiof action. fied and due diligence is carried out regularly. By Regardless of whether an issue is escalated cooperating with actors that maintain high stananonymously or not, the assigned officers receivdards and by encompassing relevant actors with ing the report treat all information in the strictest our zero-tolerance approach, our strategy is to confidence. We apply a strict policy of non-reeliminate the risk of corrupt and unethical behavtaliation against reports of known or suspected ior throughout our value chain. misconduct and violations. All of our employees are instructed to report Our anti-corruption policies are based on prinknown or suspected violations of our policies. ciples originating from the Swedish Anti-CorrupTo encourage illicit or unethical behavior being tion Institute. In addition to our anti-corruption reported so that corrective actions can be taken policies, we are committed to a high level of comand to safeguard compliance with our anti-corpliance with relevant regulations and sound corruption policies, we provide different alternatives porate governance principles. Intrum meets the to report suspected breaches of our anti-cordemands of all anti-corruption laws and practices ruption policies. Issues can be escalated directly regardless of where we conduct our business. 18 Intrum Sustainability Report 2017 Economic sustainability Progress The table below details our progress in relation to the anti-corruption Targets for 2017 Status Comments goals that we set up for implementing Global Compact principle 10 in 2017. Top-quality governance (enhanced, Target successfully achieved. robust implementation and follow-up of Group-internal rules, e.g. Code of • Principle 10: Businesses should Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy). work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Enhanced model and structure of Target successfully achieved. Group-internal rules and implemenbribery. tation thereof (by appointing a local rule owner and annual follow-up on implementation of Group-internal rules). Follow-up on all employees having Target successfully achieved. attended the Code of Conduct course (including information and questions on our core values and anti-corruption practices). Having our suppliers signing our Code Target successfully achieved. of Conduct, including anti-corruption requirements. Improved compliance in risk manageTarget successfully achieved. ment (risk assessment, establishment of a robust compliance function, including local compliance officers handling compliance risks at the local level). Mitigation of AML/CTF risks (improved Target successfully achieved. handling of Anti-money laundering and counter terrorism financing). Achieved Ongoing Not achieved Goals Deriving from the significant impact areas material risks and opportunities identified in relation to our impact with regard to economic sustainability, our goals for 2018 are formulated in alignment with relevant SDGs. SDG 1 6: Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels • Improve our protection with regard to antitrust by adopting a new policy. Intrum Sustainability Report 2017 19 Audit report To the Annual General Meeting of Intrum Justitia AB (publ), corporate identity number 556607-7581 Audit report Report on the statutory sustainability report Engagement and responsibility The Board of Directors is responsible for that the statutory sustainability report for fiscal year 2017 has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of audit Our examination of the statutory sustainability report has been conducted in accordance with FAR´s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor´s report on the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. Opinion A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm, April 13, 2018 Ernst & Young AB Jesper Nilsson Authorized Public Account 20 Intrum Sustainability Report 2017 Intrum Sustainability Report 2017 21 Intrum Head Office Finland Italy Poland Spain Hesselmans Torg 14 Intrum Oy Intrum Justitia S.p.A. Intrum Justitia Sp. z o.o. Intrum Justitia Ibérica S.A.U. Nacka PL 47 Viale E. Jenner 53 Ul. Domaniewska 41 Juan Esplandiú 11–13 105 24 Stockholm FI-00811 Helsinki IT-20159 Milan PL-02-672 Warszaw PL 11 Sweden Finland Italy Poland ES-28007 Madrid Ph +46 8 546 10 200 Ph +358 9 229 111 Ph +39 02 288 701 Ph +48 22 576 66 66 Spain Fax +46 8 546 10 211 Fax +358 9 2291 1911 Fax +39 02 288 70 411 Fax +48 22 576 66 68 Ph +34 91 423 4600 www.intrum.com www.intrum.fi www.intrum.it www.intrum.pl Fax +34 902 876 692 info@intrum.com www.intrum.es France Lindorff Lindorff SA Austria Intrum Justitia SAS Via Galileo Galilei 7 50-304 Wrocław. ul. Lindorff España S.A.U Intrum Justitia GmbH 97 Allée Alexandre Borodine Milano – 20124 Czesława Miłosza 13 Avenida de Bruselas, 8. Donau-City-Strasse 6, CS-80008 Italy Poland 1ª Planta AT-1220 Vienna FR-69795 Saint Priest Cedex www.lindorff.it www.lindorff.pl 28108 Alcobendas. Austria France Madrid Ph +43 1 260 88 80 0 Ph +33 4 7280 1414 Latvia Portugal Spain Fax +43 260 88 99 0 Fax +33 4 7280 1415 Intrum Latvia SIA Intrum Justitia Portugal Lda www.lindorff.es www.intrum.at www.intrum.fr Latvijas filiale Alameda dos Oceanos 59 Duntes iela 11 Edifício Espace Sweden Belgium Germany LV-1013 Riga Piso 1, Bloco 2, A/B Intrum Justitia Sverige AB Intrum NV Intrum Justitia GmbH Latvia Parque das Nações 105 24 Stockholm Martelaarslaan 53 Pallaswiesenstr. 180–182 www.lindorff.lv 1990-207 Lisboa Sweden B-9000 Gent DE-64293 Darmstadt Portugal Ph +46 8 616 77 00 Belgium Germany Lithuania Ph +351 21 317 22 00 Fax +46 8 640 94 02 Ph +32 9 218 90 94 Ph +49 6151 816 0 Intrum Lietuva UAB Fax +351 21 317 22 09 www.intrum.se Fax +32 9 218 90 51 Fax +49 6151 816 155 filialas www.intrum.pt www.intrum.be www.intrum.de Konstitucijos pr. 29 Switzerland LT-08105 Vilnius Romania Intrum AG Czech Republic Lindorff Deutschland GmbH Lietuva Top Factoring Eschenstrasse 12 Intrum Justitia s.r.o. Donnersbergstraße 1, 64646 www.lindorff.lt Str. Tudor Arghezi nr. 21 CH-8603 Schwerzenbach Ža Pasáži 1609 Heppenheim etaj 5 Switzerland 53002 Pardubice www.lindorff.de Netherlands Bucuresti Sector 2 Ph +41 44 806 5656 Czech Republic Intrum Justitia Romania Fax +41 44 806 5660 Ph +420 277 003 734 Greece Nederland B.V. Ph + 40 21 301 29 25 www.intrum.ch Fax +420 283 880 902 Intrum Holdings Greece SA Box 84041 Fax +40 21 301 29 29 www.intrum.cz 268 Kifisias Avenue NL-2508 AA The Hague www.topfactoring.ro United Kingdom 152 32, Halandri, Greece Netherlands Intrum UK Ltd Denmark Ph +31 70 452 70 00 Slovakia The Omnibus Building Intrum Justitia A/S Hungary Fax +31 70 452 89 80 Intrum Justitia Slovakia s.r.o. Lesbourne Road Valby Torvegade 17, 2 sal Intrum Justitia Kft www.intrum.nl Blumental Offices I. Reigate, Surrey, RH2 7 JP 2500 Valby Váci út 144-150 Mýtna 48 United Kingdom Denmark HU-1138 Budapest Lindorff BV 811 07 Bratislava Ph + 44 17 372 373 70 Ph +45 33 69 70 00 Hungary Spoetnik, 20, Slovakia www.intrum.co.uk www.intrum.dk Ph +36 1 459 9400 3824 MG Amersfoort Ph +421 2 3216 3216 Fax +36 1 459 9574 Netherlands Fax +421 2 3216 3280 Estonia www.intrum.hu www.lindorff.nl www.intrum.sk Intrum Estonia AS Norway Rotermanni 8 Ireland EE-Tallinn 10111 Intrum Justitia Ireland Ltd Lindorff AS Estonia 1st Floor, Block C Hoffsveien 70B Ph +372 6060 990 Ashtown Gate 0377 Oslo Fax +372 6060 991 IEDublin 15 Norway www.intrum.ee Ireland Ph +47 23 21 10 00 Ph +353 1 869 22 22 Fax +47 23 21 11 00 Fax +353 1 869 22 44 www.lindorff.no www.intrum.ie
