SUMMARY STAKEHOLDER PROGRESS REPORT 2017 ABOUT COCA-COLA EUROPEAN PARTNERS 300m Coca-Cola European Partners (CCEP) is a leading consumer goods company and the world’s largest independent Coca-Cola bottler by revenue, operating in 13 countries and employing around 23,500 people. CCEP was formed on 28 May 2016 through the merger of Coca-Cola Enterprises (CCE), Coca-Cola Iberian Partners consumers. (CCIP), and Coca-Cola Erfrischungsgetränke (CCEG). We operate in Andorra, Belgium, France, Germany, Great Britain, Iceland, Luxembourg, Monaco, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain and Sweden, with a further office in Bulgaria. 14.2 Over 300 million people can enjoy our drinks in Western Europe, including some of the world’s leading brands, such as Coca-Cola, Diet Coke, Coca-Cola Light, Coca-Cola Zero Sugar, Fanta and Sprite. We also sell a growing range of water such as GLACÉAU Smartwater, juices and juice products such as ViOBiO, sports and energy drinks and billion litres of our worldready-to-drink teas and coffees such as Fuze Tea, Honest Tea and Honest Coffee. famous brands sold annually. In 2017, we sold 14.2 billion litres, generating €11.1 billion in revenue and €1.5 billion in operating profit. CCEP is headquartered in London, UK and is listed on Euronext 23,500 Amsterdam, the New York Stock Exchange, Euronext London and the Spanish stock exchange, and trades under the symbol CCE. Working together with The Coca-Cola Company, we are leading the way in our markets, offering consumers a greater choice of drinks with reduced or no sugar, holding employees. ourselves accountable for our packaging and expanding the contribution we make to society. We are taking action on sustainability to build a better future for people and 13 the planet, through the launch of This is Forward: our new sustainability action plan for Coca-Cola in Western Europe. We proudly contribute to our local communities and maintain a strong commitment to their economic and social wellbeing. Our contribution to the local economy in 2017 countries. included approximately €1.72 billion in salaries, benefits, and related social-security contributions received by our employees, and €1 billion in total taxes paid across our territories. We also contributed more than €4 million to our local communities. 2.5 billion unit cases sold annually. Front cover images: Our cover photo this year features several of our colleagues, including, at the top, Luis Ruiz, Production Shift Leader, Seville and Victor Jaén, Head of Production Line, Seville; top right box, Trevor Newman, Director of Manufacturing for Northern Great Britain; central box features Cassie Thomas, Talent Acquisition Great Britain, taking part in one of our river clean up employee volunteering activities. Stakeholder Progress Summary 2017 CCEP A YEAR OF ACTION 2017 was a pivotal year for Coca-Cola European Partners (CCEP) in our journey to becoming a more sustainable business. We invested a huge amount of time speaking to employees, customers, communities, stakeholders and our partners at The Coca-Cola Company to create our new sustainability action plan, This is Forward. We are at the centre of some of the most important debates of our time – the use of plastic in packaging, the amount of sugar in our diets and the role business should play in society. This is Forward addresses these questions head on and establishes clear targets. It will see CCEP play an active and productive role in building consensus and developing solutions. Our focus is now on working with our partners and stakeholders to define how we meet these ambitious goals. This report details the progress we’ve made and how we plan to improve further. • 2017 saw a step change in how we approach packaging. We set bold and ambitious goals – 100% recyclability, 100% packaging collection and 50% recycled PET. We made a commitment to support a well-managed deposit return scheme in Great Britain, and launched our first ever integrated marketing campaign focused on recycling This is Forward is an important • We have reduced the amount of sugar in our drinks by 9.3% since 2010 – step in defining the role we removing nearly 100,000 tonnes of sugar from our portfolio. 37% of the volume of drinks we sell are now no or low-calorie. This is higher still in Belgium and play in society, and how our Luxembourg and Great Britain, where 50% of what we sell is no or low-calorie. progress will be measured. I’m proud of what CCEP achieved in 2017 and I am grateful for the effort, commitment and passion of our employees, suppliers, partners and stakeholders in making it happen. However, more than anything, I am excited about what is to come. This year, we will be focused on strengthening our community investment and encouraging our employees to volunteer. I believe we have the people, scale and ambition to create long term, impactful and meaningful answers to the important questions we, and business and society as a whole, face. We also have a vital role to play in The Coca-Cola system’s global effort to create a world without waste. We can’t do it alone, so please keep telling us what we’re doing well and what we could be doing better. Thank you for joining us on this journey. Damian Gammell Chief Executive Officer Coca-Coca European Partners May 2018 Stakeholder Progress Summary 2017 1 ACTION ON SUSTAINABILITY In 2017 we launched This is Forward: our new sustainability action plan for Coca-Cola in Western Europe. We are taking action on At Coca-Cola, sustainability has been at the heart of our business for many years. Whilst we have made tremendous progress, we believe that sustainability by using our there is much more we can do. The world is constantly changing, and as business and our brands people’s tastes, lifestyles and shopping habits change, we must change too. We believe we can grow our business, and do it in a way that makes to build a better future. our employees and our stakeholders proud. We’ve reflected on the role our drinks play in people’s daily lives, and our impact on the environment and society. To help us in this process we For people. engaged with our key stakeholders, asking them what role they expect us For the planet. to play in addressing some of the major issues facing the world and our local communities. This is Forward is our response. Developed jointly with The Coca-Cola Company, This is Forward is our sustainability action plan, and a critical part of our long-term business strategy. Building upon 10 years of focused work on sustainability, it provides a clear direction of how we intend to use our business and our brands to build a better future. About this report This document summarises the progress we have made against our This is Forward targets, as well as some of the actions we’ve taken in 2017. Our full Stakeholder Progress Report, in accordance with the GRI Standards at Core level, as well as downloadable policies, methodology documents and data tables, are available online at ccep.com. 2 Stakeholder Progress Summary 2017 CCEP LISTENING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS Our stakeholders have high expectations. Their views have played an integral role in developing our new sustainability action plan. The plan was developed through extensive consultation with over 100 of our key stakeholders, including governments, NGOs, customers, and suppliers. We also talked to 12,000 consumers across six countries, and more than 1,000 of our employees. Our discussions covered a wide range of priority issues for our stakeholders, from the sugar and calories in our products to the recyclability of our packaging and what we’re doing to support local communities. The targets set out in This is Forward Le Soft: a space for engagement reflect the insights we gained from these discussions. France We’ll continue to engage regularly with our In April 2017, we opened Le Soft, a discover our strategic vision for this venue in the heart of Paris dedicated category. Following the sessions, over stakeholders as we work towards our targets, to exploring the future of soft drinks. two-thirds of the visitors said that it ensuring our actions on sustainability are in line Over 37 days, we hosted more improved their view of Coca-Cola in with their priorities and expectations. than 2,400 customers, consumers, France. policy makers, journalists, and other stakeholders to an inviting Read more on ccep.com loft-style space to learn more about our evolving drinks portfolio, and How we engage with our stakeholders Engaging on Packaging Our stakeholders are concerned about the effects of litter and pollution, and they want our packaging to be as sustainable as possible. In all of our markets in Western Europe, we are partners in local household collection Ongoing or deposit return schemes and we aim Engagement to lead the way in driving a step-change Following the launch of This in packaging collection, especially in Engaging on Drinks markets where recycling rates have stalled. is Forward, we hosted over 60 conversations with stakeholders Our stakeholders want us to lower These include partners such as Valpak in throughout the month of November, Great Britain, Citeo in France, Fost Plus in the sugar and calories in our drinks. in informal settings across four Belgium, and Ecoembes in Spain. Through our membership of the different cities in the Netherlands. European soft drinks industry This series of discussions, which we association (UNESDA), we have named OPEN, involved stakeholders, customers and media and focused committed to reducing our average on our drinks, packaging and sugar content per litre of product by community efforts. These open 10% between 2015 and 2020. We’re conversations generated new ideas on track to meet this target, reducing and inspiration on how to best the average calories per litre of our move our strategy forward. products by 4.2% since 2015. Stakeholder Progress Summary 2017 3 2017 PROGRESS OVERVIEW We’ve reduced the sugar in our 9.3 80 We are taking action on soft drinks by sustainability by using our business and our brands to build a better future. % % For people. For the planet. since 2010.1 of our 2017 spending with our direct suppliers was covered by our Supplier Guiding Principles (SGPs). 96.6 117 Since 2010, we have changed % the recipes of of our packaging was recyclable in 2017.2 drinks to reduce sugar. 24.6 83 from recycled PET in 2017. % of the PET we used in our bottles was % of our sugar was sourced through suppliers in compliance with our Sustainable Agriculture Guiding Principles (SAGPs). 4 Stakeholder Progress Summary 2017 CCEP 110 We replenished % of the water we used in our drinks, where it was sourced from areas of water stress, in 2017.4 37 of our sales volume comes % from low or no-calorie drinks.3 87.5 of the electricity we purchased in 2017 came from renewable sources. % We’ve reduced the water we use in manufacturing by 11.78 32.6 % % since 2010.5 of our management positions were held by women in 2017. Since 2010, we’ve cut greenhouse We’ve cut greenhouse gas gas emissions from our core emissions by 45.3 28.3 business, in absolute terms, by % % per litre (g CO2e/litre), across our entire value chain since 2010. 1 Sparkling soft drinks and non-carbonated 3 T  otal CCEP sales. Does not include coffee, 5  ater use ratio, litres of water per litre W drinks only. Does not include water or juice. alcohol, beer or freestyle. Low calorie of finished product produced. beverages _<20kcal/100ml. Zero calorie 2 Packaging is the packaging in the hand of beverages < 4kcal /100ml. the consumer (RTD packaging). Recyclability criteria based upon market specific 4  alculated on production volume from C recyclability assessments. CCEP sites based in areas of water stress, as determined by WRI/Aqueduct analysis, and total water volumes replenished. Stakeholder Progress Summary 2017 5 ACTION ON DRINKS We’ll be a total beverage company, offering consumers an even greater choice of drinks with reduced sugar. Key data Our ambition Key progress 4.2% We’re working with The Coca-Cola We’ve increased the choice of drinks Company and other brand owners to available to consumers, expanding our introduce new products, and evolve our portfolio with a range of new low and recipes to reduce the sugar in our soft no-calorie options. drinks by 10% by 2020, from a 2015 We’ve also reduced sugar in our soft reduction in sugar in our baseline, in addition to the 5% already drinks by changing the recipes of soft drinks since 2015.1 achieved since 2010. We’re also aiming existing products – in the Netherlands, to continuously evolve our recipes and we introduced zero-calorie Sprite, and 37% portfolio to offer a greater choice of Fanta now comes with less sugar across drinks, with 50% of our sales coming many of our territories. Since 2010, we from low and no-calorie options by 2025. have changed the recipes for 117 drinks We’ll make it easier for consumers to to reduce their sugar content. Through cut down on sugar with straightforward these changes, in 2017, we reduced the of the sales volume of the product information and smaller pack sugar in our soft drinks by 4.2% since drinks in our portfolio are sizes. We’ll make sure our sales and 2015 and 9.3% since 2010. low and no-calorie.2 marketing practices are in line with To help consumers cut down on sugar external expectations, and not advertise and control their calorie intake, we’ve 4.8% to children under 12. introduced clearer portion size labelling. We’ve also raised awareness of our smaller packaging sizes through new pack designs and consumer campaigns. 1 Sparkling soft drinks and non-carbonated drinks We have also made commitments to of our core sparkling only. Does not include water or juice. lower the sugar and calories in the volume was sold in 2  otal CCEP sales. Does not include coffee, T majority of our territories. packs that are 250ml alcohol, beer or freestyle. Low calorie beverages or less.3 < 20kcal/100ml. Zero calorie beverages _ <4kcal/100ml. 3 Based upon 2017 CCEP sparkling soft drinks sales volume, at an SKU level. 6 Stakeholder Progress Summary 2017 CCEP New portion size labelling As part of our commitment to help our consumers reduce their sugar and calorie intake, together with The Coca-Cola Company, we have worked to introduce clearer portion size labelling on every bottle over 500ml across all of our territories. This makes it much clearer to consumers how many portions are in each bottle. Read the full Q&A on ccep.com/drinks Expanding our portfolio Over the past year, we have launched a range We are also expanding our existing range of new drinks, offering consumers a greater with new low and no-calorie options across choice of low and no-calorie drinks. These our territories, for example, the launch of include Honest Tea, a premium organic tea ViO BiO LiMO leicht in Germany in 2017. introduced in 2017, as well as the introduction ViO is a bio certified, vegan, low-sugar of Fuze Tea in 2018. We are also working to alternative to normal lemonades without broaden the choice we offer consumers this artificial sweeteners. year, starting with the launch of AdeZ, a range of plant-based drinks, and Honest Coffee, Read the full Q&A on ccep.com/drinks which is a ready-to-drink organic coffee. Our product portfolio Product portfolio by unit case volume – 2017 9.3% reduction in the sugar in our soft drinks since 2010.1 64% Coca-Cola Trademark 4.2% reduction in the sugar in our soft drinks since 2015.1 21% 37% of our drinks, by volume, Sparkling are low and no-calorie. 2 flavours and energy 117 recipes that have been changed to reduce sugar since 2010. 8% Juices, isotonics, and other 7% 1 Sparkling soft drinks and non-carbonated drinks Water only. Does not include water or juice. 2  otal CCEP sales. Does not include coffee, T alcohol, beer or freestyle. Low calorie beverages < 20kcal/100ml. Zero calorie beverages _ <4kcal /100ml. Stakeholder Progress Summary 2017 7 ACTION ON PACKAGING Our ambition Key data We are also working to support the market for recycled materials through 96.6% Together with The Coca-Cola Company, we will collect our target to make sure that at least 50% all of our packaging so that none of it ends up as litter of the material we use for our PET bottles or in the oceans. comes from recycled plastic by 2025. As part of this commitment, we’ll make sure that 100% In 2017, 24.6% of the PET used in our of our packaging is recyclable or reusable. We’ll work of our packaging was bottles was rPET. with local and national partners to collect 100% of our recyclable in 2017.1 In addition, to ensure a reliable supply packaging in Western Europe. We’ll also make sure that of high-quality rPET, we have invested 24.6% at least 50% of the material we use for our PET bottles in plastics reprocessing through a jointcomes from recycled plastic (rPET) by 2025. These venture with Plastipak, Infineo Recycling, targets are aligned with The Coca-Cola Company’s in France and have a long term rPET global pledges to use 100% reusable or recyclable supply agreement with Clean Tech, a packaging, and to collect 100% of their packaging, Plastipak facility in Lincolnshire, Great made as part of their World Without Waste strategy. of the PET we used in 2017 Britain. In Spain and Portugal we also was from recycled PET. have a partnership with Nosoplas to We’ll use the reach of our brands to change consumer behaviour and inspire everyone to recycle. Finally, we provide high-quality rPET. 30% will lead the way in pioneering sustainable packaging We also continue to offer refillable – including renewable materials and smart new ways PET and glass in some of our markets. to reduce packaging waste. Refillable PET represents 14% of the PET we put on the market, and 85% of our Key progress of our packaging by weight glass bottles are refillable. We’re just at the beginning of our work to collect, included recycled content Together with The Coca-Cola Company, reuse or recycle 100% of our packaging. In 2017, in 2017. we are also working to directly encourage 96.6% of our packaging was recyclable, and we’re consumers to recycle, through clear working with others in the industry to ensure that on-pack labelling, as well as integrated all of our packaging is 100% recyclable by 2025. consumer marketing campaigns, such as To meet our 100% packaging collection target by We’ll collect all of ‘A Bottle Love Story’. 2025, we are partners in local household collection our packaging so We also support anti-litter and ocean or deposit return schemes in all of our markets. clean-up initiatives across our territories. In cooperation with these schemes, including with that none of it ends Through local community partnerships partners such as Citeo in France, Fost Plus in Belgium up as litter or in such as those with the Ecomar and Infinitum in Norway, we have begun to work with Foundation in Spain, Keep Britain Tidy stakeholders to create a step-change in packaging the oceans. in Great Britain, and Mooimakers and collection, especially in markets where recycling rates Wallonie Plus Propre in Belgium, we have stalled. are able to support the removal of litter, and help influence consumer behaviour We are also working to understand the calculation towards littering and recycling. methodologies behind the recycling rates for beverage packaging across all of our markets. The data sources For more information, please go to ccep.com/ packaging that we have used this year in our packaging recovery, Packaging is the packaging 1 and value chain carbon footprint calculations, can in the hand of the consumer be found in our methodology sheet. Rates for PET (ready-to-drink (RTD) packaging). Recyclability criteria based upon packaging collection can be found in our country market specific recyclability data sheets. assessments. 8 Stakeholder Progress Summary 2017 CCEP Continually making our packaging more sustainable Investing in recycling PlantBottleTM PlantBottleTM 2012 2011 2010 2005 In 2012, Coca-Cola Enterprises invested in a joint Introduced PlantBottleTM, the first We launched venture with EcoPlastics in Great Britain and with PlantBottleTM across ever fully recyclable the first APPE in France to ensure a high quality supply Great Britain, bottle made partially commercial of recycled PET (rPET). This has evolved into our France, Belgium, the from plants, was trials of long-term supply agreement with Plastipak in Netherlands. introduced in Norway Coca-Cola Great Britain, and our joint venture with Plastipak and Sweden for 500ml bottles in France, Infineo Recycling. selected products. with 25% rPET in Great Britain. 25% rPET in Great Britain First trial of 100% rPET bottle 50% 100% 2014 2016 2017 All 500ml PET bottles Our 1.5 litre We tested a 100% In 2017 we set a In 2017, we set a target in Great Britain PET bottle in rPET 500ml bottle in target to ensure that by 2025, 100% included 25% rPET, the Netherlands Germany in 2016 as that 50% of the of our packaging will in time for the London contained 50% part of the launch of PET we use is be fully recyclable or 2012 Olympic and rPET. Coca-Cola Life. The rPET by 2025. reusable. In 2017, 96.6% Paralympic games. lessons from this work of our packaging was have informed our recyclable. approach to rPET. “You sort, we recycle”: improving packaging collection in France In France, we launched a programme to radically improve urban recycling infrastructure and increase the amount of drinks packaging collected on the go. The programme is an industry-led partnership with Citeo, the City of Paris and other distributors and bottlers. Set up in November 2017, the programme involves a trial of nearly 3,000 new collection stations and sorting points, including reverse vending machines. The programme is being rolled out across Paris and Marseille. A Bottle Love Story: The aim was to highlight to consumers that Read the full Q&A on ccep.com/packaging Influencing consumer behaviour our packaging is valuable, and that it can be recycled directly into more packaging. In 2017, as part of our goal to use our brands to encourage consumers to recycle, together The entire advertisement was made out of with The Coca-Cola Company, we launched recyclable material, including more than the integrated marketing campaign ‘A Bottle 1,500 Coca-Cola, Fanta, Sprite, GLACÉAU Love Story’. Smartwater and Honest bottles and cans; and was targeted to reach more than 35 The ad was the first-ever made out of 100% million Britons alone by the end of 2017. recyclable packaging, and tells the story of two plastic bottles who fall in love as they For more information, visit ccep.com/packaging meet over and over again through recycling. Stakeholder Progress Summary 2017 9 ACTION ON SOCIETY We’ll be a force for good by championing inclusion and economic development in society – with our employees and our communities. Our ambition Key progress Key data We want to make a positive difference in In 2017, we continued to address 32.6% society, both for our employees and in the gender imbalance at senior levels in our communities where we operate. As part business through programmes to build of our commitment to champion diversity our female leadership pipeline. In 2017, and inclusion, we’ve set a goal to ensure 32.6% of management positions were that women hold at least 40% of our held by women. of management positions at CCEP management positions by 2025. were held by women in 2017. We have also begun to expand our focus We’ll increase the contribution we make for our community investment efforts €4m to society by increasing our employee towards programmes that empower and volunteering, and supporting local support young people. We are working community partnerships. This year, we to ensure that we establish youth will be focused on strengthening our empowerment programmes across our community investment, and encouraging territories, together with The Coca-Cola our employees to volunteer. We’re Company. We are currently supporting spent in 2017 (0.35% of our committed to championing grassroots a number of local programmes, such pre-tax profit) supporting local community partnerships, supporting as our GIRA Jóvenes, and Passport to community partnerships. community efforts that help the Employment programmes. In 2017, we 9,209 hours environment, and initiatives that empower invested €4 million, or 0.35% of our preyoung people to help them gain the skills tax profit, in community activities. and confidence they need to succeed. We are also working to increase our employee volunteering together with our local partners, such as Mentor volunteered by our employees to in Sweden. In 2017, our employees support local community projects. dedicated 9,209 volunteer hours to a wide range of programmes. We also continue to support a variety of litter and water replenishment campaigns across our markets. 10 Stakeholder Progress Summary 2017 CCEP GIRA Jóvenes: Mentor addressing youth Sweden unemployment in Spain In Sweden we support Mentor, an organisation that helps young people from disadvantaged backgrounds aged between 13 and 17. Our employees volunteer their time to mentor young people, helping to provide the knowledge, confidence and vocational skills they need to succeed. Read the full Q&A on ccep.com/society In Spain, the unemployment rate among Since launching in 2012, GIRA Jóvenes has young people is currently 42%. To help supported 3,384 young people and provided address the situation, CCEP has supported more than 290,000 hours of vocational GIRA Jóvenes, a training and mentoring training, as well as more than 300 work programme that improves the social skills experience placements in Coca-Cola and employability of young people from operating environments. From 2017, the disadvantaged backgrounds. project has been expanded to run in Barcelona as well as in Madrid and Seville. Read the full Q&A on ccep.com/society Community investment 2017 SPECIAL OLYMPICS Together with The In 2017, we invested €4 million (0.35% of pre-tax profit) Coca-Cola Company, we have been a supporter in community initiatives across our territories. of the Special Olympics, the world’s largest sports RED CROSS, ICELAND organisation for people We have been a strategic with intellectual disabilities partner of the Icelandic for over 10 years. In 2017, Red Cross for many years. In 2017, we signed a partnership 77% we donated over €225,500 and provided over 2,019 agreement that will enable children 15% hours in employee time. of immigrants to participate in sports or other extra-curricular 8% activities that will make it easier for them to socialise with their <1% peers and to use their free time €4m in a productive and fun way. JINC, NETHERLANDS JINC helps support teens with the skills Total cash and mentorship that they Total in kind need in order to improve their SOS VILLAGES Total time (management employability in the labour D’ENFANTS/ and volunteer time) market. In 2017, we were able to support 250 young people in CAPRI-SUN, FRANCE Management this programme. In 2017, together with costs (cash) Capri-Sun, we supported the creation of a fund supporting a programme of educational and sports activities at SOS Villages d’Enfants. Through the promotion of the partnership on 2.2 million drinks; we were able to help nearly 450 young people by KEEP BRITAIN TIDY, the end of 2017. GREAT BRITAIN GEH DEINEN WEG, GERMANY We took part in a number of major the Great British Spring Clean – the Together with The Coca-Cola Company we clean-up campaigns in England, Wales nation’s biggest community litter work together with the German Foundation for and Scotland in partnership with Keep clean-up event. More than 300,000 Integration, in a scheme called Geh Deinen Weg, Britain Tidy, Keep Wales Tidy and Keep people removed over 1,500 tonnes which provides scholarships and mentors for Scotland Beautiful. With Keep Britain of litter from communities, rivers talented young people from immigrant backgrounds. Tidy, we worked together to support and beaches. Stakeholder Progress Summary 2017 11 ACTION ON Key data WATER 110% of the water we used in our drinks, where it is sourced from areas of water stress, was replenished in 2017.1 11.78% reduction in the amount of water we use to make one litre of product since 2010.2 We’ll handle water with the care it deserves across our business and our value chain. Our ambition 100% of our manufacturing operations have implemented Water is the main ingredient in our products and one of Source Water Protection Plans (SWPPs). the world’s most precious resources. We aim to protect the sustainability of our water sources in two ways: by reducing the water we use in manufacturing, and by replenishing 100% of Restoring groundwater levels in Belgium the water we use in areas of water stress. In 2017, together with The Coca-Cola Company, we supported a In our operations, we aim to reduce our own water use project with environmental management NGO Natuurpunt to restore by 20% by 2025. We’ll do this by investing in technology to groundwater levels in the Demervallei, in Flanders. The project will protect plant and wildlife habitats and restore drinking water improve our manufacturing processes, for example, by reserves for the area, as well as making the area more accessible for reducing the water we use to rinse our packaging and our pedestrians. Running until 2020, the project will replenish around line cleaning routines. 345,000 cubic metres of water on a yearly basis. Through community-based partnerships, we’ll continue to This is our second partnership with Natuurpunt, following the water conserve and protect water resources in areas connected to replenishment project in the Kalmthoutse nature reserve that we and our production sites or our supply chain. The Coca-Cola Company supported in 2016. Read more on ccep.com/water Key progress We’ve invested in a number of water-saving systems and processes in 2017. Technologies such as our water recovery system at our East Kilbride site in Great Britain have helped reduce our overall water use in manufacturing by 11.78% since 2010. In 2017, 100% of our manufacturing operations had Source Water Vulnerability Assessments (SVAs) and Source Water Protection Plans (SWPPs) in place. Together with The Coca-Cola Company, we have also continued to replenish the water we use in areas of water stress, partnering with academic institutions and organisations such as WWF. For the past five years we have had water replenishment projects running in Belgium, France, Great Britain, Germany and Spain, enabling us to replenish 110% of the water we used in our products in areas of water stress 1 Calculated on production volume from CCEP sites based in areas of water stress, in 2017. as determined by WRI/Aqueduct analysis, and total water volumes replenished. 2 Water Use Ratio: litres of water per litre of finished product produced. 12 Stakeholder Progress Summary 2017 CCEP ACTION ON Key data CLIMATE 45.3% reduction in the carbon footprint of our core business operations, in absolute terms, since 2010. We’ll halve our direct carbon emissions and purchase 100% renewable electricity. 28.3% reduction in the carbon footprint of the drink in your hand Our ambition (g CO2e/litre), across our value chain since 2010. Climate change is one of the most serious and complex 87.5% challenges facing the world – and we’re committed to playing our part in global efforts to tackle it. This is Forward sets out ambitious new carbon reduction targets. We aim to halve our direct carbon emissions (across our manufacturing, distribution and cold drinks equipment) by of the electricity we purchased was from renewable sources 2025, and, as part of our commitment to the RE100 initiative, in 2017. purchase 100% renewable electricity by 2020. In addition, we’ll cut greenhouse gas emissions across our entire value chain, including our ingredients and packaging, by 35%. Our carbon reduction targets are fully aligned with climate science and have been validated by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). Key progress We’re making progress towards our renewable energy target by purchasing electricity from renewable sources. In 2017, 87.5% of the electricity we purchased was from renewable sources and all of our electricity contracts in 2018 will be from renewable sources. We also invest in renewable energy projects near our own operations, such as the new solar farm project at Wakefield site in Great Britain. To support our carbon reduction targets, we’ve invested in automated warehouses that allow us to store more products Solar power at Wakefield, Great Britain on-site, avoiding the need to transport them to third-party facilities. Our €48m automated warehouse investment in 2017 saw the completion of our biggest solar project to date: the Sidcup, Great Britain, will reduce the site’s carbon footprint opening of a new solar farm near our Wakefield site in Great Britain. The eight-hectare solar farm, directly connected to the site 1.5 by nearly 4,000 tonnes of CO2 per year. miles away, supplies energy to the site as part of a long-term power In 2017, we reduced our carbon emissions by 45.3% across purchase agreement (PPA). our core business operations since 2010. Across our entire In 2017, the solar farm generated 3,719 MWh of electricity, covering value chain, we reduced the carbon footprint of the drink in 13% of the site’s total electricity use, and cutting the factory’s your hand by 28.3% per litre (g CO2e/litre) since 2010. carbon footprint by approximately 8%. Since April 2017, 100% of the electricity purchased for our operations in Great Britain is from renewable sources. Read more on ccep.com/climate Stakeholder Progress Summary 2017 13 ACTION ON SUPPLY CHAIN We’ll source our main ingredients and raw materials sustainably and responsibly. Our ambition Key data 83% Our drinks depend on a sustainable supply of high quality agricultural ingredients. Under our new sustainability action plan, we’ve committed to making sure that 100% of our main agricultural ingredients and raw materials come from of our sugar was sourced sustainable sources by 2020. through suppliers in Together with The Coca-Cola Company, we have compliance with our a duty to respect and protect the human rights SAGPs in 2017. of everyone across our system – from our own 80% employees to the farm workers in our supply chain. We’ll continue to embed sustainability, ethics and human rights into our supply chain, in line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights encompassed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organisation’s of our 2017 spend was with Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights suppliers who agreed to at Work, the United Nations Global Compact and the comply with our Supplier United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Guiding Principles. Human Rights. Sustainable citrus production in Spain In 2014, we carried out a pilot project to Key progress test the viability of a range of sustainable CCEP’s Supplier Relationship Management (SRM) practices on orange and lemon cultivation in Valencia. The study found that improving process provides a framework for evaluating the irrigation and fertilisation techniques would sustainability of our suppliers. In 2017, we updated this have the biggest impact, showing that it was process to make it more rigorous, allowing us to obtain possible to use up to 50% less water and more information about our suppliers’ performance. 72% less fertiliser while producing the same quantity and quality of citrus crops. We track our progress in ensuring ingredient and supply chain sustainability through compliance Following the success of the pilot, we extended it in 2017 with the launch of Project with our Supplier Guiding Principles (SGPs) and Citrus Sustainable: a multi-stakeholder Sustainable Agriculture Guiding Principles (SAGPs). initiative to build on the findings and embed We expect all of our suppliers to fully comply with the practices among the citrus-farming these guiding principles by 2020. community in Valencia. Managed in partnership with the Jaume I University of In 2017, we published our first response to the UK Castellón, the initiative involved around 50 Modern Slavery Act. We will continue to develop farmers in the region and is expected to save around 77 million litres of water a year. policies to help ensure human rights are respected and protected throughout our supply chain. Read more on ccep.com/supplychain 14 Stakeholder Progress Summary 2017 CCEP OUR SUSTAINABILITY ACTION PLAN ACTION ACTION ACTION We are taking action on ON ON ON sustainability by using DRINKS PACKAGING SOCIETY our business and our We’ll be a total beverage We’ll collect all of our We’ll be a force for good brands to build a better company, offering consumers an even greater packaging so that none of it ends up as litter by championing inclusion and economic development future. choice of drinks with reduced sugar. or in the oceans. in society – with our employees and our We’ll make sure that 100% of communities. We’ll reduce the sugar in our soft our packaging is recyclable or For people. drinks by 10% between 2015 and 2020, and that’s in addition reusable. We’ll foster a diverse and inclusive culture in our business For the planet. to the 5% reduction achieved in the previous 5 years.1 We’ll work with local and national partners to collect and make sure that women hold at least 40% of our management 100% of our packaging in positions. We’ll aim for 50% of our sales Western Europe. to come from low or no calorie We’ll expand the contribution we drinks.2 We’ll make sure that at least make to society by increasing 50% of the material we use for our employee volunteering and We’ll continuously evolve our our PET bottles comes from supporting local community recipes and portfolio to offer a recycled plastic. partnerships. greater choice of drinks. We’ll use the reach of our brands We’ll support initiatives We’ll make it easier for to inspire everyone to recycle. which help young people consumers to cut down on sugar gain the employability, skills with straightforward product We’ll lead the way in pioneering and confidence they need to information and smaller pack sustainable packaging – succeed. sizes.3 including renewable materials and smart new ways to reduce We’ll make sure we don’t packaging waste. advertise to children under 12 and that our sales and marketing practices evolve in line with external expectations. ACTION ACTION ACTION ON ON ON WATER CLIMATE SUPPLY CHAIN We’ll handle water with We’ll halve our direct carbon We’ll source our main the care it deserves emissions and purchase ingredients and raw across our business 100% renewable electricity. materials sustainably and our value chain. and responsibly. We’ll cut greenhouse gas We’ll protect the sustainability emissions from our core We’ll make sure 100% of our of the water sources we use for business by 50%.5 main agricultural ingredients future generations. and raw materials come from We’ll cut greenhouse gas sustainable sources by 2020. We’ll reduce the water we use emissions by 35% across our in manufacturing by 20% and entire value chain. We’ll continue to embed address water impacts in our sustainability, ethics and human supply chain.4 We’ll purchase 100% renewable rights into our supply chain.6 electricity by 2020. We’ll replenish 100% of the water we use in areas of water stress. Baseline is 2010 and target date is 2025 unless otherwise stated 1 Sparkling soft drinks and non—carbonated soft drinks only. Does not include water or juice. 2 <20kcal/100ml. Zero calorie beverages <4kcal/100ml. Total CCEP sales. Does not include coffee, alcohol, beer or freestyle. Low calorie beverages _ 3 We will develop specific targets on smaller pack sizes within 12 months. 4 Water use ratio, litres of water per litre of finished product produced. 5 Absolute carbon reduction target, irrespective of business growth. Core business operations includes manufacturing, cold drinks equipment and transportation. 6 We will do this through our global Supplier Guiding Principles and Human Rights Policies. Stakeholder Progress Summary 2017 15 KEY PERFORMANCE DATA SUMMARY 1 2010 Commitment KPI Measurement Baseline 2015 2016 2017 DRINKS We’ll reduce the sugar in our soft drinks by 10% Reduction in the average sugar per litre in our soft 5.33 1.5 4.2 between 2015 and 2020, and that’s in addition to drinks portfolio (%) the 5% reduction achieved in the previous 5 years.2 We’ll aim for 50% of our sales to come from low or Percentage of volume sold which is low or no-calorie 33 34 35 37 no-calorie drinks.4 (%) We’ll continuously evolve our recipes and portfolio Number of new product introductions which have 117 to offer a greater choice of drinks. had their recipes changed to reduce sugar since 2010 (Number) We’ll make it easier for consumers to cut down on Percentage of volume sold in packs that are 250ml 5.6 4.8 sugar with straightforward product information and or less (%) smaller pack sizes. PACKAGING5 We’ll make sure that 100% of our packaging is Percentage of packaging that is recyclable6 (%) 96.6 recyclable or reusable. Percentage of packaging that is refillable (%) 29 25 23 21 We’ll work with local and national partners to collect PET packaging collected for recycling as a percentage Packaging collection rates differ by country. 100% of our packaging in Western Europe. of total PET packaging put onto the market (%) For full information, see our country data sheets and packaging methodology sheet. We’ll make sure that at least 50% of the material Percentage of PET used that is rPET (%) 16.0 25.8 22.8 24.6 we use for our PET bottles comes from recycled plastic (rPET). SOCIETY We’ll foster a diverse and inclusive culture in our Percentage of women in management positions 32.6 business and make sure that women hold at least (senior manager level and above) (%) 40% of our management positions. We’ll expand the contribution we make to society by Total community investment contribution (€) 6.5 4 increasing our employee volunteering and supporting local community partnerships. Percentage of pre-tax profits (%) 0.5 0.35 Total number of volunteering hours (Hours) 9,775 9,209 WATER We’ll protect the sustainability of the water sources Sites with Source Water Protection Plans and Source 100 100 100 100 we use for future generations. Water Assessments in place (%) We’ll reduce the water we use in manufacturing by Water use ratio (litres/litre of product produced) 1.82 1.65 1.61 1.605 20% – and address water impacts in our supply chain.7 Percentage reduction in water use ratio since 2010 9.30 11.42 11.78 (%) We’ll replenish 100% of the water we use in areas Water replenished as a percentage of total water used 89 110 of water stress. in our beverages where sourced from areas of water stress (%)8 CLIMATE We’ll cut greenhouse gas emissions from our core Carbon Footprint – core business operations – 2,484,577 1,551,205 1,417,761 1,359,746 business by 50%.9 market based approach (tonnes of CO2e) Absolute reduction in greenhouse gas emissions 37.6 42.9 45.3 in core business operations since 2010 (%) We’ll cut greenhouse gas emissions by 35% across our Reduction in total value chain greenhouse gas 23.0 26.0 28.3 entire value chain. emissions (Scope 1, 2, 3) per litre sold since 2010 (%) We’ll purchase 100% renewable electricity by 2020. Percentage of electricity purchased that comes from 1.2 55.5 75.0 87.5 renewable sources (%) SUPPLY CHAIN We’ll continue to embed sustainability, ethics and Spend with suppliers covered by our Supplier Guiding 80 human rights into our supply chain. Principles (%) We’ll make sure 100% of our main agricultural Percentage of sugar sourced through suppliers in 83 ingredients and raw materials come from sustainable compliance with our SAGPs10 (%) sources by 2020. Indicates independent assurance by DNV GL. 6 Packaging is the packaging in the hand of the consumer (RTD packaging). Recyclability criteria based upon market specific recyclability assessments. 1 Please note, data for previous years may not be available in all cases as new targets 7 Water use ratio, litres of water per litre of finished product produced. have been set in 2017; and combined data for CCEP prior to its formation may not be 8 Calculated on production volume from CCEP sites based in areas of water stress, available in all cases. as determined by WRI/Aqueduct analysis, and total water volumes replenished. 2 Sparkling soft drinks and non-carbonated soft drinks only. Does not include water or juice. 9 Absolute carbon reduction target, irrespective of business growth. Core business 3 2015 reduction vs. 2010. operations includes manufacturing, cold drinks equipment and transportation. 4 Total CCEP sales. Does not include coffee, alcohol, beer or freestyle. Low calorie beverages 10 Sugar is the first agricultural ingredient for which we have supplier data. <_20kcal/100ml. Zero calorie beverages <4kcal/100m. We will add further ingredients in future years, as we receive the data. 5 Based upon 2017 CCEP sparkling soft drinks sales volume, at an SKU level. 16 Stakeholder Progress Summary 2017 Coca-Cola European Partners Pemberton House Bakers Road Uxbridge UB8 1EZ United Kingdom +44 1895 231313 www.ccep.com
