INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD. 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT THE REPORT Indus Motor Company Limited (IMC) is proud to share the 3rd Sustainability Report, covering the period of the ﬁnancial year 2018, starting from July 1, 2017 to June 30, 2018 (hereafter referred to as ‘2018’). A deep focus on sustainability is core to the way IMC does business. We measure success not only by our ﬁnancial results, but also in terms of our impact and contribution to the sustainable development of our society and our Earth. This report is intended to be a transparent, candid and relevant summary of our social, environmental and governance performance during this period, detailing our successes and our challenges as well as our future targets, plans and ambitions. In compiling this report, we have drawn on international best practices, the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and “Ten Principles” of UNGC. The reporting principles for deﬁning the report contents and ensuring the quality of disclosuresfrom GRI 101: Foundation (2016) have been applied. The detailed information about deﬁning report contents, topic boundaries and list of material topics is available in the materiality analysis section of this report. This report focuses on IMC’s operations, covering the assembling of Passenger Cars (Corolla), Light Commercial Vehicle (Hilux) and SUV (Fortuner) of Toyota brand. Because the impact of our activities extends beyond our oﬃces and production plants, we also discuss our relationships with key internal and external stakeholders, including our employees, dealers, suppliers and the communities in which we operate. There were no signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period to the size, structure or ownership of IMC. This report is available in print and online at www.toyota-indus.com. We have used the scientiﬁc measurement on actual basis for the data included in the report. However, where estimates are used, this has been clearly mentioned. The measurement techniques are applied consistently over the period. There were no changes in the reporting period, scope and boundary of material topics. Restatement/revisions have been made in the report to correct the calculation errors. These restatements/revisions are clearly mentioned in the relevant section where restatement/revision have been carried out. Last year’s report was published on September 23, 2017. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The report is not externally reviewed. However, the SHE Committee – the highest decision-making forum on sustainability issues at IMC has reviewed the report for accuracy. We intend to pursue an external review of our Sustainability Report in future. The GRI content index is available on page 65. We are committed to producing an annual Sustainability Report to share our sustainability initiatives,impact of our activities and our contributions towards the goal of sustainable development. 02 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS NET SALES 64,000 IN BILLION RUPEES VEHICLES SOLD SALES INCREASED BY 5% 140 REVENUES INCREASED BY 25% OVER PREVIOUS YEAR. OVER PREVIOUS YEAR 62,886 VEHICLES MANUFACTURED PRODUCTION INCREASED BY 5% OVER PREVIOUS YEAR. ENERGY 15.8 CONSUMPTION IN GJ 410,779 NET PROFIT AFTER TAX IN BILLION RUPEES ENERGY CONSUMPTION NET PROFIT INCREASED BY 21% INCREASED BY 31% OVER OVER PREVIOUS YEAR PREVIOUS YEAR. WATER CONSUMPTION 458,488 IN M3/PER YEAR WATER CONSUMPTION INCREASED BY 23% OVER PREVIOUS YEAR. GHG EMISSIONS COMMUNITY IN METRIC TONS INVESTMENT 21,866 GHG EMISSIONS INCREASED BY 192 IN MILLION RUPEES 21% OVER PREVIOUS YEAR. COMMUNITY INVESTMENT INCREASED BY 10% OVER PREVIOUS YEAR. 03 Table of CONTENTS sustainability ABOUT the OVERVIEW at IMC 05 12 Report 02 KEY performance Chairman’s Message | 06 Toyota Global Commitment | 14 highlights Chief Executive’s Message | 07 Our Commitment | 17 03 IMC History | 08 About IMC | 09 Our Products | 10 Stakeholder Engagement | 18 Materiality Analysis | 21 our economic governance performance 24 Vision, Mission & Core Values | 25 Board & Board Committees | 26 29 Our Dealers | 33 Our Customers | 36 Risk And Compliance | 27 Our Suppliers | 38 Commitments & External Initiatives | 28 Automotive Market & Toyota Brand | 40 Environmental our people & PERFORMANCE communities Annexures 41 50 THE WAY FORWARD 64 GRI Content Index | 65 62 UNGC Index | 72 SDG’s Index | 73 Glossary & Acronyms | 75 Feedback Form | 76 OVERVIEW Chairman’s Message Chief Executive’s Message IMC History About IMC Our Products CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE Dear Stakeholders, At Indus Motors, we subscribe to the In addition, to institute a broader vision of becoming Pakistan’s most trusted implementation of sustainable practices mobility Company with an underlying we are working with our business & belief that the freedom of movement supply chain partners by deploying drives human progress. This year we resources and trainings that enhance continued our investment in their capabilities and skill-set whilst transformational programs that give increasing their orientation of people better access to basic needs, sustainability. create opportunities, promote safe driving and enrich community life. Through the We believe that the automotive industry years we have implicitly enshrined the in Pakistan is undergoing its most Ali S. Habib triple bottom-line approach by creating signiﬁcant change in decades. Chairman social, ﬁnancial and environmental value Fundamental economic challenges such for a broad category of our stakeholders. as a historic current account deﬁcit, These principles have been further declining exports and depreciating augmented by our adoption of the currency continue to exert demand side Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) pressures; however, through meticulous Together with our people, which provide us with the impetus to focus on linking sustainable business create broad-based and meaningful practices with optimal performance, we communities and partners, impacts through our business and have forged ahead and achieved new we continue to turn forwardsocio-environmental interventions. This benchmarks. Moreover, in 2018, we have thinking ideas into approach is strongly reﬂected by a 10% recalibrated our plants and facilities for increase in our community and social increased production and with new life-changing opportunities investments in the year 2018 amounting upgrades, we are conﬁdent that our for men, women and children to PKR 192 million spread across various resources are now being focused on across Pakistan & beyond. ﬂagship programs. sustaining proﬁtability, strengthening our business performance; capitalizing on Together with our people, communities growth opportunities for the long term communities around them and this year and partners, we continue to turn and providing safe and sustainable the employees contributed more than forward-thinking ideas into life-changing mobility solutions to our customers. 3000 plus hours to volunteering and opportunities for men, women and giving back to communities through children across Pakistan and beyond. Our Innovating for the future requires new various initiatives. We strongly believe in teams now engage with various local skillsets and new ways of thinking. Our a shared value approach and through our businesses and community leaders to diverse and inclusive team brings CSR arm we have been at the forefront of advance our mission of “Environmental wide-ranging perspectives and giving back to people in the areas of Challenge 2050” – an initiative aimed at experiences to solving the complex Education, Health and Road Safety. addressing rising environmental transportation challenges of today and problems, including changing climate tomorrow. As a Company committed to At IMC, our journey to a more sustainable conditions; loss of biodiversity; and water reinventing mobility for all, we want and and greener future is underway. We have scarcity as some of the key issues faced by need everyone to participate. Therefore, the right approach to sustainability, an the global community today. Under this we are working for aﬃrmative action to enterprising team, the right technology signature program to create a better close the gender gap in engineering by and the manufacturing scale to bring world for our future generations, investing in partnerships with academia innovative solutions, solve societal Toyota-Indus, is adopting cleaner whilst maintaining our focus on becoming challenges and create new social value for technologies and renewable energy an employer that enshrines diversity and the people and the planet, more quickly sources to reduce the impact of our inclusion for all including females and than others. We are ready, leading, and operations on the environment and diﬀerently-abled persons. The we are working hard as one team, with deploying a more energy-eﬃcient organization fully supports employees integrity, to create a world that is safer, eco-system throughout our value chain. who wish to positively impact the better and more sustainable for all. 06 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S MESSAGE meet the ever increasing vehicle demand Our business partners, including our over the coming years. In line with Toyota’s dealers and suppliers help us meet philosophy of “Kaizen” or continuous customer expectations. We provide improvement, we are continuously making support to our business partners in shape eﬀorts to reducing the bottlenecks, of trainings and guidelines to make our increasing eﬃciency and production supply chain sustainable. We are capacity. Together with our business dedicated to collaborate with our partners, we strive to continue delivering partners for enhancing their experience best in class and safest vehicles to our with IMC and promoting sustainability customers. practices in supply chain. As a responsible player in the automotive To enrich lives of our communities Ali A. Jamali industry and in line with the global through our CSR program, we continued Chief Executive Oﬃcer expectations on sustainability, we strive to our interventions in the ﬁelds of conserve the environment and promote education, healthcare, promotion of judicious use of natural resources at our science and technology and road safety. plant site and throughout the supply chain. Our CSR spending remained 1% of our Dear Stakeholders, Reduction in energy consumption, GHG pre-tax proﬁt of preceding year showing emissions, use of water and waste are the our determination to bring change in the Emerging markets the world over are key focus areas in our operations and lives of unprivileged communities and gaining share in the global trade and will be aligned with the “Toyota 2050 promote technical education. the drivers of economic growth going Environmental Challenge”. The 5S Clean-up forward. Pakistan is projected to be the 20th Drives carried out in Karachi city for largest economy by 2030. The political creating awareness about the importance In line with the global stability, improved law and order situation of clean environment and our new and the promise of better governance and initiative to plant 1 million trees are expectations, we strive to business-friendly policies by the newly evidence to our commitment to clean and conserve the environment elected government augers well for the green our environment. During the year, business environment and the country. and promote judicious use we encountered aberrations on account of new paint shop expansion and other of natural resources at our The automobile industry in Pakistan is one operational upsets resulting in increases plant and supply chain. of the fastest growing sectors of the on these counts (energy 97,699 GJ, GHG economy. During 2017-18, it posted a emissions 3,803 Mt and fresh water 85,791 record domestic production sales volume m3). However, we remain committed to We pledge to support the “Ten Principles” of 258,632 units, an increase of 21% over taking appropriate counter measures and of the United Nations Global Compact the prior year despite the economic to reduce the impact of these levels of (UNGC) and the Sustainable Development challenges of current account deﬁcit and consumptions in the coming years. Goals (SDGs) of United Nations. This depreciating exchange rates. report demonstrates our impact on Our people help us achieve our corporate economy, environment and society along The company has attained new milestones goals, deliver exceptional performance and with our contribution to the “Ten in vehicle sales, revenue and proﬁtability in customer delight. We nurture our people Principles” of the UNGC. the year 2017-18. Sale of vehicles continuously through extensive trainings surpassed 60,000 mark for the third to develop skills and knowledge required We thank our stakeholders for their consecutive year depicting customers’ for meeting stakeholders’ expectations. continued trust in our brand and we invite conﬁdence in our products. The net proﬁt Health and safety of operations, our you all for your valuable feedback. for the year was PKR 15.8 billion with an people and our customers is a top priority increase of 21% compared to the previous at IMC. We are dedicated to remain year. To meet growing demand of vehicles, focused on health and safety aspects of a new paint shop facility was inaugurated our operations, our people and our during the year which will help to reduce customers while taking acumen from vehicle delivery time and will enable us to Toyota global experience. 07 IMC HISTORY 2018 2018 FEBRUARY JANUARY RO Plant New Paint Shop Inauguration Inauguration 2017 2017 2017 JANUARY AUGUST NOVEMBER Launch of New Fortuner NCAT Machine Installed 750,000th vehicle Line-oﬀ 2015 2016 2016 JANUARY JUNE NOVEMBER 2010 2008 2008 Celebrated the Silver Jubilee Event Record highest, Production 64,096 Launch of New Toyota Hilux OCTOBER AUGUST AUGUST Sales 64,586 units Revo Line-oﬀ the 1st Launch of the 10th Start-up Press Hilux 4x4 Double generation Corolla Shop Cabin with 582 local parts 2014 2013 2013 SEPTEMBER DECEMBER FEBRUARY 2006 2007 2007 Launch of the 11th generation Launch of Toyota Prius Hybrid (CBU) Line-oﬀ the 1st locally manufactured DECEMBER SEPTEMBER NOVEMBER Corolla with 777 Fortuner local parts 250,000th Start-up Cogen plant Line oﬀ Hilux IMV, Toyota’s sturdy vehicle Line-oﬀ workhorse 2006 2005 2005 2012 2012 NOVEMBER Mr Akio Toyoda SEPTEMBER Launch of Toyota JUNE 150,000th 2010’s JULY Discontinuation of Daihatsu Cuore NOVEMBER 500,000th (EVP, TMC) visited Hilux IMV 4x4 (CBU) vehicle Line-oﬀ vehicle Line-oﬀ IMC 2002 2003 2004 FEBRUARY SEPTEMBER DECEMBER Launch of 9th 100,000th Launch of Toyota generation Corolla vehicle Line-oﬀ Camry (CBU) with 469 local parts 1997 1996 1996 OCTOBER APRIL JANUARY 2000 2000’s Launch of Corolla Launch of the ﬁrst 2000 25,000 th vehicle line-oﬀ Diesel (2.0D) Toyota Hilux MAY MARCH 50,000th vehicle Launch of Daihatsu Line-oﬀ Cuore, an 800 cc hatchback 1989 1993 1993 Incorporated as APRIL MAY a joint venture Plant Inauguration Mr. Eiji Toyoda company between (1913 – 2013), the House of Habib of Pakistan, Toyota 1993 known as the legendary “Father” of Modern Motor Corporation MAY Toyota and and Toyota Tsusho Launch of the ﬁrst acknowledged as the Corporation of Corolla (7th architect of the world Japan. generation) with famous Toyota 30 local parts Production System, visited IMC production facilities. 1980’s 6 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT INDUS MOTOR COMPANY Indus Motor Company Limited was incorporated in 1989 as a joint venture company between certain House of Habib Companies, Toyota Motor Corporation and Toyota Tsusho Corporation. The Company manufactures and markets Toyota brand vehicles in Pakistan. The main product oﬀerings include several variants of the ﬂagship ‘Corolla’ in the passenger cars category, ‘Hilux’ in the light commercial vehicles segment and ‘Fortuner’ Sports Utility Vehicle. The Company also markets genuine parts, motor oil in addition to providing maintenance services through a network of dealers spread across the country. The manufacturing facility and oﬃces are located at a 105 acre site in Port Qasim, Karachi, while the product is delivered to end customers nationwide through a strong network of 45 independent 3S Dealerships spread across the country. Our customers include organizations, government departments, security agencies and private buyers. There were no signiﬁcant changes in the ownership, structure of operations at IMC or its supply chain during the year. The total number of workforce at the end of ﬁnancial year 2018 was 3,266 employees. The net sales for the year 2018 were Rs. 140 billion, while the total capitalization was Rs. 81.9 billion. Further details about assets, beneﬁcial ownership and sales breakdown are available on page 104, 131 and 132 respectively of our Annual Report 2018. The total number of vehicles sold during 2018 was 64,000 units. our productS Toyota’s Global Vision is to enrich lives The Corolla with several variants is the top after-sales support through its widespread through mobility, in the most responsible selling car in the passenger category and the dealers’ network. We are proud of our way. This guides our commitment to Fortuner has been the best-selling model in growing production operations. In November manufacture sustainable and safe products SUV category. The Hilux is the leading selling 2017, we celebrated the 750,000th vehicle to that delight our customers and help society vehicle in light commercial category. IMC also roll oﬀ our production line. to transition to a low carbon economy. markets imported cars with warranty and COROLLA FORTUNER HILUX REVO HILUX SINGLE CABIN Manufacture Import 10 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CAMRY LAND CRUISER PRADO AVANZA LAND CRUISER PRIUS HIACE COASTER Manufacture Import 11 SUSTAINABILITY AT IMC Toyota Global Commitment Our Commitment Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Analysis 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY AT IMC We view sustainability – not just in our vehicles, but throughout the entire value REUSE chain – as a basic requirement for tomorrow’s individual mobility and ensuring its social acceptability. We believe the only way to achieve success in the long term is REDUCE through sustainable action. Led by our company values “sustainable”, “innovative”, “excellence” and steered by the Toyota Global Commitment, our sustainability strategy provides the basis for long-term, proﬁtable and sustained growth. “Concern Beyond Cars” demonstrates our aspiration to advance our sustainable practices beyond core operations and make a meaningful contribution towards the goal of sustainable development. RECYCLE 13 TOYOTA GLOBAL COMMITMENT Toyota global commitment to sustainability is demonstrated through Toyota’s vision and seven guiding principles. TOYOTA GLOBAL VISION Toyota will lead the way to the future of Through our commitment to quality, We will meet our challenging goals by mobility, enriching lives around the world constant innovation and respect for the engaging the talent and passion of with the safest and most responsible planet, we aim to exceed expectations people, who believe there is always a ways of moving people. and be rewarded with a smile. better way. 14 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Toyota Guiding Principles are reﬂected in the commitment to TOYOTA GUIDING PRINCIPLES fairness in all corporate activities, provision of clean, safe and innovative products, and respect for the environment and the culture of communities where Toyota operates. Dedicate our business to provide clean and safe products and to enhancing the quality of life everywhere through all of our activities. Respect the culture and customs of every Honor the language and spirit of the law of every nation and A nation and contribute to economic and social development through corporate undertake open and fair business activities in their respective communities. activities to be a good corporate citizen of the world. Pursue growth through harmony with the global community via innovative management. Foster a corporate culture that enhances both individual creativity and the value of teamwork, while honoring mutual trust and respect between labor and management. Create and develop advanced technologies and provide outsanding products and services Work with business partners in that fulﬁll the needs of customers research and manufacture to worldwide. achieve stable, long term growth and mutual beneﬁts, while keeping ourselves open to new partnerships. TOYOTA GLOBAL CSR POLICY Contribution Towards Sustainable Development The business actions and the initiatives taken by Toyota Motor Corporation, subsidiaries and joint ventures to contribute towards the goal of sustainable development are based on Toyota Guiding Principles. Toyota Motor Corporation complies with local, national and international laws and regulations as well as the spirit thereof and conducts business operations with honesty and integrity and expects its business partners to do business accordingly. 15 The Toyota Environmental Challenge 2050 Aiming to Establish a Future Society in Harmony with Nature Toyota Environmental Challenge is aimed at addressing rising environmental problems, including changing climate conditions leading to extreme weather, loss of biodiversity due to increased industrial activity and excessive waste being thrown in the rivers, and water scarcity due to excessive use and growing population. To play its part, in October 2015, Toyota formulated and announced the Toyota Environmental Challenge 2050. The ideal goal has grown higher from “Toyota’s presence will not impact the environment” to “Toyota’s presence will have a positive impact on the environment.” The challenge is composed of six individual challenges across three areas: ever-better cars, ever-better manufacturing and enriching lives of communities. The activities implemented to meet the Environmental Challenge are outlined in the sixth Toyota Environmental Action Plan, which can be found on the Toyota website at www.toyota-global.com/sustainability/ environment/plan/sixth_plan/. 0 0 CHALLENGE # 1 CHALLENGE # 2 CO2 CO2 New Vehicle Zero CO2 Life Cycle Zero CO2 Emissions Challenge Emissions Challenge Reduce global average new vehicle CO2 emissions by 90% Completely eliminate all CO2 emissions, Target including from Toyota’s 2010 global level materials, parts and manufacturing from the vehicle life cycle 0 CHALLENGE # 3 CHALLENGE # 4 CO2 Plant Zero CO2 Emissions Challenge of Minimizing Challenge and Optimizing Water Usage Achieve zero CO2 emissions at all plants by 2050 Enact effective wastewater management and minimize water consumption based on individual local situations CHALLENGE # 5 CHALLENGE # 6 Challenge of Establishing a Challenge of Establishing a Recycling-based Society & Future Society in Harmony Systems with Nature Promote global rollout of end-of life vehicle treatment and Promote global rollout of the nature conservation activities recycling technologies developed in Japan beyond the Toyota Group and its business partners Toyota has promoted a wide range of environmental initiatives to address worsening global environmental issues. Toyota is committed to reduce the environmental impact of automobiles and the process of manufacturing them as close to zero as possible, and will roll out new initiatives towards a sustainable society to make a positive impact on the earth and society. 16 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR COMMITMENT Our commitment to sustainability is guided by Toyota’s global vision and guiding principles. The “Toyota Way” sets the standards expected from the aﬃliates and is supported by our comprehensive corporate governance structure. The integrated management system policy, health and safety policy and code of conduct are the leading pillars of our commitment to be a responsible corporate citizen. These guiding documents set the principles for the business activities and conduct of our workforce. The commitment is articulated through compliance with the requirements of our integrated management system. We strive for continuous improvement in order to manufacture high quality and safe products with reduced environmental impact, provide a creative and safe workplace, deliver service to society and maintain market leadership. Our commitment to environmental management of our operations is enunciated through our ﬁve years’ environmental program based on Toyota Motor Corporation guidelines. Our 6th Environmental Action Plan (FY17FY21) is being implemented in line with Toyota’s global commitment to sustainability. Our production operations are driven by two key principles of TPS – “Just-In-Time” and Jidoka. “Just-In-Time” requires that we make only what is needed, when it is needed and in the quantity it is needed, resulting in eliminating waste, including waste time and eﬀort. Jidoka means ‘automation with human touch’. It is based on corrective action. It requires that as soon as a problem is identiﬁed, production stops and action is immediately taken to resolve the issue. We are aware that our impacts are not only limited to our operations but also include our supply chain. To better manage our impact in supply chain, we are encouraging and engaging our supply chain partners to undertake initiatives for better management of negative impact in the supply chain. In line with our commitment, the “Dealership Engagement” program was initiated to create awareness and to highlight the importance of sustainability practices among supply chain partners. In order to further strengthen the commitment and involvement of the dealers, sustainability is now being made part of TWSM (Toyota Way Sales Management) Scoring Criteria and is compulsory for all dealers. Responsibility for sustainability lies with IMC’s Board of Directors and management team. The Board has the responsibilities for deﬁning sustainability initiatives and overseeing progress. The management team has the responsibility for delivery of the sustainability programs. Details of corporate governance structure are provided on page 26 of this report. 17 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The business environment throughout the Stakeholders’ participation in consultazation, dependence, inﬂuence and globe is transforming as emerging markets tions and determination of the willingness to engage. Stakeholder are becoming new growth engines. A organization’s major impact is important, engagement at IMC is an ongoing positive outcome in the country is obvious being an integral partner to achieving practice. The relevant departments are in the form of rising middle income group our organizational goals and making a responsible for day to day engagement which hint at higher vehicle ownership. broader contribution to sustainable and need-based engagement on diﬀerHowever, the increasing duties and taxes, development. We envisage stakeholders ent issues aﬀecting our stakeholders or along with falling exports, are making the as individuals, groups of individuals or the Company. The engagement is carried business environment more challenging. organizations that are aﬀected by our out through surveys, focus groups and We recognize the importance and activities, products and services or meetings. eﬀectiveness of a good relationship with whose actions and relationships can our stakeholders to keep the growth aﬀect our ability to meet our corporate In addition to regular stakeholder momentum in the competitive marketobjectives. engagement, we carried out Sustainabilplace. Therefore, we strive to take our ity Report speciﬁc engagement with our stakeholders' opinions before all decisions, Stakeholders are identiﬁed considering important stakeholder groups for the thereby ensuring inclusivity. Being an the aspects of dependence, involvement Sustainability Report 2018. automobile manufacturing company, our with IMC, responsibility, inﬂuence and primary stakeholders include Customers, diversity. We prioritize stakeholders for Dealers, Suppliers, Employees, Community engagement based on the factors of and the Government. knowledge, relationship with our organiMeeting with dealers at Islamabad. 18 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Stakeholder Engagement Mode of Stakeholder Our Response Group Frequency Consultation Concerns Customers Ongoing Customers are engaged Product availability, IMC is committed to through Customer Relations product & services providing quality department and customer quality, customer products at competitive surveys. Customers safety, cost and prices focusing on Assistance Center runs a toll delivery time. customer safety and free number to facilitate comfort. customers. Alternatively customers can send emails to a dedicated email address for customer response. Toyota Motor Ongoing Review meetings, Compliance with Compliance with Toyota Corporation involvement in IMC globally shared Motor Corporation management and metrics, including metrics and continuous operations, Toyota global health and safety, learning from initiatives and forums. environment and international network. community. Dealers Ongoing Dealers are engaged through Product delivery IMC is committed to dealer surveys, focus groups, mechanism, extending full support frequent meetings and compliance with and training on conferences. IMC requirements, compliance requirements and dealer training and product attributes for and support. improving customer experience at its dealerships, leading to increased returns for dealers and the Company. Suppliers Ongoing Suppliers are engaged Technical support, IMC is dedicated to through meetings, quarterly supplier site quality extending technical workshops and supplier checks, product support to its supply surveys. Suppliers are also safety. chain partners to encouraged to share their improve the quality of concerns/feedback in annual parts and reduce supplier conferences. rejection at supplier end, leading to economic beneﬁts to suppliers and production of safe vehicles. Shareholders Annual / Shareholders and providers Sustained economic Continuous focus on and providers Quarterly of capital are engaged by returns and business provision of sustained of capital corporate and secretarial growth. economic returns and practices department. innovation in products The mode of engagement is and services to grow Annual General Meeting market share. (AGM) and Extra-Ordinary General Meeting (EOGM). 19 Employees Ongoing Employees are engaged Training & education, Continuous investment through staﬀ meetings, and health & safety. in training and annual get-togethers, education of workforce consultation with employees’ and maintaining representative groups and excellent health and employee satisfaction safety standards. surveys. Community Ongoing / Community is engaged Education, health, & Commitment to keep Annual through on site visits, surveys, skill development for contributing 1% pretax and focus group meetings. community uplift. proﬁt of preceding year for education, health and skill development for community uplift. Government Ongoing / Government and industry Sustainable Compliance with and industry Need basis groups are engaged through automobile sector applicable laws and groups meetings and focus groups. and compliance of regulations and laws and regulations. consultation with industry groups for a sustainable automobile sector. Media Ongoing / Media is engaged through Wider range of issues Dissemination of Need basis interviews, brieﬁngs and concerning diﬀerent information on press releases. stakeholders. developments relating to business and automobile industry. 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Materiality analysis helps in making sense of the sustainability landscape of the organization and builds a powerful mandate for focusing and acting on issues that are of the highest priority. The process involves identiﬁcation, prioritization and validation of key sustainability topics showing major impact of the organization on the economy, environment and society. IDENTIFICATION Issues relevant Industry speciﬁc Impact of IMC Stakeholder inclusiveness & to Stakeholders issues activities and products sustainability context PRIORITIZATION Stakeholder inclusiveness, materiality, Analysis & completeness MATERIALITY Business Risks Opportunities Input for business strategy to maximize opportunities and mitigate risks IMPLEMENTATION 21 The process of identifying material topics Our materiality determination process The results of the materiality for the report started with mapping of was guided by GRI 101: Foundation determination exercise are summarized our activities and their impact, industry (2016). We applied the principles of deﬁnin the materiality matrix. The matrix speciﬁc issues, the inputs received during ing the report content i.e. stakeholder presents the topics in order of regular stakeholder engagements and inclusiveness, sustainability context, importance to stakeholders and the report speciﬁc engagement with materiality and completeness at various impact of our activities. The content important stakeholders. The identiﬁed degrees during the process. The materialand scope of the report is guided by the topics were prioritized and reviewed in ity analysis informed us about the most matrix. The report only covers the the context of relevance to stakeholders, critical sustainability topics which repreimpact of the Indus Motor Company severity of the impact, industry position sent the major impact of our activities on Limited’s operations and does not on the topic and relevance with our the economy, environment and society include any impact of associates, corporate objectives and strategy. and has been ranked as important by subsidiaries or supply chain partners. stakeholders in their decision-making. MATERIALITY MATRIX Economic Performance INFLUENCE ON STAKEHOLDERS’ ASSESSMENT AND DECISIONS Material HIGHLY Local Communities Indirect Economic Emissions Impacts Energy Water Eﬄuents & Waste Health & Safety Compliance Employment & Labour Relations MODERATELY Training & Marketing & Education Labeling Public Policy Anti-corruption Human Rights Biodiversity Procurement Supply Chain Practices Impacts MODERATELY HIGHLY SIGNIFICANCE OF ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACT OF IMC ACTIVITIES 22 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BOUNDARY OF MATERIAL TOPICS Material Topics Why Material? Topic Boundary Economic performance Important for providing sustained returns, making IMC contribution to economy, payment to workforce and suppliers and well-being of society through CSR. Material Important component in product and its impact on IMC depleting ﬁnite materials. Energy Impact on depleting ﬁnite resources and environmental IMC impact of use of nonrenewable resources. Emissions Negative environmental impact of greenhouse gases IMC, our customers, emitted due to our activities and use of products. our suppliers Water Water is a scarce resource and usage of fresh water IMC leading to water scarcity in the country. Eﬄuents and Waste Negative environmental impact of waste handling, IMC incineration, dumping and transporting of hazardous and non-hazardous waste. Health & Safety Directly relate to health and safety of workforce and IMC customers. Impact the brand in the marketplace. Employment and Labour Relations Diversiﬁed workforce for better productivity and IMC compliance with laws, international charters and conventions. Marketing & Labeling Provision of customer centric product information and IMC compliance with laws and regulations. Human Rights Compliance with laws, international charters and IMC, our customers, conventions. our suppliers Procurement Practices Opportunities for direct and indirect economic IMC contribution through localization. Compliance Avoid noncompliance of laws and regulations. IMC Training & Education Capacity building, enhancing creative potential of IMC workforce for increasing productivity and succession planning. Anti-corruption Reducing risks of economic imbalance and compliance IMC, our customers, with laws, international charters and conventions. our suppliers Supply Chain Impacts impact of suppliers activities on environment and IMC, our customers, society. our suppliers Socio-economic development of communities and IMC Local Communities provision of healthcare, education and food to needy communities. Indirect Economic Impacts Community uplift through infrastructure investments, IMC skill development and jobs in supply chain. 23 OUR GOVERNANCE VISION, MISSION & CORE VALUES BOARD & BOARD COMMITTEES RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITMENTS & EXTERNAL INITIATIVES 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT VISION, MISSION & CORE VALUES Action, Commitment and Teamwork to become #1 in Pakistan A Step Towards Sustainable Pakistan VISION MISSION CORE VALUES IMC’s Mission is reflected World class production in the Company’s slogan quality To be the most respected Action, Commitment and and successful enterprise, Achieving the ultimate Teamwork to become goal of complete customer delighting customers with #1 in Pakistan. satisfaction a wide range of products and solutions in the Being seen as the best automobile industry with employer the best people and the Fostering the spirit of best technology. teamwork Inculcating ethical and honest practices Respect & Corporate Image Customer Satisfaction Production & Sales Quality & Safety Best Employer Profitability 25 BOARD & BOARD COMMITTEES We recognize that a good corporate governance structure is vital for business success in the competitive and challenging external environment. IMC promotes a culture of high ethical standards, integrity, transparency, accountability and compliance with the applicable laws and regulations in all business transactions. Our governance structure is guided by applicable laws, regulations, code of corporate governance and Toyota Guiding Principles. These elements underpin the tone of our corporate governance. We have a well-established governance structure and system in place comprising an integrated management system and a code of conduct. Extensive information on the code of conduct is available in the corporate section of our website www.toyota-indus.com. Board of Directors Board Committees The Board of Directors consists of ten The overall accountability of corporate governance rests with the IMC Board of directors, out of which four directors Directors which is responsible for the short-term and long-term performance of the represent Toyota Motor Corporation company. The Board has established various board committees to assist in and Toyota Tsusho Corporation of discharging its responsibilities and eﬀectively focusing on issues requiring detailed Japan. Six directors are non-executive consideration. The board committees meet as required to oversee the business in directors, three are executive directors speciﬁc areas. The board committees have their own mandate, objectives and and one is an independent director. responsibilities. The committees report their activities to the Board of Directors IMC has qualiﬁed, competent and and prepare the board meeting agenda for their respective areas. committed personnel on its board with vast experience and expertise to The board committees are audit committee, human resource and remuneration deliver exceptional performance in committee and ethics committee. The management committees comprise line with the corporate objectives. investment committee, marketing committee, technical co-ordination committee, The directors have eminent ACT#1 management committee and Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) backgrounds in engineering, business, committee. The board committees are supported by the executive level management, ﬁnance and economics. committees which report to the board committees and assist in discharging their The directors are elected every three obligations. years while any casual vacancy is ﬁlled by the Board of Directors as per applicable laws and regulations. For more details about the proﬁle of the Board of Directors, refer to page 18 of Annual Report 2018. Sustainability Management The sustainability impact of activities and products are discussed at the Board level while the execution and control has been delegated to the SHE committee. The committee is headed by the Chief Executive. The committee formulates the overall policies and SHE framework for the company. The committee meets on monthly basis to discuss, evaluate and guide the sustainability eﬀorts within the organization and supply chain partners. Performance is reviewed on a continuous basis and corrective actions are taken on need basis via eﬃcient and swift decision-making. 26 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RISK & COMPLIANCE We are exposed to a wide range of risks Toyota’s Principle “Honour the language and spirit of the and opportunities as a result of the complexity of our operations and the law of every nation and undertake open and fair forces that continue to transform our corporate activities to be a good citizen of the world” is business environment. Our risk the guiding pillar of our risk and compliance mechanism. management system assesses risks and opportunities in the context of the broader political and macroeconomic We are subject to regulatory controls environment faced by IMC. These risks encompassing a wide range of issues span strategic, regulatory, ﬁnancial, relating to employment practices, operational, reputational and employee health and safety, environsustainability risks related to IMC mental impact, product safety and business activities. Identiﬁed risks are marketing communication standards. reviewed in Audit Committees and Board Our approach to risk management and Meetings along with departmental compliance is preventive, leading to objectives, targets and performance. compliance with applicable laws, Appropriate strategies are developed regulations and voluntary codes and and implemented to minimize the initiatives. Our approach is also subject impact of the identiﬁed risks. to internal and external review in the form of audits and certiﬁcation of our A strong internal compliance culture management systems. Appropriate from Toyota covers our corporate adjustments are made in the risk activities and our relationship with management approach based on the supply chain partners i.e. auto part results of the external reviews of our suppliers and dealers. Guiding principles management systems. of Toyota are followed to comply with Toyota requirements, local laws and We did not record any signiﬁcant ﬁnes regulations, exhibit good corporate or non-monetary sanctions for ethics and meet the expectations of our non-compliance with the laws and stakeholders. regulations during the reporting period. At the beginning of 2016, IMC took the decision to align its approach to risk management with TMC’s Toyota Global Risk Management Standards (TGRS). TGRS deﬁnes risk as the eﬀect of uncertainties in meeting the expectations of stakeholders while heading towards achievement of the corporate vision. We have successfully Health Safety implemented our new risk management structure. As we ﬁnalize the alignment process, we have already beneﬁted from the eﬀective global system. Risk management roles and responsibilities have been better deﬁned and communicated to respective process owners and risks are addressed at operational as well as strategic levels. We are also conﬁdent that our risk reporting structures and systems have been Environment improved. 27 COMMITMENTS & EXTERNAL INITIATIVES We support and commit to various external international initiatives, charters and principles listed below, in addition to our internal charter, code of conduct and guidelines. Empowering Sustainable Decisions We are aware of precautionary principle of IMC holds membership of various industry associations, including: Article 15 of Rio Declaration Karachi Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) on Environment and Federation of Pakistan Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FPCCI) Development and are Overseas Investment Chamber of Commerce and Industry (OICCI) committed to fulfill our Pakistan Auto Manufacturers Association (PAMA) Pakistan Business Council responsibility towards risk INJAZ Pakistan management in business Pakistan Innovation Foundation Habib University Foundation planning and product Bin Qasim Association of Trade and Industry development. We apply Landhi Association of Trade and Industry precautionary approach to reduce the environmental Awards & Accolades received during 2017-18 impact of our operations We are passionate about the work we do and thankful for the recognitions as a and products through testimony we have received, which not only add to our motivation, but also to the research and development, pride of IMC stakeholders. Highlighted below is a selection of recent accolades that Indus Motor has earned: modernization and adoption * (Awards received in the past have been mentioned in our Sustainability Report 2017) of cleaner technologies. Corporate Excellence Award 2017 (1st Position in the overall Industrial Category by the Management Association of Pakistan). Business Sustainability Award 2017 in recognition of its best practices in embracing SDGs and integrating the “Ten Principles” of UNGC (1st Position in Multinational company category by United Nations Global Compact, Network Pakistan). Consumer Choice Award Corolla GLi 2017 and Hilux 2017 by the Consumer Association of Pakistan as a grand tribute in cognizance of consumer These SDGs are supported through product/corporate quality and features beneﬁting the consumers and the our governance practices, risk general public. management and compliance. CEO of the Year Award 2017 by the Consumer Association of Pakistan for Linkage of our activities and SDGs demonstrating exemplary vision, business acumen and success in delivering can be found on page 73. sustained performance. Award of Top 25 Companies for the year 2016 (received in Dec 17) by Pakistan Stock Exchange on the basis of Dividend Payout, Capital Eﬃciency, Free-Float of Shares, Transparency, Corporate Governance & Investors Relations and 5 GENDER EQUALITY 16 PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS compliance with Listing of Companies & Securities Regulations. PAS Award 2018 15th Annual Environmental Excellence Award 2018 4 medals, at “Asia Paciﬁc Skill Contest 2018” in Thailand, defeating others. 28 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Economic Performance Our Dealers Our Customers Our Suppliers Automotive Market and Toyota Brand ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Changing climate conditions throughout the world requires business to manage impact on their employees, the environment and the society while pursuing economic interests. Financial performance is the key driver of business success, brings in economic stability and help a business to survive in a competitive world. Strong and sustained ﬁnancial performance over the years enables the organization to pursue sustainability aggressively in its operations. At IMC, we have delivered exceptional economic performance and maintained our market leadership position on a year-on-year basis while taking guidance from our vision, mission, integrated management system, company objectives and policies. Retaining our competitive advantage, providing healthy and sustained returns to investors through manufacturing and marketing quality and safe vehicles, we are also informed by Toyota Guiding Principles, guidelines and Kaizen techniques for continuous improvement. Our operations have signiﬁcant direct and indirect impact on economic front. Our major direct impact are dividends to shareholders, interest payments to providers of ﬁnances, taxes and duties payment to national exchequers, salaries and beneﬁts to our people, local purchasing, local hiring and interventions in the form of health and education and infrastructure development for the beneﬁt of our communities. Our indirect impact are mainly linked to our localization policy in shape of local procurement of parts. As a result, indirect economic impact are technology transfer to local auto parts suppliers, increase in skills set and availability of more skilled manpower and creation of jobs in supply chain. To eﬀectively manage the risks of corruption, well-deﬁned policies and procedures have been deﬁned and implemented at IMC. The code of conduct prohibits corrupt practices and corruption risks are regularly checked through the internal audit department. The internal audit department regularly conducts audits and the ﬁndings are communicated to the Board audit committee for necessary action. During the year all operations were assessed for risks related to corruption. Regular training is provided to employees to refresh their knowledge about corruption policies. More information on training is available on page 53. The Chief Executive is responsible for managing the economic impact of our operations. The economic objectives, targets and related policies are approved by the Board of Directors. The implementation of the policies and management of day to day aﬀairs is carried out by the Chief Executive. The performance is reviewed on quarterly basis by the Board of Directors and decisions are taken as per need. The Company’s ﬁnancial performance for the year 2018 shows a signiﬁcant increase in revenues and net proﬁts due to positive customer demand and a booming economy. The revenue increased by 25% to Rs 140 billion from Rs 112 billion compared to the previous year ended June 2017, while proﬁt after tax grew by 21% to Rs 15.8 billion from Rs 13 billion posted for the same period last year. The Company has achieved new targets in sales and earnings which are in line with the company performance targets. For detailed information on ﬁnancial performance for the year 2018, refer to Director's Report section of the Annual Report 2018 on page 64. 30 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED & DISTRIBUTED 2018 2017 2016 Direct Economic Value Generated (Rs. In Millions) (Rs. In Millions) (Rs. In Millions) Revenues 172,728 139,275 134,212 172,728 139,275 134,212 Economic Value Distributed Business Partners 103,581 83,556 82,869 Employees 2,852 1,937 1,626 Capital Provider 11,576 9,437 7,937 Government 47,837 38,606 36,478 Community 191 174 141 166,037 133,710 129,051 Economic Value Retained 6,691 5,565 5,161 Economic Value Distribution 2018 Economic Value Distribution 2017 103,581 83,556 47,837 38,606 11,576 9,437 Business Partners Business Partners 2,852 Government 1,937 Government Capital Providers Capital Providers Employees Employees 191 174 Community Community IMC is governed under the Government’s Auto-Development Policy 2016-21, under which diﬀerent incentives are available to the auto industry in Pakistan. However, during the year, IMC did not receive any ﬁnancial assistance from the government. 31 ORGANIZATION’S DEFINED BENEFITS We oﬀer various deﬁned beneﬁts for our workforce including provident fund and pension fund. 10% of the basic salary is contributed by employees and the same proportionate amount is contributed by IMC on a monthly basis in the Provident Fund. IMC contributes 9% of the basic salary of employees to the Pension Fund. A separate Pension Fund is maintained to meet the liabilities of pension. 79% of plan liabilities are expected to be met by the Pension Fund Assets based on the actuarial assumption made in June, 2018. The Provident Fund balance is paid when the employee leaves the organization. During the year, IMC spent Rs 170 million on deﬁned beneﬁt plans compared to Rs 149 million spent in 2017. During the year, IMC spent Rs 170 million on defined benefit plans compared to Rs 149 million spent in 2017. 32 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR DEALERS Our dealers are a vital part of our success. We recognize the hard work and Toyota’s dealership network also plays an They represent IMC in front of public and dedication of the dealers through our important part in betterment of the local provide employment, tax support, annual Dealers Conference. The population by executing versatile CSR leadership and customer service in our conference demonstrates our activities. Dealers are encouraged to communities. To improve quality of commitment to those who go above and participate in social causes such as blood service and create a trustworthy beyond to excel their outstanding donation camps as well as donations to relationship with dealers, we work closely performance every year. We’re very proud charitable organizations. with our dealers to improve customer of the contributions made by those experience at our dealerships. nominated and selected as honorees since the inception of Indus Motor. We, being the principal At the end of 2018, we had 45 Toyota 3S organization, equip our dealerships nationwide which are We, being the principal organization, dealers with rigorous independently owned and operated. Our equip our dealers with rigorous training, training, workshops, products and services such as new cars, workshops, certiﬁcations and Kaizen certifications and Kaizen spare parts and service (maintenance) are projects to cope with changing market available at all our 3S dealerships. A dynamics. These trainings ensure Toyota’s projects to cope with recent addition to this ﬂourishing excellent standards of service and changing market dynamics. business is T-Sure or Toyota Sure where enhance customers’ dealership These trainings ensure our customers can buy or sell their Toyota experience. To ensure Toyota’s customer Toyota’s excellent standards vehicle with complete peace of mind. ﬁrst philosophy, a survey of 3S dealers is of service and enhance During the year, 6 more dealers have carried out by a third party auditor and customers’ dealership been added to the existing network of based on the results, a comprehensive Toyota Sure dealers making a total of 31 plan is formulated to bridge the gap if any. experience. Toyota Sure dealers. TEAM 21 Toyota TEAM 21 (Toyota Technical Education for Automotive Master 21st century) is a comprehensive technical training program for Toyota dealers’ technicians to deliver Our No.1 quality after sales service as per Toyota’s standards. It is composed of 4 training dealerships categories; Toyota Technician, Professional Technician, Diagnostic Technician (Engine, have 94% Chassis & Electrical), and Diagnostic Master Technician (Engine, Electrical+MPX & NVH). Currently, our dealerships have 94% Toyota certiﬁed technicians. Our dealers regularly hold diﬀerent events like the Dream Car Art Contest for children Toyota certified and loyalty program for customers. technicians THE 12TH TOYOTA DREAM CAR ART CONTEST During the contest almost 38,000 received compared to the previous year “The Ambulance is passing through a artworks received from across Pakistan speaking volumes of its magnitude and narrow road”. Tasmia Akram from Toyota from over 1,140 schools, improving reach to children from all over the Lyallpur Motors receiving CEO award for Pakistan’s worldwide position from 6th country. her dream car concept. in 2015 to the 3rd this year. One of the special features of the Local The six member independent jury Organized annually by Toyota Motor Contest is the active participation of comprising of educators, painters, Corporation, the Contest, which is open children who are diﬀerently-abled. The curator and visual artists selected the to kids under 16 years, is intended to Company has created the Royal regional and national winners and the deﬁne the future of mobility by category to encourage them, which as a Top 9 artworks from Pakistan to enter the encouraging their creative expression. result of the relentless eﬀorts of the World Contest in Japan. The Company From its humble beginning in 2015 and Dealership Customer Relations teams celebrated the 38 winners who came two World Winners, the Toyota Dream saw a 50% increase over the previous from twenty-ﬁve Dealerships across the Car Art Contest has evolved to become year in terms of the number of drawings country, awarding those certiﬁcates and Pakistan’s biggest drawing competitions received. The artwork of Tasmia Akram medals at the grand Award Ceremony in for children. This year marked an over from Toyota Lyallpur Motors won the Lahore. The grand prize that awaits the 70% increase in the number of artworks CEO Award for her dream car concept top 30 winners of the World Contest get a ﬁve day, all expenses paid trip to Japan with their parents. Exposure to the Japanese culture and its world renowned hospitality plus the opportunity to make new friends, has far reaching results on their mental development. In 2017-18, Pakistan was the 3rd nation in the world to have received the highest number of artwork submissions. 34 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PROMOTION OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AT DEALERSHIPS To manage the impact of operations and promote CSR practices at dealers, we interact with them to guide them in adopting best practices relating to health and safety, environmental protection and social contribution. This not only results in eﬃcient operations at dealerships but also helps in managing the supply chain impact. Dealer Environmental Risk Assessment Program (DERAP) Our commitment to environmental management goes beyond our operations to service workshops at dealers. Toyota Motor Corporation’s environmental standard for environmental risk management augments in achieving environmental compliance at our dealership. A total of 42 (about 93%) of our dealerships are DERAP-certiﬁed while the remaining are under the certiﬁcation process. In line with our approach to manage our environmental impact in the supply chain, our dealers have implemented waste management system to treat hazardous waste and waste water in their operations. CFC/HFC recovery equipment for the recycling and recovery of air conditioning gas for the protection of the environment and the ozone layer have also been deployed by the dealers. Green Dealer Green Dealer Program has been introduced for DERAP-certiﬁed workshops to provide solutions for Toyota dealerships in Pakistan towards achieving Clean Energy Drive environmental standards. The focus of the Program is to improve the environmental standards at Toyota Our dealers have installed solar dealerships in Pakistan, provide dealerships an panels at their location to generate optimal solution for EMS (Environmental energy from sustainable Management System) after implementation of environment-friendly source and DERAP and improve motivation of dealers’ staﬀ reduce GHG emissions. towards personnel safety. A total of 35 (about 78%) of our dealers are certiﬁed under the Green Dealer Program while the remaining are under the process of certiﬁcation. Toyota’s dealership network also plays an important part in betterment of the local population by executing versatile CSR activities. Dealers are encouraged to participate in social causes such as blood donation camps as well as donations to charitable organizations. 35 OUR CUSTOMERS A positive customer experience is pivotal to our success, our dealerships and our brand reputation. We engage with our customers to understand their concerns and are committed to enhancing customers’ experience of our products and services. A positive customer experience is pivotal to our success, our dealerships and our brand reputation. We engage with our customers to understand their concerns and are committed to enhancing customers’ experience of our products and services. Toyota customers expect high-quality products and exceptional experience that make their lives better. Our culture of collaboration and continuous improvement means that we can deliver great experience as well as address any quality and satisfaction concerns quickly and eﬀectively. Our customer satisfaction approach is governed by Toyota’s global vision and Toyota’s global CR standards which are implemented at IMC and at all dealerships. Customer feedback is an important element in evaluating our performance. The feedback is recorded and circulated throughout the organization to improve the products, services and overall customer experience. GENESIS, an integrated technology platform, has been implanted across IMC and dealerships to handle customer grievances, improve customers’ experience with IMC and focus on the most relevant service aspects. Customers can contact IMC through dealerships or calling the customer relations function at 0800 11123. The dedicated customer relations team handles customer queries/complaints swiftly to enhance customers’ experience. Customers are provided a complete and reliable ownership experience through the Customer First department which combines the Parts and After Sales Services. The availability of genuine spare parts at our dealerships and selected retail outlets coupled with quality Toyota services leads to superior customer experience and enhances trust in our brand. Diverse climate conditions, rough roads, and driving habits of the masses are the prime concerns for vehicle safety, safety of our customers and the general public. IMC regularly runs campaigns for customers on aspects of product safety and oﬀers inspection of parts vulnerable to climate conditions for better vehicle management. 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our success as a business is primarily dependent on Customer Satisfaction, and we value their unwavering support through the decades that Toyota has been marketed in Pakistan. An annual customers’ satisfaction index research is conducted to collect data that assesses our performance in handling and serving customers at Toyota dealerships and identifying areas of improvement. Customers’ Satisfaction Index 88 89 90 87 91 86 92 85 93 84 94 2018 2017 2016 Sales Satisfaction Index 88 89 90 87 91 86 92 85 93 84 94 2018 2017 2016 IMC is the ﬁrst automotive company in Pakistan to have brought an international marketing agency such as JD Power that conducted the Sales Satisfaction Index (SSI) Survey of major local automotive manufacturers. The study concluded with areas of improvement for the respective OEMs as well as gauged performance of areas which are already up to par. Attribute Status Appropriateness of updates regarding your vehicle delivery status Demonstration of vehicle Need Improvement Enthusiasm of staﬀ in making the delivery process enjoyable Need Improvement Condition of vehicle Timeliness of completing the ﬁnal paperwork process Appearance of facility 37 OUR SUPPLIERS Sustainability is a core component of Toyota’s culture. Our commitment to sustainability manifested through our values and guidelines reﬂect our work towards a clean and green future. We believe that the company cannot be sustainable without taking along its supply chain. Our suppliers play an important role in meeting our targets of vehicle production and it is vital to have a committed supplier base. Our procurement is mainly categorized into: Sourcing of CKD and CBU from Toyota Motor Corporation and parts from abroad; Direct and indirect purchasing of locally manufactured parts and material to produce vehicles; Locally procured service parts and accessories to support afters ales service; and Indirect purchasing of goods and/or services to support the operations, maintenance services and corporate services. Our product speciﬁc local suppliers are OEM level automotive part suppliers in the major categories of resin, rubber, electrical, sheet metal, assembly, and others. We have 45 Tier-1 part suppliers and 7 consumable suppliers spread across Sindh, Punjab and Balochistan. The suppliers range between mid and high levels of labour intensive work as the majority of suppliers rely on manual to semi-automated production lines. The annual payments made to suppliers of products and services in 2018 were Rs 103,581 million, which were 24% higher as compared to the year 2017. To promote industrial development, increase in skilled workforce, employment generation and contribution to the economy through foreign exchange savings, IMC has been pursuing a challenging localization program by substituting imports with locally manufactured parts meeting the highest standards of safety and quality. Our ambition to localize maximum components and our strong relationship with our supply chain partners has urged our suppliers to enhance their production facilities consisting of assembly and manufacturing lines that are fully dedicated to our products and high-tech parts. The new Toyota Corolla comprises 691 parts and components manufactured locally. During the year, 42% procurement was made from local suppliers compared to 48% in 2017. 38 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT To make supply chains responsive towards the ever-changing economic, environmental and social environment, remodelling/upgradation of the supply chain is vital. New technologies, frameworks and training can make the supply chain more reliable and responsive to required changes. Our supply chain department continuously works with suppliers to help meet Toyota’s stringent quality standards, our sustainability guidelines, just in time techniques and Kaizen culture to reduce parts rejection and bring improvement in business processes and proﬁtability. The Kaizen (continuous improvement)culture is a key principle of the Toyota Production System (TPS) which supports supplier productivity and capacity development. IMC maintains close coordination with its suppliers through its supply chain department which helps IMC to connect with its supply chain partners on multiple fronts and promote sustainable practices in the supply chain. Promotion of Environmental Management at Suppliers Toyota Green Purchasing Guidelines (GPG) The guidelines are shared with the suppliers to encourage them to establish an environment management system, reduce green-house gases emissions, reduce impact on water, manage chemical substances, promote resource recycling and establish the society in harmony with nature. We are working on eliminating the packaging material from the supply chain by shifting to returnable trolleys for transporting parts from suppliers to IMC. Our green purchasing guidelines prohibit following substances for packaging materials according to the Toyota Technical Standards TSZ0001G management, practice latest edition of the environmental load material . Lead Cadmium Mercury Hexavalent Chromium PBDE (Polybrominated biphenyls) PBDE (Polybrominated diphenyl ethers) Deca BDE (Decabromo diphenyl ether) HBCD (Hexabromocyclododecane) PFOS (Perﬂuorooctane sulfonates) Asbestos DMF (Dimethylfumarate) 33 of our suppliers are ISO 14001 certiﬁed. Currently, we do not have in place a criterion for supplier social assessment. However, we have environmental assessment criteria for selection and monitoring of our suppliers. AUTOMOTIVE MARKET & TOYOTA BRAND Our brand reputation has been integral We provide detailed information to our standards. All our products are subject to to our success of achieving 29 years of customers on product attributes, safe compliance with the law and voluntary successful business. Our ambition to use, environmental impact and disposal guidelines. Compliance is assessed on a connect with our customers while of the products. An owner’s manual is regular basis. respecting applicable laws and voluntary provided to the customers at the time of codes guides our marketing and sale of vehicles, which contains the During the year, there were no incidents advertisement activities. We abide by information about the vehicle, driver of noncompliance with regulations and the applicable marketing and passenger safety, vehicle features, voluntary codes concerning product and communication and advertisement laws maintenance and technical information. service information, marketing and voluntary codes. The compliance is In addition to owner’s manual, each communications, including advertising, reviewed through an internal review customer is provided with a safety video promotion, and sponsorship. Moreover, process to ensure that accurate underlining the use of safety features. no complaints of breach of customer information on product features, The same material is embedded in the privacy were reported during the year. services and our practices is shared with infotainment system of the Corolla Altis our customers and stakeholders. 1.8 and Corolla Grande. During the year, in order to ensure communication of Our promise of making ever-better cars safety features, we conducted ATL and has gone beyond the traditional BTL Safety Campaigns to promote business model of selling cars. We strive awareness about vehicle safety among These SDGs are supported by IMC through to oﬀer peace of mind and a unique customers. Dealership branding/ provision of sustained economic returns to buying experience to complement the marketing collaterals consisting of Safety stakeholders, meeting customers’ expectajoy and comfort of owning and driving a features information, provided by IMC, tions and working with dealers and suppliers. Toyota vehicle. Our focus is to develop a were discussed. Our Toyota Safety Linkage of our activities and SDGs can be lasting relationship with our customers mascot “THUMS (Total Human Model found on page 73. through the Customer First approach, for Safety)” was promoted through the taking care of the community through campaign. our “Concerns Beyond Cars”, enhancing 2 ZERO HUNGER 5 GENDER EQUALITY 7 AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY skill sets and technological development The information about source, safe use through localization and promotion of and disposal of the product is also technology among youth through provided for Toyota genuine parts and technology centric competitions. Toyota genuine motor oil. In addition to applicable laws and Toyota guidelines, 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION This has strengthened our brand over vehicle speciﬁcations in Corolla are as the years. We are committed to keeping per ASEAN NCAP (New Car Assessment our association with our stakeholders as Program). Toyota Genuine Motor Oil is the preferred choice of our customers. blended as per TMC's guidelines which is 16 PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS We monitor our brand strength through benchmarked on American Petroleum surveys across our dealerships, industry Institute (API) and the Society of and wider business. Automotive Engineers (SAE) international 40 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE The Pakistan automobile industry constantly strives to improve its performance. Automotive production processes are the perfect example of where improved eﬃciency can reduce cost, increase competitiveness and minimize the impact on the environment. Further implementation of digital manufacturing and automation will most likely further improve the overall eﬃciency and the resource eﬃciency of automotive production process. We are aware that industrial operations and products have signiﬁcant impact on the environment and we are committed to reducing the environmental impact of our operations and products. We have identiﬁed material environmental impact of our operations based on interaction of our business activities with the external environment, severity of impact and stakeholder engagement. The material topics are listed on page 23 which also shows the reason these topics have been categorized as material. We are guided by Toyota’s philosophy and policies on the environment which is based on Toyota Guiding Principles as detailed on page 15 of this report. “The Toyota Global Environmental Challenge 2050” which has been shared among all Toyota aﬃliates also communicates our policies and initiatives for environmental management. We also have an environmental policy and plan which is implemented through our environmental management system. This combines the requirement of Toyota Guiding Principles and other best practices in environmental management. The policy serves as a guidance document for new investment in technologies and upgrading of existing operations. The responsibility for environmental management rests with the Safety, Health and Environment committee headed by the Chief Executive. The committee is responsible for formulating guidelines, reviewing the environmental performance, taking decisions and ﬁxing responsibility for environment, health and safety-related issues. IMC’s management approach is proactive in nature to reduce the environmental burden through eﬃcient management of ﬁnite resources and reduce emissions, waste and eﬄuents. The Manager SHE is responsible for performance and monitoring compliance with IMC policies and applicable environmental laws and regulations. IMC's production plant is ISO-14001 certiﬁed. These management systems help IMC in identiﬁcation of risks and opportunities for bringing improvements and building stakeholder conﬁdence. We are committed to working with our suppliers and vendors to take appropriate measures for a similar level of commitment to reduce the impact of their operations. IMC regularly conducts training of its staﬀ on health, safety and environmental topics relevant to operations in order to equip the staﬀ with the latest knowledge on the subject. The management approach is evaluated through external certiﬁcation and Toyota Global Environmental Management System Audits, internal performance reviews against targets and compliance with applicable laws. Corrective action is taken, based on the assessment, where required. Our strong commitment towards environmental management in the shape of keeping our targets 20% below legal requirements and continuous environmental expenditure to manage, mitigate and prevent the environmental impact has resulted in zero non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations during the year. We spent Rs. 442 million on remediation, prevention and environmental management in 2018 compared to Rs. 54 million in the year 2017. 42 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENT MONTH We celebrated Environment Month in June'18 with the renewed and strengthened conviction to care for the land we live on, the air we breathe and the water which gives us life. The month-long celebration is dedicated to carrying diﬀerent activities such as training, audits, competitions and class room sessions and discussions on environmental issues. The key activities were signing of the environment board, training of ISO-14001:2015, internal audit of GEMS, spill management training, eco write contest, use of trash wisely, eco Kaizan contest, promotion of eco-driving, environment workshop of suppliers and dealers and environmental video screening. Electronics, MATERIAL USAGE Ceramics, Glass & Other Plastics, Compounds Elastomers, Textiles & Natural Vehicles are made-up of diﬀerent materials and chemical Materials substances. The major categories of materials used in vehicles Metals are metals, plastics, elastomers, textiles and natural materials, fuels and consumable liquids, electronics, ceramics, glass and other compounds and non-dimensional materials. We understand that calculation of weight of materials used in the production of vehicles involves enormous work, keeping in view the number of materials and the complex nature of materials. However,we are committed to identifying and sharing the weight of diﬀerent materials used in the production of our products. Our focus on materials is to use more sustainable materials including recycled materials, where permissible, renewable Fuels & Non-dimensional and recyclable materials. However, during the year, no materials Consumable recycled material was used. Liquids Energy Usage & Greenhouse Gas Emissions IMC's assembly plant is designed to maximize natural light and LED energy-eﬃcient bulbs are ENERGY USAGE installed throughout the plant to reduce energy usage. The plant has a combined Heat & Power System (CHP) installed which reuses the heat produced by the energy production. Natural gas and electricity used at our plant are the main energy sources and the largest contributor to greenhouse gas emissions. The energy consumption during the year increased by 97,699 GJ compared to the previous year. The energy consumption increased due to overall plant expansion activities i.e. paint shop extension, cogen extension, addition of cooling towers, construction work, extension of press shop, logistics and increase in man power. The energy used per manufactured vehicle also increased to 6.53 GJ/per unit compared to 5.22 GJ/per unit in the year 2017. 43 Unit Unit 2018 2017 2016 2016 2015 Energy consumed within GJ 409,384 313,080 396,029 organization Non renewable Energy consumed within GJ 1,395 organization Renewable Total Energy Consumption GJ 410,779 313,080 396,029 Energy used per vehicle GJ/per 6.53 5.22 6.17 produced Unit Energy saving per year GJ 22,320 17,307 12,498 TDEM guidelines were used in calculation of energy ﬁgures.Energy consumption per vehicle includes both renewable and non-renewable energy consumption. Energy saving ﬁgures includes electricity saved by using solar panels installed on IMC plant, replacing conventional lights with LED lights and installing absorption chillers in the plant. The ﬁgures for energy saving for the year 2017 has been restated to correct the calculation mistake. SOLAR AND FUEL CELLS Indus Motor’s manufacturing plant leads the way with a variety of renewable and low carbon energy options. To reduce demand on the grid, we have invested in onsite photovoltaic and fuel cell systems that allowed us to generate 388 MWh of energy in 2018, which represented about 1.1% of IMC’s total electricity consumption. Using we have invested in on site renewable energy instead of photo voltaic and fuel cell conventional power will greatly systems that allowed us to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. generate 388 MWh of energy in 2018. 44 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG) are one of the major causes of climate change. We are aware that climate change has resulted in increasing temperatures and has created severe weather patterns aﬀecting production and consumption of resources and deteriorating the quality of life. We are committed to reducing our GHG emissions through adoption of cleaner technologies and improvements in the existing systems. The emissions are reduced over the years as a result of Kaizen (continuous improvement) activities of route optimization to reduce CO2 and truck trip cost, improving the devanning process by eliminating top lift working of container and improved processes to reduce CO2 emissions. Natural gas and electricity usage in production activities are the major contributors to our greenhouse gas emissions. The emissions of employees commuting to work, business travelling and transportation of materials to plant and products to dealers through supply chain partners are not measured during the year. During the year, we established Plan 2050 Zero CO2 strategy to reduce emissions in the long run. The other initiatives to reduce usage of electricity and associated CO2 were installation of rooftop Solar PV and conversion of ﬂuorescent bulbs to LED lighting which resulted in 18% reduction in electricity use and CO2 emission alike in 2018. Other signiﬁcant emissions are release of volatile organic compound (VOCs) in processes using solvents, paints, sealers or hydrocarbon-based chemicals. The emissions were reduced over the year as a result of Kaizen (continuous improvement) activities of cartridge reduction for low share colour, introducing new chemicals to replace washing thinner for overall cleaning, reducing robot gun distance and adjusting on/oﬀ spray for robot paint loss reduction. Unit Unit 2018 2017 2017 2016 2016 2015 Greenhouse gas emissions Mt 21,866 18,063 21,202 (Scope I) Emissions per vehicle Mt/per 0.34 0.301 0.331 produced unit Reduction in emission Mt 7,850 1,798 961 Emission of ODS Mt Nil Nil Nil NOx, SOx and other Mt NOx, SOx and other signiﬁcant air emissions within SEQS limits. signiﬁcant air emissions There were no biogenic emissions during the year. Emission reduction ﬁgures includes only CO2 emissions. The emissions reduced due to replacement of Fluorescent lights. TDEM and SEQS guidelines were used for emission calculations. MANGROVE REHABILITATION WITH WWF-PAKISTAN Mangroves produce huge amount of oxygen and prevent heavy storms by acting as wind breakers. Mangrove forests also play an important role in maintaining commercial ﬁsheries by providing nursery habitat and refuge from predators for important species of ﬁsh and shrimp. Unfortunately, the trees were being threatened as local communities were cutting them for fuel wood. IMC supported WWF-Pakistan to carry out a Mangrove trees rehabilitation drive to conserve the ecological signiﬁcant plants. IMC’s employees from CS&RA, SHE and Assembly Shop attended the activity on May 3, 2018 and planted 200 Mangrove saplings at the Wetland Centre of WWF-Pakistan at Sandspit Beach in Karachi’s Hawksbay area. 45 WATER In automobile manufacturing, a lot of water is used in painting and other processes which places an obligation on us to use water resources responsibly. We continue to set rigorous targets and measures designed to reduce the water consumed in the production of vehicles. The water used at our plant is sourced from the canal extracted from Hub Dam which has capacity of 650 MGD. IMC has an agreement with the Irrigation Department for extracting water which is measured by ﬂow meters installed at the point of extraction. The water source is not declared as a protected source and the water extracted does not signiﬁcantly aﬀect the canal ﬂow. A total of twenty four mammalian species were recorded belonging to 5 orders and 10 families; out of these, 8 species are less common, 2 species are rare, while 14 species are common in Hub Dam area. The water recycling decreased to 10% of the total water withdrawal during the year compared to 11% during 2017. Water consumption during the year was higher by 23% compared to the previous year on account of inauguration of the new paint shop and higher production and expansion activities carried out during the year. Unit 2018 2017 2016 2016 2016 2015 Water withdrawal m3 458,488 372,697 359,002 Water recycled and reused m3 45,805 40,730 71,110 Water withdrawal and recycling are recorded with the help of ﬂow meters. SEPA and Toyota standards are used for measurement of water consumption. 46 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EFFLUENT AND WASTE The waste generated through operations is strictly handled with our environmental policy. We stringently comply with the applicable legal requirements for waste handling and do not ship hazardous waste internationally. The waste water and waste thinner are treated and recycled. All of the waste water is used for horticulture purposes within the plant. Other waste is handled, stored in an environmental-friendly manner and disposed of to government-approved contractors. Regular trainings for the shop members is carried out for reducing waste and ensuring eﬃcient working of the system. During the year, there were no signiﬁcant spills in the reporting period. Waste Waste bybydisposal disposal method method Unit Unit Unit 2018 2017 2016 2016 2015 Hazardous and Non-hazardous waste Reuse/reprocess (Used oil, batteries ) Ton 9 9 9 Recovery Ton N/A N/A N/A Incineration (Paint sludge phosphate sludge, chemical Ton 213 236 244 sludge, caustic sludge, waste water sludge, chemical solvent) Landﬁll Ton 1 1 1 3 On site storage (waste water) m 166 166 166 Landﬁll Ton N/A N/A N/A None of the waste material is reused. The landﬁll and on site storage is not carried out and waste is disposed of through SEPA approved contractor. The hazardous waste is being disposed of through approved contractors on daily basis. The ﬁgures for reuse/reprocess, landﬁll and on site storage are on estimated basis. 47 Environmental Conservation 5S Clean-UP Drive 2018 TTo create awareness about cleanliness embedded with 5S principles of Toyota and to perform clean drives IMC under-took a cleanliness drive in collaboration with an NGO, ‘I-AM-KARACHI’ at 15 selected locations, which included 7 sports academies, 5 educational institutes, 2 parks and 1 beach, involving residents and community leaders to generate 7 SPORTS ACADEMIES 2 PARKS 5 EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTES 1 BEACH ownership among those communities for their neighborhoods. 5S CLEAN-UP DRIVE 2018 – KARACHI CITY 5S CLEAN-UP DRIVE 2018 – NATIONAL STADIUM IMC undertook the ‘5S Clean-Up Drive at Karachi National Stadium’ embracing Employees Volunteering arrangement to promote environmental awareness and ownership towards building a sustainable society and inspiring individuals and corporate entities to own the cities of Pakistan. Around 150 employees from cross-functional departments of IMC joined the 5S Clean-Up Drive in the National Stadium. The Drive was undertaken on the following morning of a T20 International Cricket Match between Pakistan and West Indies. 48 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AWARENESS ACTIVITY They devastate our unique natural environment, they take more than 1000 years to break down, S” and they kill our wild life and much more…. B AG TIC LAS Indus Motor Company always endeavours for nature conservation through various OP OT social awareness programs. Negative eﬀects of plastic bags in the environment result YN “SA in massive pollution as plastic bags are not biodegradable; hence they remain intact even after many years. In collaboration with WWF-Pakistan, this year again we have undertaken a social awareness campaign Say No to Plastic Bags with involvement of dealerships nationwide through preparing 125,000 paper bags duly branded. These SDGs are supported by IMC through eﬃcient environmental management of its operations and supporting environmental management practices in supply chain. Linkage of our activities and SDGs can be found on page 73. 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING 6 CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION 7 AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION 13 CLIMATE ACTION 14 LIFE BELOW WATER 15 LIFE ON LAND 16 PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS OUR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR PEOPLE Our constant growth over the years in a challenging environment is linked to the commitment and innovation of our workforce. We recognize the fact that our success depends on having a great place to work and a motivated and skilled workforce that meets the changing needs and expectations of our prospective customers. Attracting the right people ensures a healthy talent pipeline and providing eﬀective training and development opportunities helps them to achieve their potential. We remain dedicated to ensuring that our business activities and decisions follow, protect and respect labour standards, human rights laws, declarations and international conventions. The material topics are identiﬁed on the basis of stakeholder engagement and impact of our operations and are listed on page 23 which also shows the reason these topics have been categorized as material. The complex nature of our operations involves integration of labour as well as technology. The total number of workers on June 30, 2018 were 3,266. The responsibility for implementing policies and reviewing performance on labour practices and human rights rests with the General Manager HR. The Safety, Health and Environment function monitors health and safety aspects ensuring safe working conditions. The policies, practices and performance of labour practices, human rights and health and safety are regularly reviewed through meetings at unit level, function level, department level and company level. Our health and safety policies and procedures are externally reviewed through safety audits and certiﬁcation of systems. Appropriate measures are taken on need basis. Kaizen, a commitment to continuous improvement towards business growth – which requires every team member to join the team and to be trained to practice the Toyota Way -guides our human resource development initiatives to develop our workforce capacity, knowledge and skills. We remain committed to the health and safety of our people and to advancing diversity and inclusion in our operations. WORKFORCE PROFILE 2018 3,266 We are committed to equal opportunity in all aspects 2017 of our business. We also recognize that a diverse workforce is a valuable asset, and we strive to provide 2,849 an inclusive work environment where diﬀerent ideas, perspectives and beliefs are respected and 2016 encouraged. The workforce ﬁgures are for the year ended June 30, 2018. 2,765 Workforce by Employment Workforce by Employment Workforce by Employment Contract, by Gender Type, by Gender Contract, by Region KARACHI 3,236 FULL TIME ISLAMABAD 13 3,223 43 PERMANENT 3,223 43 LAHORE TEMPORARY PART TIME 17 TOTAL TOTAL 3,223 43 TOTAL 3,223 43 PERMANENT 3,266 MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE 51 HIRING AND ATTRITION Hiring by Age Group Hiring by Gender Hiring By Region <30 723 MALE 746 KARACHI 753 30-50 FEMALE ISLAMABAD 33 13 4 >50 LAHORE 3 2 Attrition by Age Group Attrition by Gender Attrition By Region <30 MALE 336 KARACHI 339 306 30-50 35 FEMALE 6 ISLAMABAD >50 LAHORE 1 3 The ﬁgures for hiring and attrition relate to the ﬁnancial year 2018. The hiring and attrition ratios are in accordance with industry ratios. The hiring and turnover rates were 23% and 10% compared to hiring and turnover rate of 15% and 6% in the previous year. We regularly engage our workforce through surveys to gauge their satisfaction level and to identify areas of improvement. An employee satisfaction survey was carried out through an external survey agency last year which showed the satisfaction level at 76.8%. As a result of the survey, further actions were taken to improve working conditions and employee engagement through recreation activities. Our employment practices are strictly compliant with applicable laws, regulations and international charters. IMC recognizes the employees’ right to be represented by the association and promotes the practices in its supply chain. We are not aware of any supplier in our supply chain where the freedom of association and collective bargaining right is at risk. 34% of our workforce is covered by the collective bargaining agreement. Notices about operational changes are communicated to employees well in time. However, the notice period is not mentioned in the collective bargaining agreement. There is no child labour and forced or compulsory labour at our plant sites and we are not aware of any such incident at our supply chain partners. We provide competitive salaries and beneﬁts to our employees to keep them motivated and deliver exceptional performance. The ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men is 1:1. The salary is based on merit only. IMC does not discriminate between workers on the basis of gender, religion and association and no incident of discrimination was reported during the year. Following beneﬁts are provided to full-time employees including management and staﬀ. DISABILITY/ RETIREMENT NUTRIENT AIR CONDITIONED LIFE INSURANCE INVALIDITY HEALTH CARE PROVISION DENSE MEAL PICK & DROP COVERAGE 52 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TRAINING & EDUCATION A continued upskilling of its workforce enables the industry to stay competitive and prepare for future challenges. Our training The average training man-hours programs are broadly classiﬁed based on the employee for 2018 were 95 man-hours. This categories i.e. management, oﬃce staﬀ and plant staﬀ. Training included management and programs are designed to enhance knowledge, skill and attitude of the workforce. Equal opportunities are provided to all non-management employees. employees. Job rotation is a continuous process at IMC to equip employees with cross-functional skills. Role-based and skill-based Trainee Apprentices under the ATM program for youth is training is provided to employees at the time of rotation and conducted through regular induction of students for promotion. The training is focused in the following key areas of transforming them into talented technicians via hands-on learning and development to communicate Toyota programs, experience and classroom lectures. Succession planning is an understand and practice company values and methods, develop important element of our human resource policy and through and promote the Customer First approach in every interaction training and development, future leaders are developed. We with customers and the growing talent of our workforce to build regularly track the value of training and development through exceptional teams. The training and development activity also reviews which enable us to check our performance against includes refresher courses for employees regarding the code of targets and identify areas of improvement. During the year, all conduct. The code of conduct, which contains anti-corruption employees received regular performance and career policies and procedures, is communicated to the management development reviews. and employees and is part of the orientation session for new workers. During the year, no training was carried out on The average training man-hours for 2018 were 95 man-hours. anti-corruption policies and procedures. This included management and non-management employees. During the year, various sessions were organized. These included understanding MSDS, handling and storage of hazardous chemicals, environmental awareness, spill control and spill kit management, eco-driving, waste management, eco-tips based on waste reduction, energy conservation, water conservation and CO2 reduction. This was done to equip staﬀ with the latest knowledge and skills for improved operational management. 00 52 Health & Safety Health and safety is a prime concern for us being a leading manufacturer of vehicles. The protection of health and safety is a company-wide responsibility of everyone at IMC. We recognize the need for a strong safety culture including rules, procedures and communication within the organization that will inﬁltrate to form a greater awareness of safety practices at the workplace and beyond. Our health and safety management system is based on internationally accepted safety standards along with Toyota guidelines. At IMC, we are fully dedicated to maintaining product and service quality while ensuring that no harm is caused to people and no damage is done to the environment. Our strong safety culture relies on eﬀective communication and reinforcement through a variety of channels, engaging all employees and contractors in understanding and adhering to safety programs and policies. All our products and services are regularly reviewed for their health and safety impact during design, production, delivery of services and use of the product by customers. There were no incidents of non-compliance with health and safety impact of products or services. Our approach to health and safety reﬂects the principles of the Toyota Production System. The employees from each shop at our plant take part in regular safety circles (focus groups). The quality circles promote Jishuken (identiﬁcation of areas requiring ongoing focus) which helps to stimulate Kaizen (continuous improvement). Our eﬀorts in health and safety management are focused towards zero fatalities and injuries. Workers also take part in group-based activities like HIRA (Hazard Identiﬁcation and Risk Assessment) to explore safety hazards which are not apparent in routine activities. The winners of the activity with the best theme are awarded while the best theme is publicized for greater awareness. REINFORCING OUR STRONG SAFETY CULTURE Our safety vision is to achieve no fatalities or serious injuries. Our strong safety culture relies on eﬀective communication and reinforcement through a variety of channels, engaging all employees and contractors in understanding and adhering to safety programs and policies. April is celebrated as the Safety Month and various activities safety walks, safety audit and training, including ﬁre ﬁghting training, ﬁre simulation evacuation drills, screening of safety videos and awareness sessions are organized to reinforce the commitment to safety. Special safety audits are carried out during the month to check compliance with policies and procedures to enforce the safety system. We have improved the concept of 5S and have developed 5S PMRs (plant management requirements) based on five steps. To further ensure a safe workplace, compliance with safety regulations and to enhance productivity, we have in place a 5S system. All employees, including the top management, take part in this activity. We have improved the concept of 5S and have developed 5S PMRs (plant management requirements) based on ﬁve steps. The functionality of the system is ensured though detailed audits and periodic management audit walks. 54 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEES To tackle the key concern of health and safety of workers, we have a safety, health and environment committee. All our employees are represented by safety, health and environment committees. The committees consist of health and safety representatives from employees and management. Committee meetings are held monthly at various levels where issues related to health and safety are discussed and actions to improve health and safety of the employees are undertaken. The agreements with the labour union covers topics of health and safety of the workforce. As a result of our continuous focus and eﬀective management no Lost Work Day (LWD) injury occurred during the year. Minor Non-Lost Time Injuries (NLTI) occurred during the year. All non-loss work day injuries occurred in non-production areas. IMC does not record loss work day injury and non-loss work day injury for contractors. 2018 2017 2016 LTIR 0.0 0.2 0.0 NLTIR 0.8 0.6 1.5 We are committed to reducing the safety risks and strictly complying with the health and safety policy and applicable rules and regulations. 55 Our Communities CSR Spending 192 173 Our manufacturing plant is located amongst the local communities 200 and we believe in a shared value approach. Corporate Social 141 Responsibility (CSR) has always been at the forefront of our 160 operating philosophy and has made signiﬁcant progress over the Rupees in millions years in the ﬁelds of Education, Health, Philanthropy and Road Safety. 120 We recognize that a strong collaboration is required between 80 business and society for long-term success. We commit to play a productive role in the development and uplift of our communities. 40 Our CSR policy is aligned with Toyota's Global Vision for 2020 'Seeking Harmony between People, Society and the Global 0 Environment, and Sustainable Development of Society through 2016 2017 2018 Manufacturing’. We have well-deﬁned policies and procedures for CSR investments and have deﬁned priority areas based on need assessment to eﬀectively beneﬁt the communities. The responsibility of the CSR function lies with the Sr. Director who is supported by the CSR team for program design, implementation and CSR Spending Per Unit Produced sustainability as per community needs in deﬁned areas. The program results are internally circulated and reviewed against 3,062 deﬁned parameters and as a result, our management approach is 2,899 adjusted accordingly. IMC annually contributes 1% pretax proﬁt of 3000 2,200 the preceding year for community investments which shows our interest in catering to plant site community needs in the areas of education, health and socio-economic development. 2000 Rupees Regular meetings are conducted with the plant site community to understand their requirements and structuring community development programs in the deﬁned areas. On identifying the needs and developing programs, the CSR function seeks 1000 administrative support to ensure smooth implementation of the community engagement initiatives. Our investments in communities beneﬁt communities. There was no signiﬁcant actual or potential negative impact of our operations on local communities 0 2016 2017 2018 around the plant site. CSR Spending Per Unit Sold 3,009 2,844 3000 2,183 2000 Rupees 1000 0 2016 2017 2018 56 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERISM We believe that involvement of employees in CSR activities not only beneﬁts in strengthening corporate reputation and relationship with stakeholders but also results in strengthening employees’ satisfaction leading to higher productivity. We encourage and support volunteer activities of our employees for the beneﬁt of the larger community in line with our strategic objectives. During the year, employees volunteered 3000 hours for various CSR activities covering Mangrove rehabilitation with WWF-Pakistan, ration distribution for 3000 HOURS OF EMPLOYEE neighbor community well-being, VOLUNTEERING provision of medical and educational assistance and road safety. HEALTH INITIATIVES The economic prosperity of a community depends on a healthy and productive population. Our health initiatives are focused towards disadvantaged communities for providing health care facilities at their doorstep and support SDG 3 “Good Health and Well-being” which seeks to ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. We regularly donate to hospitals, blood banks and other healthcare institutions which provide life-care and health-care services to underprivileged communities. Provision of Basic Health Care Treatment Bolstering Mental Health Care Medical camps were organized at Razzaqabad, Kohi Goth and To actively promote good mental health, IMC in collaboration Saleh Muhammad Goth located around the plant site where with the Basic Needs Pakistan (an NGO) organize bi-monthly around 23,000 patients were treated for Respiratory Tract Psychiatric Medical Camps with the aim of curing and Infection (RTI), Gastroenteritis and other general health preventing mental health from occurring and recurring. problems arising from lack of immunity. The medicines were Through the camps, we provide full support through distributed free of cost. counseling, engaging local volunteers and medicines. Medical camps were organized Last year, around 200 patients around plant site where about were treated months long, out 23.000 patients were treated. of 28 patients were cured and are serving as bread-earner for their families. 57 EDUCATION Education plays a vital role in uplifting under-privileged communities and has a Partnering with The Citizen Foundation (TCF) transformative power in solving socio-economic challenges. Our education initiatives are mainly focused towards uplifting education in the country, especially for underprivileged children. We provide support to educational institutions in the shape of construction of schools, oﬀering scholarships to meritorious students and ﬁnancial support. Our intervention in the ﬁeld of education supports SDG 4 “Quality Education” which seeks to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote life long opportunities for all. Campus is operating at full capacity of 372 students for primary education. Correspondingly, the Campus-II embarked its Morning-shift in 2006, currently 340 students are being accommodated for primary education. These campuses have also generated employment for the local people to earn a decent living. Both the Campuses are being supported annually by IMC towards operational expenses with a cost of Rs 5.2 million during the year. Besides, IMC has so far contributed overall Rs 44 million to TCF as Endowment Fund for its Saker M Habib Campus that includes Rs 22 million during 2017-18. Operating two shifts, this Campus accommodated 407 IMC has built and supported two schools students for their primary education. All All the campuses, being with The Citizens Foundation (TCF) – a the campuses, being supported by IMC, supported by IMC, are in reputable NGO working in the are in under-privileged communities and under-privileged disadvantaged outskirt area for imparting impart quality education to around 1,119 communities and impart quality education – the IMC Campus-I at children. quality education to Baseera, Muzaﬀargarh (in 2004) and IMC around 1,119 children. Campus-II at Hyderabad (in 2006). Initially the Campus-I commenced its Morning-shift for primary education in 2004 to accommodate 186 students, while after two years the Afternoon-shift was put operational to accommodate an additional 186 students. Currently, this 58 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Promoting Education for Differently-abled Children Diﬀerently-abled children from Family Education Service Foundation – a non-proﬁt educational organization working for enhancing the quality of life, especially underprivileged deaf children were invited by the Customer First Department to the Grand Finale of 3rd CS Kaizen Evolution 2018, held at Movenpick Hotel on May 03, for performing the National Anthem in sign language. Approximately 150 people attended the Grand Finale which included TMAP delegates, IMC management, Dealer CEOs and Dealer Kaizen Teams. Toyota Goth Education Program For the uplifting of neighboring community, IMC initiated Toyota Goth Education Program (TGEP) in 2008 with an aim of spreading literacy and encourage a positive social and mental upbringing to give every child a chance to transform his or her life through education. Around 250 students, mostly girls, are enrolled in this program and getting their primary and secondary educations in their nearby eight campuses of TCF (The Citizens Foundation). For this modest objective, IMC provides full ﬁnancial support including School Bags, Stationeries, etc. to all the students enrolled. The ﬁrst passing batch of three TGEP students recorded shinning victory in their Matric Science group examination 2018 by winning two positions in A-one grade and one position in A grade. Subsequently, the second batch of 15 students appeared for Board exam (IX) waiting for their results. We believe that education is the only tool that can take the community in an entirely new dimension that leads the true deﬁnition of prosperity and welfare. Class-X students of Toyota Goth Education Program 58 STIMULATING TECHNICAL EDUCATION Shell Eco-Marathon Asia 2018 An energy eﬃciency festival is held annually at three countries for over 30 years. The 2018 Asia-Paciﬁc edition held at the Changi Exhibition Centre in Singapore had participation of over 120 teams from engineering and technology institutes of 18 countries, including 10 teams from Pakistan. Students are invited to design, build and test-drive their own built vehicles in terms of fuel eﬃciency. With the objective to support technical education in Pakistan by linking the creativity of young people, encourage students in gaining knowledge and skills to be successful motors ports engineers in the automotive and racing world and to establish a positive relationship with engineering universities and students, IMC provided support to Team Toyota NUSTAG of NUST-EME, Rawalpindi for competing in Urban Concept Gasoline. The Team Toyota NUSTAG was the ﬁrst team which cleared technical Support for Indigenous Paper Recycling Plant inspection in the ﬁrst attempt. The team secured 11th position in the Gasoline category, Indus Motor always endeavors towards nature and 15th position in Urban Concept. conservation through various social activities including an awareness program. Indus Motor contributed in the ﬁnal year project of a group of engineering students of the industrial manufacturing faculty from NED University. This involved fabrication of an indigenous paper recycling plant. Fabrication work and trial production of recycled paper has been completed during the year. Expansion and Automation is to be undertaken in due course once the quality of the product is improved. At IMC, we understand that our responsibility towards our communities extends beyond donations and involves activities for community well-being through creation of livelihood opportunities, sponsoring sports and provision of food for healthy and productive lives. IMC has a long-standing history of actively supporting people aﬀected by natural calamities and we are committed to be at the forefront whenever natural disaster or calamities occur. 60 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Toyota – Technical Education Program (T-TEP) To develop skills and expertise of younger generation in the ﬁeld of automotive engineering, IMC, with the support of Toyota Motor Corporation, has been oﬀering three-year certiﬁcation under Toyota – Technical Education Program (T-TEP). This program is conducted through four institutes in three major cities. It oﬀers students a chance to strive for a successful career and live up to their true potential, ensuring a better standard of living for their families and coming generations. Toyota philosophy and methods are the cornerstone of this program. Every year, 600 graduates are enrolled, who get employment opportunities both within Pakistan and abroad. So far, IMC has trained 56 instructors who in turn have taught 4,397 students. T-TEP has resulted in the availability of skilled workforce for the industry and has succeeded in creating social and economic value for the society. Safer Roads – Better Lives IMC takes pride for its work towards creating safe driving habits and awareness though researches, organizing conferences, awareness sessions and spreading safety concepts among students through triggering their creative skills in the shape of model designs on road safety. Keeping to our commitment of the safety of our customers and masses and moving from automobile manufacturing to Mobility Solution Company, IMC sponsored Urban Transport Conference 2017, organized by IRSTEP, Lahore. Urban transport is the key sector for Socio Economic Growth, supporting the mobility, accessibility and well-being of people. People of all ages use transport in their daily lives for work, for leisure, for school/college for fulﬁlling personal needs and for business requirements. The conference made recommendations for short-term and long-term traﬃc reforms for the urban transport sub-sector in accordance with the National Transport Policy for government consideration. Weekly Food Distribution Availability of good nutrition is paramount for healthier and productive societies. IMC activities of providing food and ration support the SDG 2 “Zero Hunger” which seeks sustainable solutions to end hunger in all its forms and ensure that everyone everywhere has enough good-quality food to lead a healthy life. IMC has been playing its role since inception through provision of nutritious meals on a weekly basis to the neighboring communities at their door-step and distributing ration during the holy month of Ramazan. The average outreach is around 20,000 community members. These SDGs are supported by IMC through provision of employment opportunities, taking care of health and safety of its workforce, respecting human rights and investment in communities. Linkage of our activities and SDGs can be found at page 73. 1 NO POVERTY 2 ZERO HUNGER 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING 4 QUALITY EDUCATION 5 GENDER EQUALITY 7 AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE 10 REDUCED INEQUALITIES 11 SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES 16 PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS 61 THE WAY FORWARD 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THE WAY FORWARD The way forward provides us an opportunity to rethink and realign our future activities to support our commitment of creating shared value, reducing environmental burden of our operations and enriching lives of our communities. Toyota Vision, Guiding Principles and other best practices in sustainability management will enlighten our policies and actions on the path of delivering sustainable growth. Positive economic outlook along with growing demand for vehicles are providing opportunities for the automobile sector. We aim to fully tap the growing demand of our products through continuous investment on upgrading and expanding our plant and facilities. A strong and sustainable economic position is important to pursue sustainability and deliver safe products with reduced environmental impact, have a satisﬁed workforce, expand sustainability in supply chain and our work in communities. We remain committed to produce high quality products meeting customer needs along with adding new safety features in our vehicles. In line with “Toyota Environmental Challenge 2050” we aim to continuously make investments on clean energy resources, eﬃcient energy management, reducing GHG emissions of our operations and supply chain partners, increased water recycling and better waste management. Our people are the backbone for delivering exceptional performance and continuous growth over the years. We aim to hire quality workforce, develop their skills and knowledge through trainings and education, provide them competitive remuneration and beneﬁts and safe and productive workplace. Our business partners support us to meet our targets and deliver customer delight. We aim to support our business partners through trainings and guidelines for improving their economic returns, reduce their impact on the environment and play a productive role for their communities. We are aware that creating and maintaining trust among IMC and its stakeholders is vital for our success. We remain committed to further improve our sustainability practices and abide by applicable laws and regulations. Moreover, we aim to continue taking input from our stakeholders to make informed decisions. We are committed to continuing our support for social responsibility initiatives in our communities and commit to follow and support: “Ten Principles” of United Nations Global Compact Corporate Social Responsibility Voluntary Guidelines 2013 Sustainable Development Goals 63 Annexures GRI Content Index UNGC COP SDGs Index Feedback Form Glossary & Acronyms 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX The GRI content index serves as navigation tool to locate the content within the report. The GRI Standards together with the related disclosures are listed and each disclosure is referred to the relevant page in this sustainability report or other publicly available source. KEY SR = 2018 Sustainability Report AR = Annual Report 2018 Fully disclosed Partially disclosed Not disclosed GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 GRI 101 contains no disclosures. GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI 102: GENERAL ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE DISCLOSURES 2016 102-1 Name of the organization 9 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 9, 10 102-3 Location of headquarters 9 102-4 Location of operations 9 102-5 Ownership and legal form 9 102-6 Markets served 9 102-7 Scale of the organization 9 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 51 102-9 Supply chain 38 102-10 Signiﬁcant changes to the organization and 9 its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 28 102-12 External initiatives 28 102-13 Membership of associations 28 STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6-8 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of 25 behavior GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure SR 26, AR 18 65 102-22 Composition of the highest governance SR 26, body and its committees AR 18 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 19-20 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 52 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholder 18 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 19-20 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 19-20, 23 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 2 ﬁnancial statements 102-46 Deﬁning report content and topic 22 Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 23 102-48 Restatements of information 2 102-49 Changes in reporting 2 102-50 Reporting period 2 102-51 Date of most recent report 2 102-52 Reporting cycle 2 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the 76 report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the 2 GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 65 102-56 External assurance 2 MATERIAL TOPICS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 103: 103 -1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 23 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103 -2 The management approach and its 30 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30 GRI 201: ECONOMIC 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 31 PERFORMANCE 201-3 Deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations and other retirement plans 32 2016 66 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 31 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 23 MANAGEMENT APPROACH boundaries 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 30 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30 GRI 203: 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services INDIRECT ECONOMIC supported 56-61 IMPACTS 2016 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 23 MANAGEMENT APPROACH boundaries 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 30, 38 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30, 38 GRI 204: PROCUREMENT 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 38 PRACTICES 2016 ANTICORRUPTION GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 23 MANAGEMENT APPROACH boundaries 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 30 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30 GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to 30 2016 corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti53 corruption policies and procedures MATERIALS GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 23 MANAGEMENT APPROACH boundaries 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 42 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 42 GRI 301: MATERIALS 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 42 301-2 Recycled input materials used 43 ENERGY GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 23 MANAGEMENT APPROACH boundaries 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 42 67 GRI 103: 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach MANAGEMENT APPROACH 42 2016 GRI 302: ENERGY 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 44 2016 302-3 Energy intensity 44 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 44 WATER GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its MANAGEMENT APPROACH boundaries 23 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 42 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 42 GRI 303: WATER 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 46 303-2 Water sources signiﬁcantly aﬀected by withdrawal of water 46 303-3 Water recycled and reused 46 EMISSIONS GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its MANAGEMENT APPROACH 23 boundaries 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 42 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 42 GRI 305: EMISSIONS 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 45 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 45 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 45 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 45 (ODS) 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), 45 and other signiﬁcant air emissions WASTE GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 23 MANAGEMENT APPROACH boundaries 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 42 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 42 68 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 46 WASTE 2016 306-3 Signiﬁcant spills 46 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 46 SUPPLY CHAIN IMPACTS GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 23 MANAGEMENT APPROACH boundaries 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 30, 38-39 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30, 38-39 GRI 308: SUPPLIER 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 39 ENVIRONMENTAL environmental criteria ASSESSMENT 2016 GRI 414: SUPPLIER SOCIAL 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using 39 ASSESSMENT social criteria 2016 EMPLOYMENT AND LABOR RELATIONS GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 23 MANAGEMENT APPROACH boundaries 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 51 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 51 GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 51-52 2016 401-2 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time 52 employees GRI 402: 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding LABOR/MANAGEMENT operational changes RELATIONS 2016 52 GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 52 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016 women to men GRI 406: NON406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective DISCRIMINATION actions taken 2016 52 GRI 407: FREEDOM OF 407 -1 Operations and suppliers in which the right 52 48 ASSOCIATION AND to freedom of association and collective bargaining COLLECTIVE BARGAINING may be at risk 2016 HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 23 MANAGEMENT APPROACH boundaries 2016 69 103-2 The management approach and its 24 51,54 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 51,54 GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint HEALTH AND SAFETY 55 management–worker health and safety committees 2016 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 55 and number of work-related fatalities 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal 55 agreements with trade unions GRI 416: CUSTOMER 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts HEALTH AND SAFETY 54 of product and service categories 2016 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the 54 health and safety impacts of products and services TRAINING GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 23 MANAGEMENT APPROACH boundaries 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 51,53 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 51,53 GRI 404: TRAINING AND 404-1 Average hours of training per year per 53 EDUCATION employee 2016 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 53 performance and career development reviews HUMAN RIGHTS GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 23 MANAGEMENT APPROACH boundaries 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 51 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 51 GRI 408: CHILD LABOR 408-1 Operations and suppliers at signiﬁcant risk for 2016 incidents of child labor 51 GRI 409: FORCED OR 409-1 Operations and suppliers at signiﬁcant risk for 51 COMPULSORY LABOR incidents of forced or compulsory labor 2016 LOCAL COMMUNITIES GRI 103: MANAGEMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 23 APPROACH 2016 boundaries 103-2 The management approach and its 56 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 56 70 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI 413: LOCAL 413-1 Operations with local community COMMUNITIES engagement, impact assessments, and 57-61 2016 development programs 413-2 Operations with signiﬁcant actual and 56 potential negative impacts on local communities MARKETING AND LABELING 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 23 GRI 103: boundaries MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-2 The management approach and its 2016 40 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 40 417-1 Requirements for product and service 40 GRI 417: MARKETING AND information and labeling LABELING 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 2016 40 product and service information and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 40 marketing communications COMPLIANCE GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 23 MANAGEMENT APPROACH boundaries 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 27 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 27 GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws 42 COMPLIANCE and regulations 2016 GRI 419: SOCIOECONOMIC 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in 27 COMPLIANCE the social and economic area 2016 71 UNGC COP GRI STANDARDS PRINCIPLE STATEMENT PAGE NO. GRI Standards Principle Statement Page No. DISCLOSURE Disclosure Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of 56-61 413-1, 413-2 internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in 56-61,39 413-1, 414-1 human rights abuses. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the 52 102-41, 402-1, 407-1 eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of 51 409-1 forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the eﬀective abolition of child 51 408-1 labor. Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in 51-52, 102-8, 401-1, 404-1, respect of employment and occupation. 53 404-3, 405-2, 406-1, Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 43, 44, 45 301-1, 302-1, 303-1, environmental challenges. 46 305-1, 305-6, 305-7 Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater 37, 42, 301-1, 301-2, 302-1, environmental responsibility. 43, 44, 302-3, 302-4, 303-1, 45, 46 303-2, 303-3, 305-1, 305-4, 305-5, 305-6, 305-7, 306-2, 306-3, 306-4, 307-1, 308-1 Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diﬀusion 44, 45 302-4, 305-5 of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 25, 30, 53 102-16, 205-1, 205-2 including extortion and bribery. 72 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS SDGs Page No. GRI Standards Disclosure 1 NO POVERTY End poverty in all its forms everywhere 56 413-2 End hunger, achieve food security and 2 ZERO HUNGER improved nutrition and promote sustainable 31, 56-61 201-1, 203-1, 413-2 agriculture 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being 45,46, 55 305-1, 305-6, 305-7, 306-2, 306-3, 306-4, for all at all ages 403-2 4 QUALITY EDUCATION Ensure inclusive and quality education for all 53 404-1 and promote lifelong learning 5 GENDER EQUALITY Achieve gender equality and empower all 26, 31, 39 102-22, 201-1, 203-1, 401-1, 404-1, 404-3, women and girls 51-52, 53 406-1, 414-1 56-61 6 CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION Ensure access to water and sanitation for all 46 303-1, 303-2, 303-3, 306-2, 306-3 7 AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY Ensure access to aﬀordable, reliable, 31, 44, 201-1, 203-1, 302-1, 302-3, 302-4 sustainable and modern energy for all 56-61 102-8, 102-41, 201-1, 301-1, 301-2, 302-1, 31, 39, 43, 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH Promote inclusive and sustainable economic 44, 46, 50, 302-3, 302-4, 303-3, 401-1, 401-2, 402-1, growth, employment and decent work for all 403-1, 403-2, 403-4, 404-1, 404-3, 405-2, 51, 52, 53, 407-1, 408-1, 409-1, 414-1 55 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization and foster 31, 56-61 201-1, 203-1 innovation 10 REDUCED INEQUALITIES Reduce inequality within and among 52 405-2 countries 11 SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and 56-61 203-1 sustainable 73 12 RESPONSIBLE 204-1, 301-1, 301-2, 302-1, 302-3, 302-4, CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Ensure sustainable consumption and 38, 40, 43, 303-3, 305-1, 305-6, 305-7, 306-2, 306-3, production patterns 44, 45, 46 306-4, 417-1 13 CLIMATE ACTION Take urgent action to combat climate change 44, 45 302-1, 302-3, 302-4, 305-1, 305-4 and its impacts 14 LIFE BELOW WATER Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, 45, 46 305-1, 305-4, 305-5, 305-7, 306-3 seas and marine resources Sustainably manage forests, combat 15 LIFE ON LAND desertiﬁcation, halt and reverse land 45, 46 305-1, 305-4, 305-5, 305-7, 306-3 degradation, halt biodiversity loss 25, 26, 27 16 PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS 30, 39, 40, 102-16, 102-22, 205-1, 205-2, 307-1, Promote just, peaceful and inclusive societies 414-1, 406-1, 408-1, 416-2, 417-2, 417-3, 42, 51, 52, 419-1 54 74 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GLOSSARY & ACRONYMS ASEAN Association of Southeast Asian Nations ATM Apprenticeship Team Member CBA Collective Bargaining Agent CBU Complete Built Unit CFCs Chloroﬂuorocarbons CKD Completely Knocked Down COP Communication on progress CSR Corporate Social Responsibility GHG Green House Gases GRI Global Reporting Initiative GEMS Global Environment Management System GJ Giga Joule HFCs Hydroﬂuorocarbons HSE Health Safety and Environment ISO International Standards Organization LTIR Lost Time Injury Rate MAP Management Association of Pakistan MPX Multiplex communication system MW Mega watt NFEH National Forum for Environment and Health NGO Non-Government Organization NLTIR Non-loss Time Injury Rate NVH Noise, Vibration and Harshness OEMs Original Equipment Manufacturers SEQS Sindh Environmental Quality Standards SEPA Sindh Environmental Protection Agency TDEM Toyota Daihatsu Engineering & Manufacturing UNGC United Nations Global Compact 75 FEEDBACK FORM Sustainability Report 2018 Information provided on material topics covered in the report. Comprehensive Adequate Not adequate Clarity of the information provided in the report. High Medium Low The quality of design and layout of the report. Excellent Good Average Your comments for adding value to the report. Name : Designation : Organization : Contact Details : Tel : Please mail your feedback to: Mr. Muhammad Arshad Assistant Manager – CSR Indus Motor Company Limited Plot No. N.W.Z/1/P-1, Port Qasim Authority, Karachi, Pakistan. Phone: +92-21111-869-682 Email: muhammad.arshad@toyota-indus.com 76 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD. DESIGNED BY ALFOZE.COM INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD. Plot No. N.W.Z/1/P-1, Port Qasim Authority, Karachi, Pakistan. www.toyota-indus.com
