One molecule can change everything Perstorp believes in improving everyday life – making it safer, more Sustainability Report convenient, more fun and more environmentally sound for millions of people all over the world. As a trusted world industrial leader, our innovations provide essential properties for products used every day at home and work. You’ll find us everywhere from your car and mobile phone to towering wind turbines and the local dairy farm. Simply put, we work to make good products even better. Perstorp Sustainability Report 2017 Perstorp’s focused innovation builds on more than 135 years of experience, representing a complete chain of solutions in organic chemistry, process technology and application development. Manufacturing is based in Asia, Europe and North America, with sales and support in all major markets. The Perstorp Group is controlled by funds managed and advised by the European private equity company PAI partners. For more information, visit perstorp.com P E R S T O R P 2 017 Sustainability – a transformational driver for Perstorp This year we have again seen incremental improvements in many of our environmental measurements; in particular, greenhouse gases and waste per ton of product. This goes hand in hand with us raising the bar. We have set an ambition to become Finite Material Neutral. It is a tough ambition but we have to do it. There is no plan B, because we only have one planet. This will of course over time have an impact on the way we do business and interact within our value chain, which is also when what we do starts to have a real impact. Our sustainability strategy until now has primarily been based on a strong commitment to operate our business in a resource-efficient way. However, we wanted to take Perstorp’s sustainability leadership to the next level. Significant global challenges lie ahead of us with continued high expectations on the chemical industry. Let me explain a bit more how we are approaching Perstorp also has an opportunity to further develop its prosustainability. Our pathway towards Finite Material Neutral is active contribution to sustainability through products, solutions built on a Strategic Framework consisting of different layers and knowledge. Imagine the positive impact we can have of activities and impact. At the foundation we have placed through our products that reduce food waste, reduce use of everything related to running a responsible business; values, anti-biotics in feedstocks or make durable products last even health & safety, compliance, code of conduct etc. The next longer or use less resources. level is about how we make continuous improvements to our This year we also started up a new social initiative by partnering products and work with our Sustainability Index, in order to with the Hunger Project, which funds local investments to map out how our products and solutions are positioned from support women in especially poor societies. This new way of a sustainability perspective. In the area of Sustainable Business contributing to society will become important for us in order to Development we work towards contributing to primarily six of live up to our commitment to be a responsible corporate citizen, the UN Sustainable Development Goals. This is driven by three in areas that matter. sustainable growth platforms; Sustainably feed the growing population; Smarter and more livable societies; and a Climate We believe we can make a substantial contribution to Agenda neutral world. One of our focus areas is to replace fossil raw 2030 and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as part materials with renewable or recycled raw materials which is of our efforts. As a company with strong fundamental values, important to reach our long term ambition to become Finite and as a proud signatory of the UN Global Compact, we will also Material Neutral. continue to support the development of a global agenda for a more sustainable world. Becoming Final Material Neutral to us means to switch from fossil resources to renewable, recycled or reused, supporting circular economy. This shift will not happen overnight and we are humble about our ambition. But it needs to be done and here we find great support in our core values; • Responsibility – Do right; Malmö, April 2018 • Reliability – Keep the promise and Jan Secher • Focused innovation – Make it better. President and CEO 2 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Ambition Finat Material Neutral Sustainable growth platforms Sustainably feed the Smarter and more A Climate growing population live able societies Neutral World Related Sustainable Development Goals Sustainable Business Development Continuous improvements Foundation: A culture of responsibility and care About this report This is the Perstorp Group’s statutory sustainability report for The sustainability report has, together with the Annual Report, the fiscal year 2017. It was prepared in accordance with the been submitted by the Perstorp Group’s board of directors. requirements of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, and includes Perstorp are signatories to the UN Global Compact and the our reporting on environmental issues, employee and social sustainability report thus constitutes the Group's annual matters, human rights and anti-corruption. This report covers all Communication on Progress. No other guidelines have been subsidiaries of the Perstorp Group. used in the preparation of this report. In addition, in the Perstorp Group Annual Report, pages 8-9 there is reporting on the Group’s most material risks, of which some are related to these issues. 3 P E R S T O R P 2 017 This is Perstorp The Perstorp Group is a world leader in several sectors of the Last year, we announced the world’s first renewable and ISCC specialty chemicals market for a wide variety of industries certified portfolio for the essential polyols Penta, TMP and Neo. and applications. Our products are added to a wide range of By switching to renewable alternatives, we can reduce carbon products used every day at home, work or leisure. Perstorp footprint by up to 80%. believes in improving everyday life – making it safer, more In 2010, Perstorp along with the four other international convenient, and more environmentally sound for millions of chemical companies in Stenungsund, Sweden, developed the people all over the world. As a trusted world industrial leader, Sustainable Chemistry 2030 vision for a sustainable society. This our innovations provide essential properties for products used group of companies has a vision to form a center for sustainable every day at home and work. You’ll find us everywhere from your products with production based on renewable and recycled raw car and mobile phone to towering wind turbines and the local materials and energy. dairy farm. Simply put, we work to make good products even better. Perstorp’s focused innovation builds on more than 135 The Sustainable Chemistry 2030 vision includes the aim for years of experience, representing a complete chain of solutions organic molecules like ethylene, propylene, and natural gas in organic chemistry, process technology and application to be derived from renewable and recycled sources such as development. Manufacturing is based in Asia, Europe and bio-feedstock and recycled plastics. In doing so, we can help North America, with sales and support in all major markets. The significantly reduce the industry’s dependence on fossil oil and Perstorp Group is controlled by funds managed and advised by gas, or even removed altogether. This can often be achieved the European private equity company PAI partners. without affecting either the chemical processes in the factories or the quality of the end products. Back to our roots In the last few years we have seen an increased awareness In recent years, there have been a focus on renewable raw of the benefits of sustainable chemistry, resulting in a steady materials. Thinking in a sustainable way is part of our future, but growth in market demand. Discussions with key customers it also takes us back to our roots. We started by utilizing local, have also shown that sustainability is of increasing importance. natural resources from the heavily wooded region of southern Key product requirements now also include renewable raw Sweden to produce what we, today, call second-generation biomaterials and low carbon footprint products. based chemicals and fuels. So there is really a retro-chemistry aspect integrated into sustainable chemistry. In addition to replacing fossil-based raw materials, the overall sustainability and environmental impact of a customer’s endFrom the very beginning, we have been a pioneer in renewable product is becoming key. For us, that means we are also looking raw materials for chemicals. Since then, we have continued to at product end-of-life (biodegradability and recyclability) and take an active lead in finding new ways to gain advantage from improving the sustainability of the basic building blocks and sustainability in different parts of our business. feedstock elements. It also means enabling more sustainable end-product properties like lead-free PVC, next-generation plasticizer, bioplastics, waterborne alkyd resins and reducing the level of VOCs released as the coating dries. When it comes to becoming green in the chemical industry, it is a big focus on being renewable and sustainable, two cornerstones of our commitment to the industry and a core focus within our company. And while other companies may talk big about sustainability, for over 100 years we have been letting our actions speak for us and our ongoing and active commitment to sustainable chemistry. 4 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Ambition – Finite Material Neutral We’ve only got one planet Energy management Sustainability has always been close to our hearts at Perstorp. We are in the process of shifting our energy sources to cleaner, It’s with us in the strategic decisions we take and in the little, more renewable ones. Today, we produce steam at some of our everyday tasks. Our direction is clear. We have the ambition plants, which helps heat the local community. In the future, we to be Finite Material Neutral. Finite materials are resources aim to become fossil-energy neutral, and possibly green-energy that cannot be created or produced once the original stores positive, offering our excess energy to people who live in the are depleted, or those that are used up at a greater rate than areas where we operate. nature can replenish. Becoming Final Material Neutral would mean switching to alternative resources that are abundant and/ Raw materials or renewable, or to close the loops to recycle or reuse finite Today, our raw materials are predominantly derived from resources. It will not happen overnight, and we are humble fossil sources such as petroleum and natural gas. We have about our target, but it needs to be done. Because we’ve only been looking at developing renewable raw materials both got one planet. To reach our ambition we have identified a internally and in collaborations for many years, and we are now number of areas that we will focus on. identifying and sourcing an increasing amount of renewable materials. Metal Catalysts are being reclaimed, and new Waste management processes that use more plentiful or even no catalysts will be We are committed to eliminating or reducing waste in all employed in the future. phases of the value chain. This includes solids, liquids and vapors from our suppliers’ manufacturing, losses in transportation Partnership and storage, our own internally generated wastes, and those As Perstorp matures regarding sustainability, we continually of our customers and their customers – all the way to our build our knowledge base and make new connections and products' end-of-life. We firmly believe that waste is a failure of partnerships. The journey towards our ambition to be Finite imagination. Waste is simply a product that has not found its Material Neutralwe cannot achieve without collaborating market. along the value chain in new ways. We ally ourselves with like-minded companies, trade groups, institutes and individuals Emissions to push technology forward. A deeper understanding of our All our operations, and those of our suppliers and customers, stakeholders' needs and priorities is at the heart of our journey. emit chemicals and pollutants into the atmosphere and water. It is our duty to reduce these emissions. Our task is to move closer Living Sustainability and closer to zero emissions to reach our goal of Finite Material We have to live as we learn to reach our ambition. All the focus Neutral. areas listed here contain elements of our ambition to become Finite Material Neutral, and along the way we should act as Water management role models in the various aspects of how we behave. It’s in the The use and discharge of water is of growing concern around individual footprints we leave behind; e g in how much we fly, the globe, and Perstorp is already taking steps to conserve and what we eat, how much we consume, and what we recycle. We re-use water in all our manufacturing plants. As we design new want to reduce our environmental impact as much as possible, products, we strive to always take the use and re-use of water and if each of us makes an effort, together we can make an into account. impact. Every single effort – small or big – matters. 5 P E R S T O R P 2 017 Key Sustainability Events 2017 Our ambition – Finite Mass balance concept Material Neutral Mass balance is an ingenious concept We’ve only got one planet. We that allows our customers and us to get no second chances, so we’d switch to renewable raw material in better look after it. Building a easy steps. We believe mass balance more sustainable world is all of our is a necessary strategy for industry responsibility. It may seem daunting to switch from fossil to renewable and but just take it one step at atime. And recycled resources. We have to take it if a billion people can take a billion first steps we can change stepwise as building wasteful, parallel systems our world – for the better. Perstorp has taken many steps would neither benefit the environment nor the economy. Mass down the pro-environmental path, and declare we are proud balance is about mixing fossil and renewable but keeping track pro-environmentalists. Sustainability has always been close to of their quantities and allocating them to specific products. The our hearts and in 2017 we launched world’s first renewable actual carbon molecules in the product may not be renewable, portfolio of the essential polyols Penta, TMP and Neo which we but through a third-party certificate, the renewable content talk more about below. During 2017 we raised our bar. We have is verified. This helps us all support sustainable sourcing of now also set a clear direction in our ambition to become Finite renewable raw material and see the actual savings in CO2 Material Neutral. It will be a challenge but we are committed emissions. Eventually, all the raw materials will be from and we are convinced we can make it. renewable sources and every molecule you receive in the future will be from a sustainable source. Renewable and ISCC Using waste liquid as raw certified Polyols During 2017 Perstorp announced material that all three essential polyols During 2017 we invested in our Penta, TMP & Neo now come Penta plant in Toledo which allows in renewable grades. With these us to purify and utilize the waste products, we are supporting the liquid from the Penta production and circular economy and re-use as a raw material. Instead of the shift towards raw material derived from renewables and being sent for treatment, the waste waste sources. For example, instead of using fossil natural gas as stream has found a new purpose. With the added investment, a raw material for Evyron™ and Neeture™ we are using biogas we are dramatically decreasing the amount of chemicals sent produced locally from waste. from this plant for disposal. Our intention is to make even further reductions in the near future. In 2010 we were the first company in the world to launch a renewable Penta called Voxtar™. Today it comes in 40% and 100% renewable grades, and can reduce the carbon footprint by 60-80%. Evyron™ and Neeture™ come in partly renewable grades, 20-50%, and reduce the carbon footprint by 40-60%. All our pro-environment polyols – Evyron™, Neeture™, Voxtar™ – are certified by third-party ISCC and come with a Proof of Sustainability which confirms your contribution to sustainable sourcing according to a mass balance system. 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Exploratory collaborations during 2017 Perstorp is participating in a number of consortia working Cat2BioChem with sustainable innovation. During 2017 we participated in “Cat2BioChem” is a consortium where the synthesis and 11 exploratory projects with 41 external partners, and 9 PhD evaluation of novel polyols and lactones from glucose using students at different universities. Here follows three examples: isomerization, and retro-aldol reactions are investigated. The STEPS goal is the development of low-cost catalytic processes for the production of high-value chemical building blocks and plastics. STEPS stands for Sustainable plastics and transition pathways, This involves the development of a platform for the effective and is a project coordinated by Lund University, and financed discovery, production and upgrading of new chemical produced by MISTRA, which is a research foundation with environmental bio-based building blocks for novel polymer materials with focus. STEPS is a research program based on input and needs of hitherto unknown performance characteristics. “Cat2BioChem” the industry looking for sustainable solutions from renewable is a collaboration financed by Innovation Fund Denmark, and feedstock to post-consumer plastic handling. It involves the the partners are DTU, Haldor Topsöe A/S, and Perstorp AB. rational choice of carbon-neutral building blocks, informed consumers and improved attitudes, as well as favorable policy Depol framework. “STEPS” is focusing on carbon-neutral polyesters, Another example is “Depol”, from polyester edge trim to since this is a sizable market, with a wide range of applications, plasticizer through chemical recycling, where we address the tunable end properties, potential to avoid additives, the following questions: Is it possible to depolymerize polyesters inherent ester bond degradability, and reuse of building blocks from waste? What is the yield and the composition of the after plastic end-of life. The program has already delivered resulting mixture? What is the potential of using the mixture the first result, a wooden floor finish – “StepON”, which is a as raw material for the synthesis of plasticizers for PVC? What demo product developed already after one year. The consortia are the environmental impacts of the process and the resulting involves 10 research groups and 20 stakeholders representing products? What are economic and environmental benefits for a number of different value chains. the interested partners, i.e. JABA group AB, Swerea IVF, Perstorp AB, as well as other stakeholders? The consortia is financed by the Swedish Energy Agency. 7 P E R S T O R P 2 017 A word from the industry We spoke with Scott Bader’s CEO, Jean-Claude Pierre about sustainability, and it’s clear this is a subject as close to his heart as it is ours. Scott Bader has entered a transformational journey towards a clear vision. This guides them in the decisions they make and the actions they take. Together, we know we can make a difference. What’s your view on sustainability? Have you noticed a change in the view Sustainability is simply about acknowledging that nature, and demand from the market regarding society and business are fully interconnected because they sustainability? are part of the same system. For businesses to thrive, the first If we talk about the environmental aspect of sustainability, there priority is to ensure they preserve the nature we all depend is a clear progress of awareness about environmental issues that upon to live and to ensure they contribute to developing, we face. In markets like Europe and China, we're beginning to thriving societies. see more willingness to consider them and, if not to pay more, How do you work with sustainability? at least to explore creative ways to develop greener solutions. This looks, unfortunately, far less obvious in the United States. In 2017, we embarked on a major transformational journey by defining our 2036 vision and seven strategic goals to achieve it What message would you like to send – balancing ecology, humanity and business needs and aligning with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. to the industry? This now defines everything we do, and we are developing Let's join forces to create greener solutions, whether it is a sustainability balance scorecard to track our progress and through more bio-derived raw materials or solutions to create provide all our employees at all levels in the organization with a more circular economy. The issue in front of us is not about the visibility they need to make quicker decisions and contribute which company is going to be better off down the road, but to our sustainability objectives. whether or not the human species has a future on this planet. This is the level of urgency we are facing even if – like a frog in slowly heating water – many of us do not seem to fully appreciate what is happening. What do you think the key to a sustainable future will be? I do not think we can easily overcome the domination of the financial worldview, which drives how we operate businesses. So we should, in my mind, come to a point where all the external things we neglect to see as a real cost today are put onto our P&Ls and balance sheets. 8 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Sustainability thinking is, by far, the best innovation lever we've ever had to create a world the next generation can enjoy. Let's not be the frogs in slowly heating water that don't see their own existence is in danger. Jean-Claude Pierre, CEO Scott Bader 9 P E R S T O R P 2 017 Sustainability in figures Perstorp is a group of companies that develop, manufacture and sell specialty chemicals, which our customers transform into hundreds of products, each with its own unique set of requirements and end uses. We engage in industrial and consumer markets through a variety of channels. Our environmental, social and economic impacts arise mostly from our production facilities and these downstream markets. Perstorp’s impacts on the wellbeing and economic • Perstorp, Sweden • Fredrikstad, Norway prosperity of our own employees, associated partners and • Stenungsund, incl Nol, • Castellanza, Italy the communities in which we operate are also significant Sweden • Vercelli, Italy factors in measuring our success as a corporate steward. • Zibo, China • Warrington, United In this report, we explore Perstorp’s impacts in detail, • Bruchhausen, Germany Kingdom consolidated from the eleven production sites (operating • Waspik, The Netherlands • Toledo, United States in eight countries) which were owned in part or in total by Perstorp at the end of 2017. These sites are: In 2017 Perstorp divested one production plant (Gent, Belgium) and acquired another (Vercelli, Italy). 10 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T PROGRESS SUMMARY ENERGY (IN GWH) Our performance on the major impacts as listed below showed some improveSpecialty chemicals manufacturing is in an energy intensive business. Perstorp ment in 2017 when compared to the two prior years. Our use of energy per ton uses huge amounts of energy at each of its plants, and we continue to use of product increased over the prior year, reaching the same level as 2015. Our use renewable energy in production at our site in Perstorp, Sweden. The experience of water, emissions of greenhouse gases and waste per ton of product were all we have gained from the use of alternative fuels will be a springboard for further decreased. These decreases are a direct result of our continued focus on process use at other sites in the future. Our continued focus on process efficiency has efficiency and waste minimization. helped us keep our energy consumption low. Summary of Impacts 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Total Energy (MWh/ton product) 1.45 1.15 1.09 Energy Produced in-house 1,766 1,662 1,549 Water consumed (liters per kg) 2.2 2.1 1.9* Renewable energy 15% 15% 16% Wastewater COD per ton 3.8 3.6 3.3 Reclaimed from production waste 42% 59% 56% Scope 1 GHG (kT) 397 379 333 Amount delivered externally (170) (199) (195) Scope 2 GHG (kT) 98 103 113 Total GHG (kg/T product) 314 256 227 Energy purchased as steam 341 378 447 VOC (T) 187 149 168 Renewable Energy 0% 3% 6% NOx (T) 160 156 167 SOx (T) 5.7 8.6 8.6 Electricity from local grid 331 326 341 Waste (kg/T product) 34.2 30.7 28.8 * excluding site Vercelli, Italy Total Energy Consumed 2269 2168 2142 Total Energy (MWh/ton product) 1.45 1.15 1.09 INVESTMENT S IN RESPONSIBLE C ARE WATER As our volumes and sales have increased over time, so have our costs related to Essential to human life and societies, drinking-quality water is becoming increasResponsible Care (RC). The cost to properly dispose of waste has also increased ingly scarce. Every one of Perstorp’s plants uses water to some extent; as a solvent over the past few years in every country where we operate. We continue to invest for chemical reactions, as a carrier for products or as a heat-transfer medium. in the protection of the environment, our employees and other stakeholders at a We take great care to conserve water, and to return the water we do use back consistent rate. “Other RC related costs” in the table below includes training costs to the environment following careful treatment protocols. Our commitment to and certification of local experts. the future demands that we use as little water as possible and prevent water pollution through innovative re-uses of our wastes. Responsible Care (RC) Costs Below is a summary of our water use; data from our newly-acquired site Vercelli SEK million 2015 2016 2017 has been excluded, because it was not collected in a manner congruent with Disposal hazardous waste 9.3 17.4 19.8 the rest of our sites. Disposal of non-hazardous waste 2.6 3.9 3.2 Water Use (in millions 2015 2016 2017 Disposal of waste water 26.4 27.1 28.7 of cubic meters) without Contaminated soil 0.2 0.0 0.0 Vercelli RC fees paid 3.8 3.8 4.8 Surface Water 17.0 17.3 18.9 RC fines paid 0.5 0.1 0.3 Ground Water 3.6 3.9 4.5 Other RC related costs 33.0 32.8 34.2 Rainwater 0.02 0.01 0.02 Municipal Supply 0.72 0.68 0.74 Total RC Costs SEK million 75.8 85.2 90.9 Other Sources 0.37 0.45 0.50 % of net sales 0.7% 0.8% 0.7% Total water withdrawn 21.7 22.3 24.7 Water returned unchanged (18.3) (18.4) (21.0) Total RC investments SEK million 39.6 37.0 39.7 Water consumed 3.4 3.9 3.7 % of total investments 6.0% 6.7% 6.1% Water consumed (liters per kg) 2.2 2.1 1.9 Wastewater 2015 2016 2017 PROGRESS DE TAIL COD (tons) 6,040 6,685 6,534 Consumption of Resources 2015 2016 2017 COD per ton product 3.8 3.6 3.3 Raw Materials (kT) 2,009 2,436 2,398 Product manufactured (kT) 1,577 1,883 1,964 11 P E R S T O R P 2 017 EMISSIONS TO AIR C ARE 365 – AN IMPORTANT INITIATIVE Perstorp has a small continuing use of Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) in coolAt Perstorp we believe that there is a very strong correlation between the ing systems across the organization. Those systems use 2.7 tons of ODS coolants, health and safety of our employees and our financial performance. This may with a leakage of 162 kg in 2017. sound obvious, but to truly build a culture where everyone puts their own and others safety first requires commitment from all levels. After finding that we had Starting in 2016, Perstorp has used certified reference values** for determining undesirable levels of work-related injuries and health issues, in 2017 we launched our emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG). In 2017 we have compiled more our Care 365 initiative. Health and Safety is also now defined as one of our most complete data on Scope 2 emissions, leading to a restatement of our Scope 2 important growth drives for the whole Perstorp Group. and total greenhouse gas emissions for the past three years. We are fortunate to operate plants in Sweden and Norway, where electricity from the grid carries an The work with Care 365 is company-wide initiative and consists of many parts, extremely low CO2 emissions factor. aiming to improve structures and processes for compliance with occupational health and safety standards. But most importantly it is a matter of creating a culture, through leadership and employee engagement. The goal is to take us Air Emissions 2015 2016 2017 to the top quartile of companies in our business category in terms of health and Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions safety performance by 2020. One of the tools we have developed accordingly Scope 1 GHG (kT) 397 379 333 is the “Perstorp Careway”, our way to interpret where we are in our health and safety maturity based on best practice in the industry. Scope 2 GHG (kT) 98 103 113 Total GHG (kT) 495 482 447 The essence is that we care about our employees, contractors and neighbors and want Perstorp to be a positive influence on our markets and our world. Today GHG (kg/T product) 314 256 227 we are placing emphasis on visible leadership from top management, a sense of urgency when it comes to incidents and accidents, clear standards and compliVOC (T) 187 149 168 ance management. NOx (T) 160 156 167 Improved identification of hazards, increased employee education and an SOx (T) 5.7 8.6 8.6 emphasis on risk reduction led to a drop in OSHA-recordable accidents. The drop in lost days can be attributed to one severe injury in 2016, which resulted in over ** Our references for GHG emissions factors are, in descending order of priority: 60 lost days. • United Kingdom Department of Energy and Climate Change 2015 Set of Our performance on standard Safety metrics (including our own employees + Conversion Factors contractors): • United States Environmental Protection Agency 2014 Standard Emission Factors Air Emissions 2015 2016 2017 • Ecometrica 2011 Electricity-Specific Emission Factors for Grid Electricity Fatalities 0 1 0 • Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 2006 Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories Lost Time Accidents 11 10 8 Total Lost Days Not available 137 36 OSHA-Recordable Accidents 20 22 16 OSHAR* 1.1 1.2 1.0 WA STE * (OSHAR = number of injuries x 200 000 / number of hours worked) Minimization of waste (in all phases of production) remains a priority at Perstorp. Waste reduction efforts at all our sites, plus the recovery and sale of a former waste stream in Toledo, USA resulted in an overall decrease in waste (per ton of product) in 2017. Also in 2017, about the same amount of waste was incinerated, but much more was able to be used for energy recovery. Air Emissions 2015 2016 2017 Hazardous Waste (T) 42,276 48,601 46,541 Recycled 11% 2% 1% Incinerated for energy recovery 73% 76% 90% Landfilled 1% 0% 0% Other disposal methods 15% 22% 8% Non-hazardous Waste (T) 11,596 9,238 10,027 Recycled 15% 14% 18% Incinerated for energy recovery 9% 8% 11% Landfilled 60% 66% 71% Other disposal methods 16% 12% 0% Total Waste (T) 53,872 5,7839 56,568 Waste (kg/T product) 34.2 30.7 28.8 12 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T E THIC AL PRINCIPLES Our Code of Conduct forms a recipe by which we live our values. It covers the areas of Perstorp’s business principles, products & sustainability, working conditions and human rights. It has been developed to underline the principles that direct our relations with employees, business parties and other parties. It applies to all companies within Perstorp, for the company’s board, Executive Leadership Team and all employees. Perstorp also expects its suppliers, distributors and other business partners with which it has close relations, to act according to these principles. Perstorp’s Code of Conduct is based on the company’s three core values and has been developed in accordance with the OECD’s guidelines for multinational enterprises, the chemical industry’s Responsible Care program and the guidelines outlined in the International Labor Organization (ILO) convention. Perstorp supports the UN’s Global Compact and its ten principles as well as the 17 Sustainable Development Goals. All employees must know the content of the Code of Conduct. ANTI CORRUP TION We also have a number of more specific policies addressing anti-corruption, anti-bribery, conflicts of interest and anti-competitive behavior. In case of any suspicions of illegal conduct or other breaches of our own ethical principles, there is a whistleblowing procedure available on our intranet. But this is seen as a last resorts, as our legal department, the HR department and each manager within the company, is also available for dialogue with our employees, should they need to raise questions regarding interpretations of our policies or wish to raise concerns. On a quarterly basis all areas of our business are responsible to report into our Legal Risk Review, which is regulated by our Legal Policy. Any litigation, disputes or claims related to legal or regulatory violations that are material to the Group must then be reported. Any investigation by an authority (e.g. police, anti-trust authority) must also be reported. In 2017 there were no suspected or confirmed cases of corruption, neither through the risk review nor through our whistleblowing procedures. The legal department has up to now conducted trainings of employees in our policies and procedures. In in 2018 we plan to introduce e-learning modules covering anti-bribery and anti-competitive behavior. This will enable us to better track the implementation of trainings, and also systematically ensure that such trainings are repeated in appropriate intervals, or in case of any updates of policies. SUPPLIER S Our Code of Conduct is also addressing risks that can occur in our supply chain. With purchases ranging from bulk raw materials and technical equipment to services and office consumables, we are aware of the risks that somewhere along those supply chains human and labor rights may be violated and operations may cause environmental degradation. We therefore work actively with addressing these risks through our procurement procedures. Our vendor policy, which we ask our suppliers to act in accordance with, covers issues such as child labor, bonded labor, occupational health and safety and freedom of association. Suppliers are given a risk rating based on country risks. All suppliers of large spend and/or rated as being of specifically high risk, are assessed using our supplier evaluation tool. The tool consists of a number of questions, addressing issues such as humanand labor rights and anti-corruption. The procedure also requires of all the suppliers to acknowledge our vendor policy through signature. 80 % of our spend is covered by this systematic approach. During 2018 we are updating our evaluation criteria and will also look into our risk evaluation criteria, and assess our need to follow-up the suppliers’ selfevaluations with audits. We conduct audits of suppliers already as of today, but then mainly focusing on management systems for quality and environment. 13 P E R S T O R P 2 017 Valuing our people Change within companies, within industries, within The process also includes development activities, shortand sustainability doesn’t really happen on its own. People make long-term career planning and objectives setting for the it happen. People innovate, improve, push boundaries and upcoming year. enable growth. Each person, each individual, each effort – big The annual performance review-process is aligned to both or little – makes a difference. Can change everything. That’s why the Talent Management Process and the Succession Planning we poured significant effort in 2017 into helping our people Process (see below). develop – clearly and purposefully aligning their individual competencies, goals and tasks with Perstorp’s overarching Growing in Perstorp strategy and vision. The Talent Management process is a bi-annual activity to The annual performance review-process identify, assess and train the next generation of managers. We first ran the process in 2015; in 2017 we had the second group The annual performance review-process (PMD) has dual in place. The years in between the two groups are considered to purposes; first of all it’s about assessing each employee’s be training and preparation in order to take the next step. performance both when it comes to work results and also behaviors. The other purpose is to make sure the whole In 2017 we had 21 new individuals (“Talents”) in the program. organization annually discusses and talks about the Company’s All of them were identified through the PMD process and then core values, which are broken down into the 10 behaviors in further discussed between the Executive Management Team the PMD process. In this discussion each manager gets the and the Global HR organization before being offered a place in opportunity to go deeply into and explain our three Core Values; the program. Responsibility, Reliability and Focused Innovation. 14 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T The Talent Management assessment measures both the The Succession Planning Process is used throughout the whole participant’s potential and their readiness to take on new organization and in all different levels in the organization, but is challenges. The assessment also benchmarks our Talents with not aligned to the Talent Management Process on local level. Talents from other chemical companies and we can see our upcoming leaders coming out very well in that comparison. A new methodology to successfully After the assessment and feedback, everyone gets an individual Leading Change development plan. This year we started working with Extra Ordinary Result (EOR) The Talent Management Process is aligned with the Succession as a methodology to rise above the necessary and achieve the Planning Process (see below). possible. The methodology has helped both the management team and all functions work with their own EOR in order to go Finding and appointing our successors for the possible result instead of the necessary. This overarching For the second consecutive year we conducted the Succession structure has then been broken all its way through the organizaPlanning process throughout the whole global organization. tion. The plan is to continue using the methodology also in 2018 and to complement it with extended coaching-training to key The process was kicked-off by identifying all critical roles in the employees in our organization. organization. Then we determined the essential and successful skills of each role. The next step was to identify short and long During 2017 we continued with our compulsory Leadership term successors for each key role in the company. In this part of training for all new managers in the Perstorp organization. the process we aligned the Succession Planning process with We also continued to run the Process Academy. This is a the individual Talents. This match gave us input to what we must program especially brought forward to strengthen the focus our development activities on going forward. technology knowledge and network within the company. 15 P E R S T O R P 2 017 The Employee Survey Health During 2017 we decided to make changes to our Employee As the Employee Survey (above) shows, workload and stress are Survey. Instead of running a big annual survey we shortened it on too high a level within the company. Therefore an initiative to only 16 questions and decided to measure the result three has been taken to address this issue. Perstorp strongly believes times during the year. The logic behind this decision was for we have to work in three different dimensions in parallel: Perstorp to focus on the areas where we weren’t performing as Company-ship is about how the company clearly states the well as we wanted. Unfortunately there were no big movements expectations in policies, regulations, etc. in the result in 2017 and we ended up more or less on the same level as the end of 2016 (see picture). Leader-ship is about behaviors and prioritization, to help leaders support their employees but also help managers prevent high The Performance Index is a summary of all 16 questions while workload, etc. Engagement Index is very much about change activities, Trust & Coaching Index covers the leadership aspect and Workload & Employee-ship is about how the employees can be supported Stress Index measures our employees’ perceived level of stress. in their day-to-day situation, but also to make clear expectations on their behaviors, etc. The intensified focus on Health was initiated late 2017 and will be closely aligned to the Safety initiatives during 2018 with a clear ambition to become a top quartile company in health 2020. Ph ork y ialw t en sical vir so c en on work s yco onm me P nvir nt e Companyship Workload and Lifestyle PERSTORP p shi Lea priorities CULTURE yee de rsh plo ip Em We al llb ein ation g niz lth mu ga scl Or hea es 16 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T We also continued training of all managers within the Swedish Employer Branding activities organization around Organizational and Social Work EnvironPerstorp participates in University fairs and supports students in ment. The training is compulsory and aims to provide all managwriting their theses. ers with knowledge to prevent and handle unhealthy stress and heavy work-load, how to prevent victimization and bullying and Partnership with the Hunger Project how to plan working hours in an efficient way. For three years, Perstorp will be one of six companies working Objectives have been set up to improve the Organization and to end hunger in Mem-Chefre in eastern Ghana. The Hunger Social Work Environment. Project is a global, non-profit, strategic organization committed to the sustainable end of world hunger. Their vision is a world Diversity where every woman, man and child leads a healthy, fulfilling life Perstorp is a global company that is open to people of all backof self-reliance and dignity. Their mission is to end hunger and grounds and experiences. We strongly believe that differences poverty by pioneering sustainable, grassroots, women-centered makes the company better. By being diverse, we also enhance strategies and advocating for their widespread adoption in different perspectives on solutions, supporting better decisions countries throughout the world. and stimulating higher creativity. Perstorp Gymnasium The Perstorp Gymnasium trains and educates 16 to 18 yearMen Women olds, and equips them for a technical, vocational career. Our Board members and ELT 15 (88%) 2 (12%) education is divided into two major programs; Industrial PLT* members 55 (81%) 13 (19%) Technicians and Electrical & Automation Technicians. During Functional Leadership Teams 44 (80%) 11 (20%) All employees 1118 (71%) 454 (29%) their education, students spend 15 weeks practicing in industry. Many of the students continue working in the company after *PLT is a management forum with employees reporting to ELT or being members their exams while some move on to University studies. in one of the Functional Leadership Teams. 17 P E R S T O R P 2 017 The Perstorp Culture At Perstorp, we poured significant energy during 2017 into We know there is a growth-driving correlation between hard evolving and strengthening our core purpose, vision and values financial performance and softer values. It is that magic formula as a company, and incorporating those into concrete initiatives. of performance and caring we are after as we look to build an It’s a transformation that is tying our heart and soul tighter even stronger culture. Beyond hard numbers, we have created with our strategy and our outside-in perspective in order to new targets for our caring culture, with a strong focus on reveal untapped potential for ourselves and our customers. leadership and how we support people in an ever changing and In particular, our core values of Responsibility, Reliability and challenging environment while also nurturing cross-functional Focused Innovation are more tightly woven into everything we work. One shining example is our Care 365 program, launched do as we seek to lead change towards chemistry that advances in 2017. Integrating all three of our core values, Care 365 pushes everyday life for the better. Simply put, at Perstorp we believe in us to look beyond statistics and numbers, getting to the heart of doing right. We believe in keeping our promise. And we believe what matters to make it better, do right and keep the promise if it matters, make it better. 18 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T to put care first. Care 365 is rooted in the knowledge that health become a big problem, and to increase our maturity in terms of and safety are blind to work/life borders. We can’t leave stress, we Care. There is a slightly positive trend to be seen with e g 20% fatigue or injuries behind as we walk out the door at the end of fewer accidents and incidents in 2017 compared to the previous the workday. We are committed to leading change towards a year but we still have a lot of work to do. We are devoted to healthy and safe Perstorp every day, 365 days a year. We have taking all the necessary steps, to paying attention to the little created a comprehensive initiative to lift up not only the big things that matter and to strengthening our culture of true Care. things, but also the little things to ensure a little hazard doesn’t P E R S T O R P 2 017 Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report To Perstorp Holding AB, corporate identity no. 556667-4205 Responsibilities of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors is responsible for the statutory sustainability report, and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Scope of the examination Our examination of the statutory sustainability report has been conducted in accordance with FAR´s auditing standard RevR 12 Auditor´s report on the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. Opinion A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Malmö, April 18, 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB MICHAEL BENG T SSON M AT S ÅKERLUND Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant 20 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 21
