Rajawali Corpora 2017 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS PT RAJAWALI CORPORA 2017-2018 Page 1 Rajawali Corpora 2017 I. COMPANY IDENTITY Company Name PT Rajawali Corpora Date May 21st, 2018 Address Menara Rajawali Kawasan Mega Kuningan Membership April 8th, 2006 Lot 5.1 date Jakarta 12920 Country Indonesia Number of ±35.000 persons employees (Total Group) Contact name Y.W. Junardy Contact Position Commissioner Sector Investment Holding Company Contact 021 576 0808 telephone no. Brief description of nature of business PT Rajawali Corpora is an investment holding company of Rajawali Group operating in diversified industries with 10 business units in hotels and resorts development, land and air transportation, agriculture, coal, gold, and iron sands mining, broadcast media, public relation consultant, and IT Services. The Group covers approximately 35,000 employees. Statement of continuing support “PT Rajawali Corpora is proud to be the member of the United Nations Global Compact. We are committed to the Global Compact initiatives and uphold its ten principles pertaining to human rights, labor rights, protection of the environment and corporate governance. We believe that by adhering to this core set of universal values which are fundamental in meeting the socio economic needs of the world, we would be able to foster sustainable growth. Our commitment is also reflected in our participation in collaborative actions and full support to the operations of Indonesia Global Compact Network by providing office facilities, executive resources as well as operating funds in order to advance the GC Principles in Indonesia. Peter Sondakh Chairman & CEO PT Rajawali Corpora Page 2 Rajawali Corpora 2017 Rajawali Corpora’s Vision and Mission: Vision: To become an outstanding reputable company that creates and adds value to our stakeholders Mission: • Optimizing shareholders’ value. • Delighting customers with superior products and services. • Inspiring, empowering and caring for all employees. • Supporting the community and environmental sustainability. Values: • Integrity • Caring • Respect • Excellence & Innovative • Being Responsible • Unity • Growth Page 3 Rajawali Corpora 2017 II. IMPLEMENTATION OF UNGC’S 10 PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Respect for human rights is a fundamental principle of practicing good management and being a responsible business. At Rajawali, the implementation of human rights is reflected in the company philosophy, values, policies and code of business conducts covering the roles of management and employees as well as the advancement opportunity, competitive compensation and benefits, work environments, and obligation to the community in location where we are operating (Corporate Social Responsibility). Implementations:  Framework: Corporate Governance The Governance framework is designed to provide the Rajawali Corpora Board, the Business Unit Boards and the Rajawali Group’s employees with a structure by which: o the business is conducted o decisions are presented and approved o employees conduct themselves Rajawali Corpora is committed to uphold its Corporate Governance to: o create Shareholder Value o protect individuals—provides ground rules in which management can operate o part of Risk Management o provide good control environment o provide good business practice–where it is structured and focusing on core principles o establish credible structure/credibility–assisting to attract solid, long term investors The Rajawali Governance Framework provides empowerment to the Business Units within the approved risk tolerance levels. At the Holding level, Rajawali Board approves the following: o Group organizational structure and Board Committees, including appointment of its members o Vision, mission, values and standards o Annual Strategic and Business Plan o Corporate actions, i.e. potential investments, divestments, mergers and acquisitions, restructuring, spin-offs, joint-ventures, partnerships, corporate actions (e.g. stock splits, dividends, etc.), capital raisings (e.g. public Page 4 Rajawali Corpora 2017 offerings, bond issuance, bank borrowings, etc.), hedging, write-off of assets, asset revaluation, capital management and other corporate finance activities o Strategy for external communications o Executive appointments and exits o Executive KPIs and compensation, benefits and perquisites o Dividend Distribution Policy o Corporate Social Responsibility activities o Financial Audits and Governance o Code of Conduct o Approval Limits With the above approvals from the Holding level, Governance is established. Business Units operates within the guidelines from Rajawali Governance. The Governance Framework had been reviewed annually to define and establish the 5 pillars of RC Corporate Governance which focus on accountability, fairness, transparency, independence and responsibility. The policy update and the new policies in the Corporate Governance Manual in 2017-2018 includes the following: o Whistleblowing Policy o Insider Trading Policy o IT Maintenance Policy o External Communications Policy o Guidelines on the Use of Corporate Logo and Letterhead Policy o Finance and Investment Committee (FIC) Charter o Procedures for Submission of Corporate Action to FIC o FIC Memo Template o Post-mortem Review Template o Committee Structure  Process: Corporate Governance The Corporate Governance and Code of Ethics are in place and implemented across all Business Units. The Corporate Governance Manual is reviewed annually and served as a guideline for the Boards and employees in conducting the business throughout the Group. o Governance and Internal Audit department prepares the Governance and Internal Audit plan in the beginning of the year, socializes it to the Business Units for inputs and comments, and seeks approval from the Audit, Performance, Compliance and Risk Management Committee. Once approved, the Governance and Internal Audit plan will be implented accordingly, with a regular reporting to Audit, Performance, Compliance and Risk Management Committee during the Audit, Performance, Compliance and Risk Management Committee mittee meeting (at least biannually). o Governance are reviewed and developed with inputs from the relevant departments and business units and routed to Board of Directors for approval. Page 5 Rajawali Corpora 2017 o Corporate Governance Forum was conducted on 24 August 2017 at Menara Rajawali and was attended by 72 staff from Rajawali Corpora and Business Units. Deloitte was invited as the external speaker and shared thought leadership regarding Corporate Governance during the forum were as follows: 1. RC Whistleblowing Program The objective and general rules of the Rajawali Whistleblowing Program which are (1) to provide formal channel for all directors, commissioners, executive advisors, employees, and external parties in helping to support good corporate governance environment in a professional manner by setting principles and procedures; (2) to promote the core value of integrity at workplace; (3) and to allow information sharing, including suggestions for improvement and innovations. Rajawali Whistleblowing Program adheres to the structural, operational, and maintenance elements of Australian Standard 2004:2003 on Whistleblowing Program for Entities. 2. Effective Whistleblowing Service: Why and How? Deloitte continued presenting about the importance of whistleblowing system and the implementation of an effective whistleblowing mechanism. To make an effective whistleblowing system, according to them, there are 4 essential elements that are necessary which include the active involvement of the management, independent handling of complaints, multiple communication methods, and anonymity. o Further, a series of Whistleblowing policy socialization sessions were conducted in Rajawali Corpora and Business Units to cascade the information shared during the Corporate Governance Forum. The socialization sessions conducted in 2017 in Rajawali Corpora were as following: 2 November 2017: attended by 9 people 16 November 2017: attended by 10 people 7 December 2017: attended by 13 people 22 February 2018: attended by 13 people 4 April 2018: attended by 17 people Page 6 Rajawali Corpora 2017 Separate socialization sessions were also conducted in Business Units with the assistance from the Governance team in the Holdings for some of the Business Units. o To support on the implementation of Corporate Governance in Rajawali Group, the Internal Audit Forum titled “Future of Financial Reporting and Data Analytics for Forensic Auditing” was conducted on 28 November 2017 at Function Room The Bellagio Mall, Jl. Mega Kuningan Barat, Jakarta and was attended by 61 participants from various Internal Audit and Finance units in Rajawali Group. KPMG was invited as the external speaker and shared thought leadership regarding Future of Financial Reporting and Data Analytics for Forensic Auditing during the forum were as follows: 1. Future of Financial Reporting There are three IFRSs to be effectively implemented by the Indonesian Accounting Standard or the so called Pedoman Standar Akuntansi Keuangan (“PSAK”) on 1 January 2020. It covers Financial Instrument (PSAK 71), Lease (PSAK 73), and Revenue Recognition (PSAK 72). The significant changes and impact to financial reporting on these PSAK, the specific issues, and the timeline to implement these requirements were shared. 2. Data Analytics for Forensic Auditing KPMG shared about the power of data analytics, interesting case studies, and the use of forensic tools. It also shared on the need for robust IT technology, systems and infrastructure, and the required change in how to manage business operations including the need for system and process automation, use of artificial intelligence and big data mining. Page 7 Rajawali Corpora 2017 o The event continued with the Panel Discussion. The overall experience enhances professional development, provides peer-to-peer networking, and building the audit bench strength across the Rajawali Group. o As part of the implementation of the RC Code of Ethics, all members of the BOD, BOC, Executive Advisors and employees who hold positions of trust and confidence signed and submitted the Integrity Undertaking to RC Ethics Committee in 2017. All members of the BOD, BOC, Executive Advisors and employees in Rajawali Corpora also acknowledged their compliance with the Code of Ethics by signing the Annual Compliance Confirmation and Undertaking form collated in January 2018.  Embedding Management Responsibilities To establish corporate accountability, exercise fair, consistent treatment and transparency, the company has reorganized the Board Committees each chaired by Managing Director level: o Human Capital Committee. This committee is established to review and recommend people development strategy and its implementation in order to support the achievement of long term and short term business goals in the area of people development, compensation and benefits, and succession plan within the Group. o Information Technology Committee This committee is established to ensure that IT strategy and implementation are aligned and support the achievement of long term and short term business goals as follows:  Board insight into IT value, financial implications and risks Page 8 Rajawali Corpora 2017  Strategic decisions on important IT investments to achieve good returns and respond to changing business requirement in an agile manner  Clear responsibility and accountability for strategic IT decisions  IT governance integrated into corporate governance  Well-governed IT function, process, systems, and infrastructure  Deliver competitive services geared towards customer orientation and service availability o Ethics Committee This Committee is responsible to assist the RC Board of Directors in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to (a) the compliance by RC with all legal requirements to which it is subject, including all regulations and laws applicable to RC, (b) the design, implementation and execution of the RC’s Compliance and Ethics Program and (c) matters relating to Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. Further the Ethics Committee assists the RC Board of Directors in establishing an appropriate “tone at the top” and promoting a strong “culture of compliance” while also recognizing the Board of Directors is responsible for instilling ethical compliance and Corporate Governance within RC. o Finance and Investment Committee This Committee evaluates and recommends potential investments, divestments, mergers and acquisitions, restructuring, spin-offs, jointventures, partnerships, corporate actions (e.g., stock splits, dividends, etc.), capital raisings (e.g. public offerings, bond issuance, bank borrowings, etc.), hedging, write-off of assets, asset revaluation, capital management and other corporate finance activities for the Rajawali Group. The Committee shall oversee existing investments and monitor the management of such for meeting peformance targets. o Audit, Performance, Compliance and Risk Management Committee The Audit, Compliance, Risk Management and Performance Committee (AC)’s primary function is to assist the RC Board of Commissioners (BOC) in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities relating to the system of internal controls, risk management, corporate governance process, the financial reporting process, and the audit process.In performing its duties, the AC will maintain effective working relationships with the RC BOC, Business Units’ BOC and Management, and the internal and external auditors. To perform AC role effectively, each AC member shall have a good understanding of the detailed responsibilities as well as the Rajawali Group’s business, strategies, operations and risks.  Rights to Equal Employment Opportunity & Non Discriminatory Treatment Written policy is in place and implemented across Business Units. The policy defines that all hiring process, promotion, and business decisions are taken strictly on qualifications, business imperatives, and merit.  Rights of Workers Rights of Workers are stipulated in the Human Capital Policy. It covers, among others: Page 9 Rajawali Corpora 2017 o Health & Safety Rajawali Corpora has established comprehensive and adequate allowance including medical, transportation, health assistance, subsidy/assistance & emergency loan, safety, and security procedures. Since 2012, Rajawali Corpora also conducts Tali Kasih program as part of Employee Benefits Scheme in which adequate funds or gifts are given in the event of marriage, bereavement, and birth. For work safety program, Rajawali Corpora has also provided comprehensive personal insurance for employees that travel often during work, and for all people managers. This comprehensive allowance scheme is established so that the employees can have a favorable working condition and thus, it may then support their well-being. The provision and amount of allowances may differ in Business Units by considering the industry common practices and requirements. Special field training is regularly conducted for plantation workers. o Education Every employee is eligible to get training in order to develop their skills and competency to support company objectives. Company provides both soft skills and technical skills education as required. Some conducted internally, others are acquired externally. Some examples of the in-house training programs: Microsoft Office workshop was conducted for all non-staff. This workshop was designed to providing knowledge and skill to use software for daily working activities. Monthly sharing session was conducted for all BU Group at Menara Rajawali, Jakarta. This session was designed to share knowledge from internal expert with various topics such as corporate governance and Page 10 Rajawali Corpora 2017 risk, information technology and security awareness, also several national issues. We conducted HC Forum for all HR business units with various topics such as people development and labor. Page 11 Rajawali Corpora 2017 In 2017, we also facilitate employee who want to share their knowledge by conducting sharing session for all RC employees. o Internal Communication The company facilitates various internal/employee communication programs to allow employees to express their aspiration to the management, and vice versa. The available programs include: Intranet Rajawali is an intranet based online technology that provides company information for all employees in order to keep the employees abreast with the current situation of the Company and Business Units. The Intranet is also functioned as an employee communication tool by means of enabling group interest forums such as photography, cycling, various sports, etc. Employee Activities of Rajawali Corpora comprise of various groups of interests in sports and arts, such as basketball, volley ball, futsal, badminton, table tennis, tennis, golf, cycling, yoga, karaoke, photography, and choir. Religious community such as Tausiyah is also part of Employee Activities initiative. The purpose of establishing such community groups is to strengthen the tie between Rajawali Corpora employees while also to promote the healthy and balance work-lifestyle by encouraging its members to contribute in sport, art, and/or religious activities. Sense of belonging (through workplace communal activities) may promote inter-employee sustainable engagement, whereas employee physical and mental health may in turn affect work productivity. Page 12 Rajawali Corpora 2017 Social Activities – practicing good management and being a responsible business through Rajawali Foundation by ‘giving, caring and enabling’ community is also Rajawali Corpora’s commitment to respect human rights. 1. Blood Donation – 8 Feb 2017, 9 May 2017, 1 Aug 2017, 17 Oct 2017, 23 Jan 2018, 17 April 2018 Quarterly conducted, the open-for-public event attracted donors from Menara Rajawali tenants’ employees, Rajawali group employees and other walk-in donors. Partners: PMI (Indonesian Red Cross) – Jakarta. Impacted beneficiaries: people who receive benefits of blood bags we contribute. In 2017, we contributed 280 blood bags of 350cc and 450cc to PMI. Since 2011, we have contributed 2,300 blood bags. Page 13 Rajawali Corpora 2017 2. KITA bercerita (Keluarga Indonesia Teman Anak bercerita) – Jan 2017, Feb 2017, Mar 2017, April 2017, June 2017, July 2017, Aug 2017, Oct 2017, Nov 2017 Rajawali Corpora and Rajawali Foundation continued to invite more active participation from business units and their employees to support KITA bercerita movement. The movement which has two main purposes (1) to nurture reading habit since early childhood by doing 10-minute storytelling campaign and activities; also (2) to improve bounding between children and parents, has been successfully carried out with participation from Rajawali business units and starts to create wider impact to communities. Page 14 Rajawali Corpora 2017 In January 2017 – we visited Yayasan Elsafan. Once again, we shared joy and happiness with the blind children, telling story and gave moral support. In February and March 2017, KITA Bercerita at Sanggar Foru 2 in Ragunan and Pusat Tumbuh Kembang Anak UNJ. Page 15 Rajawali Corpora 2017 In April 2017 – KITA Bercerita in collaboration with Sanggar Foru participated in “Festival Daur Ulang”. Through story telling, we educate children to preserve environment and introduce them to the concept of waste recycling. In June 2017 – KITA Bercerita in collaboration with Rajawali Corpora Human Capital held a break fasting event together with children with disabilities / special needs at Yayasan Sayap Ibu. It was opened by a story telling about Noah (Nabi Nuh). Page 16 Rajawali Corpora 2017 Page 17 Rajawali Corpora 2017 In July 2017 – KITA Bercerita held flagship event “Negeri Cerita” at Pejaten Village Mall. Hundreds of children and parents joint the event. Page 18 Rajawali Corpora 2017 In August 2017 – to celebrate Indonesian Independence Day, KITA Bercerita in collaboration with ISCO (Indonesian Street Children Organization) held a strory telling session with kids at the park. Page 19 Rajawali Corpora 2017 In October 2017 – In order to nurture other leaders and story tellers, KITA Bercerita held a workshop and sharing session with potential champions. Kak Aio (Aryo) from AYODI led the session. Page 20 Rajawali Corpora 2017 Rumah Cerita Creating wider impact is something we cannot do alone. It needs collaboration and commitment from many stakeholders as partners to do 10-minute storytelling everyday with children. It is simple yet impactful once we do it in parallel and consistent. Rumah Cerita or corner for storytelling is home for kids to read and explore their curiosity. We encourage teacher and parents to always accompany children, teach those good values through reading and storytelling activities to them. Social Media Disruptive technology affects to the way of teaching and learning nowadays. KITA bercerita use social media to reach out many people. Parents could use our contents on Instagram to do storytelling to children during heavy Page 21 Rajawali Corpora 2017 traffic for instance or just to check latest updates by simply visiting our Instagram account @kitaberceritaid and #kitaberceritaapa for contents. Partners: Sanggar Fortune, FORU, Archi Indonesia, Nusantara Infrastructure, Eagle High Plantations, Rajawali Televisi, Meares Soputan Mining, Tambang Tondano Nusajaya, Ayo Dongeng Indonesia (AyoDi), Taman Tumbuh Kembang Anak Ceria UNJ, Ayo Dongeng Indonesia (AyoDI), Yayasan and SLB ElSafan for the blind children, Rumah Susun Cipinang Besar Selatan, Indonesian Street Children Organization (ISCO), Sekolah Harapan Bangsa and Pejaten Village Mall. Impacted beneficiaries: more than 1,500 of parents, teachers and children age 5-11 y.o since 2016 (750 beneficiaries in 2017). 3. Rajawali Ramadhan – June 2017 We initiated two-day events of social activities in collaboration with business units to share happiness with special needs children and children with disabilities at Yayasan Sayap Ibu and breakfasting event. We also gave donations for Musholla renovation in community. Partners: Rajawali Corpora, Rajawali Foundation, Rajawali Property Group, Eagle High Plantations, Archi Indonesia. Impacted beneficiaries: 70 special needs children and children with disabilities and 200 jamaah in surrounding Musholla. Page 22 Rajawali Corpora 2017 Page 23 Rajawali Corpora 2017 Rajawali Foundation Involvement in IGCN (UN Global Compact Network Indonesia) to address Human Rights issue 1. Business & Human Rights Working Group (B&HRWG) –June 2017, Oct 2017, Dec 2017, March 2018, April 2018 We commit in supporting achievement of Sustainable Development Goals by joining UN Global Compact Network Indonesia (IGCN) as a multi stakeholder initiative. This shall be the platform for dialogue, sharing information and learning from each other to align business operations with SDGs aspects. Together with other IGCN members we have started to concept and develop the working group which focus on business & human rights issues since 2015. Successfully launched on 6 April 2016, the Working Group has two main agendas; (1) To enhance implementation of UN Guiding Principles on Business & Human Rights (UNGPs) into corporate values; (2) To actively contribute on Business and Human Rights-National Action Plan together with KOMNAS HAM. Acting as Co-Chairs of the working group are Anugraha Dezmercoledi from Rajawali Foundation, Andi Muttaqien from ELSAM and John Dharmawan from UI. Co-Chairs will lead multi-stakeholders dialogue, campaign, and necessary training to improve knowledge and awareness on related issues among private sectors and civil society. It is also important to always engage government in the process. There are three pillars of Business & Human Rights; (1) responsibility of Nation / Government to protect against human rights violation; (2) responsibility of private sectors to respect human rights; (3) Access to remedy which is available and respect justice. Partners of B&HRWG: Rajawali group Business Units to include Express Taxi and Eagle High Plantations who are also IGCN members, 84 total members of IGCN, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Law & Human Rights, KOMNAS HAM, ELSAM, OXFAM in Indonesia, INFID, Prakarsa, Respons Bank, Teach for Indonesia – Binus University, Sinar Mas. Impacted beneficiaries: individuals employed by private sectors (starting with Rajawali Group + 50 IGCN other private sector members), individuals working in the supply chain, consumers and neighbouring communities. Possible creating nationwide impact if our recommendations are included in the national action plan of Business & Human Rights optimistically will be finalized in 2017 by the government. Page 24 Rajawali Corpora 2017 Activities: (1) Radio Talk Show To enhance public awareness on UN Guiding Principles on Business & Human Rights in Indonesia, Anugraha from Rajawali Foundation to represent B&HRWG together with OXFAM in Indonesia, INFID and Kantor Berita Radio (KBR) held Live radio talkshow in April 2017. (2) Multi-stakeholders Dialogue #4 – 21 June 2017 at Binus University: “Children’s Right and Business Principles (CRBP) Implementation in Sustainable Suppy Chain”; (3) Multi-stakeholders Dialogue #5 – 13 December 2017 at Hotel Morissey Jakarta: “Business & Human Rights and Responsible Investment”; (4) Launching event National Action Plan on Business & Human Rights – 16 June 2017 at Sari Pan Pacific Hotel. Event was conducted by KOMNAS HAM and ELSAM; (5) Business & Human Rights Forum at IGCN Forums “ Making Global Goals Local Business” –19 October 2017 at Plaza SIMAS, Ballroom 9th floor; (6) Business & Human Rights Training for Private Sectors Manager – 28-29 March 2018 at Hotel Ashley Jakarta; (7) General Lecture “Towards UNGPs Implementation on Business & Human Rights” – 19 April 2018 at Hotel Aloft Jakarta. Prof. Surya Dewa, UN Working Group on Business & Human Rights conducted the lecture. Page 25 Rajawali Corpora 2017 Page 26 Rajawali Corpora 2017  Employee Wellness Company provides comprehensive wellness facilities. These benefits vary from one business unit to another depending on each respective industry environments and affordability. These include: o Medical allowance & health prevention assistance; o Transportation allowances; o Special assistance/emergency loan offered to our employees affected by crisis, such as grievances (i.e.: death, prolonged sickness,) natural & fire disaster; o Employees’ leaves (Annual Leave, Long Service Leave, Maternity Leave, Sick Leave, Compassionate Leave, Hajj Pilgrimage Leave, and Unpaid Leave); o Employee transfer/relocation entitlements for those who are relocated at the company’s request. The entitlements include: housing allowance, educational allowance for the children, additional vocational leave, home trip, hardship allowance (if any,) and cost of living allowance.  Violations To exercise fair treatment and ensure all actions are justifiable, the company implements sanction procedures for any violations or breach of Code of Ethics by employees. Business Ethic Committee is involved in any serious violation.  Termination of employment To ensure that all termination actions are justifiable, properly administered, and executed according to the prevailing government laws and company policy/regulations, the company sets a termination procedure and an exit interview for any termination. There are two categories of termination: company initiated termination and employee initiated termination. Employees whose employment is terminated may receive severance compensation according to the prevailing government policy.  Freedom of association The company policy stipulates the company facilitates communication programs to allow dialog with employees to understand their aspirations. The formation of association or union is stipulated in the policy manual. Employee can form the organization so long as it adheres to the company policy and code of business conduct.  Political Activities The company is not affiliated to any political party. Employee joining political party is considered a personal affair. Employees should not use the company’s time and resources in conducting his/her political activities. Page 27 Rajawali Corpora 2017 LABOUR PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Labour policy o In accordance to the established policy, Company and its business units must not engage in any forced and compulsory labour. The Company establishes a standard working hour. The procedures and payment of overtime for eligible employees are provided in accordance to the government regulations. o The company policy stipulates that the minimum age of employee to be hired is 18 years old. No child labour. o The following is the distribution of employee by age in Rajawali Corpora (this figure does not include employees in Business Units): Rajawali Corpora, PT. Age Group as of January 2018 Age Group 21 25 26 30 31 35 36 40 41 45 46 50 51 UP TOTAL Head 1 13 18 32 22 24 15 125 Counts Non-discrimination Policy o Policy is in place and implemented across business units. Company provides a working environment that is free from harassment and discriminations including that from race, ethnic, color, religion, national origin, disability, marital status, age, sexual orientation, or gender. o Promotion is fully based on individual performance and potentials, evaluated by immediate superior, and approved by superior’s superior and Human Capital. o Distribution of employee by gender in Rajawali (excluding employees in Business Units): Rajawali Corpora, PT. Employee Data as of January 2018 Level Male Female Total Managerial 37 16 53 Non-Managerial 23 19 42 Non-Staff 30 0 30 Grand Total 90 35 125 Page 28 Rajawali Corpora 2017 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Rajawali Corpora’s commitment to environmental sustainability is articulated in its strategic sustainability framework (Fig 1) Figure 1. The Rajawali Sustainability framework  Our sustainability commitment Rajawali Corpora businesses are engaged in unlocking value from Indonesia’s natural wealth and creating services to meet an upwardly mobile society. In doing so, we contribute to providing jobs and livelihoods, supporting local communities and commerce and adding to the knowledge base of Indonesia. Our commitment: ‘Resource Stewardship for the Future’s Generation’ is consistently applied in each of the business in which we have invested. With an eclectic range of stakeholders, primarily in Indonesia where the majority of our investments are located, our efforts on environment management are included a selection of wider comments in respect of local community stakeholders as and where they have influence over the ‘right to operate’ in the locations concerned, recognizing that in most cases community and environment are integral to one another. Our stakeholders are employees, neighbors in the communities around our operations, local governments, customers & suppliers as well as investors and bankers. We also examine how we manage our impact on the environment. Including energy, land use, water, and biodiversity and pollution management, with the overriding aim of adopting best practices so that we can benchmark our performance within each of our core sectors, with internationally recognized and accredited standards. Page 29 Rajawali Corpora 2017 ANTI CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS 10 FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY  Core Values The adoption of corporate governance is embedded in our Rajawali Values which are the guiding principles of our operations: Integrity : We act in an honest, ethical and truthful manner Caring : We show concern for others Respect : We value and appreciate other people’s views Excellence & Innovative : We do the best to consistently exceed expectations through actions and the generation of new ideas Being Responsible : We are accountable for our actions and inactions Unity : We capitalize on differences and work together to achieve common goals Growth : We always strive to become better  Code of Ethics The code provides a guideline to all directors, commissioners, executive advisors and employees in businesses conducted within and outside the Group. It includes compliance with laws, regulations and group’s policies; ethical business conduct and fair dealing; conflicts of interest: outside engagements or business dealings, related parties, insider trading, gifts & entertainment, kickbacks and prohibited commissions, non-solicitation; group properties and assets, including confidential information, intellectual property and official records; job performance; other stakeholders; health, safety and environment.  Reporting and Compliance Procedures Any report of violations or suspected violations to the Code of Ethics will be reviewed and acted upon. RC Ethics Committee is reponsible for maintaing a record of all regulatory and Code of Ethics violation.  Compliance Confirmation and Undertaking Each year directors, commissioners, executive advisors and employee within Rajawali Group will be required to formally acknowledge their compliance with the Code of Ethics. A signed Compliance Confirmation and Undertaking form is a requirement for continued employment at Rajawali Group. The Compliance Confirmation and Undertaking for the year 2017 was collated in January 2018 from all members of the BOD, BOC, Executive Advisors and employees in Rajawali Corpora. Page 30 Rajawali Corpora 2017  Integrity Undertaking Member of Board of Directors, Board of Commissioners, Executive Advisors and Employees who hold positions of trust and confidence will be required to sign Integrity Undertaking upon appointment and/or upon joining Rajawali Group. All members of the BOD, BOC, Executive Advisors and employees who hold positions of trust and confidence have signed and submitted the Integrity Undertaking to RC Ethics Committee in 2017.  Promoting Good Corporate Governance Rajawali Corpora is also the active member of Indonesian Business Links (IBL), a non-profit foundation aims to contribute towards the creation of sound and ethical business practices in the country.  Bring Values of Excellence and Innovative into Public Policy Development and Implementation in Indonesia Excellence in public policy and public administration will shape more efficient bureaucracy, more welfare for people thus creating no room for corruption. In collaboration with Center for Public Policy Transformation (“Transformasi”), in 2017-2018 Rajawali Corpora through Rajawali Foundation supports improvement in public policy & regulation, to emphasize on addressing issues of poverty, workforce, inequality, and vulnerable people. 1. USAID – SINERGI project to Mainstream Poor & Vulnerable Youth into Labor Market in Indonesia – Selection Process 2015-2016; Piloting 20172018; Full Implementation until 2021 From submission of 140 concept notes to USAID in 2015, 6 project concepts which finally were approved by USAID in the second semester of 2016. Rajawali Foundation leads the SINERGI consortium to receive a four year project fund from USAID to address poverty by mainstreaming poor and vulnerable youth (18 to 34 years old) into labor market in Indonesia. In the pilot phase, we will test the concept in Central Java for 15 months, starting October 2017, before scaling up to other provinces. Page 31 Rajawali Corpora 2017 SINERGI The project will strengthen coordination between stake holders at provincial level to have better link & match between education and industry. Rajawali Foundation will bring together Provincial Government leaders, District level government leaders, private sectors, TVETs (Technical and Vocational Education and Training), CSO and Media into the process in the Committee. The project named SINERGI, which stands for “Strengthening Coordination for Inclusive Workforce Development in Indonesia”. In order to establish better coordination among key stakeholders, SINERGI together with Bappeda Jawa Tengah established POKSI (Kelompok Aksi). Named POKSI to give more action oriented to this working group. Central Java with lower labor minimum wage rate compared to neighboring provinces has attracted many local and foreign investors to set up new labor intensive business in the province. Having said this there are still huge gap between workforce supply and demand. Labor intensive industry for instance, suffers from turnover rate up to 50% annually. POKSI will work through 25 champions from private sectors, government, youth centers, TVETs and media. They will come up with co-designed innovative solutions to mainstream poor and vulnerable youth into labor market in Central Java and to resolve current challenges private sectors and government are facing. The huge gap we have is the basis for SINERGI project to work with both local and national level governments to improve public policy & regulation which pro and support to mainstream youth into labor market, in particular poor and vulnerable youth. Once succeeded, this will be replicated / scaled up to other provinces in Indonesia which will significantly contribute to poverty eradication and develop local economy. Activities: (1) USAID – Kunci program orientation: a. National Positive Youth Development Workshop – 6-7 July 2017; b. National Gender & Social Inclusion Workshop – 12-13 Septemer 2017; c. National Youth Economic Empowerment Workshop – 14-15 September 2017; d. National Value Chain Analysis Training – 8-10 Novemer 2017; e. Finance & Procurement Training & Workshop – 21-23 November 2017; (2) SINERGI Project Agreement Signing Ceremony – between Rajawali Foundation and USAID Mitra Kunci Initiative – 23 October 2017; (3) Project Set Up: a. WorkPlan, M&E Plan, Communication & Branding Plan, and Scale Up Plan Development – November to December 2017; (4) Technical Activities: a. Workforce Champion Mapping – December 2017 until January 2018; b. National Workforce Dialogue #1 (Dialog Nasional #1) – 7 March 2018 in Jakarta; Page 32 Rajawali Corpora 2017 c. National Workforce Dialogue #2 (Dialog Nasional #2) – 27 March 2018 in Semarang d. POKSI Establishment – 24 April 2018 in Semarang. Partners: Labor intensive industries (PT. Pan Brothers, PT. Apparel One Indonesia), Business Associations (APINDO & KADIN), Related Ministries (Ministries of Manpower, Research and Higher Education, Industry, BAPPENAS), District level governments (PemKab Semarang, Boyolali, Demak, Kendal, Salatiga and Surakarta), Central Java Provincial Governments, TVET institutions (BLK and LPK in Central Java), NGO & CSO to represent poor & vulnerable youth (Saujana, Sahabat Difabel, Yayasan ElSafan, Pemuda Ansor, Karang Taruna), Universities (UNNES, FISIPOL UGM, IKIP Veteran), and Media (Swara Merdeka, Radar Semarang, Rajawali TV, Tribune Semarang, Radio ElShinta). Impacted Beneficiaries: The project is looking at 775 direct beneficiaries of poor & vulnerable youth and 2,323 total beneficiaries during pilot phase. In the full implementation phase of 4 years, the project will target up to 5,000 poor and vulnerable youth to receive benefit from the project. Page 33 Rajawali Corpora 2017 Agreement Signing Ceremony 23 October 2017 Dr. Ershad (POKSI Champion) – earned doctoral degree in aeronotica from England. He is now working with other youth champions in Mijen village, Demak to produce jewelry from recycled materials from used PC motherboard. Page 34 Rajawali Corpora 2017 Page 35 Rajawali Corpora 2017 Roy Wibisono (POKSI Champion) – the man sitting on the left is the owner of Nuanza Porcelain. This SME, located in Boyolali, is producing fine porcelain with community base approach. The famous Barong gold plated porcelain statue becomes souvenir for world leaders, during former President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono era. Page 36 Rajawali Corpora 2017 With Bappeda and Kepala Dinas Tenaga Kerja & Perindustrian Kabupaten Demak (POKSI Champions) Page 37 Rajawali Corpora 2017 Presentation Kunci program and SINERGI project to PemKab Boyolali. Mimy Santika – Education Office USAID, Mr. Peter Cronin – Education Director USAID, Bapak Ir. Sarwono Kusumaatmadja – Ketua Dewan Pertimbangan Perubahan Iklim KLHK at lounge before opening Dialog Nasional #1 Page 38 Rajawali Corpora 2017 Agung Binantoro – Project Director SINERGI Ir. Airlangga Hartarto – Ministry of Industry gave speech at Dialog Nasional #1 Page 39 Rajawali Corpora 2017 Dialogue Session – Sanita Rini (Youth Coalition for Girls), Mario Montino (Group COO YCAB), Anne Patricia Sutanto (Vice CEO PT. Pan Brothers), Ariavita (Communication Director GE Indonesia). Moderated by Intan Bedisa (Rajawali TV) Bapak Pungky Sumadi – Deputy Kepala Bappenas / Menteri PPN bidang Kependudukan dan Ketenagakerjaan gave speech at Dialog Nasional #2 in Semarang. Dialogue moderated by Bapak Drs. Sunaryo (Ketua Tim Gubernur untuk Percepatan Pembangunan). Also sitting on the stage as speakers: Bapak Lukas Lukman Wijaya (CEO PT. Apparel One Indonesia), Ibu Dra. Myra Diarsi (Tim Gubernur untuk Percepatan Pembangunan), Bapak Ruby Emir (Saujana, kerjabilitas.com) Page 40
