1 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS A report on BDP International’s commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. 2 STATEMENT FROM THE CEO I am proud to present BDP’s annual Communication on Progress (CoP) report. BDP remains committed to good corporate citizenship in the global community. This report expresses our continuing commitment to the UN Global Compact and its principles. At BDP, we strive to ensure that these principles are ingrained in BDP’s business culture, operations and mission as a company. BDP’s most valuable assets are its integrity and ethical commitment, which set us apart from the competition. Protecting these assets and our reputation is the duty of everyone in BDP. To that end, we also strive to influence those with whom we do business (including our agents, consultants, suppliers and customers) to adhere to and embody our guiding principles. As a member of the UN Global Compact, we will continue to promote and conform to these values with our sphere of influence. Sincerely, Richard J. Bolte, Jr. Chairman & CEO 3 ABOUT BDP INTERNATIONAL BDP International, Inc. (“BDP”) was founded in 1966, and is now established as one of the leading privately held freight logistics/ transportation management firms in the United States. We have operations in 134 countries, including more than 147 offices around the world, and employ over 4000 employees worldwide. BDP People believe in delivering on the promise of service excellence, integrity, fair dealing and social commitment. BDP provides a range of services, including ocean, air and ground transportation; freight forwarding; logistics consulting services; and state of the art web-based shipping management systems. 4 HUMAN Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Businesses should make sure that they are Principle 1: Page 5 Principle 2: Page 10 RIGHTS not complicit in human rights abuses. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Principle 3: Page 13 LABOR effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Businesses Principle 4: Page 18 should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Principle 5: Page 20 STANDARDS recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the effective Principle 6: Page 23 abolition of child labor; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Principle 7: Page 25 environmental challenges; Businesses should undertake initiatives to ENVIRONMENT promote greater environmental responsibility; Businesses should encourage the diffusion and development of environmentally friendly Principle 8: Page 31 Principle 9: Page 40 technologies. ANTIBusinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Principle 10: Page 43 CORRUPTION extortion and bribery. 5 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Human Rights 6 COMMITMENT PROCESS & SYSTEM BDP supports the internationally Equal Employment: BDP International is proud to be an Equal 3. Applicants are recruited, hired and trained for all jobs recognized human rights contained Opportunity Employer. We believe that diversity of our without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, within the Universal Declaration of employees worldwide is a great strength of BDP. BDP does not gender, sexual orientation, disability, veteran status Human Rights and seeks to avoid discriminate in employment opportunities or practices on the or any other status protected by federal, state or basis of race, color, religion, age, national origin, gender, sexual complicity in human rights abuses. local laws. orientation, disability, union affiliation, veteran status or any other status protected by law. We expect that all employees 4. Compensation, benefits, discipline, and company will be treated equally without regard to these characteristics. sponsored programs and activities are administered Consistent with this policy, BDP International strives to ensure without regard to race, color, religion, age, national the following: origin, gender, sexual orientation, disability, veteran 1. BDP’s Equal Employment Policy is a global policy that status or any other status protected by federal, state applies to business in all regions, in order to promote the or local laws. principles of non-discrimination and equal opportunities regardless of race, religion, national origin, gender, sexual 5. Transfers, promotions and lay-off decisions are made orientation, disability, veteran or any other protected without regard to race, color, religion, age, national status. origin, gender, sexual orientation, disability veteran status or any other status protected by federal, state 2. BDP employees are informed of the policy via training and or local laws. the BDP Intranet and have access to BDP’s Equal Employment processes and mandates through the Employee Handbook and Global Code of Conduct. BDP also provides employees with an anonymous hotline and web complaint form via the company intranet where they can report violations or complaints to Human Resources and the Legal Department. Human Rights 7 BDP HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY BDP is committed to developing an organizational culture BDP seeks to identify, assess and manage human rights which implements a policy of support for internationally impact within the sphere of influence. Amongst other recognized human rights and seeks to avoid complicity in things, BDP will: human rights abuses. BDP maintains and enforces a Human Rights Policy to ensure that all BDP employees Respect the human rights of all employees established in the regardless of their religion, are treated fairly and equally, ILO’s Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at without prejudice, abuse or exploitation. This includes Work. discrimination and other forms of abuse, in regions where US laws do not apply and civil rights procedures are not entirely clear or known to BDP. Select suppliers, contractors and third parties based on the compliance compatibility with BDP human rights and social We strive to maintain a universally acceptable standard for policies. human rights, in accordance with UN Principles, our Human Rights Policy and the Global Code of Conduct. Respect the cultures, customs and values of people in Employees are informed about the policy, which is communities where we operate. available to and enforceable for all levels of employees, including senior management. The policy is maintained on the company intranet, and trainings designed by BDP’s Contribute, within the scope of our capabilities, to the Legal, Human Resources and Compliance teams are advancement and fulfillment of internationally recognized created to promulgate the policy company wide. human rights in the communities operating and society at large by improving economic, environmental and social conditions as well as by responsible public engagement. Human Rights 8 GLOBAL CODE BDP ANTIOF CONDUCT HARRASSMENT POLICY BDP maintains a Global Code of Conduct (the “Code”). The An important aspect of BDP’s Equal Employment Opportunity Policy is to ensure that all Code applies to every officer, director, manager and employee individuals have the right and opportunity to work in an environment that is free from at BDP International. We also expect that those with whom we harassment of any nature. BDP maintains an Anti-Harassment Policy which applies to sexual do business (including our agents, consultants, suppliers and harassment as well as harassment on the basis of race, color, religion, gender or sex, national customers) adhere to the Code. Third Parties are also asked to origin, veteran status, age, disability, sexual orientation, familial status or any other sign a Third Party Code of Conduct in order to do business with characteristic protected from discrimination under federal, state or local law. BDP. Our Code is designed to help our employees comply with the law and maintain the highest standards of ethical conduct. The policy also forbids all forms of physical, sexual or other kinds of harassing behavior. The All BDP employees must carry out their duties in accordance policy is global, and provides for reporting procedures in order to ensure accountability. BDP with the policies set forth in the Code and with applicable laws also maintains an anonymous complaint form on the company intranet, and a reporting hotline and regulations. The Code is available to view on the company for reporting purposes. website and Intranet. Human Rights 9 SAFE WORK WORK LIFE ACCESS TO ENVIRONMENT BALANCE HEALTHCARE Through its safety committee, BDP aims to maintain BDP values the commitment every employee makes BDP offers access to health, dental and vision a safe and healthy workplace by eliminating to the organization and as such provides many insurance. BDP also offers retirement packages and workplace injuries, identifying hazards and benefits to help employees achieve greater work/life tuition reimbursement for employees who wish to suggesting ways to prevent them. balance, such as: vacation time, sick time, personal further their education. Our US based Human time, select holidays off of work, short-term and Resource Management System provides employees The safety meetings are held on a monthly basis. Its long-term disability as well as honoring any regional access to a wealth of health and wellness knowledge primary objectives are as follows: government laws such as the Family Medical Leave which allows employees to proactively manage their Act. own medical history. Onsite flu vaccines are Promptly review all safety-related incidents, provided in several of our US locations. injuries, accidents, illnesses and deaths; Discuss proactive measures that can be taken to avoid safety related incidents; Conduct quarterly workplace inspections, identify hazards and recommend methods for eliminating or controlling the hazards; Evaluate BDP’s workplace safety and health program on an ongoing basis and recommend improvements to management. 10 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human Rights 11 COMMITMENT PROCESS & SYSTEM At BDP, we pride ourselves on our Violation of Business Ethics, Code of Conduct, Human Rights Policy, Child Labor Policy, Equal Employment Policy or Antipeople, processes and technology Harassment Policy: that reach beyond simply delivering our business services. Any violation of applicable law or any deviation from the standards embodied in the Code will result in disciplinary action, up To provide the finest service to and including termination. Disciplinary action may also apply to an employee’s supervisor who directs or approves the experience in the world, BDP employee’s improper actions, or is aware of those actions but does not act appropriately to correct them. In addition to emphasizes the values of imposing its own discipline, BDP International may also bring suspected violations of law to the attention of the appropriate accountability, customer care and law enforcement personnel. BDP encourages employees to notify Human Resources if a situation arises that may with this enduring relationships in all policy. Additionally, BDP maintains a hotline and intranet based complaint form which allows employees to report violations regions where we have operations. to the Legal Department anonymously. All polices operated by BDP encourage employees to report any violations to the These values are consistent with appropriate supervising authority. our culture of supporting human rights. We uphold the internationally recognized human rights contained within the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and seek to avoid complicity in human rights abuses, and combat them however we can. BDP also maintains separate policies to reinforce our stance against child labor, harassment and human rights violations respectively. Human Rights 12 GLOBAL TALENT MANAGEMENT TEAM BDP’s Training, Education and Development (TED) Team Local Leadership Globally: BDP has experienced local demonstrates that BDP is committed to investing in its leadership in every BDP location and staff who thoroughly most important asset, our people, by providing global understand local laws, cultures, business practices and resources for the education and development of all regulations. employees. TED supports employee engagement Industry Thought Leader: As an industry leader, BDP initiatives including Customer Service Week (CSW), a encourages clients and employees to maintain ethical best Global Innovative Competition (BDP Fusion) and “BDP practices in all regions of the world through our various Aspire” Leadership Development Programs. TED manages trade communications, Trendwatch, TradeWatch and instructor-led and virtual training, and provides eLearning NewsWatch. BDP also participates in and hosts events through BDP University, our award winning online learning geared towards industry issues, externalities and ethics. environment. BDP University is used to administer global Examples include ‘Ethics Fireside Chat with Richard awareness programs such as: Bistrong,’ the Ethisphere Oil and Gas Ethics Summit in Houston, Texas and the annual Export/Import Regulatory • Dangerous goods and hazardous materials compliance seminar in Houston, Texas and Philadelphia, PA. In • Logistics industry knowledge addition, our BDP Blog and social media presence fosters a • Anti-dumping procedures deep connection with current and prospective clients. • Environmental obligations, Hotline: In the event that employees become aware of any • Regulatory and legal compliance facts surrounding a transaction that might be suspicious • Government security programs (TSA) and give rise to a violation of the Code of Conduct, they may anonymously advise BDP by calling +1 (866) 631-2807. • Anti-corruption compliance • Business and ethics risk management Anonymous Complaint Form: Employees may also inform • Effective emergency management the company with regards to potential violations via an anonymous complaint form, easily available on the • Management training company’s intranet site. 13 LABOR STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Labor Standards 14 COMMITMENT PROCESS & SYSTEM BDP strongly encourages all Pay: BDP follows minimum pay requirements in each location we operate and offers competitive industry compensation. employees to own their personal career development through a variety Performance Management: Each year, BDP publishes Key Performance Indicators for the entire global organization. These of policies and programs. Through our indicators are communicated clearly and swiftly throughout the organization, and each employee is assigned personal Key performance based processes, every Performance Indicators and goals for the next year by their manager. Through a semi-annual review process, each employee employee has the ability to rehas the opportunity to discuss their progress towards meeting these goals within the annual timeframe and communicate negotiate their positions and wages their expectation for increased responsibility and/or salary requirements. during the review period. Performance reviews and internal job Employee Classification: BDP classifies employees under applicable employee categories for the region in which they operate postings are used to incentivize career (ex. exempt/non-exempt). All employees have a service date associated with their date of hire that governs their eligibility for development and personal growth for various benefits such as vacation accrual rates, service recognition and participation in retirement plans. Further, employees all BDP personnel. have the opportunity to apply for internal job postings, transfers and promotions within BDP. Further, BDP maintains assistance programs, such as relocation assistance, and polices for accommodating emergencies or other employee needs, such as in the case of disability. “Flextime” or flexible working hours are also available upon necessity and management approval, and performance reviews are conducted with employees every six months, to allow for the discussion of any employment related issues. Labor Standards 15 DEVELOPMENT MENTORING PROGRAM OPPORTUNITIES Being a privately held, family-owned company that values personal relationships, BDP has historically used informal coaching and networking throughout the organization. However, in the past few years, BDP has developed a robust mentor program. Behavior BDP’s structured Mentoring Program varies vastly from informal mentoring as it is focused solely on the leadership Competencies development of a small group of high potential employees identified by management. The purpose of the Mentoring Program at BDP is to foster career development and share career experiences between management and high potential employees. The long-term goals of the Mentoring Program are to: Individual Development Tools 1. Identify and reward high potential employees within the organization by providing them with personal attention and guidance from BDP management; 2. Lay the foundation for a succession plan throughout the organization; 3. Improve morale and job satisfaction of high potential employees; 4. Establish a culture that values career development and networking while fostering trust throughout the organization; & Succession Planning 5. Aid in retention and recruitment of high potential employees. Performance Development Training Labor Standards 16 LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM The goal of BDP’s Leadership Development Program (LDP) is to cultivate the next generation of leadership at BDP through a series of leadership PROGRAM development courses, networking opportunities and educational classes. FEATURES Participant Expectations: • Assume greater responsibility and authority, making decisions having Challenging 70% a significant impact on business Experiences: • Demonstrate value and impact across the organization • Actively and visibly be a talent developer, creating a learning environment • Take ownership of personal involvement in program and success Developmental 20% • Seek and apply feedback, gain self-awareness, leverage mistakes Relationships: • Model high levels of consistency and professionalism Training: 10% Labor Standards 17 BDP ASPIRING BDP UNIVERSITY The Aspiring BDP Program includes four major opportunities: BDP’s Corporate University helps keep employees up-to-date on the latest Leadership Boot Camp Week: One week consisting of intensive leadership development training delivered at the Global Locations. transportation and logistics issues, Activities consist of format training (Dale Carnegie and individual facilitation), peer relationship building and networking with senior regulations and best practices. A leadership to increase participant visibility. personalized curriculum with live classroom sessions, online webinars Leadership Topics and Delivery: Content for leadership development programs include cultural elements similar at all 3 levels, and and self-paced “on demand” courses also specific topics aligned for Global Leaders, Managers and individual Contributors. Standard elements include DISC training, assists staff in professional and Mentoring, Business Impact, BDP Behavior Competencies and activities that engage the BDP 2020 Strategy. Experiences and personal development. Training is Mentoring are customized with the individual and program sponsors. Topics and experiences that differ include: Global leader available for legal, technical, industry level: Hogan Assessment and coaching, executive image, negotiation, creating a strategic vision and departmental collaboration. specific and other education topics, Manager level: Coaching, delegation, team collaboration and customer focused innovation. Employee level: Time and productivity, which will be of use in assisting presentation skills, managing change and employee engagement. These topics, delivered via presentation or eLearning, are employees on the job. designed to help enhance the skill sets of BDP’s future leaders as they prepare for the next level or responsibility at BDP. Leadership “Personal Brand” Statement: BDP Aspire participants use the resources from training, relationships and experiences to develop an impactful “Personal Brand’ that defines their leadership style and strengths and business impact. This includes their portfolio of work during the program and reflective mentoring/coaching. Networking: A strong network is essential for all leaders. All participants in this program meet with senior and executive leadership of the company in both formal and informal settings in order to discuss their path within the company. 18 LABOR STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Labor Standards 19 SOCIAL & LABOR OBLIGATIONS BDP adheres to all social and labor obligations to support its employees globally. These obligations include, but are not limited to, employee medical benefits, family and medical leave, term disability benefits and paid vacation; consistent with requirements of each jurisdiction. Also see Principles 2 and 3. BDP also offers employees flexible working hours upon management approval, safety policies at the work place, sick leave, personal leave and other social/life insurance benefits for eligible employees. Further, to combat exploitation and abuse at home and abroad, BDP maintains a Global Code of Conduct. BDP also maintains an Equal Employment Policy, Human Rights Policy, a policy against Child Labor and an Anti-Harassment Policy. All staff is notified and trained with regards to these policies, and are accountable for adherence to them and the Global Code of Conduct. Violations can lead to disciplinary action such as probation, suspension and other penalties, up to termination. BDP encourages all agents, customers and subcontractors to follow these policies as well. We ask third parties to execute a Third Party Code of Conduct aligned with BDP’s values reflected in our Global Code of Conduct. BDP maintains an anonymous complaint form on its intranet website to ensure accountability with our ethical mandate, as well as a complaint hotline. 20 LABOR STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labor. Labor Standards 21 COMMITMENT PROCESS & SYSTEM BDP fully complies with the Child Policy: BDP requires that all employees and representatives shall recognize the U.N. Convention on the Rights of the Child, and Labor provisions of the Fair Labor that its business partners comply with all relevant national and international laws, regulations and provisions applicable in the Standards Act and applicable state country of operation. Employees and partners are obliged to take the appropriate measures to ensure that no child labor statutes, which govern the occurs at their place of operation. employment of minors. Each office manager shall effectively communicate to all of its employees, as well as to its own local agents, the content of BDP’s Policy, and ensure that all measures required are implemented accordingly. Labor Standards 22 BACKGROUND CHECKS BDP conducts background checks prior to hire to ensure minimum age requirements are met for all employees. BDP maintains an active policy against child labor. All staff are notified and trained with regards to the policy, and are accountable for adherence to it, as well as the Global Code of Conduct. The Child Labor Policy is easily accessible on BDP’s intranet. Violations can lead to disciplinary actions such as probation, suspension and other penalties, up to termination. BDP encourages all agents, customers and subcontractors to follow these policies as well. Office Managers and all of BDP’s business partners are instructed to take appropriate measures to ensure that no child labor occurs at their place of operation. INSTRUCTIONS INCLUDE Never employ underage workers (i.e. workers below 15 years of age or any higher age prescribed by local laws and regulations). Verify the age of all employees and anyone carrying out work for BDP against official documents. 23 LABOR STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Labor Standards 24 ANTIHARASSMENT HARASSMENT EMPLOYEE COMPLIANT POLICY TRAINING PROCEDURE An important aspect of BDP International’s Equal BDP conducts on-going Anti-Harassment, Diversity BDP encourages the prompt reporting of complaints Employment Opportunity and Human Rights Policy is and Cultural Sensitivity Training for all employees to or concerns so that rapid and constructive action can to ensure that all individuals have the right and ensure that BDP maintains a workplace free from all be taken. All allegations of harassment are opportunity to work in an environment that is free forms of harassment. investigated promptly and in as confidential a from harassment of any nature. Harassment in any manner as is consistent with effective investigation. form including that of employees, applicants for BDP will take appropriate corrective action when employment, temporary employees, temporary warranted. BDP encourages all employees to assist agency workers, vendors, maintenance workers, in maintaining a harassment-free workplace. customers or third parties is unacceptable conduct Anonymous reporting is possible through BDP’s that is not tolerated by BDP. intranet site and/or BDP’s anonymous hotline. This policy applies to harassment on the basis of race, color, religion, gender, national origin, veteran status, age, disability, sexual orientation, familial status or any other characteristic protected from discrimination under law. Employees are notified about the policy and trained about its requirements through BDP University courses, the Global Code of Conduct and the employee handbook. The policy is also approved by the Board of Directors and is reviewed and updated annually. 25 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Environment 26 NEW GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT Now more than ever, the new global environment demands that companies evolve to adopt more environmental friendly and sustainable business practices. BDP recognizes that the world’s natural resources are limited and fragile, and as such, is fully committed to being an industry leader in corporate sustainability. We seek to operate in an environmentally responsible manner through education and compliance and our commitment to sustainable operations rooted in our core values. Because we are a non-asset based company, we have the flexibility to carefully select providers that offer more sustainable solutions and ones who are aligned with our corporate values. To support BDP’s environmental commitment, a structure has been established to ensure all initiatives are completed effectively and successfully. BDP’s Sustainability Manager is responsible for maintaining, improving and communicating all of BDP’s sustainability initiatives. BDP’s Sustainability Program is comprised of internal, external and global community initiatives. The Sustainability Manager stays current on all industry developments to keep BDP and its stakeholders informed and prepared for any regulatory or industry changes that may occur. BDP’s current Environmental, Health and Safety Policy highlights its commitment to the environmental, health and safety of BDP’s employees, customers and the global community. The Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy is approved by all board members and management. In addition, BDP’s Chief Executive Officer is fully supportive and influential in shaping our environmental endeavors. This policy is communicated to all employees and conveys our commitment to operate with environment, health and safety in the forefront of our practices. Echoing this policy are several of BDP’s programs: BDP Sustainability Program, the BDP EHS Program and Responsible Care®. Environment 27 BDP SUSTAINABILITY Sustainable action is action that meets the needs of the Present without compromising the ability of Future Generations to meet their own needs. BDP’s Sustainability Program encompasses all of our policies, programs and practices for conducting operations in an environmentally, as well as fiscally responsible manner. The BDP Sustainability Program focuses on internal and external initiatives; including an interactive training program for all employees, along with programs focused on energy conservation, paper reduction, recycling, reuse and transit. To strengthen our external presence, BDP has been an active member of the Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG) since 2013. The CCWG is a global business to business initiative comprised of carriers, shippers and logistic providers. This membership allows BDP to collaborate with peers and business partners, calculate our customer’s carbon footprint, along with the ability to review ocean carrier environmental data. Each of these areas further shape and define BDP’s commitment to society, the economy and our responsibility to protect the environment. BDP is also a member of the American Chemical Council (ACC) and the Chemical Institute (CDI). BDP is a Partner in the ACC’s Responsible Care® Program now in its 30th year. Environment 28 BDP GREEN & EHS PROGRAM The BDP Green Program began seven years ago and became a vital part within the Sustainability Program. BDP Green supported corporate sustainability goals and motivated employees to create initiatives focused on BDP’s environmental goals. These goals include increased environmental consciousness across the company and the global community, in the areas of energy conservation, recycling, reduction of waste, reusable items and ecofriendly transit. In 2015, the BDP Green Team expanded to become the Environmental, Health and Safety Team. With the establishment of EHS Ambassadors, a global audience can be reached and the BDP EHS message has become more effective. To achieve its goals and truly have a global presence, the EHS Team combined EHS and Responsible Care (RC) Ambassadors to represent for both the EHS and RC initiatives. Since 2016, the EHS/RC Ambassador Network has grown over fifteen percent, with 80 Ambassadors to date. The EHS Team collaboration allows BDP’s EHS initiatives to reach every office across the globe. The main focus of the Environmental, Health and Safety Team is to bring together the ideals and standards embedded in each area and communicate these principles to our global BDP community. Environment 29 Currently, BDP is proud to report the following achievements in 2017 and essential goals for 2018: 1 Increased communication and awareness in all offices regarding recycling, paper reduction and energy conservation; • Employee engagement via monthly internal global bulletins, social networking sites and a global networking site for all EHS/RC Ambassadors to share idea, perspectives and enhance BDP’s goal of a corporate-wide awareness of sustainability. 2 Environmental events in 2017 included: • Earth Day celebration with awareness events for all employees focusing on recycling, reduction of waste, reuse of items and education about local and organic foods; • EHS Week celebration including a BDP University Course, sponsored snack, an EHS game and an ‘EHS in Action’ photo contest. 3 At the end of 2017, EHS/RC Ambassadors grew by over fifteen percent. Currently, there are 80 EHS/RC Ambassadors across the globe and this number will continue to grow in 2018. The EHS/RC Ambassador responsibilities include: • Representing your office as a member on the EHS and RC Teams • Having responsibility for organizing and coordinating all EHS and RC events and initiatives • Being committed to all EHS guidelines and Responsible Care guidelines 4 The BDP Sustainability training has continued to expand globally after its second year. By the end of 2017, forty-three percent of employees had taken the Sustainability training; forty-five percent of employees completed a global EHS course. Both the sustainability and EHS trainings highlight areas in the workplace and at home where employees can focus on their environmental, health and safety actions. Environment 30 Currently, BDP is proud to report the following achievements in 2017 and essential goals for 2018: 5 In 2015, fifteen percent of office and paper supply purchases in BDP’s US offices were environmentally friendly products. In 2016, our green office supply purchases in the US totaled sixty-three percent of all office supply purchases. These products are either made from recyclable materials or can be recycled. 6 In 2017, BDP responsibly disposed of electronic waste through a third party contractor who ensured the proper recycling of the e-waste. 7 In 2017, BDP completed the Together for Sustainability (TfS) audit program to assess and improve sustainability practices within the supply chains of the chemical industry. The program’s objective is to create standards for sustainability supply chains, share assessments, raise awareness, make continuous improvements and promote best practices. 8 BDP has received a silver-level rating from Ecovadis, which operates the first collaborative platform providing supplier sustainability ratings for global supply chains, for its commitment to corporate social responsibility. 9 BDP awarded Inbound Logistics Green Supply Chain Partner 2017. • Profiles companies that are demonstrating their commitment to sustainable supply chain, logistics and transportation practices. 10 ISO 14001 (Environmental Management System) Certification for the below countries/regions: Asia, Spain, Germany 11 SQAS Certification in our Belgium and France offices. 31 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Environment 32 MEMBERSHIPS & SUPPORTING PARTNERS CLEAN CARGO WORKING GROUP: Supporting BDP’s sustainability initiatives. BDP became a member of the Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG) in 2013. In 2015, BDP was elected as a steering committee member for CCWG. BDP continues to be an active member of the CCWG to date. The CCWG is a global business initiative comprised of carriers, shippers and logistics providers. This membership provides BDP with several benefits: • The ability to calculate our customer’s carbon footprint using data and tools provided by the CCWG; • The ability to review and compare ocean carriers’ environmental performances across a broad range of data; • Collaboration with peers and business partners to improve BDP’s environmental performance; and • The ability to help influence the development of tools, standards and methodologies for improving environmental performance across the intermodal value chain. Environment 33 RESPONSIBLE CARE ® We pledge to operate business in accordance with the ethics, values and principles set forth in the Responsible Care ® program elements: BDP is a proud Partner of the American Chemistry Council’s (ACC) Responsible Care® initiative since 2003. Responsible Care ® • Endorse the Guiding Principles is the chemical industry’s unique voluntary global initiative that drives continuous health, safety, and environmental quality of Responsible Care ®; and community awareness of chemicals throughout their life cycle. • Endorse the Responsible Care ® Global Charter; • Measure and publicly report BDP’s commitment to Responsible Care ® is an important action every day in both practice and mindset. As such, successful performance on an annual basis; implementation of Responsible Care ® is a key driver in our vision of Delivering the Best Global Logistics Solutions. • Implement the ACC security Code; BDP’s Commitment to Responsible Care ® • Obtain independent certification that a management system is in Responsible Care ® initiatives align with BDP’s culture of safety. Chemical products accounted for 65% of BDP’s global place and functions efficiently shipment activity in 2017. BDP’s internal commitment to Chemical Brand Dominance continuously drives our organization to and in line with professional provide the most ethical, secure and accurate value chain solutions to our chemical customers. Most importantly, our top specifications. priority is to keep our workforce communities safe. While BDP has achieved accolades for its commitment to the Responsible Care ® principles and management practices in 2016 and 2017, there is still work to be done. Chemical safety is a 24/7 activity that requires the teamwork of the BDP people around the global to achieve. Environment 34 OUR RESPONSIBLE CARE ® STORY Our organization experienced another year of growth and continued education in Responsible Care ®. DGPro Education Program: As complacency invites vulnerability, BDP continuously challenges itself to be a dynamic and everchanging organization. BDP’s Compliance Center of Excellence launched a new dangerous goods certificate program in 2017: Dangerous Goods Professional (DGPro). DGPro complements our existing hazardous chemical training program and is available globally on BDP University. The certificate program is designed to develop hazardous materials knowledge leaders and demonstrate BDP’s commitment to the chemical value chain and BDP’s safety culture. EHS and Responsible Care® Ambassador Program: BDP has continued to expand our EHS and Responsible Care ® Ambassador Network around the globe. In 2017, we experienced a timelier and more consistent communications channel to deliver core messages and actions required by BDP offices globally. Colleagues are now more informed and have a greater awareness to the purpose and value of EHS and Responsible Care ®. Employees are more engaged with an expanded network and are more knowledgeable of the chemical processes. BDP introduced the first of a series of Responsible Care ® Communication Packages to offices outside of the US. The series included five basic elements to guide our offices outside of the US and how to be successful in the implementation of Responsible Care ®. The Ambassador network was a key success after implementing within each region. Environment 35 ACHIEVED RESPONSIBLE NAMED 2016 & 2017 CARE MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBLE CARE ® SYSTEM ® ATTESTATION PARTNER OF THE YEAR BDP North America-US is in compliance with the The Responsible Care ® Partner Award recognizes the requirements of the American Chemistry Council, superb performance and safety record of companies Responsible Care Management System ®, Technical involved in the distribution, transportation, storage, use, Specification document RC101.04.2013. treatment-disposal, and/or sales and marketing of chemicals. RCMS includes 7 management practices that focus on Process Safety Code. BDP’s 2017 entry to the award program chronicled our 1. Leadership and culture new DGPro Education Program. In addition, all new and 2. Accountability current employees who worked a non-hazardous materials 3. Knowledge, expertise and training customer account were required to complete the first PARTNER OF THE YEAR 4. Understanding and prioritization of process safety DGPro introduction course as a foundation to enhance risks employee-wide awareness to BDP’s commitment to 5. Comprehensive process safety management systems chemical safety in the transportation sector. 6. Information sharing 7. Monitoring and improving performance 2016 & 2017 Environment 36 WHAT WE WANT TO RESPONSIBLE CARE REACHES ACHIEVE ONE BDP BDP will continue to expand the principles set forth in Responsible Care ® to all of its operations throughout the • Employee focus on Process Safety and Product Globe. Focus areas include Responsible Care ® education and initiatives in these aspects: Stewardship in all that we do • Responsible Care ® Global Charter Awareness • BDP generates new ideas to continuously improve • Formal bi-annual process with executive leadership and employee signatures • Drive traffic to the BDP Responsible Care® site to enhance education, improve content and format • Responsible Care ® Guiding Principles to meet regional needs • EHS & Responsible Care ® Ambassador Network • Educational Trainings on BDPU • Responsible Care ® Overview • Introduction to Process Safety • Guiding Principles to Incident Reporting • Awareness and outreach to regional Responsible Care ® organizations to connect with BDP customers and prospects PROCESS SAFETY • Connect Responsible Care ® as a core component of a Culture of BDP Safety • Drive continuous improvement over our day-to-day operational and facility processes Ensures companies have policies, documented • Make Responsible Care ® and the business value generated an ongoing dialogue with BDP customers processes, and recommended practices for the ethical and safe manufacturing, handling, storage, distribution, risk management and government reporting for hazardous and non-hazardous chemicals. Environment 37 EDUCATION New DGPro Education Series BDP launched a new 12-course curriculum in addition to the required and established DG training program (IMDG/IATA), which is designed to provide employees with all tools necessary to recognize the uniqueness of dangerous goods. In order to maintain DGPro certification, employees must take DG training courses regularly. Educational Opportunities Developed and released a global course on BDP University: Process Safety 101: An Introduction to Process Safety at BDP 1. Audience: Global 2. Encourage all colleagues to become aware of the basic principles of Process Safety and its importance in the global supply chain. All employees are responsible for safety awareness and management when it comes to chemicals. 3. Required for all employees who are involved in chemical logistics – operations, facilities, risk management, regulatory compliance Environment 38 EXPANDING BDP EHS BDP RESPONSIBLE & RC AMBASSADOR CARE ® NETWORK COMMITTEE BDP has expended its EHS & Responsible Care ® The committee has 35 members from all levels of the Ambassador network in each office globally. Ambassadors organization. The team meets quarterly to advance receive core communication and guidance as they Responsible Care ® initiatives. The goal is to improve BDP’s collaborate with local leadership and teams to implement operational process and operating systems to provide the key initiatives, training opportunities and communications highest quality of safety to our employees. (developed through the BDP Regulatory Compliance Center of Excellence). Guided by the American Chemical Council’s Responsible Care ® program, the committee seeks to understand and The network has evolved into a collaboration hub where implement new policies, codes and opportunities for the new ideas and improvements are channeled to the safest handling and data accuracy of hazardous chemical Regulatory Compliance team for continuous improvement. shipments in the supply chain including: • Internal Processes This provides opportunities for more employee • Operating Systems engagement and support to local offices in need. The • Documentation Ambassador network encourages employees at all levels to • Regulatory & Security Compliance engage local customers in a Responsible Care conversation • Government Reporting through sharing involvement information and chemical • Carrier Selection best practices. • Employee Education • Risk Management Environment 39 HAZARDOUS CARGO ANNUAL DG RESPONSIBLE CARE® VISIBILITY via BDP SUMMARY REPORTS GLOBAL CHARTER GLOBAL VISIBILITY BY REGION & BIANNUAL UPDATE TOOL (BDP SMART) COUNTRY Every 2 years employees must renew their pledge Chemical logistics involves added risk: tracking BDP communicates DG activity reports designed to and commitment to the BDP Responsible Care ® hazardous cargo is crucial to managing chemical identify the hazardous chemical products exported Charter. In order to keep employees engaged and supply chains. In response to this challenge, BDP has around the globe. current in Responsible Care education, BDP sees developed Smart Chemical, a global visibility tool great value in re-introducing the global charter that provides additional focus on sensitive shipments The goal is to understand the trending dangerous globally. Responsible Care ® campaign content with the placement of regulated hazardous placards goods products transported throughout the supply includes webinars customized by region, local town to allow for instant visibility. All relevant information chain. Annual reports are generated and hall meetings and a celebration signing where is user friendly and supports a prompt response to communicated for each country and region. employees pledge their understanding and hazardous incidents. commitment to the key elements. Signed posters are displayed in the common areas in each office as a reminder of employee commitment. 40 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should encourage the diffusion and development of environmentally friendly technologies. Environment 41 ELECTRONIC PAPERLESS DOCUMENT MARKETING COMMITMENT MANAGEMENT COMMUNICATIONS BDP’s IT Center of Excellence has a BDP continues its efforts to become paperless via its All marketing communications are now distributed commitment, supported by a Document Management System (DMS). DMS has been electronically. Customers can register to receive weekly corporate policy, to ensure BDP’s executed in all US offices and in offices globally. DMS will newsletters and business updates via email, rather than in technology purchases and continue to be implemented in all other offices around the paper form. BDP International reduced cost and paper endeavors to minimize world. usage by converting the BDP calendar to an electronic environmental impact. version for the past three years. Marketing has made In the past three years, BDP Rotterdam, BDP Colombia and several advances to decrease BDP’s carbon footprint in BDP Philadelphia have utilized DMS in innovative ways to 2017 and will continue to expand upon these initiatives in make their offices and processes more paperless. In 2018, 2018. we will be releasing an education course to guide other offices to implement DMS more effectively. Environment 42 GREEN VIDEO CONFERENCING / CONFERENCES WEBINARS / CALLS BDP has implemented a web based application for external BDP has continued to increase the utilization of webinars meetings and events, eliminating the need for printed and conference calls to cut down on travel costs. BDP has signage and meeting information, questionnaires, and end installed video conferencing capabilities into the corporate of conference surveys. This significantly reduces BDP’s office to enable employees to have global meetings to paper waste. avoid the environmental and economic effects of travel. BDP has also transitioned to Google email, allowing easier BDP has hosted 8 conferences in 2017, with approximately access to web conferencing via Google Hangout. one hundred attendees at each conference. All attendees could access all presentation and conference information on the application. BDP has procured environmentally conscious giveaways for all conference attendees, distributing recycled pens and notebooks. 43 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti-Corruption 44 COMMITMENT PROCESS & SYSTEM BDP is committed to full Policy: BDP operates under a Global Code of Conduct (“the Code”). The Code applies to every officer, director and employee compliance with both the letter of BDP. BDP also expects that those with whom we do business (including our agents, consultants, suppliers and customers) and spirit of the laws and will also adhere to the Code. We request that all agents sign a Third Party Code of Conduct in order to do business with BDP. regulations in all countries in which it operates. It is of the utmost importance to BDP to conduct its The Code prohibits bribery in any form, including: extortion, facilitating payments, kickbacks, political contributions, and business with the integrity in the offer or receipt of gifts, hospitality or entertainment. accordance with BDP’s Global Code of Conduct and all applicable laws The Code also ensures that BDP maintains complete and accurate financial records and makes annual anti-bribery training and regulations. mandatory for all principals and key employees involved in sales, marketing and procurement. BDP also maintains a stringent Anti-Corruption Policy, which prohibits any form of corrupt practices, whether they are bribes or other forms of illicit payments. Anti-corruption training is mandatory and must be taken annually by each employee. An anonymous complaint hotline and web form has been created to prevent any such activity, and hold perpetrators accountable. Those caught committing corrupt acts are subject to termination. Employees that witness any suspicious behavior are encouraged to report such behavior to the Legal Department or anonymously through the intranet or hotline. Anti-Corruption 45 APPOINTMENT OF ANTICORRUPTION OFFICER BDP appointed an Anti-Corruption Compliance Officer who is responsible for the management and implementation of the Anti-Corruption Compliance Program. This includes the establishment, development and maintenance of the compliance program and the communication of these standards to all current and prospective business partners and employees. The Anti-Corruption Compliance Officer is also responsible for periodic reporting on the effectiveness of the program through the implementation of a monitoring and auditing system to detect criminal conduct. Anti-Corruption 46 TRAINING BDP’s Legal Team conducts ongoing global Anti-Corruption and FCPA (Foreign Corrupt Practices Act) Training through live BDP also conducts leadership and presentations, BDP University webinars and in-person via live webinars. The training consists of a detailed PowerPoint board trainings with reference to presentation on anti-bribery provisions of local legislation, the FCPA and BDP’s Compliance Program. Employees are then corruption and ethical risks along tested on the content in the training and must score at least an 80% to pass the training. with the need for Anti-Corruption and FCPA compliance. This allows Certifications are then sent to each employee after training completion to be signed and acknowledged. The certification executives and board level staff to states that the employee has completed the training and will adhere to BDP’s Compliance Program. All certifications are understand the intricacies of the stored electronically in BDP’s legal files and must be signed annually. law and practice involved in anticorruption efforts. We aim to ensure that all principals and key employees involved in sales, marketing and procurement are certified in AntiCorruption and FCPA compliance globally. In addition, all employees must participate in training annually and all new In 2018, BDP Legal hosted “A employees must complete training as part of their onboarding orientation. Fireside Chat with Richard Bistrong” where Richard spoke to BDP BDP implemented new training in line with the World Bank guidelines on the prevention of fraud and corruption. This management about his experience extensive training covers the guidelines issued by the World Bank in 2015 and has been made available to all BDP employees on foreign bribery, ethics and through BDP University, while mandatory for management executives. compliance issues from the frontline perspective. We are currently working on an Anti-Corruption presentation that will target management employees within the organization. This training will be mandatory for all management annually and will go live in 2018. Anti-Corruption 47 CONTRACT PROVISIONS DUE DILIGENCE The Code also has a section Included in BDP’s Global Code of Conduct is a section on BDP has been certified in anti-corruption by TRACE detailing contract provisions and due diligence in selecting international consultants, International since 2015. TRACE is a non-profit certification requirements for BDP’s intermediaries and joint venture partners. This section organization that provides all members with anti-bribery consultants, intermediaries and provides executives and employees with information on compliance support. joint venture partners. The identifying proper business partners, required disclosures provisions require that all parties and the final approval process. TRACE members include thousands of enterprises involved are fully compliant with throughout the world that work together to increase anti-bribery legislation, the Foreign BDP also maintains a vetting process for selecting transparency in international business transactions. Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and subcontractors and agents. All partners must certify that the Organization for Economic they are compliant in FCPA and anti-corruption and must Cooperation and Development sign a Third Party Code of Conduct. (“OECD”) Convention, along with all other applicable laws and BDP is in the process of adopting regional and global compliance procedures. All vendor vetting policies to ensure that all business partners contracts also set out accounting are compliant and ethically sound. Such policies involve and financial provisions, reporting verifying the reliability of the vendor, collecting bank requirements, disclosure details, employee details, evaluating conflicts of interests, information and termination evaluating whether employees of the vendor are provisions for non-compliance. government employees simultaneously and collecting their financial information with respect to vendors. Anti-Corruption 48 ANTI-CORRUPTION The certification terms require each consultant, intermediary and joint venture partner to periodically certify that he or she: Understands anti-bribery legislation and the FCPA (and OECD Convention); BDP has been named one of Ethisphere Institute’s World’s Most Ethical Company Has not violated or caused the company to violate legislation (and/or OECD Convention) since the date of the prior periodic for the years 2016, 2017 and 2018. certification; “This award recognizes those companies who align principle with action, work to make trust part of their corporate DNA and by doing so, shape future industry Does not know or have reason to believe that any other person retained by the company has violated anti-bribery legislation standards by introducing tomorrow’s best (and/or OECD Convention), or caused the company to violate them since the date of the prior certification; and practices today. The Ethisphere Institute is the global leader in advancing the standards of ethical business practices that fuel corporate character, marketplace trust and business success.” Will immediately advise a named official of the company if the certifying person should learn of or have a reason to believe Ethisphere Institute there has been any violation of the FCPA (and/or OECD Convention) in connection with the company’s business. BDP is honored to be recognized for such a prestigious award and will continue to drive our ethics program as a critical initiative in order to maintain such a recognition.
