COP 2017-2018 General This Communication on Progress covers the period: From: 02-10-2017 T0: 02-10-2018 Statement of continued support by the chief executive officer To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Atelier 2000 Uniforms-skrædderi A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. When working with the Global Compact Ten Principles during the 2017-2018 period, Atelier 2000 has focussed on creating synergy between our management systems in the areas of quality, environment, occupational health and safety as well as CSR. These areas are closely interlinked, and it is important for us that our policies, manuals and process descriptions reflect this connection. By revising our management systems, our work with due diligence has become more systematic, and the Global Compact Ten Principles have become even more integrated in our company’s policies and strategies. In the coming year, we will work on improving the communication of Atelier 2000’s policies and strategies towards our internal and external stakeholders. For further implementation of the Global Compact Ten Principles in our value chain, we will engage in an even closer dialogue with certain suppliers in high-risk countries about their CSR work. Furthermore, we will continue our work with eco-labelling some of our own products. Sincerely yours Heidi Moisen Adm. Director Human rights and Labour Principles: Principle 1: Businesses should Assessment, Policy and Goals support and respect the Atelier 2000’s CSR policy confirms the Global Compact human rights protection of internationally principles and supports The Universal Declaration of Human Rights proclaimed human rights as well as the ILO and other internationally accepted standards. Principle 2: Make sure that Atelier 2000 will not trade with companies that do not comply with they are not complicit in these principles and standards. human rights abuses Assessment of the risks within our operational value chain occurs through the use of our code of conduct and the requirement that all our suppliers must follow this code. We have filled-in questionnaires from all our suppliers showing their commitment to Human Rights and Atelier 2000’s code of conduct. Atelier 2000 respects the employees’ right to representation, including the right to join industry associations. We do not tolerate harassment and we are committed to providing equal opportunities in employment and avoiding unlawful discrimination. Principle 3: Businesses should The well-being of our employees, both physically and uphold the freedom of psychologically, is one of our priorities and our aim is to keep association and the effective improving our working conditions and working environment to recognition of the right to ensure this priority. collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of Implementation and Measurement of Outcomes all forms of forced and Atelier 2000 has in place procedures regarding human rights and compulsory labour labour issues covering our internal and external operations. Principle 5: The effective In our own organisation, we make sure that all new employees are abolition of child labour informed about their rights, our policies and procedures upon commencement of work at Atelier 2000. Each new employee Principle 6: The elimination of receives a contract that covers amongst other things, human rights discrimination in respect of issues. employment and occupation. We continue working with our yearly work environment assessment, as well as the 2-3 evaluation meetings we are holding each year to determine whether our solutions and actions have been successful. In this connection, we also go through employee/management input and examine any new applicable laws and regulations on work environment issues. In the 2017-2018 period, we have focussed on health among our employees. We held a course on healthy nutrition, and offered our employees free online-coaching on weight loss, as well as a free health check by professionals from the local Health Centre. As a result, some of our employees with health issues and overweight problems have worked on their issues with great results. In the coming year, we plan to focus on job satisfaction and happiness at the workplace. Our aim is to improve communication and working processes in in our company. We have employed a specialist within change management in April 2018 who has already successfully implemented new strategies. This work will be intensified in the 2018-19 period. Non-discrimination and diversity at the workplace are very important to us, and we are a well-functioning international team at Atelier 2000. We continuously make an effort to integrate local refugees in our organisation, and we have currently employed one tailor from Syrian and one from Afghanistan that are very well integrated in our production team. A new candidate from Syria is just about to start working in our company, too, so we hope that we will be able to integrate more local refugees in the next year. We have clear policies regarding human rights and labour issues concerning our suppliers and we are undertaking due diligence as a way of managing these issues. Our human rights and labour policies have become an integrated part of our management system for quality, environment, occupational health and safety as well as CSR during the 2017-18 period. This integration is necessary for our company in order to work more strategically with our external stakeholders and business partners concerning human rights and labour issues. Our aim is to intensify this strategic work in the 2018-19 period, andwe will engage in an even closer dialogue with certain suppliers in high-risk countries about their work with human rights and labour issues. Principles: Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Assessment, Policy and Goals challenges; Our aim is to reduce environmental impacts throughout our operations and uphold applicable laws and regulations. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater We expect that our business partners as a minimum uphold the laws environmental responsibility; and regulations that are applicable to their business. and We encourage our suppliers to work with environmental issues by Principle 9: encourage the using third party official certification schemes and standards. development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Implementation and Measurement of Outcomes technologies. During the 2017-2018 period, we have primarily been working with the integration of our environmental management system into one combined management system for quality, environment, occupational health and safety as well as CSR. We have re-drafted our environmental policy, environmental risk assessment, goals, implementation responsibilities and communication on environmental issues, and made sure that the standard requirements of ISO 14001 are met and procedures wellintegrated in our daily operations. Also, we have created better synergy between the interlinked areas of the combined management system. We have continued our work with eco-labelling some of our own products made from woollen fabrics with the Nordic Ecolabel “The Swan”. This has turned out to be a more challenging process than expected. We have obtained information on, amongst others, dying and chemicals, but the wool sourcing is difficult to track. We will therefore continue with our efforts with the eco-labelling process during the 2018-2019 period. Regarding our suppliers, we have in place an environmental requirements document and it is used in our due diligence work. Additionally, we are continiously working with third party standards and certifications. Several of our suppliers in high risk countries such as Pakistan, China and Slovakia have implemented an ISO 14001 environmental management system, audit by a third party as well as Oekotex certifications. We will continue our dialogue and cooperation with our suppliers regarding environmental issues. Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy and Goals Principle 10: Businesses should work against Atelier 2000 makes it clear in our code of conduct that we do not corruption in all its forms, tolerate corruption in all its forms. including extortion and bribery. Implementation and Measurement of Outcome Our anti-corruption policy has been integrated into our management system for quality, environment, occupational health and safety as well as CSR in the 2017-2018 period, and we will work on improving our communication of Atelier 2000’s anti-corruption policy in the 2018-19 period. There have been no anti-corruption violations against Atelier 2000 Further Comments: Activities for the next year include: 1. Finalising the integration of our management system for quality, environment, occupational health and safety as well as CSR 2. Improving communication and implementation of policies, strategies and processes into our daily operations and cooperation with business partners 3. Continuing the process of eco-labelling some of our products from woollen fabric.
