Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 We create solutions to unlock energy safely and sustainably for future generations. AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 CHAPTER TITLE PAGE 2 Content CEO Introduction Introduction People Are Key to Our Success Health, Safety and Security Integrity Vision. Building on almost 200 years of technological and engineering excellence Environmental Impact Aker Solutions is at the forefront in forging a sustainable future for the energy industry and Supply Chain Management the world it serves. A spirit of collaboration and openness is at the heart of this effort as we set Society new standards and solve new challenges. About This Report Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 CEO INTRODUCTION PAGE 3 CEO Introduction Corporate responsibility is at the heart of everything we do. It underpins our values, operations and investment decisions, as well as our relationships with our employees, stakeholders and the communities where we operate. Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 CEO INTRODUCTION PAGE 4 It is an integral component of our license to operate and drives our efforts to be more We bulked up our work on carbon capture, an essential tool to help meet sustainable as a business and as an industry. global emissions targets. Last year, we launched a standardized modular unit that will help lower costs and increase deployment of this important We have been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2008 and remain committed technology. to its principles and to responsible and sustainable business practices. We strive for good corporate governance as well as protecting and promoting health and safety, human and And, we took our first step into offshore wind with an investment in a floating labor rights, fair treatment, and equal opportunity. We have zero tolerance for corruption. wind technology company that brings our oil and gas engineering expertise into a fast-growing renewable energy market. Offshore wind demand is Last year, we further strengthened our anti-corruption compliance framework. We will continue increasing and our skills and technology will help spur even further growth. to do this as business opportunities evolve, potentially taking us into higher-risk markets. We also strive to reduce our own environmental footprint. Last year, we Aker Solutions is an international company. Some of the markets we operate in have decreased our energy intensity and carbon dioxide emission intensity and socio-economic challenges such as poverty and corruption. we aim for continued annual reductions. We believe that we build trust in all our markets by conducting our business openly and Throughout, the safety and health of our workforce remains our first priority. transparently and we want the communities where we work to benefit from our operations through the jobs, skills, training, sponsorships and donations that we bring. Last year, Aker Solutions had 313 days without a recordable injury, illness, spill or incident, compared with 296 days in the previous year. We had nine In Angola last year we completed the installation of new equipment and the refurbishment serious incidents compared with 34 in 2016. These numbers indicate that of four technical laboratories that will give petroleum engineering students more practical our training and vigilance is making a difference, and we will continue to experience. In India we sponsored vocational training for students in Mumbai. In Brazil, target a positive trend for zero incident days in 2018. Malaysia and elsewhere our employees organized charitable activities including donations and support for some of the countries’ most vulnerable young people. While we are now emerging from one of the longest slowdowns in the global oil and gas industry, market conditions remained challenging last year. Our commitment to our values also extends to our suppliers. We use a rigorous qualification, monitoring and performance system to ensure they also conform to our We had to make some tough decisions and let go of valued colleagues in business ethics and standards on integrity and corruption, health and safety, human and some locations where we had overcapacity. We worked with the trade unions labor rights and environment management. to ensure this process was as fair and transparent as possible. We continue to monitor and do what is necessary to safeguard our company and future jobs. We made major progress in 2017 driving value creation across the company. We did this through improvement efforts to streamline the business with an organizational structure and strategy that Longer term we are positive about the outlook. The world needs energy, reflects our business workflow from early engagement to project execution and services. in many forms. Our industry is increasingly focused on moving beyond oil and gas and has made sizeable investments in renewables. This provides And we intensified our pursuit of solutions that minimize the environmental footprint and us with new opportunities to deliver sustainable solutions. promote the shift to a low-carbon future. We bolstered our capabilities in natural gas, where we see great potential. Gas emits less Luis Araujo carbon dioxide than oil and is widely regarded as a transition fuel. Our capabilities can help Chief Executive Officer make offshore gas developments more efficient and cheaper. Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION PAGE 5 Introduction To us, corporate responsibility is about proactive and precautionary business decisions that reflect our commitment to integrity, accountability and sustainability. Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION PAGE 6 Every day across our operations we make decisions which have an impact across our Communication on Progress. The company is also a member of Trace value chain: they affect our people, our customers and our suppliers as well as the International, an international organization promoting transparency environment and the communities in which we operate. Some of our decisions have a and compliance with anti-corruption rules and participates in informal short-term impact, while others have a long-term effect on our stakeholders and the compliance forums with other Norwegian companies. environment. We believe that the impacts are positive overall, but we are aware of the difficult trade-offs and dilemmas that characterize our industry. We know that how we Aker Solutions reports and communicates on corporate conduct ourselves as an employer and as a business has a profound impact on our ability responsibility based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) to create long-term value for society and for our shareholders. framework. The report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 core level guidelines. Our code of conduct is our key governing document and the foundation of our drive to uphold the highest levels of integrity and avoid becoming complicit in unethical or illegal behavior. We strive to minimize harm to the environment by providing environmentally sound technology for our own and our customers’ activities. We recognize our responsibility to positively impact societies and strive to ensure that they benefit from our operations. Aker Solutions’ global CR strategy sets our vision and Governance The responsibility for corporate responsibility (CR) is defined in Aker Solutions’ business ingoals for ensuring responsible conduct toward people, the tegrity policy. The board of directors is responsible for overseeing and safeguarding management of the company’s CR work. In 2017, the company’s business integrity and compliance team had responsibility to assess, maintain and report on CR. Due to practical reasons and a new organizational setup, this responsibility will be transferred to the communications team environment and broader society. going forward. The company’s delivery centers are responsible for implementing, monitoring and reporting on the company’s CR work. Each of our locations is responsible for ensuring compliance with local legal requirements in addition to our corporate requirements. Stakeholders Strategy Aker Solutions is committed to ongoing engagement with a range Aker Solutions’ global CR strategy sets our vision and goals for ensuring responsible of stakeholders to listen and better understand their expectations conduct toward people, the environment and broader society. It was developed based on an of our company. We interact with investors, customers, suppliers, assessment of sustainability risks and communication with internal and external stakeholders. governments and national authorities, banks, non-governmental The strategy provides a detailed framework with clear objectives for the direction and organizations and industry groups, owners, employees, ambition of our CR activities. The strategy will be reviewed and updated in 2018. collaborative partners and the like through a variety of channels. These channels include management meetings, seminars and workshops, dialogue with customers and suppliers, meetings Charters and Memberships with investors and employees, quarterly presentations, articles Aker Solutions is a signatory to the UN Global Compact, the world’s largest corporate and interactive blogs on the company’s intranet and feedback sustainability initiative, and is committed to its 10 principles. This report is our annual from training courses. Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION PAGE 7 In 2015, we conducted a materiality assessment where we met and interviewed customer and supplier representatives, investors, government officials, and representatives from non-governmental and industry organizations. Within the company, representatives from our corporate office, business operations and global offices took part in an internal workshop. We also collected input from an employee survey. The feedback from the meetings helped us to better understand our stakeholders’ information needs, interest in and influence on our business and corporate responsibility work. We still consider the feedback from the 2015 process to be relevant and have therefore used it as a basis to determine the scope and content of this year’s report. For 2018, we will review this again in light of the new company strategy and as part of the revision of the CR strategy. Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 PEOPLE ARE KEY TO OUR SUCCESS PAGE 8 People Are Key to Our Success Attracting, developing, motivating and retaining highly competent employees globally are key to Aker Solutions’ success. Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 PEOPLE ARE KEY TO OUR SUCCESS PAGE 9 The company has a diverse workforce, which it seeks to develop and motivate through gap reflects the traditionally male-dominated nature of the oil world-class competency management, career development and leadership excellence. and gas sector, with women making up less than a quarter of the Our focus on people builds on a strong culture characterized by adaptability, competency company’s UK employees in 2017. We welcome this transparency and cooperation. measure as an opportunity to engage with employees on equality, diversity and inclusiveness and to discuss these issues in the UK Employee Consultative Forum. The company is taking several Diversity and Equal Opportunity measures to address the pay gap in the UK, including setting Aker Solutions is strongly committed to the principles of non-discrimination and equal up a diversity and inclusion committee. It is also working with opportunity, regardless of gender, nationality or other factors. About 17 percent of our schools and universities to promote the energy sector as an employees are women, due to historical reasons and the type of industry we are in. attractive career choice and to encourage more women to enter Men hold about 77 percent of our management positions and women hold 23 percent. the industry. We are also looking into conducting gender pay gap Aker Solutions seeks to promote diversity in its workforce through clear requirements analyses for other countries where we operate and using the data for diversity in recruitment, development of individuals and programs supporting equal gained to strengthen our internal efforts to ensure equality and opportunity, in accordance with its people policy and recruitment policy. On International diversity in the workforce. Click here for more information on the Women’s Day March 8, we will be recognizing the contribution of women to our company. UK gender pay gap report. In particular, Aker Solutions will focus on the achievements of women in leadership positions in the company. Respecting Human and Labor Rights We have around 80 nationalities in our workforce, giving us a wide range of competencies Aker Solutions respects and supports internationally accepted and insights, which benefit our customers and business and make us stronger in an human and labor rights principles. The company also understands increasingly competitive global environment. that a global organization like ours can risk being drawn into human or labor rights violations. We consider the risk of direct Aker Solutions is committed to equal opportunity and enabling local staff to move into involvement in such infringements to be low. However, indirect management positions. This is mandatory in some countries under rules for local content involvement in violations could be a risk due to the size of our and job creation for nationals. Local management teams actively seek to promote, build supply chain. and retain local talent, ensuring legal compliance and securing long-term operations. Our code of conduct, business integrity policy and UN Global Examples: In 2015, the company’s offices in Brazil participated in the Great Place to Work Compact membership underpin our respect of and support for Institute’s annual survey. The survey measures corporate culture and employee satisfaction international standards, such as the UN’s Universal Declaration of against the global standard of a great workplace. For the first time, Aker Solutions was Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, named in 2017 as one of the best companies to work for in the Brazilian state of Rio de the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Janeiro, where it is present in Rio de Janeiro and Rio das Ostras. At the same time, the Work and the UK Modern Slavery Act. We also adhere to the company moved up in the ranking in Rio de Janeiro and the state of Parana. Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. In the UK we started reporting publicly and to the government on the gender pay gap, which is the difference in the average pay of all male and female employees. The report, which was published in March 2018, showed a mean pay gap of 24.1% and a median pay gap of 34.6% last year between male and female employees of Aker Solutions in the UK. The Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 PEOPLE ARE KEY TO OUR SUCCESS PAGE 10 Our commitment to these fundamental rights is also addressed in the Global Framework for leaders and managers in aligning employees around common Agreement between Aker ASA and the Norwegian and international trade unions goals and their role in enabling people to grow, develop and Fellesforbundet, IndustriALL Global Union, ITO and Tekna dating from 2008. In 2012, contribute to their fullest potential. The company conducted around this agreement was renewed and focuses on standards for general employment terms, 30 information and training sessions globally to train leaders on employee relations, non-discrimination, health and safety practices, the prohibition of child the new processes. The company also conducted a number of and forced labor, and the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. This sessions for employees and managers on a local basis. agreement demands similar standards in our supply chain. We continuously work to ensure that human and labor rights violations, including slavery and human trafficking, do not take place in our supply chain or in any other parts of our business. In 2017, we continued to use qualification requirements and background Our people focus builds on a screening to check our suppliers for human rights infringements, and we regularly report on risks related to such infringements in our supply chain. We expect an increased focus strong culture characterized by on these issues following the adoption of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 in the UK and a general increase in customer and investor focus on the subject. adaptability, competency and No human rights grievances against the company were filed through formal channels in cooperation. 2017. Leadership, Talent and Performance Rewarding Performance The value of our business is built on our employees: they are the people who understand Aker Solutions offers professional development, worldwide career our strategic direction, have in-depth knowledge of our technology and processes and are opportunities, competitive pay and benefits, and a healthy workable to help drive Aker Solutions forward. life balance. In 2017, we strengthened our efforts and processes around developing a highTalent is our greatest asset and we want everyone on our team performance workplace with engaged employees and capable leaders who are able to to feel both challenged and fulfilled. The company seeks to build implement our strategic objectives on a sustained basis. ‘win-win’ relationships. We believe that nurturing the skills and careers of our employees strengthens us as a company. We also We rolled out a global leadership program, known as Enabling Agile Leadership, which want our employees to reap professional and economic benefits began with the executive management team and their direct reports. The program aims to for meeting business targets and performance goals, as reflected strengthen leadership skills and support a culture focused on continuous improvement. in our total rewards system. Aker Solutions held the 2017 program in the UK, Norway, Brazil and Malaysia. Twenty-nine female leaders and 128 male leaders attended the sessions. Protecting Personal Data As a Binding Corporate Rules approved corporation, Aker Solutions Aker Solutions adjusted its performance management processes to align with the new takes data protection seriously. We have an organization dedicated organizational setup that was introduced in 2016. The processes clarified the responsibilities to protecting personal data, with a team of data protection officers Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 PEOPLE ARE KEY TO OUR SUCCESS PAGE 11 supervising and supporting this effort. In 2017, Aker Solutions commenced General Data Aker Solutions in 2017 conducted a global survey to gauge Protection Regulation (GDPR) compliance by setting up a GDPR project. The GDPR employee engagement. Based on the findings, the company project runs until May 25, 2018 when the GDPR comes into effect. It focuses on closing identified three main areas for strengthening engagement. These the gap between current and new legislation and establishing satisfactory technical and are focused on goals and priorities, employee empowerment and organizational measures to achieve the necessary levels of security. opportunities for learning and professional growth. The company is taking actions to address these areas. The survey will be held annually. Employee Turnover The global voluntary workforce turnover averaged 7 percent in 2017 compared with 6.2 percent in 2016. Key Staff Figures Since 2014, Aker Solutions has reduced the number of General uncertainty in the market was cited in exit interviews as one of the main reasons employees at the company. The numbers in 2017 show that trend for the higher turnover. Many people who left the company took positions in other flattening out. In 2018, we expect the number of employees to industries. Norway had the highest increase in turnover, especially in locations like increase by around 200 to 400 employees, depending on project Fornebu, which has not been as affected by the downturn and has many other industries awards. We expect to use more external contractors in 2018. in the region. The company will work with employees on career development plans to increase employee retention. Aker Solutions implemented the biggest reductions in office and non-office personnel in Norway, the U.S. and Malaysia. In the U.S., the number of employees declined due to the reorganization, Employee Representation and Engagement which included the relocation of some employees to Mobile in Good industrial relations are an important part of Aker Solutions’ history and culture. Alabama from Houston in Texas. Toward the end of 2017, new We encourage employee representation in our business units worldwide. This is part project awards enabled us to recruit new employees, mainly in of our commitment to human and labor rights. Employees worldwide have the right to Norway and the UK. Aker Solutions expects the number of office be heard, represented and to form and join trade unions of their own choice. Employee and non-office personnel to grow in 2018. While the number of representatives provide employees with influence and lines of communication through women in leadership roles fell to 124 in 2017 from 137 in the their participation in working committees, on the board of directors, and in operational previous year, the percentage of women leaders in the company improvement and organizational change projects. In 2017, union representatives in was slightly up from 2016. Norway had regular meetings with management on a local and regional level, in addition to more regulatory discussions in accordance with union agreements entered into by the company. Once a year, the unions hold a conference with a formal election process for all union representatives in Norway. Twice a year employee representatives from Norway, the UK, Germany, Brazil, Malaysia and India meet with management from the Aker group companies as part of the Global Works Council, a forum that aims to develop communication and consultation between management and employees on issues such as operations and strategy. The October meeting included an update on Aker ASA, a session on digitalization and how to improve the Global Works Council. Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 PEOPLE ARE KEY TO OUR SUCCESS PAGE 12 Key Staff Figures Percentages rounded 2017 2016 2015 20141 Total Staff 16,175 16,177 17,673 20,974 Own employees office 2 8,165 8,726 10,898 12,218 Own employees non office 2 5,631 5,659 4,497 4,476 Contract staff 2,379 1,792 2,278 4,280 Own employees (percent) 85.3 88.9 87.1 79.6 External contracts (percent) 14.7 11.1 12.9 20.4 Own office employees (percent) 59.2 60.7 70.8 73.2 Non-office employees (percent) 40.8 39.3 29.2 26.8 Total own employees Norway (percent) 40.4 40.6 48.8 49.1 Own Employees 2 13,796 14,385 15,395 16,694 North America 511 534 868 923 Brazil (including C.S.E Mecânica e Instrumentacâo Ltda) 3,345 3,313 1,378 1,485 Africa 225 216 187 157 Asia Pacific 2,085 2,623 2,994 3,595 Europe (excl. Norway and UK) 3 2 112 127 UK 2,049 1,858 2,348 2,216 Norway 5,578 5,839 7,508 8,191 Age Groups Own Employees (percent) 2 <30 12.4 15.5 19.5 22.6 30-50 63.3 61.3 59.6 57.8 >50 24.3 23.2 20.9 19.6 Part-time Own Employees (percent) Part-time own employees Norway 1.2 0.9 0.8 0.9 Part-time own employees UK 2.0 2.2 1.8 1.4 Key staff figures continues on next page Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 PEOPLE ARE KEY TO OUR SUCCESS PAGE 13 Key Staff Figures (continued) 2017 2016 2015 2014 1 Recruited 2 Own employees office 527 360 689 1,464 Own employees non-office 1,654 590 847 517 Age Groups Recruited (percent) 2 <30 22.0 27.5 37.6 41.5 30-50 58.6 49.4 49.7 52.4 >50 19.3 23.2 12.8 6.1 Staff Turnover (percent) 3 7.0 6.2 5.2 6.2 Gender Distribution female Own employees office (percent) 2 26.6 26.4 26.5 26.6 Own employees non-office (percent) 2 2.5 3.5 3.6 3.2 Total own female employees (percent) 16.8 19.6 19.9 20.9 Own female leaders (percent) 2 22.5 22.4 22.3 21.8 Total female leaders 124 137 275 257 1) The 2014 figures in this table are estimated to reflect Aker Solutions and exclude numbers from Akastor 2) Regular and temporary employees on our payroll 3) Regular employees Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 PEOPLE ARE KEY TO OUR SUCCESS PAGE 14 Parental Leave Own Regular Employees Percentages rounded Employees taking parental leave in Employees taking parental leave in Employees taking parental leave in 2016/2017* 2015/2016* 2014/2015 Female Male Total Female Male Total Female Male Total Norway Employees taking parental leave 77 224 301 119 141 260 144 233 377 Employed at Aker Solutions 12 months after parental leave ended (percent) 70.1 72.3 71.8 60.5 76.5 69.2 88.2 89.3 88.9 UK Employees taking parental leave 24 63 87 28 34 62 25 52 77 Employed at Aker Solutions 12 months after parental leave ended (percent) 62.5 74.6 71.3 67.9 85.3 77.4 84.0 94.2 90.9 Malaysia Employees taking parental leave 21 68 89 48 167 215 46 138 184 Employed at Aker Solutions 12 months after parental leave ended (percent) 81.0 89.7 87.6 83.3 92.2 90.2 76.1 83.3 81.5 India Employees taking parental leave 22 73 95 29** 87** 116** 21 75 96 Employed at Aker Solutions 12 months after parental leave ended (percent) 59.1 71.2 68.4 96.6 93.1 94.0 90.5 86.7 87.5 * These figures may have been affected by redundancies. ** Restated to correct error previously reported in 2015/2016 India figures. Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 PEOPLE ARE KEY TO OUR SUCCESS PAGE 15 Targets and Initiatives for 2018 The company’s human resources (HR) function aims to attract, motivate, develop and retain the most respected workforce in the industry. To achieve this ambition, the company has set the following targets for the next three years: ¡¡ Build career paths and training programs that fulfill employee development and serve business needs ¡¡ Reinforce a culture of accountable leaders who develop their people, embrace change and continuously improve ¡¡ Establish automated and digitalized processes and systems ¡¡ Ensure workforce planning that supports the Aker Solutions strategy with regards to competence, flexibility, cost profile and geography ¡¡ Establish and develop a dynamic and progressive HR team that is passionate about employee welfare, adding business value and continuous improvement A key priority for 2018 is to continue operationalizing the company’s restructure that took effect in November 2016. The two main targets related to this effort are: ¡¡ Establish a global competency and talent management system ¡¡ Leadership development and performance management Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY PAGE 16 Health, Safety and Security Safe operations are at the core of our values and our value proposition to customers. Each and every accident can and should be prevented. Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY PAGE 17 We work hard to ensure that employees and others working on our behalf can return home safely. The company often engages in work under challenging conditions, making it imperative to maintain the safety of employees and customers, subcontractors, consultants and other parties. The CR strategy reinforces our goal to protect the health, safety and human rights of the workforce. Entrenching a Safety Culture Aker Solutions’ health, safety and environment (HSE) policy states that the company must make every effort to reach a goal of zero incidents. The foundation for this continuous diligence is the company’s health, safety, security and environment (HSSE) management system, based on our operating system. This ensures that executive management is focused on HSSE performance and that all delivery centers set HSSE initiatives and goals for the coming year. While we have focused on security for many years, this change to HSSE from HSE reflects the company’s acknowledgement of its responsibility to protect its employees from intentional harm, its awareness of the increased security risks that come with expansion in high-risk countries and the overall global security situation. In 2018, we will merge the existing HSE policy and security policy into one HSSE policy and we will update internal and external documents and websites to reflect this change. The global Just Care program, launched in 2005, engages with employees through a simple message: ¡¡ Take personal responsibility for health, safety, security and the environment. All employees, including senior management, are expected to complete a personal improvement commitment to HSSE and quality An HSSE mindset is one of our core values. We believe this mindset is an important contributor in reducing the number of serious incidents. In 2017, Aker Solutions launched a global HSSE mindset program at all production units. The goal is to create awareness of the main HSSE risks and/or opportunities and to ensure our employees are prepared to handle these situations correctly in their daily work. Each unit ran four workshops on topics based on reported incidents and risk. Participating groups agreed on common key areas to improve in their own area of responsibility. Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY PAGE 18 Zero Incident Mindset When incidents occur, Aker Solutions initiates an investigation Aker Solutions has a zero incident mindset and believes all incidents can be prevented. process according to our internal incident investigation standard. Depending on the risk classification of the incident, a team of Our lost time incident frequency (LTIF) and total recordable incident frequency (TRIF) were investigators is tasked with finding out the details of the incident. slightly higher in 2017 compared with 2016. On the positive side, the number of serious The outcome of this process is a report describing the underlying injuries and fatalities has declined and no employees were permanently injured while causes of the incident and which changes and measures need working for Aker Solutions in 2017. In 2018, we will continue the HSSE mindset program to be implemented to avoid the incidents from reoccurring. All with new modules and develop a global behavior safety program framework that will focus red or black incidents require the creation of a lessons learned on human factors. presentation. These lessons are shared among Aker Solutions’ various locations. In 2017, Aker Solutions had two red incidents, as classified in its risk matrix, involving personal injuries. In both cases, the person who was injured suffered leg injuries. In the Typically, the most serious incidents occur due to a lack of first case, a scaffold tilted during a rigging operation striking the person and breaking his or insufficient risk assessments before the operation and/or leg. In the second case, the person’s foot was trapped between a railing kick plate and a managing change during the operation. We are putting a lot of piece of equipment that was being lifted by a crane. Due to the potential seriousness of emphasis on this area, including through the HSSE mindset the cases, they were both classified as red, even though the actual consequences were program, implementation of the lessons learned and in the only medical treatment with lost time for both the injured persons. Neither of them will day-to-day toolbox talks and operation planning meetings. suffer permanent injuries. Most of the other 15 lost time injuries (LTI) we had in 2017 included lighter squeezing of New Safety Indicators and smaller fractures in fingers, hands and feet, muscle strains, twisted ankles and falls On January 1, 2017, Aker Solutions introduced a new key from same or low levels. In addition to the incidents with personnel injuries, Aker Solutions performance indicator (KPI), focusing on the number of zero also had seven red near misses in 2017. Six of these incidents involved dropped objects, incident days. This KPI counts days without a recordable injury, some during lifting, and one involved an express kidnap and robbery of a small amount of work-related illness, environmental spill or near miss across the money in Congo-Brazzaville. company. In 2017, Aker Solutions had 313 zero incident days compared with 296 in 2016. This represents an increase of 17 2017 2016 2015 days. We will continue to target a positive trend for zero incident days in 2018. Total recordable incident frequency (TRIF), per million worked hours 1.4 1.3 1.3 including subcontractors In 2017, we also started to use the serious incident frequency (SIF) KPI to focus on the occurrence of high-risk incidents. These Lost time incident frequency (LTIF), per million worked hours 0.5 0.3 0.5 are incidents where the actual or potential consequence is high including subcontractors or extreme, as defined in our risk matrix. During the course of Fatalities, including subcontractors 0 4 1 the year, Aker Solutions’ SIF decreased to 0.2 in December 2017 versus 0.9 in January the same year. This decrease is a result Figures are rounded up to nearest decimal point. of a constant focus on high-risk operations and personal safety behavior, both from a corporate level and locally at our sites. Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY PAGE 19 Knowledge Sharing and Monitoring The most serious security incidents of 2017 included the express All employees have access to HSSE information and documents through a variety of online kidnap attempt noted above and personnel tampering with libraries, our HSSE eLearning courses and all of our incident registrations in the Synergi machinery with intent to cause harm. Several other international database. In addition, the online HSSE community enables professional discussions, incidents triggered responses and preventive measures. information and document sharing, as well as internal networking and resource sharing, creating a complete learning package that is available throughout the company. HSSE Management of Suppliers and Subcontractors In 2017, Aker Solutions Maintaining a high standard of HSSE management is a challenge for some of Aker Solutions’ suppliers. In previous years, different parts of Aker Solutions initiated HSSE focused on restructuring the measures mostly on an ad-hoc basis. This made it difficult to follow up efforts. We addressed this challenge in early 2017 by employing a full-time supplier HSSE specialist in emergency preparedness the supply chain function. The supplier HSSE specialist will coordinate and follow up Aker Solutions’ efforts with its suppliers and also ensure that the activities it initiates are based setup to align with the on the individual supplier’s risk profile. Our ‘eyes on the ground’ will be staff working in supplier quality surveillance so we can identify risks, potential problems and opportunities reorganization in the company. for improvement. These insights will help develop a risk-based approach to HSSE improvements through supplier accreditation and development. Emergency Preparedness and Response In 2017, Aker Solutions focused on restructuring the emergency Security preparedness setup to align with the reorganization in the Aker Solutions is increasingly exploring international opportunities making it a major company. The reorganization presented an opportunity to priority to ensure robust and resilient systems are in place to maintain the safety and centralize and streamline the approach to emergency response. security of personnel, assets and information. The company has streamlined security As a result, the company is rolling out global requirements for measures and implemented a global approach. In 2017, we continued to strengthen the emergency response across the business. Previously, processes global security operations center (GSOC), which we established in 2016. We improved the could differ between business units. process for travel safety through implementation of a new travel risk assessment tool. This ensures a better overview of employees who are traveling and drives compliance with our rules for traveling to high and extreme risk destinations. It also ensures that the company maintains its duty of care. In 2017, the company increased the number of sites connected Continued Focus on Employee Health and to the preferred corporate technical security and monitoring system. This enables cost Sick Leave Follow-up savings through company-wide agreements and decreased use of manual security Following the company’s reorganization in the fourth quarter of measures, such as the use of security personnel and call-out services. The security 2016, Aker Solutions strengthened the global health discipline department continues to cooperate closely with the International Association of Oil & Gas and clarified accountabilities. We aim to protect and promote Producers to harmonize requirements and align with customer expectations. the health and well-being of our global work force through the development of a more unified and standardized global health system. Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY PAGE 20 In 2017, the company’s global sick leave rate was 2.8 percent, unchanged from the Increased Focus on Health and previous two years. As Aker Solutions has operations around the world, much of the work Work Environment Globally to reduce sick leave is managed at local levels. This allows us to target issues based on The reorganization centralized and strengthened the global local needs. For example, the company has run several stress management courses for leadership team in the new HSSE function, enabling an increased local staff working on the Johan Sverdrup project and provided malaria prevention training focus on health and working environment. The company for employees traveling to Congo-Brazzaville and Angola. employed a working environment specialist for the global health team mid-year. This broadens our expertise and brings it in line As part of its commitment to the health, safety and well-being of its employees, Aker with our main objectives and responsibilities. Solutions also promotes a number of preventive measures to help employees enjoy a healthy work environment and personal life through its lifestyle, nutrition and exercise Some of our achievements in 2017: program Aker Active and its healthcare service Aker Care. ¡¡ We performed a thorough mapping of health services 2017 2016 2015 delivered to us at all our international hubs to assess quality and quantity of services purchased from local health providers. Sick leave rate (percent) 2.8 2.8 2.8 ¡¡ Aker Solutions joined the International Oil & Gas Producers’ health committee to learn from the expertise and experience of the group’s members. We have already benefited from their Adjustments to Aker Care work on health performance indicators, substance misuse, Aker Solutions’ Norwegian healthcare service Aker Care is now much leaner than the fitness-to-work, and vector-borne disease management, original version the company set up when it had more employees. However, this new enabling the company to develop procedures for these topics. version of Aker Care still provides more than the minimum requirement for occupational health and retains the basic service elements of the original setup. The new Aker Care ¡¡ In Norway, we established a procedure for a fit-to-travel medical focuses on personal health, occupational health and health promotion. The personal examination and certification for all travelers to high-risk countries. health service is delivered at each Aker Care hub, but with a contribution from each user. The procedure is now ready to be implemented globally. ¡¡ The global health team assisted and supported local Occupational health services remain the same and are available at all work sites according operations with several malaria cases among expatriates to annual plans and special requests. Health promotion is now integrated in the occupational in Congo-Brazzaville and Angola. The company developed health service plan for each site. Aker Care personnel run educational courses and and implemented a malaria prevention program with workshops on stress awareness and management for regular employees and managers. International SOS. ¡¡ The global health team introduced a new internal auditing tool developed by the Federation of Norwegian Industries to assess control measures on potential health hazards in the workplace. We performed a gap analysis on four of our different production sites in Norway. The company identified and addressed some gaps at each location, but detected no major deviations from industry standards and requirements. This audit tool will be rolled out at our production sites outside Norway in 2018. Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY PAGE 21 Targets and Initiatives for 2018 The most important target is always zero fatalities. For the other KPIs, Aker Solutions has set long-term goals starting in 2017 and going forward through 2021. For the serious incidents KPI, we are targeting a 10 percent reduction per year, giving a 2018 target of <0.83. We are targeting the same long-term goal for the LTIF, giving a target of <0.27 for 2018. For total recordable incidents (TRI) we are targeting a reduction of 5 percent per year from 2017 through 2021, giving a TRI frequency of <1.17 for 2018. For sick leave we are targeting a 0.1 percent reduction per year from 2017 through 2021, giving a sick leave rate of <2.5 percent for 2018. Aker Solutions aims to increase the number of zero incident days by 3 percent per year. For 2018, this target equates to more than 314 days without any recordable injury, work related illness, environmental spills or near misses companywide. The 2018 target is a 3 percent increase on the 2017 target of 305 zero incident days. Our targets are outlined in our HSSE plan, where we set long-term goals for health, safety, security and emergency response and environment, and a strategy for 2017 through 2021 on how to reach these goals. In the fourth quarter of 2017, we also initiated a process to analyze upcoming HSSE risks and challenges for 2018 and set up internal projects to mitigate the risks and improve areas with the most important challenges. These activities cover a broad range, including a new and aligned HSSE management system, a more robust emergency preparedness and response organization, continuous focus on supply chain HSSE management, and revitalization of HSSE competence and training requirements and toolbox. This year, we are focusing on process safety. Aker Solutions has assigned a taskforce to help embed process safety across the business. The company is aligning its measures with IOGP guidelines and recommended practices. Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 INTEGRITY PAGE 22 Integrity Doing business with integrity is important at Aker Solutions. We are committed to continuously ensuring that our business reflects the highest integrity, everywhere and always. Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 INTEGRITY PAGE 23 Internal Organization company updated, launched and implemented several supporting The business integrity and compliance (BIC) function has the main responsibility for documents to its anti-corruption compliance policy framework, in continuously developing Aker Solutions’ anti-corruption compliance program. BIC was areas such as gifts and hospitality, business partner qualification reorganized in 2017 in line with the new organizational setup. BIC now has a centralized processes, whistleblowing and country risk assessments. The corporate team, dedicated compliance officers in each delivery center and full-time and company conducted compliance audits at our locations in India part-time resources at several of our locations. The new setup enables the company to and Angola to verify the status and level of implementation. The work more proactively with the operations. company also updated the business integrity self-assessment for all our locations in 2017. Anti-Corruption Compliance Program In 2017, neither Aker Solutions nor any employee faced legal Aker Solutions’ code of conduct is the company’s main governing document. It action related to corruption. No contracts with partners were addresses important principles and sets clear rules and expectations for behavior and terminated or allowed to lapse due to violations related to ethical standards. The code of conduct is supported by the business integrity policy, corruption. No legal actions were brought against us for antiwhich defines responsibilities for ensuring and implementing our integrity principles and competitive, anti-trust behavior or monopoly violations. procedures across the company. Our anti-corruption compliance program is our main tool for ensuring that our business Project Screening is conducted in a transparent and ethical manner. The company has implemented the Aker Solutions’ presence in many countries, combined with global program at all its global locations. The program includes components that aim to reduce tender activities, requires a proactive approach and assessment the risk of becoming involved in unethical or illegal behavior. of potential prospects in markets associated with high integrity risks. The assessments are performed at regular intervals In 2017, DNV GL completed a gap analysis of Aker Solutions’ anti-corruption compliance throughout the year before making any commitments. Based on program to comply with the ISO 37001 standard for an anti-bribery management system. the results of the assessments, the company may decide not The assessment of the program and its results indicated that Aker Solutions is ready to to bid for potential prospects if the risks are deemed too high. proceed with a certification process based on the requirements in the standard. The process aims to avoid participation in activities considered unethical or illegal. As part of the process, the company assesses Aker Solutions further strengthened its anti-corruption compliance framework in 2017. risks of corruption, human or labor rights infringements, negative As the business evolves, the compliance framework needs to be continuously updated publicity or environmental damage. The company performed and developed. The company has established a group-wide compliance plan, which is 135 project assessments in 2017 compared with 97 in 2016, 57 updated annually. In addition, each delivery center has established annual risk-based in 2015 and 30 in 2014. A separate corporate risk committee compliance plans, which include key focus areas and annual targets. The plans aim to evaluates any project seen as having an extraordinary risk. support implementation of the anti-corruption compliance program while also increasing awareness and reducing integrity risks. Progress on the anti-corruption compliance work is reported monthly to the chief executive officer and the board of directors. Progress on Reporting Concerns the compliance plans and results are reported quarterly to the company’s audit committee. Aker Solutions’ whistleblowing channel is open to anyone who wants to report a concern or breaches of the code of conduct, The company conducted more integrity due diligence processes of potential business other internal policies, or laws and regulations. Reports can partners in 2017 than previously as it pursued more opportunities in high-risk markets. The be made openly or anonymously and are handled by BIC. The Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 INTEGRITY PAGE 24 company implemented a web-based whistleblowing tool in 2016. The tool is operated by a third party and is set up to ensure that information is treated confidentially as well as protecting the identity of the whistleblower if the person wants to report anonymously. The number of reported cases has increased since the channel opened in 2010. We see this as a healthy sign that the channel is working and the number of cases are in line with the benchmark for companies our size. There were 116 reports in 2017, up from 101 reports in 2016 and unchanged from 116 in 2015. More than half the reports concern employee relations and human resources issues. When a report is substantiated, responses can range from internal communication and policy updates to warnings and dismissals. The company maintains a lessons learned database to share experience within the organization. The company also has an ethics helpline for questions or concerns. The helpline is open to all employees at ethics@akersolutions.com. Training and Awareness Continuous focus on and awareness of compliance and business integrity is important to ensure that our employees know what to do if they find themselves in a difficult situation. Although our anti-corruption compliance program, policies and procedures are applicable globally, we place importance on interacting with employees on the ground to ensure that the local context is considered in our communication and training material. This is to ensure that expectations of business conduct are understood in the context where the training is conducted. In 2017, several ongoing activities helped ensure continuous awareness. The executive management team issued integrity statements and published internal blogs with clear expectations of business integrity. A compliance moment concept was established together with an internal compliance moment library that is available to all employees. Regular compliance updates were presented in management meetings, and blogs and articles were published on the intranet and in the company’s online business integrity community. The company strengthened its focus on business ethics training in 2017. It introduced a new mandatory eLearning course for all employees and has committed to provide annual code of conduct training to all employees. The annual course will replace previous eLearning courses. The company’s business ethics training program now includes a classroom course, Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 INTEGRITY PAGE 25 two eLearning courses and targeted training tailored specifically at employee groups Targets and Initiatives for 2018 exposed to increased integrity risks. The company updated all training material in 2017 to We met our 2017 targets for the integrity and compliance work reflect updates in the anti-corruption policy framework, new trends and risks. as set out in last year’s CR report. In 2018, our main target is to further strengthen and continuously develop the anti-corruption Business Ethics Training Overview 1 compliance program. Total number of Total number of Total number of Our 2018 targets are outlined below: employees trained employees trained employees trained Course Type Duration end 2017 (incl. end 2016 (incl. end 2015 (incl. contract staff) 2 contract staff) 2 contract staff) 2 ¡¡ Develop and implement a new business ethics training program and provide training to all employees eLearning: Aker ASA’s zero 15 ¡¡ Strengthen follow-up process of business partners 8,100 8,600 11,000 tolerance to corruption minutes Classroom course in 2 ¡¡ Continuously identify, monitor and manage business integrity 10,600 7,700 10,700 business ethics 3 hours risks at company level and delivery center level eLearning: Annual code of 7 11,000 N/A N/A conduct training 4 minutes Targeted training for supply 2 400 N/A N/A chain personnel hours Targeted training for 2 200 18 N/A customer-facing personnel hours 1) The table shows only current employees who have completed business ethics training. 2) Numbers have been rounded to the nearest 100. 3) Values and policies, anti-corruption, conflict of interest, confidential information, human and labor rights, gifts and hospitality, country risk and reporting concerns (whistleblowing) 4) Anti-corruption, conflict of interest, human and labor rights, gifts and hospitality and reporting concerns (whistleblowing) Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT PAGE 26 Environmental Impact The oil and gas industry – particularly the deepwater sector – is exposed to significant environmental risks, including oil spills and carbon dioxide emissions. Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT PAGE 27 Managing environmental risks is critical to Aker Solutions and our customers and Aker Solutions was not subject to any significant fines or key to ensuring the industry has a sustainable future. sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and no grievances about environmental impact were The company strives to minimize the environmental impact of its own and its customers’ filed through formal channels in 2017. We continuously monitor activities by providing leading technology and environmentally sound products and governmental guidelines, directives and regulations regarding services and we aim to reduce the environmental footprint of our own operations. the environment to ensure that we are informed and prepared for changes. Managing Our Footprint Aker Solutions’ commitment to continuously reducing its environmental impact is detailed Reducing Energy Consumption and Emissions in its health, safety and environment (HSE) policy: As a global provider of products, systems and services to the oil and gas industry, Aker Solutions’ activities and related impacts ¡¡ The company designs products and services to have no undue environmental impact depend almost entirely on its customers’ needs and activities. and to be safe and efficient in consuming energy and natural resources This means that results measured at the corporate level mostly depend on the type of projects the company is working on. ¡¡ Our operations are conducted with efficient use of materials and energy with a This does not exempt us from our responsibilities, but it helps minimum of both waste and environmental damage explain the fluctuation in our environmental performance despite ¡¡ We seek to ensure that our products can be recycled or disposed of safely our continued pursuit of energy-efficient and resource-efficient products and services. The HSE policy is implemented through the management system, eLearning and various leadership development initiatives. Programs are in place to monitor and improve energy As seen in the table below, our total energy consumption and use and to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and waste. Identifying and managing energy intensity declined in 2017 compared with 2016. We aim to potential environmental risks are integral aspects of the company’s project tendering and continuously improve so we can reach our production goals using execution, ensuring that appropriate measures are taken for each project and location. less time, energy and material. Work slowed during the market These activities contribute to increased environmental awareness at Aker Solutions and its downturn, but we expect it to rise again. This will probably lead customers. to higher total energy consumption, but we will strive to keep our energy intensity down, as described in the targets and initiatives In 2017, the company introduced a new evaluation method for environmental aspects and section below. impacts. All sites prepare their own aspect and impact register to ensure that local as well as global environmental impacts are controlled. Local content ensures local commitment In 2017, the company consumed less fossil fuels compared with and engagement. 2016. Fossil fuel consumption is mainly connected to the use of mobile equipment and some heating (natural gas), and fluctuates In the third quarter of 2017, Aker Solutions joined the United Nations’ World Environment depending on our project portfolio. Day campaign. The topic was ‘Connecting People to Nature – in the city and on the land, from the poles to the equator.’ Our sites arranged a variety of local activities that our The company’s carbon dioxide reduction target is stated in the employees and their friends and families could participate in, including beach cleaning, targets and initiatives section below. tree planting, nature hikes and environmental lessons, in addition to a global photography contest. The initiative was highly appreciated and will be continued in 2018. Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT PAGE 28 Handling Waste and Spills Starting from January 2018, Aker Solutions will implement a new The company continues to focus on waste reduction. Total waste varies from year to year, method for calculating waste, in accordance with its new waste depending on the project portfolio. For example, a decommissioning project will naturally management procedure. Going forward, we will only include produce more waste than other kinds of projects. In recent years, total waste quantities material recycling in our recycled waste numbers, not waste-tohave significantly declined, partly due to a reduction in activity, but also because of waste energy recovery. In addition, we will start including hazardous reduction programs and operational excellence. In 2018, the company is launching a new waste in the total waste numbers. This will lead to a lower waste management procedure and will revise the reporting method for total waste and recycling factor compared to existing values. Our recycling target recycled waste, as described in the targets and initiatives section. for 2018 using the new calculation method is >65 percent. We are also targeting a 1 percent reduction per year of total waste. Hazardous waste includes components that require special care before disposal. The company collected 446 tons of hazardous waste in 2017, a decrease from the previous As Aker Solutions is primarily a project-driven company, its energy year. Waste quantities change from year to year depending on our project portfolio. We consumption is closely linked to the amount of work it does. This constantly seek replacement products and solutions that can reduce hazardous waste in means that it is difficult to target an overall reduction in energy our production processes and final products. consumption. Therefore, we will focus on energy intensity, and ultimately carbon dioxide emission intensity. We aim to reduce In 2017, Aker Solutions experienced only minor spills with very limited impact. Most this number by 1 percent per year by selecting renewables over were small spills of hydraulic oil from pumps and other equipment, and all spills were non-renewables where possible, operational excellence and handled locally. improved technological solutions. Targets and Initiatives for 2018 Aker Solutions’ environmental targets and key initiatives for 2018 are detailed in the global HSSE plan. The main goals and objectives are: ¡¡ Conduct energy reviews of our main energy consuming units and identify improvement projects to reduce the company’s carbon footprint ¡¡ Arrange a sustainable technology workshop with relevant internal stakeholders ¡¡ Organize World Environment Day events across the company to raise and strengthen environmental awareness among our employees ¡¡ Reduce energy use, emissions, spills and waste through operational excellence In 2018, we will also revise our environmental eLearning program and start implementing a new and improved environmental reporting tool. In the first quarter, we will launch a global environmental survey to map local initiatives and practices. The company will also focus on reducing paper use and increasing recycling. Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT PAGE 29 Environmental Figures Electricity (MWh) 2017 2016 2015 Consumption Consumption 2017 2016 Energy consumption (MWh) 90,709 109,122 126,750 Electricity Asia/Australia ex China 11,711 13,527 Energy intensity (MWh per million worked hours) 2,499 3,291 3,257 Electricity Europe, excluding Norway and UK 717 707 Carbon dioxide emissions (tons) 3 18,383 22,133 27,193 Electricity Scandinavia/Brazil 50,903 60,910 Carbon dioxide emission intensity (tons per million worked hours) 506 667 699 Electricity UK 7,699 11,223 Recycled waste (tons) 1, 2 5,570 6,618 9,187 Electricity US 4,884 3,645 Total waste (tons) 2 6,410 7,690 10,443 Recycling factor (percent) 2 87 86 88 Hazardous waste (tons) 446 460 592 Accidental spills (number) 0 1 0 Non-Renewable Fuels 1) Water recycling is not included in the recycling factor, even though recycling is performed at sites where water is a scarce resource, such as our offices in India. 2) The 2015 report contained incorrect numbers for total waste, recycled waste and recycling factor, due to an error in our Consumption Consumption reporting system. The numbers above are correct and reflect the actual 2015 results. 2017 2016 3) We use Greenhouse Gas Protocol conversion factors to calculate carbon dioxide emissions from energy. Diesel (liters) 639,300 1,069,463 Heavy fuel oil (liters) 95,966 106,623 Natural gas (cubic meters) 408,341 509,221 Petrol/gasoline (liters) 12,693 57,278 Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT PAGE 30 Supply Chain Management We depend on a trustworthy supply chain committed to delivering quality and cost-efficient solutions to our customers. Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT PAGE 31 We seek an open and transparent relationship with our partners and expect them to adhere to our business ethics and standards. A Responsible Global Supply Chain Our commitment to corporate responsibility includes our external operations, such as those related to our suppliers and customers, as well as our internal operations. We are committed to engaging only with suppliers who live up to our expectations. Suppliers are expected to adhere to our business ethics and values, including our standards for health and safety, human and labour rights, environment, quality management, business integrity and corporate social responsibility as well as being competent and trustworthy. Aker Solutions’ supply chain management team works with around 8,000 direct and indirect suppliers across the globe and employs approximately 700 people. Supply chain management includes strategic sourcing, category management, supplier development and accreditation, material planning, procurement, inventory management and logistics. Material costs make up the bulk of our budgets and play a significant role in the success of the business as a whole. The majority of the products we procure include tubes, valves, actuators, forgings, connectors and instrumentation. Sourcing IT services, travel and temporary personnel are also important parts of our indirect procurement. Through our international presence, we establish mutually beneficial relationships with local suppliers and subcontractors who contribute with local knowledge and expertise in a complex industrial landscape. Local presence is an essential part of our business and enables us to deliver even in the most remote locations. Supplier Qualification and Information System (SQiS) Aker Solutions’ supplier base is qualified and monitored through our supplier qualification and information system (SQiS). This system requires suppliers, direct or indirect, to meet specific requirements to become one of our suppliers. The SQiS uses a rigorous qualification, monitoring and performance evaluation process to measure and predict supplier performance. This provides a fact and risk-based approach to supplier selection and development. The qualification requirements can be increased or decreased depending on the complexity of the product or service to be supplied and on the country or location of the supplier. This can be done by conducting technical audits or due diligence analyses to confirm compliance to our requirements. All our suppliers must declare their commitment to our ethical standards to be accepted in the SQiS. Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT PAGE 32 The SQiS system enables us to continuously monitor the performance of our qualified The program includes a supplier performance review, a supplier suppliers and can be integrated with the company’s internal audit management tool. process audit and supplier improvement workshops. This tool tracks audit reports and findings, lost-time incidents and near-misses and HSE and operational performance. It can also issue alerts when certifications are expiring. We will target selected suppliers with reoccurring purchasing Aker Solutions’ supplier audit program is risk-based and determines where the company on major or repeated projects for supplier accreditation. As it focuses its audits. In 2017, the company conducted 186 external audits of suppliers. progresses, the program will form the basis for increased preapproval of standardized supplier processes and documentation. In 2017, 859 new suppliers were prequalified for the company’s qualified supplier More than 100 main suppliers are included in the ongoing supplier list (QSL). All of the suppliers were screened for quality management, health, safety accreditation program, representing more than half of direct and environmental management, corporate social responsibility, anti-corruption materials spend. and compliance management, human and labor rights management, supply chain management, human resources and process management. The screening results Supply chain management met the 2017 corporate responsibility in prequalification or rejection. The supplier qualification summary is available to all targets and implemented many digitalization initiatives. purchasing departments. This information, combined with operational performance evaluations, provides the procurement department with a solid risk picture of our suppliers, enabling an informed selection. Targets and Initiatives for 2018 In 2018 we plan to execute and monitor the digitalization The company did not identify significant actual or potential negative impacts on society, initiatives we implemented in 2017. human rights, labor practices or the environment in 2017. However, the company rejected certain supplier qualifications based on poor environmental management or compliance risks. We will also focus in 2018 on how we can drive United Nations Sustainable Development Goals in the supply chain. The main We are close to meeting our strategic sourcing target to reduce the number of active goals for this are: suppliers to 8,000 from 48,000 by deactivating suppliers that we have not used in the last three years. We have also reduced the number of direct suppliers to 1,525, making ¡¡ Define and enhance human rights criteria for the supplier positive progress toward our target to have 500 direct suppliers by 2021. This will reduce qualification process the number of suppliers we use, consolidating spending and enabling improvement. ¡¡ Implement monitoring of human rights risk ¡¡ Evaluate criteria on human rights as part of the accreditation Supplier Accreditation program In 2017, Aker Solutions introduced a concept of supplier accreditation that significantly ¡¡ Increase monitoring and management of environmental impact strengthens confidence in suppliers’ quality management and manufacturing processes. through the supply chain Accrediting suppliers and their manufacturing and inspection processes will help us minimize quality surveillance, document review and purchase order administration, ultimately reducing costs and lead times. Supplier accreditation builds on our system of prequalification through SQiS and QSL. Aker Solutions set up a new department in supply chain management to drive detailed reviews of processes at the main suppliers to ensure full quality control and HSE in the product manufacturing processes. This includes high integrity inspection and testing. Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 SOCIETY PAGE 33 Society Aker Solutions considers it important that the communities where it works benefit from its operations. Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 SOCIETY PAGE 34 We recognize the opportunity and responsibility to positively impact our surroundings and we are determined to ensure Country Employees 1 Revenue 2 Investments in assets 3 Paid taxes 4 that our presence is marked by integrity and transparency. NOK million NOK million NOK million Aker Solutions operates in markets that face socio-economic Norway 5,578 13,305 147 -3 challenges such as poverty and corruption. The company Brazil 3,345 2,068 26 -16 conducts several assessments a year to prepare for potential UK 2,049 3,879 91 -6 challenges in such markets and to guard against becoming India 960 389 6 17 complicit in unethical activity that could negatively impact the Malaysia 763 925 27 16 societies where we operate. With an expanding global footprint, these assessments become more comprehensive, complex and USA 349 1,579 16 1 challenging and the results sometimes require difficult decisions. Brunei 329 732 1 16 Nevertheless, the company is determined not to compromise its Angola 186 1,215 28 170 integrity and reputation. Canada 162 373 1 3 Australia 31 131 0 0 Country by Country Report Congo-Brazzaville 24 372 0 49 Transparency is essential in an industry that can have a significant Nigeria 3 0 6 3 impact on local communities. Aker Solutions operates globally, Ghana 5 17 1 7 including in societies that depend heavily on oil and gas revenue, Cyprus 3 129 10 0 suffer from poverty, struggle with corruption and have low Other 9 49 0 24 transparency. Openly sharing information and having honest Sum of countries 13,796 25,164 361 284 dialogues with our stakeholders is one of the company’s core values. It is crucial for improving transparency where we operate Eliminations 5 0 -2,704 0 0 and building trust with those affected by our operations. Total Aker Solutions 13,796 22,461 361 284 1) The locations of employees are based on the location of the company where they are employed. Branches are therefore The table to the right shows 2017 revenue, employees and included in the figures for the legal entity. investments as reported by the various Aker Solutions’ companies 2) Revenue figures per country include internal and external revenues and are based on the location of the Aker Solutions’ company that has recognized the revenue. in each country. The right column reflects the amount of tax paid 3) Investments in assets includes additions to property, plant and equipment as well as technology development and other to each country. intangible assets during the year. 4) Paid taxes include income taxes, witholding taxes and other corporate taxes, but does not include value added taxes (VAT) and other indirect taxes. 5) Eliminations line subtracts intercompany sales to show external Aker Solutions’ revenues as in income statement. Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 SOCIETY PAGE 35 Local Content ¡¡ In Brazil, Aker Solutions donated BRL 14,000 to APAE, an Customers or local authorities often require local content as a prerequisite for executing organization that supports children and young people with learning projects or maintaining a local presence. These requirements regularly involve partnering and other disabilities. The funds help pay for physiotherapy and with local companies, sourcing locally or enhancing local competence through training and speech therapy to prevent treatments from being disrupted by the knowledge-sharing initiatives. Aker Solutions aims to comply with these requirements and loss of financial support from the local government. follow up continuously, both from corporate and local offices, to ensure that compliance is ¡¡ Aker Solutions paid for food so that students at Eunice Borges high in place. We believe that using local staff, products and services is important. We depend school in São José dos Pinhais in Brazil could take an evening course on local knowledge to succeed and strive to contribute to improving local social and in Administration to help find employment after graduation. The economic conditions. school reported that the course helped the students develop more confidence. We have supported this school since 2016. ¡¡ In Angola in 2017, Aker Solutions completed the installation of new equipment and the refurbishment of four technical laboratories at Angola’s National Petroleum Institute and Agostinho Neto University. The new labs, which were inaugurated in September, will help train engineers and give them more practical experience. Aker Solutions spent Employee Engagement in Local Communities In 2017, employees across our organization initiated and participated in USD 3.1 million on the equipment and work to set up the labs. numerous charitable activities at the local level. ¡¡ In India, we continued to sponsor vocational training for students in Mumbai who have dropped out of school. With our help, over 130 students completed their training in 2017. ¡¡ Every year since 2014 Aker Solutions employees in Luanda, Angola, Of those, around 120 found jobs in the hospitality, retail and customer service sectors. have organized donations of clothes, toys and food to the El-Betel orphanage. The orphanage looks after abused and abandoned children and young drug addicts, giving them food, shelter and basic Donations and Sponsorships education. El-Betel also supports local children in the neighborhood As part of building relations with local communities and stakeholders, the company and provides literacy classes for adults. contributes to a variety of good causes and projects. Our local offices lead these ¡¡ In Brazil, Aker Solutions employees donated books to the Karanba initiatives, which are often employee driven, so they can be tailored to local needs. These Project, APAE and the Eunice Borges School in São José dos Pinhais. efforts help improve relations with local communities and organizations. We also aim to The employees collected around 80 books, including history, geography contribute to and support vulnerable groups. and other texts as well as Brazilian literature, comics and fairy tales. Aker Solutions also uses sponsorships to promote the company and its business. Our ¡¡ Aker Solutions employees in Kuala Lumpur and Port Klang in sponsorships are strategic and aligned with the company’s values. As a matter of policy, Malaysia donated blankets, bedsheets, scarves, prayer mats, food, we do not sponsor political or religious groups. The company set out a new sponsorship school uniforms and clothing for babies, children and adults to help and donations policy in early 2018 that specifies the rules for background checks and communities hit by floods in Penang in northern Malaysia. Sustainable assessments for donation and sponsorship contributions. Networking Malaysia, a local non-profit organization, distributed around 40 boxes to people in Penang. ¡¡ Aker Solutions’ employees from around the world donated over USD 14,000 to a relief fund to help the victims of Hurricane Harvey – one of the worst storms on record to hit the Houston area. The company matched the employee contributions and also pledged a further USD 25,000 to the American Red Cross for Harvey Relief. Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 ABOUT THIS REPORT PAGE 36 About this Report This report presents Aker Solutions ASA’s corporate responsibility performance and activities in 2017. Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 ABOUT THIS REPORT PAGE 37 The report addresses the legal requirements for company reporting as specified in Report Boundaries the Norwegian Accounting Act (“Regnskapsloven”) for reporting on corporate social We have prepared the report on the basis of the GRI reporting responsibility. principles and guidance on boundaries. The report is also our Communication on Progress in 2017 to the UN Global Compact and The report boundary is, in general, drawn around companies represents our continued commitment to implementing the principles of the UN Global under the operational control of Aker Solutions ASA. However, Compact. Aker Solutions has published CR reports since 2006, with annual releases since we also provide information on some aspects where we have the 2010. potential to influence but not have direct control. Aker Solutions demerged from Akastor and was listed on the Oslo Stock Our CR report for 2017 is based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Exchange on September 29, 2014. The historical operational and Reporting Guidelines. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 ‘core’ financial figures for the group are presented as if the demerger level. Our overview of disclosure according to GRI, including references to sections of occurred at the start of the earliest period presented in this report. the report where GRI indicators are reported upon and the list of material aspects, can be found at the end of the report. While preparing the report, we have also considered the guidance on the reporting of corporate responsibility issued by the Oslo Stock Exchange. Data Quality We continue to work to improve our data quality to enhance the The basis and scope of the report has been shaped by our analysis of material impacts reporting processes and transparency, and continuously strive to and our stakeholders’ expectations obtained through monitoring and dialogue and, more improve our internal data reporting procedures. specifically, from the materiality assessment conducted in 2015. The report’s content has not been significantly changed from past editions. The initiatives highlighted in this report include those that have an impact on our employees, customers, investors and societies where we are present. Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 APPENDIX PAGE 38 Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 APPENDIX PAGE 39 Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 ‘core’ level. We have sought The table refers to where information about each aspect/indicator is presented in our to report fully on all possible dimensions of the indicators, but where this is not possible, we Corporate Responsibility Report, Annual Report or company website. For a complete have reported as comprehensively as possible, based on the data systems we have. description of the individual indicators, please see GRI’s website (www.globalreporting.org). GRI Standard Disclosure Strategy and Analysis Section in Report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Note 1 (Company information) in the 2017 Annual Report G4-1 Statement from the most senior decisionCEO introduction Note 27 (Subsidiaries) in the 2017 Annual maker of the organization Report G4-8 Markets served Global Presence chapter in the 2017 Annual Organizational Profile Section in Report Report Note 3 (Revenue) in the 2017 Annual Report G4-3 Name of the organization Aker Solutions ASA Note 4 (Operating Segments) in the 2017 Annual Report G4-4 Primary brands, products and services Note 4 (Operating Segments) in the 2017 Note 27 (Subsidiaries)in the 2017 Annual Annual Report Report G4-5 Location of the organization's headquarters Oksenøyveien 8 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization Subchapter: Key Staff Figures 1360 Fornebu, Norway (employees, operations, net sales, Main chapter: People are Key to Our G4-6 Number of countries where the organization Note 27 (Subsidiaries) in the 2017 Annual capitalization, products and services) Success operates, and names of countries where Report Note 4 (Operating Segments) in the 2017 either the organization has significant Annual Report operations or that are specifically relevant Note 27 (Subsidiaries) in the 2017 Annual to the sustainability topics covered in the Report report Note 16 (Equity) in the 2017 Annual Report Note 17 (Borrowings) in the 2017 Annual Report Note 23 (Capital Managmenet) in the 2017 Annual Report Balance sheet in the 2017 Annual Report Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 APPENDIX PAGE 40 Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Organizational Profile Cont. Section in Report Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Section in Report G4-10 Scale of the reporting organization Subchapter: Key Staff Figures G4-17 Operational structure of the organization Note 27 (Subsidiaries) in the 2017 Annual (employees covered by collective Main chapter: People Are Key to Our Report bargaining agreements) Success G4-18 Process for defining report content, aspect Subchapter: Stakeholders G4-11 Description of the organization’s supply Data not available boundaries and reporting principles Main chapter: Introduction chain Main chapter: About This report G4-12 Significant changes during the reporting Subchapter: A Responsible Global Supply G4-19 Process for defining report content, material Subchapters: Strategy and Stakeholders period regarding the organization’s size, Chain aspects Main chapter: Introduction structure, ownership, or its supply chain Main chapter: Supply Chain Management Main chapter: About This report GRI index table G4-13 How the precautionary approach or The new organizational structure is principle is addressed by the organization described in the board of directors’ report in G4-20 Boundary of the report, within the Subchapters: Strategy and Stakeholders the 2017 Annual Report. organization Main chapter: Introduction Note 4 (Operating Segments) in the 2017 Main chapter: About This report Annual Report Note 10 (Property, Plants and Equipment) in G4-21 Boundary of the report, outside the Subchapters: Strategy and Stakeholders the 2017 Annual Report organization Main chapter: Introduction Note 17 (Borrowings) in 2017 Annual Report Main chapter: About This report G4-14 How the precautionary approach or Main chapter: Introduction G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any reMain chapter: About this report principle is addressed by the organization statements of information Subchapter: Environmental Figures Main chapter: Environment G4-15 Externally developed economic, Subchapter: Charters and Memberships environmental and social charters, Main chapter: Introduction G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting Main chapter: About This report principles, or other initiatives to which Subchapter: Respecting Human and Labor periods the organization subscribes or which it Rights endorses Main chapter: People Are Key to Our Success G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as Subchapter: Charters and Memberships industry associations) and national or Main chapter: Introduction international advocacy organizations Subchapter: Respecting Human and Labor Rights Main chapter: People Are Key to Our Success Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 APPENDIX PAGE 41 Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Stakeholder Engagement Section in Report Governance Section in Report G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the Subchapter: Stakeholders G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, 2017 Corporate Governance Statement organization Main chapter: Introduction including committees of the highest http://akersolutions.com/investors/ governance body corporate-governance/ G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of Subchapter: Stakeholders stakeholders with whom to engage Main chapter: Introduction Ethics and Integrity Section in Report G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Subchapter: Stakeholders Main chapter: Introduction G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms Subchapter: Anti-corruption Compliance of behavior such as codes of conduct and Program G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through Subchapter: Stakeholders codes of ethics Main chapter: Integrity stakeholder engagement and response Main chapter: Introduction G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for Subchapter: Reporting Concerns seeking advice on ethics and integrity, such Main chapter: Integrity Report Profile Section in Report as helplines or advice lines G4-28 Reporting period Calendar year (2017) G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for Subchapter: Reporting Concerns reporting concerns about unethical or Main chapter: Integrity G4-29 Date of most recent previous report March 2018 unlawful behavior G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the ir@akersolutions.com report or its contents Last page of the Corporate Responsibility Report G4-32 “In accordance” option, GRI Index Subchapter: Charters and Memberships Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: About This report GRI Index table G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to No external assurance on the Corporate seeking external assurance Responsibility Report Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 APPENDIX PAGE 42 Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Specific Standard Disclosures Category: Economic Material Aspect: Emissions Section in Report Material Aspect: Economic Performance Section in Report G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Introduction Approach Main chapter: Environmental Impact G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: CEO Introduction G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Partly reported in: Approach Main chapter: Introduction (Scope 1) Subchapter: Environmental Figures Main chapter: Society Main chapter: Environmental Impact Subchapter: Governance, Country by Country Report, Local Content and G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) Partly reported in: Donations and Sponsorships emissions (Scope 2) Subchapter: Environmental Figures Main chapter: Environmental Impact G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and Income Statement, Note 5 (Personnel distributed Expenses), Note 6 (Other Operating G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Subchapter: Environmental Figures Expenses), Note 7 (Finance Income and Main chapter: Environmental Impact Expenses) and Cashflow chapter in the 2017 Annual Report Material Aspect: Effluents and Waste Section in Report Subchapter: Country by Country Report Main chapter: Society G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Introduction Approach Main chapter: Environmental Impact G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined Note 18 (Pension Obligations) in the 2017 benefit plan obligations Annual Report G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Partly reported in: method Subchapter: Handling Waste and Spills, and Category: Environmental Environmental Figures Main chapter: Environmental Impact Material Aspect: Energy Section in Report G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant Subchapter: Handling Waste and Spills, and G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Introduction spills Environmental Figures Approach Main chapter: Environmental Impact Main chapter: Environmental Impact G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Subchapter: Environmental Figures Material Aspect: Compliance Section in Report Main chapter: Environmental Impact G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Introduction G4-EN5 Energy intensity Subchapter: Environmental Figures Approach Main chapter: Environmental Impact Main chapter: Environmental Impact G4-EN29 Significant fines and total number of nonMain chapter: Environmental Impact monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 APPENDIX PAGE 43 Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Material Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment Section in Report Category: Social G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Supply Chain Management Sub-category: Labour Practices and Decent Work Approach Main chapter: Introduction G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were Subchapters: Supplier Qualification and Material Aspect: Employment Section in Report screened using environmental criteria Information System (SQiS) Main chapter: Supply Chain Management G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Introduction Approach Main chapter: People Are Key to Our G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative Subchapters: Supplier Qualification and Success environmental impacts in the supply chain Information System (SQiS) and Supplier and actions taken Accreditation G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee Subchapter: Key Staff Figures Main chapter: Supply Chain Management hires and employee turnover by age group, Main chapter: People Are Key to Our gender and region Success Material Aspect: Environmental Section in Report Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after Subchapter: Parental Leave Own Regular parental leave, by gender Employees G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: People Are Key to Our Approach Main chapter: Environment Success G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental Subchapter: Managing Our Footprint Material Aspect: Labour/Management Relations Section in Report impacts filed, addressed, and resolved Main chapter: Environment through formal grievance mechanisms G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Introduction Approach Main chapter: People Are Key to Our Success G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding Subchapter: Employee Turnover operational changes, including whether Main chapter: People Are Key to Our these are specified in collective agreements Success Material Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Section in Report G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Introduction Approach Main chapter: Health, Safety and Security G4-LA6 Injuries, occupational diseases, Main chapter: Health, Safety and Security absenteeism, and work-related fatalities We do not have available gender / region information Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 APPENDIX PAGE 44 Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Material Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Cont. Section in Report Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment Section in Report for Labor Practices G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of Subchapters: Continued Focus on diseases related to their occupation Employee Health and Sick Leave FollowG4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Supply Chain Management up, Adjustment in Aker Care and Increased Approach Main chapter: Introduction focus on Health and Work Environment Globally G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were Subchapters: Supplier Qualification and Main chapter: Health, Safety and Security screened using labor practices criteria Information System (SQiS) Main chapter: Supply Chain Management G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal Subchapter: Respecting Human and Labor agreements with trade unions rights G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative Subchapters: Supplier Qualification and Main chapter: People Are Key to Our impacts for labor practices in the supply Information System (SQiS) and Supplier Success chain and actions taken Accreditation Main chapter: Supply Chain Management Material Aspect: Training and Education Section in Report Sub-category: Human Rights G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Introduction Approach Main chapter: People Are Key to Our Material Aspect: Investment Section in Report Success G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Introduction G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and Subchapter: Leadership, Talent and Approach Main chapter: Integrity lifelong learning Performance Main chapter: People Are Key to Our G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant Subchapter: Project Screening Success investment agreements and contracts Main chapter: Integrity that include human rights clauses or that Material Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Section in Report underwent human rights screening G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Introduction G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human Subchapter: Training and Awareness Approach Main chapter: People Are Key to Our rights policies or procedures concerning Main chapter: Integrity Success aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and Subchapter: Key Staff Figures employees trained breakdown of employees per employee Main chapter: People Are Key to Our category according to gender, age group, Success minority group membership, and other Corporate Governance Statement indicators of diversity http://akersolutions.com/investors/ corporate-governance/ Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 APPENDIX PAGE 45 Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Material Aspect: Non-discrimination Section in Report Material Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor Section in Report G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Introduction G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Introduction Approach Main chapter: Integrity Approach Main chapter: Supply Chain Management Main chapter: People Are Key to Our G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination Subchapter: Reporting Concerns Success and corrective actions taken Main chapter: Integrity G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as Subchapter: A Responsible Global Supply Material Aspect: Freedom of Association Section in Report having significant risk for incidents of forced Chain and Collective Bargaining or compulsory labor, and measures to Main chapter: Supply Chain Management contribute to the elimination of all forms of Subchapter: Respecting Human and Labor G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Introduction forced or compulsory labor Rights Approach Main chapter: People Are Key to Our Main chapter: People Are Key to Our Success Success Main chapter: Supply Chain Management Subchapter: Project Screening Main chapter: Integrity G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which Subchapter: Respecting Human and Labor the right to exercise freedom of association Rights Material Aspect: Security Practices Section in Report and collective bargaining may be violated Main chapter: People Are Key to Our or at significant risk, and measures taken to Success G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Introduction support these rights Subchapter: Project Screening Approach Main chapter: Health, Safety and Security Main chapter: Integrity Subchapter: A Responsible Global Supply G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in We do not currently monitor data on human Chain the organization's human rights policies or rights training for security personnel, so we Main Chapter: Supply Chain Management procedures that are relevant to operations are unable to report meaningfully on this relevant disclosure. We will explore how to Material Aspect: Child Labor Section in Report do so in the future. G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Introduction Material Aspect: Assessment Section in Report Approach Main chapter: Supply Chain Management Main chapter: People Are Key to Our G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Introduction Success Approach Main chapter: Supply chain management Main chapter: Integrity G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as Subchapter: A Responsible Global Supply having significant risk for incidents of child Chain G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations Subchapter: Project Screening labor, and measures taken to contribute to Main chapter: Supply Chain Management that have been subject to human rights Main chapter: Integrity the effective abolition of child labor Subchapter: Respecting Human and Labor reviews or impact assessments Subchapter: A Responsible Global Supply Rights Chain Main chapter: People Are Key to Our Main chapter: Supply Chain Management Success Subchapter: Project Screening Main chapter: Integrity Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 APPENDIX PAGE 46 Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Material Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment Section in Report Sub-category: Society G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Supply Chain Management Material Aspect: Anti-corruption Section in Report Approach Main chapter: Introduction G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were Subchapters: Supplier Qualification and G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Introduction screened using human rights criteria Information System (SQiS) Approach Main chapter: Integrity Main chapter: Supply Chain Management G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations Partly reported in: G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative Subchapters: Supplier Qualification and assessed for risks related to corruption and Subchapters: Project Screening and Antihuman rights impacts in the supply chain Information System (SQiS), and Supplier the significant risks identified corruption Compliance Program and actions taken Accreditation Main chapter: Integrity Main chapter: Supply Chain Management G4-SO4 Communication and training on antiSubchapter: Training and Awareness corruption policies and procedures Main chapter: Integrity Material Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Section in Report Mechanisms G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and Subchapter: Anti-Corruption Compliance actions taken Program G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: Integrity Approach Main chapter: People Are Key to Our Success Material Aspect: Public Policy Section in Report G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights Subchapter: Respecting Human and Labor G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Introduction impacts filed, addressed, and resolved Rights Approach Main chapter: Society through formal grievance mechanisms Main chapter: People Are Key to Our Success G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by Subchapters: Sponsorship and Donations country and recipient/beneficiary Main chapter: Society Material Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior Section in Report G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Introduction Approach Main chapter: Integrity G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-comSubchapter: Anti-Corruption Compliance petitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly Program practices and their outcomes Main chapter: Integrity Menu AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 APPENDIX PAGE 47 Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Material Aspect: Compliance Section in Report Sub-category: Product Responsibility G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Integrity Material Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Section in Report Approach G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total Subchapter: Anti-Corruption Compliance G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Introduction number of non-monetary sanctions for Program Approach Main chapter: Health, Safety and Security non-compliance with laws and regulations Main chapter: Integrity G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and Main chapter: Health, Safety and Security service categories for which health Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Section in Report and safety impacts are assessed for Impacts on Society improvement G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Supply Chain Management G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of nonMain chapter: Health, Safety and Security Approach Main chapter: Introduction compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were Subchapters: Supplier Qualification and impacts of products and services during screened using criteria for impacts on Information System (SQiS) their life cycle, by type of outcomes society Main chapter: Supply Chain Management Main chapter: Introduction G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative Subchapters: Supplier Qualification and impacts on society in the supply chain and Information System (SQiS) and Supplier actions taken Accreditation Main chapter: Supply Chain Management Main chapter: Introduction Menu PAGE 48 Contact Information Aker Solutions ASA COPYRIGHT AND LEGAL NOTICE Oksenøyveien 8, 1366 Lysaker Copyright in all published material including photographs, drawings and images in this publication remains vested in Aker Solutions and third party contributors to this publication as appropriate. Accord­ingly, neither the whole nor any part of this publication can be reproduced in Postal address: any form without express prior permission. Articles and opinions appearing in this publication do P.O. Box 169 not necessarily represent the views of Aker Solutions. While all steps have been taken to ensure NO-1325 Lysaker the accuracy of the published contents, Aker Solutions does not accept any responsibility for any errors or resulting loss or damage whatsoever caused and readers have the responsibility to thoroughly check these aspects for themselves. Enquiries about reproduction of content from Telephone: this publication should be directed to Aker Solutions. +47 67 51 30 00 E-mail: ir@akersolutions.com Web: www.akersolutions.com
