Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Love today, Love your life. Supporitng cleanliness, health and comfort, while protecting our global environment This is our mission, one in which we take pride. 01 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 02 Company Motto/Management Philosophy/ Corporate Message Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior Company Motto Lion Corporation positions “Fulfilling a Spirit of Love” as fundamental to its management, and thus contributes to the enrichment of the happiness and lives of people. Management Philosophy 1 We bring together the power of our personnel, the power of our technology and the power of our marketing, as we provide superior products that are helpful in the daily lives of people. 2 We respect the “Spirit of Tenacity and Creativity” that we have maintained since our founding, as we continue developing our business. 3 We deeply appreciate all those who extend their valuable support to us, as we prosper together through sincerity and mutual trust. Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior We, the Lion Group, shall, in addition to being an economic entity designated to pursue profits through fair competition, act as a social entity that contributes to society at large. We shall respect human rights and conduct ourselves with initiative in a socially responsible manner toward the creation of a sustainable society, observing both the spirit as well as the letter of all applicable laws and international rules and not harming the public interest, both in Japan and abroad, in accordance with the following 10 principles. 1. [Principal Mission] We shall earn the confidence and satisfac8. [Contribution in Foreign Countries] In our overseas operation of customers (consumers and users) by providing exceltions, we shall not only observe international rules and the lent, safe goods and services useful for their daily lives. laws of relevant foreign countries, but also respect local cultures and customs and contribute to the development 2. [Compliance with Public Rules] We shall observe all relof local communities with sincerity and mutual trust. evant laws and regulations and engage in fair, transparent and free competition and proper transactions. 9. [Practice of Corporate Ethics] Top management shall asWe shall maintain sound and proper relationships with sume responsibility for implementing the spirit of this governmental and political bodies. Charter and shall take the initiative to set a good exam3. [Disclosure] We, as a socially open company, shall actively engage in communication not only with our ple and fully inform Lion Group employees of the Charter. Top management shall strive to take in internal and Corporate Slogan life. love. shareholders but also with members of society at large external opinions continuously to promote mutual unand disclose information generally regarding Company derstanding and the development and implementation management in an appropriate and timely manner. of effective internal control systems while enforcing The Heart of All We Do thorough compliance with corporate ethics. 4. [Environmental Issues] We shall play a positive and active Lion has been a regular part of everyday life for more than 120 years. role in creating a sustainable society that harmonizes 10. [Resolution of Problems] Should an incident contrary to the principles of this Charter occur, top management shall In that time, we have seen how ordinary days, one by one, add up to a lifetime. economic development and environmental protection. publicly clarify its position, taking responsibility to resolve Moreover, we have come to believe that each new day is the first step into a bright future, and that 5. [Improvement of Working Environments] We shall prothe problem on its own initiative, and strive to investigate mote fair treatment and respect the diversity, individuthe facts, identify the causes of the incident and prevent living every day positively and to the fullest is the essence of happiness. ality and personalities of our employees. We shall enrecurrences. Top management shall fulfill its responsibility That is why we have made it our mission at Lion to contribute to ordinary life, sure a safe and comfortable workplace to realize the to disclose accurate information promptly and explain the mental and physical well-being of our employees. situation, and shall resolve the problem in a manner fully every day, and reflected this commitment in our corporate slogan. 6. [Contribution to Society] We shall actively contribute to understandable to society. After clarifying authority and society as good corporate citizens. responsibility for said problem, top management shall impose strict and impartial disciplinary actions upon any lia7. [Opposition to Antisocial Forces] We shall firmly oppose ble persons, including the highest level of management. antisocial entities and organizations threatening the order and security of civil society. Established January 1, 2003 and amended January 1, 2008 03 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 04 CONTENTS Editorial Policy Corporate Data Lion views its Sustainability Report as an important <Company Profile> <Performance Transitions (consolidated)> 03 Company Motto/Management Philosophy tool allowing the company to present its sustainabilCorporate Name Lion Corporation Net Sales Lion Group Charter for Corporate ity initiatives and draw on stakeholder opinions 3-7, Honjo 1-chome, Sumida-ku, Tokyo Behavior while furthering corporate activities. Address (million yen) 130-8644, Japan 450,000 410,484 Foundation Date October 30, 1891 04 Corporate Message 400,000 395,606 Editorial Policy for Sustainability Report 2018 Capital ¥ 34,433.72 million (as of December 31, 2017) 367,396 378,659 352,005 06 Corporate Data ● Since 2011, our initiatives for sustainability have been systematized Representative Itsuo Hama, Representative Director, President Executive Officer 350,000 335,171 in accordance with ISO 26000, an international standard concerning 300,000 07 History of the Lion Group Employees Consolidated: 7,075 social responsibility. The Sustainability Report also reflect the above. Non-consolidated: 2,550 (as of December 31, 2017) 250,000 09 Main Business Segments ● The report discloses Sustainability Material Issues and our progress Consolidated: ¥ 410,400 million Net Sales 0 towards the Medium-term sustainability obejctives corresponding Non-consolidated: ¥ 264,200 million (as of December 2017) 2017 (year) 11 Message from the Management to Lion’s management plan. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Chiba Plant (Ichihara City), Odawara Plant (Odawara Plants Operating Income / Operating Income Ratio City), Osaka Plant (Sakai City), Akashi Plant (Akashi City) 13 New Management Vision: ● Details of the activities that have especially demonstrated are provided as (million yen) (%) “Becoming an Advanced Daily 2017 Highlights so that readers can more easily understand their contents. Research Facilities Hirai (Edogawa-ku), Odawara (Odawara City) 6.6 35,000 Operating Income Ratio 7 6.2 Operating Income Healthcare Company” ● The URLs at the bottom of the pages on each core subject of ISO Sales Offices Sapporo, Sendai, Tokyo, Nagoya, Osaka, Fukuoka 30,000 27,206 6 24,502 26000 can be used to view our website, which includes more de25,000 5 [List of Major Subsidiaries and Affiliates] 4.3 Lion’s Sustainability tails of our activities. URL http://www.lion.co.jp/en/company/group/ 20,000 3.1 3.4 16,374 4 15,000 2.2 3 12,406 15 Value cretaion by the Lion Group ● Readers can also easily access Lion’s primary web pages by using 10,819 10,000 2 the two-dimensional bar codes. (smartphone-friendly websites). <Net Sales Breakdown by Business> 7,213 1 17 Sustainability Material Issues 5,000 ● A third-party review by an outside expert has been included to Consumer Products Business ¥290,890 million 0 0 for the Lion Group provide an objective assessment. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (year) (2015 2017) Oral Care Products ¥68,270 million Net Income / Net Income Ratio ● GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards were used as a reference Beauty Care Products ¥24,540 million 21 Identification of Sustainability Material guide for producing this report. Fabric Care Products ¥79,540 million (million yen) (%) 25,000 4.8 5 Issues in “The LIVE Plan,” MediumLiving Care Products ¥20,780 million Profit Ratio Attributable to Owners of Parent Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent ● Lion’s sustainability activities, including those that were not intro4.0 term Management Plan (2018 2020) duced in this report, are comprehensively presented on our website. Pharmaceutical Products ¥39,020 million 20,000 19,827 4 15,951 Other Products ¥58,700 million 15,000 2.8 3 2017 Highlights Reference Guidelines Industrial Products Business ¥55,760 million 2.0 10,680 10,000 1.7 2 ● The Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012) of the Japanese 7,368 25 Preventive Dentistry from Age 0 Overseas Business ¥120,090 million 1.3 6,097 Ministry of the Environment 5,000 4,235 1 29 Our Open Innovation Work Others ¥30,560 million ● GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative 0 0 Adjustment* ▲ ¥86,830 million 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (year) 31 Biodiversity Conservation (Note) From December 2016, we have changed our content “Net Income” to ● ISO 26000: 2010 Guidance on social responsibility issued by the Consolidated Net Sales ¥410,480 million Activities at Lion Domestic Sites Japanese Standards Association “Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent .” *Intra-segment and inter-segment sales [IR Library] 35 Organizational Governance [Comparative Table with Respective Guidelines] URL http://w w w.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/guideline/ <Locations of Overseas Group Companies> URL http://www.lion.co.jp/en/ir/library/ 38 Human Rights Overseas sales compared to previous year 109% Ratio of overseas sales 26% 39 Labor Practices Coverage (after adjustment): (consolidated): ● Lion Corporation and all of its domestic consolidated subsidiaries <List of Domestic Consolidated Subsidiaries> 43 The Environment China are covered, as a general rule. Overseas consolidated subsidiaries Hong Kong (Lion Daily Necessities Chemicals Lion Chemical Co., Ltd. (Lion Corporation (Hong Kong) Ltd.) 49 Fair Operating Practices are also covered on the Sustainability Material Issues and objectives (Qingdao) Co., Ltd.) Lion Business Service Co., Ltd. Thailand South Korea described on p.17-20 and p.23-24. Lion Specialty Chemicals Co., Ltd. 51 Consumer Issues (Lion Corporation (Thailand) Ltd.) (LION COROPORATION (KOREA)) Taiwan Lion Hygiene Co., Ltd. *If the coverage of reported activities or data is different from the above, a descrip(Lion Home Products (Taiwan) Co., Ltd.) 56 Community Involvement and Development tion will be provided in each case. Malaysia Lion Trading Co., Ltd. (Southern Lion Sdn. Bhd.) (Global Eco Chemicals Malaysia SDN. BHD.) Lion Packaging Co., Ltd. Period Covered Lion Engineering Co., Ltd. 59 Third-Party Review Indonesia ● January 1 to December 31, 2017 (P. T. Lion Wings) Lion Logistics Service Co., Ltd. 60 Lion’s Response (Some parts of the activities also include parts of 2018.) Singapore (Lion Corporation (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.) (PT Global Eco Chemicals Indonesia) Lion Cordial Support Co., Ltd. (Global Eco Chemicals Singapore Pte. Ltd.) Lion Dental Products Co., Ltd. Lion Tomoni Co., Ltd. *Red text indicates consolidated subsidiaries. Lion Idemitsu Composites Co., Ltd. 05 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 06 Lion’s origins lie in soap and toothpaste. Since the foundation, we have aimed to promote daily health for people by providing useful products and have driven educational activities and provision of informaHistory of the Lion Group tion to consumers, thus helping to foster good habits. We have long been deeply aware that the pollution of the global environment is a worldwide issue and have taken steps to respond to environmental concerns such as by developing environment-friendly products. We are continuing to take action and move toward the goal of sustainability as we have throughout our past, in order to correspond with important social issues which change along with the times. From 1896 From 1913 From the 1960s Present Promoting oral hygiene / Starting educational activities to Expanding the market and Responding to diversifying oral health issues with From oral hygiene to systemic health The foundation of social instill tooth brushing habits in developing world-class products more scientific research Promotion of “oral health care” contribution activities children Oral Health Clinica Advantage Clinica series (For prevention of cavities) (Promotion of“preventive Lion Toothpowder Toothpaste was sold alongside such promotional gifts as dentistry”) bookmarks and picture books in order to help to teach the importance of tooth brushing from an early age Completion of the Dentor Odawara Plant (For prevention of pyorrhea) (Reinforcement of the production system) Oral health care promotion Charity coupons printed on White & White Dentor Systema series activities in other Asian the back of packets Lion Dental Clinic for Children (Development of easy-to-use laminated tubes) (For prevention of periodontal countries (The root of Lion’s social contribution activities) disease) 1891 to1940s 1950s From the 1960s Present Cleanliness and Comfort Promoted awareness about washing with detergent Responding to health hazards Responding to the diverse Contributing to a clean and caused by parasites with a neutral lifestyle needs of all people comfortable lifestyle in Asia detergent for washing vegetables Overseas NANOX Manual on the standard Lipon Lipon F Mama Lemon home laundry procedures (Japan’s first mineral oil-based (Earned the top recommendation of the (A dishwashing detergent which is gentle to the Promotional activities for handOverseas KireiKirei (Education on laundry procedures) synthetic detergent for home use) Japan Food Hygiene Association) hands, intended for eating utensils and vegetables) washing habits Environmental Innitiatives From the 1920s 1960s to 1980s From the 1990s Present Use of plant-derived soap Responding to the water environment issues Expanded a line of products based on plant-derived materials Response to environmental issues through products and communication Responding to eutrophication in lakes and floating bubles in rivers related to the use of detergents ShokubutsuMonogatari (Plant Story) Plant-derived Lion Laundry Soap “Every day. For the Earth.” (Japan’s first plant-derived soap for mark (Mark attached to home use) our company’s eco-friendly Dash Murin (phosphorus-free) TOP Spark products) Development of environment-friendly products Promotion of environmental targets 07 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 08 Pharmaceuticals Main Business Segments Lion responds to the needs of increasing self-medication with abundant brands. Main Products Oral Care Antipyretic analgesics, antidiarrheals, Lion provides products for advanced oral gastrointestinal medicines, eye drops, care to support daily health. tonics and nutrients. Main Products Toothpastes, toothbrushes, dental rinses and other dental care products. Wellness Direct Lion offers direct-to-consumer sales products that can meet the variety of consumer’s health and beauty needs. Main Products Health food products, aging care products. Beauty Care Lion promotes comfort, health and well-being through its hair and skin care products. Main Products Hand soaps, body washes, antiperspirants Gift and Special Order Pet Supplies (Lion Trading Co., Ltd.) and deodorants, shampoos, conditioners, men's cosmetics, hair-nourishing treatments. Lion provides a variety of gift and special-order prodLion supports the well-being of pet owners and their ucts for its customers. animals through products that promote cleanliness, Main Products health and comfort. Gifts, novelties. Main Products Fabric Care Sanitary products, pet oral care, body care, pet laundry care and room care products. Lion provides safe and reliable products in order to always wear clean clothes comfortably. Main Products Laundry detergents, fabric softeners, bleaches, clothing care agents. Overseas Business Living Care Lion develops its business in eight Asian countries and regions Lion offers products that promote clean including Thailand, Malaysia, and South Korea and provide and comfortable eating habits and products that are helpful in the daily lives beyond culture and living life. language globallly. Main Products Main Products Dishwashing detergents, household cleaners, cooking-aid products. Laundry detergents, dishwashing detergents, toothpastes, toothbrushes, hand soaps, body washes. 09 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 10 Message from the Management Since its foundation in 1891 , Lion has continued Evolution Plan), our medium-term management Becoming an advanced daily healthcare company to respond through its business activities to social plan from 2018 to 2020, we will promote the issues, which have changed with the times. Even in creation of new business values to achieve health our medium-term management plan (V2 Plan) set care for individual by new combinations of various Lion will realize “healthy minds and bodies for all,” for the period from 2015 to 2017 , we have made types of technology and services. We will also through the “ReDesign” of everyday rituals to become more natural, efforts to strengthen our management foundation endeavor to develop diverse and open personnel, from the perspective of ESG (Environment, Social organizations and cultures to facilitate those goals easy and enjoyable and will continue to benefit society through business and Governance), while proceeding initiatives and continue to respond to social issues well into to resolve social issues through our businesses the future. activities. To this end, we will create “customer experience-based value” and educational activities which include the in the areas of health, comfort and cleanliness. advancement of oral health care with a focus on Aiming at Sustainable Management promoting “preventive dentistry”. In Japan and other Asian countries today, In 2 0 0 9 , Lion announced its support for the UN people’s lives and social environments are changing Global Compact: a global framework to realize drastically with increasing acceleration. These sustainable growth. With a thorough understanding include significant transformation of people’s of the requirements from societies described in lifestyles brought about by dramatic innovations in the ISO 2 6 0 0 0 international standard on social digital technology represented by AI and the IoT, a responsibility and isuues of whole societies such as slowdown in economic growth and the acceleration the SDGs, we rubbed together with management of aging societies. issues, identified Sustainability Material Issues, set Also, while healthcare needs such as improvement medium-term objectives for the entire Lion Group of QOL (Quality of Life) and the extension of including our overseas groups and moving forward healthy lifespans are growing stronger both in with Group-based initiatives. Japan and overseas, we believe that the roles played In our LIVE Plan as well, we have identified new by our company, which have become a familiar part Sustainability Material Issues and have set related of our daily lives, will expand even further. Amid targets. such extensive changes, the Lion Group will need We have also set up “CSV Management Meetings” to further clarify the intended direction of progress within our company from January 2018, to promote and accelerate steps for reform. This will create new CSV* which are aimed at achieving sustainable values to help maintain its position, as expected by management. Through these meetings, we will societies and customers in Asia. formulate mediumto long-term CSV strategies Thereupon, Lion has cretaed a new management linked with the creation of both social and business vision: “Becoming an advanced daily healthcare values, conduct a study on key ESG-related matters company”, to define the status we wish to realize so that our company can meet the expectations of Representative Director, by the year 2030. society far into the future and monitor the status of President Executive Officer We will realize “healthy minds and bodies for their execution. all”, through the “ReDesign” of everyday rituals For the contribution to sustainable society, Lion Itsuo Hama to become more natural, easy, and enjoyable. To corporation will strengthen our ESG initiatives and this end, we will create “customer experiencepromote the creation of values shared with society based value” in the areas of health, comfort and through our businesses. cleanliness. Being a leader in fostering people’s And we will dedicate to enhance our corporate contentment from a new perspective, as we would value furthermore to become a highly-trusted like to contribute to “extension of healthy life c o m p a n y w h i c h e n a b l e t o m e e t s o c i e t y ’s expectancy” and “ensuring people’s everyday wellexpectations. being”. No matter how the times may change, our * CSV (Creating Shared Value) C reation of values which are shared by both society and founding spirit of “Benefiting Society through businesses Business Activities” has been deeply embedded into our business activities and employees as Lion’s DNA. As we execute the “LIVE Plan” (LION Value 11 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 12 New Management Vision: Contribution to the SDGs Becoming an Advanced Daily Healthcare Company Towards 2030, as an advanced daily healthcare company, the Lion Group will contribute to achieving Goal 3 of the SDGs ensure healthy Due to the advance of digital transformation lives and promote well-being for all at all ages and other factors, the business environment through our products and serGOOD HEALTH of the Lion Group is changing at a hitherto vices. We aim to turn the AND WELL-BEING unimaginable pace. world vision of the SDGs into Reflecting mediumto long-term changes reality through the pursuit of our medium-term managein the external environment, Lion has ment plan, the LIVE Plan. formulated a new management vision for 2030 aimed at accelerating future-oriented transformations and a new medium-term management plan aimed at realizing this new vision. The new Management Vision and the medium-term management plan show our commitment to providing solutions to social issues both in and outside Japan such as improvement of QOL (quality of life), and to contributing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through our business activities in the field of healthcare. The LIVE Plan Aiming to achieve the management vision, we will implement a medium-term management plan, the LION Value Evolution Plan (LIVE Plan), over the three-year period of 2018 to 2020. Targets of the LIVE Plan Under the theme of evolving into a leading advanced daily healthcare company, we will advance long-term, futureoriented growth initiatives and framework-building efforts in and outside Japan while further accelerating improvements to management efficiency to reinforce the earnings structure. Promoting our 2020 Sustainability Material Issues and Targets Basic Strategy of the LIVE Plan Related information p.21-24 1 Expand and Evolve Our Business Domains through New Value Creation 2 Accelerate Growth in Overseas Businesses through Glocalization 3 Reinforce Our Management Base through Business Structure Reform 4 Create Dynamism to Foster Innovative Change Creating new combinations of various technologies and Focusing on growing markets in Asia, we will integrate By improving management infrastructure and revising the We aim to foster corporate strength that will win out over services, we will create new business value that realizes globalization and localization approaches to create unique business portfolio to stay ahead of changes in the global competition by promoting diversity and openness “healthy minds and bodies for all”. competitive advantages and thereby expand the scale of environment, we will reinforce our management base to in our human resources, organizations, and corporate our businesses and the areas in which we operate. enable sustainable business growth. culture. a. Oral-to-Body Solution: We aim for expansion and evolution that will a. We will evolve Group management by reinforcing regional a. We will reinforce investment in the flexible, efficient manufacturing a. We will create human dynamism by utilizing diverse human create an “oral health care business” in which oral care contributes management. infrastructure that will drive business growth. resources. to whole-body health care. b. We will aim for business area expansion through e-commerce b. We will build more advanced and sustainable supply chains. b. We will create organizational dynamism that fosters ambition and b. Daily Self-Care Enhancement: We will work toward evolution aimed channels and M&A. c. We will reinforce information system foundations to promote morecreativity through open innovation. at creating a health care business that will, in turn, “ReDesign” daily sophisticated Group management. c. We will create management dynamism through environmental, living to create healthful habits that help enhance QOL. social, and governance (ESG) initiatives and the reinforcement of d. We will advance revisions of business fields and the Group structure c. Infotech Health Support: We will create new health care business to improve the efficiency of management resources and business health and productivity management. models that leverages cutting-edge technologies, such as IoT and AI. activities. 13 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 14 L i o n’s Sustainability Lion’s Sustainability Value Creation by the Lion Group Since its founding, Lion has sought to build healthy and comfortable living of people through the creation fostering people’s contentment from a new perspective, Lion aims to increase corporate value and help of better lifestyle habits, in line with its Company motto of “Fulfilling a Spirit of Love.” By striving to realize build a sustainable society. 2017 Highlights its new Management Vision of “Becoming an advanced daily healthcare company,” and taking the lead in Corporate Philosophy Organizational New Management Vision for 2030 “Becoming an Advanced Daily Healthcare Company” Governance We will realize “healthy minds and bodies for all,” through the “ReDesign” of everyday rituals. External Environment Social Issues Investment of Capital Business Domains and Value Creation Process Value Creation Human Rights 2017 Lion’s Business The LIVE Plan Domains (LION Value Evolution Plan) Creation of Advance of the digital Financial Capital Shared Value transformation Improving Net assets Social Value quality of life ¥187.0 Economic Value Labor Practices billion (QOL) ( 2020 Targets) Total assets *IFRS ¥331.7 billion Emergence of Net Sales* diverse business Manufac ture d C apit al Consumer Products Business platforms Planned capital Industrial Products Business investment ¥400 billion The Environment ¥19.0 billion (2018) Overseas Business Extension of healthy life expectancy E-commerce Response Human C apit al channels to rapidly Operating Income* advancing No. of Lion Group changing retail employees and distribution ultra-aging 7,075 persons systems society Intellec tual Capital Business Promotion Value Chain ¥40 billion R&D expenditures Ensuring people’s everyday wellbeing Fair Operating Profit Attributable to ¥10.4 billion Practices Greater Sales & Owners of Parent* R&D Procurement Production Marketing health care Social and consciousness Relationship Capital Participants in Oral ¥28 billion Event of Tooth Brushing Feedback Protection for Children Environmental contribution of global 218 thousand children (2018) in building a sustainable planet Consumer Diversification environment ROE* of labor Natural Capital Issues environments and working Energy input styles 85,327 kl Embedding Sustainability 12% level Community Involvement and Development 15 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 16 L i o n’s Sustainability Lion’s Sustainability Sustainability Material Issues for the Lion Group (2015 2017) Lion have promoted our sustainable activities based on ISO 2 6 0 0 0 , a global social responsibility Starting from 2015 , our company expanded their applicable boundaries (coverage), from our domestic 2017 Highlights standard, since 2011 , and by listening to and incorporating the opinions of third party organizations, group to our overseas groups. We confirm and report the status of our progress toward these we have confirmed and evaluated our achievements in our domestic group. We identified our objectives annually and carry out actions for sustainability on an overall Lion Group. 2017 was the final Sustainability Material Issues in 2 0 1 2 and set 3 -year medium-term objectives in accordance with our year for the following Sustainability Material Issues and Targets. medium-term management plan for each of those issues. Organizational Sustainability Material Issues and Targets and their Achievments from 2015 2017 Governance Related URL of Lion Web Page Core Subjects Ideal Vision Material Issues 2017 Medium-term Objectives Achievements in 2017 Information (Websites are all in Japanese) Domestic • Implementing e-learning on the Lion Group Charter for Disseminating the Lion Group Charter for p.37 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/compliance/ Corporate Behavior (Once a year) Human Rights Corporate Behavior as a CSR policy Overseas • Posting the sustainability policy in the work place • Distributing a handbook containing the sustainability p.37 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/compliance/ Disseminating policies concerning CSR Establishing Groupwide policy to employees CSR Management Structure Domestic • Announcing progress through Sustainability Report and p.17-20 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/lion_csr/promotion/vision.php Managing progress toward objectives website (Once a year) Labor Practices • Announcing progress through Sustainability Report and Maintaining a Sound Overseas website (Once a year) Management System p.17-20 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/lion_csr/promotion/vision.php Setting objectives and managing progress • Holding interviews on the status of progress with all of Organizational that is Continuously our overseas consolidated subsidiaries (Once a year) Governance Trusted by Society Domestic Promoting Risk Continuously operating Business • Confirming and reviewing our BCP at Executive Commitp.36 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/risk/ Management Continuity Plan (BCP) based on multiphase tee (Once a year) The Environment projections • Conducting Compliance Awareness Surveys (Once a year; Domestic 97% response rate in 2017) • Providing educational programs through e-learning with p.37 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/compliance/ Raising awareness of compliance Embedding Compliance / regard to compliance, sexual harassment, power harassInternal Control Systems ment and insider trading Overseas • Introducing internal control policies regarding financial Fair Operating http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/ir/library/ar/2017/ Enhancing internal control systems result report and implementing assessments Practices Domestic Formulating and DisseminatDisseminating the Lion Group Charter for • Implementing e-learning on the Lion Group Charter for p.37-38 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/humanrights/duediligence/ ing Human Rights Policy Corporate Behavior as a human rights Corporate Behavior (Once a year) policy Domestic • Having suppliers self-check their sustainability activities Promoting self-assessment questionnaire and feeding assessment results back to the suppliers p.49-50 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/procurement/ Establishing a of CSR activities by suppliers and Consumer (Once a year) Framework for providing feedback on the results Respecting Human Issues Human Rights Domestic • Raising awareness through Compliance Awareness Surveys Rights Ensuring Human Rights Disseminating information regarding the Due Diligence*1 (Once a year; 98% recognition rate in 2017) p.37 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/compliance/ hotline and strengthening the advice and • Responding to and sorting out all cases whistleblowing framework Overseas • Setting up and operating internal and external contacts for reporting, and an internal contact for consultations Community Setting up and operating internal contacts p.37 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/compliance/ • Disseminating information regarding the hotline through for reporting and consultations training on compliance Involvement and *1 Steps that an organization should take in order to recognize, prevent and address negative influences on human rights. Development 17 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 18 L i o n’s Related URL of Lion Web Page Sustainability Core Subjects Ideal Vision Material Issues 2017 Medium-term Objectives Achievements in 2017 Information (Websites are all in Japanese) Domestic • Promoting the Target Management System to enhance PDCA activEmbedding measures for promoting PDCA through ities toward attaining objectives and providing training thereon. p.39 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/development/ Promoting Human Resource implementation of the target management system • Developing human resources with an aptitude for marketing Development / Revitalization Global human resource development 2017 Programs Domestic • Engaging in activities to achieve the targets based on the Act on ProEnhancing the “Diverse Human Resource Promotion Programs” motion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace p.40 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/various/ Highlights Implementing supporting measures for women to build their career • Actively employing people with disabilities Changing Awareness Domestic • Enhancing work-life balance to support employees raising chilof Employees through Promoting work-life balance with measures for building an environment, dren and employees providing nursing care for their family p.41 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/work_life/ Establishing Good Working where employees can work healthily and energetically • Promoting the Next Generation Support Act Phase 5 Action Plan Raising Morale and Labor Practices Environments Motivation Overseas • Periodically holding labor-management meetings p.39 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/relations/ Organizational Enhancing opportunities for talks between employees and management Domestic • Providing training on health management at every level of employee training Promoting Employees’ Health Improving the environment to allow employees to • Conducting health checkups on a regular basis (Once a year) p.42 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/health/ Governance Management • Enhancing provision of information on oral health care through the e-learning system work healthily and energetically Enhancing Group-wide Domestic • Organizing Safety, Hygiene and Disaster Prevention Meetings to Occupational Health and Improving occupational safety and the safety of facilities based on the p.42 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/prevention/ promote PDCA for safety activities (Twice a year) Safety Management System “Health, Safety and Disaster Prevention Management System” • Expanding biodiversity conservation activities at Lion sites Engaging in Progressive Domestic Overseas p.31-34 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/highlight/ Human Rights • Managing the progress of the Environmental Objective of Eco Environmental Activities Promoting “Eco Vision 2020” and managing progress thereof p.45-46 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/ecovision2020/ Contributing to the Vision 2020 towards its targets for 2017 Development of a • Thoroughly managing emissions and waste water in accordance Domestic Sustainable Society as Preventing Pollution with statutory and voluntary criteria p.44 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/enhancement/ Promoting pollution prevention The Environment an Environmentally • River water monitoring both by industrial groups and by Lion Advanced Company Enhancing Group-wide • Starting the operation of a management system for information on chemDomestic Management of Chemical ical substances at all domestic research and development sites, to perform p.45 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/enhancement/ Enhancing chemical substances management systems Substances integrated management of raw materials and component structures Labor Practices Domestic • Having suppliers self-check their sustainability activities and feedPromoting self-assessment questionnaire of CSR activities p.49-50 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/procurement/ Promoting CSR Activities ing assessment results back to the suppliers (Once a year) by suppliers and providing feedback on the results throughout the Supply Promoting CSR Procurement Fair Operating Chain Domestic • Holding Environmental Action Promotion Committee to manage http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/ecovision2020/ environmental progress (Twice a year) p.44, 46, 50 Practices Promoting “Eco Vision 2020” and managing progress thereof • Continuing purchases of RSPO certified palm oil derivatives http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/procurement/ Offering Products and Domestic The Environment Information that Contribute • Attaching Environmental Labels on eco products and providing Promoting environmental educational activities for p.55 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/communication/ to the Development of a consumers with information consumers through products Sustainable Society Providing Information Useful Domestic • Creation, Accumulation, and Provision of Living Information conEnhancing the provision of information that ducted by Meisters of Daily Life for Daily Life and Promoting p.54 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/consumer/communication/ contributes to healthy and comfortable life • Publishing information through Lidea, a website for lifestyle information and comEducational Activities Pursuing Customer according to different lifestyles and life stages municating to consumers by effectively applying Lion’s accumulated information Satisfaction by Creating Domestic • Promoting PDCA for quality assurance activities conducted by the Fair Operating Safe and Trustworthy CS/PL Committee (Twice a year) p.35, 51 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/consumer/quality/ Consumer Issues Enhancing the Group-wide quality assurance system Products Enhancing Group-wide • Providing education on Fundamental Quality Assurance through e-learning Quality Assurance System • Enhancing customer support by the Customer Support Center Practices Overseas Reinforcing compliance with regulations in each and the Marketing Department p.53 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/consumer/opinion/ country and enhancing responses to customers • Enhancing abilities to comply with the laws and regulations of each country Domestic • Providing training through e-learning with regard to information sep.55 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/risk/ Promoting Information Promoting Information Security curity, risks of social media and our information management system Security Measures Overseas • Implementing various measures to prevent leakage of personal p.55 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/risk/ Enhancing information security management systems and confidential information Consumer Domestic Overseas • Promoting “Preventive dentistry from Age 0” Issues • Conducting initiatives for open innovation together with the Hirosaki University COI p.25-28 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/highlight/ Co-existing and Promoting educational activities for oral health: Promoting • Holding the “Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for Children” in Asian countries and regions p.29-30 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/oral/ Co-prospering with preventive dentistry (recommending self-care and professional Enhancing Social • Implementing tooth brushing educational activities in areas near our business facilities p.57 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/overseas/ Society and Communities care) and education for health instructors and children • Implementing tooth brushing educational activities at kindergartens and preschools Contribution Programs / Contributing to the Community Development of Society Leading to Forming Healthy • Implementing promotional activities for hand-washing habits in Involvement and and Comfortable Living Asian countries and regions in the Areas of Health, Community Domestic Overseas Development Habits • Implementing promotional activities for hand-washing habits in http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/washing/ Comfort and the Promoting cleanliness :Promoting Educational Activities for p.58 areas near our business facilities http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/overseas/ Involvement and Environment Children’s Hand Washing and Gargling • Implementing promotional activities for hand-washing habits at kindergartens and preschools Development 19 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 20 L i o n’s Sustainability Lion’s Sustainability Identification of Sustainability Material Issues in the “LIVE Plan” Medium-term Management Plan (2018 2020) We have identified our 2020 Sustainability Material 2017 Basic Approach Issues through the steps indicated to the right and Steps for identifying Sustainability Material Issues Highlights have classified them into risks and opportunities Step To realize our new management vision “Becoming Development of a sustainable society an advanced daily healthcare company” we will Ideal Vision and business growth with careful consideration for the entire supply 1 Identify social issues chain and stakeholders. We have also defined the 39 social issues were identified based on ISO move forward with the “LIVE Plan,” our medi26000, the SDGs, the GRI Standard and the ten directions for initiatives to be executed in response principles of the UN Global Compact. Organizational um-term management plan and promote sustainManagement Vision to each issues and have set targets and KPI. able management which strives to achieve both the Step 2 Governance development of a sustainable society and the Approach to identify our Sustainability Material Issues Consider their degrees of impact on society and businesses growth of our businesses. The issues identified in Step 1 were done important evaluation from the perspective of In order to achieve the target, the Lion Group has Extremely degrees of impact on society and businesses identified Sustainability Material Issues to be enhigh Lion’s respectively, and reviews were conducted by related departments, the director in charge of Degree of impact on society 2020 gaged in by the year 2020. Sustainability sustainability, and the Board of Directors. Human Rights We will dedicate ourselves to carrying out importThe LIVE Plan Material Issues Step ant initiatives as part of a management foundation which seeks to reduce risks and to realizing individ3 Investigate validity of material issues The validity of each item was investigated while ual “healthy minds and bodies for all” through oral incorporating the viewpoints of third-party instituHigh tions, and reviews were conducted as necessary. health care and cleanliness and hygiene rituals. Promoting our 2020 Sustainability Extremely Step Material Issues and objectives High Degree of impact on businesses 4 Obtain approval from the Executive Committee and Board of Directors Labor Practices high The identified 2 0 2 0 Sustainability Material Issues were approved by the Executive Risks and Opportunities regarding Sustainability Material Issues in the Supply Chain Committee and Board of Directors. Procurement of Raw Materials, Major Initiatives Use by Consumers Disposal by Consumers Packages and Containers Undertaken by Lion The Environment ・Promoting Diversity ・Promoting a Work-Life Balance Sustainability Material Issues ・Developing Human Resources Opportunities ・Reinforcement of Health and Productivity Management ・Pursuing Customer Trust and Satisfaction ・Creating Healthy Living Habits Fair Operating Practices ・Promoting Environmental Initiatives for a Sustainable Planet ・Respecting Human Rights ・Enhancing the Occupational Safety Management System Risks ・Building Responsible Supply Chain Management ・Promoting Risk Management Consumer ・Embedding Compliance Issues ・Enhancing Group Governance Bus i ne s s P a rtne rs Customers Key Employees Community Stakeholders Shareholders and Investors Involvement and Local Communities Development 21 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 22 L i o n’s Sustainability Lion’s Sustainability 2020 Sustainability Material Issues and Objectives 2017 Core Subjects Sustainability Material Issues Directions for Initiatives toward the 2020 Objectives 2020 Objectives and KPI Work together with consumers and local Highlights ● Promotion of environmental business management ● 1 Promoting Environmental E communities actively to promote environmental Promote and achieve the “Eco Vision 2020” environmental objectives (Global) The Environment Initiatives for a Sustainable conservation activities, aiming harmonization Establish the “New Environmental Objectives 2030” to minimize environmental impacts over the entire life cycle of products, including at the stage of their use in customer households (Global) Planet of a sustainable society and the development Promote appropriate use and management of chemical substances (Global) of our businesses. Confirm and review the progress of environmental management through top environmental audits and the Environmental Action Promotion Committee (Domestic) Organizational ● Enhancement of initiatives for respecting human rights based on the Group philosophy Governance Build a Group system which respects human Formulate human rights policies for all Lion companies (Global) Human Rights ● 2 Respecting Human Rights rights. ● Expansion of internal and external contacts for reporting and consultations 100% recognition rate for the “AL Heart Hotline” (Domestic) ● Promotion of activity by women at the management level Expand creative business activities through the ● Human Rights 3 Promoting Diversity Develop female employees to drive the next generation of management (Global) application of diverse human resources. 20% proportion of female employees at the management level (Domestic) ● Realization of smart work* to harmonize productive work and personal lives ● 4 Promoting a Create a uplifting feeling among employees Work-Life Balance Implement employee awareness and behavior surveys (Domestic) through work style reforms. 70% usage rate of annual paid leave (Domestic) Create personal dynamism by developing human ● 5 Developing Human ● Arrangement of human resources development systems to successfully cultivate Labor Practices resources with diverse and abundant ideas which Labor Practices Resources personnel who can learn and act independently enable to fulfill the expectations of global stakeholders. ● 6 Enhancing the Occupational Enhance and thoroughly enforce the Occupational Health ● Thorough enforcement of occupational safety and the safety of facilities S Safety Management System and Safety Management System across the entire Group. 0 serious accident and 0 serious incident (Global) Build a Lion’s health management model, ● Expansion of support programs to aid employees in forming health care habits ● 7 Reinforcement of Health and which will be appropriate for an advanced 100% rate of receiving health checkups (Domestic) Productivity Management 100% rate of receiving dental checkups (Domestic) The Environment daily healthcare company. 100% rate of receiving examinations for cancer classified by age (Domestic) ● Build more advanced and sustainable supply chains Fair Operating ● 8 Building Responsible Promote management with high effectiveness in Implement supplier sustainability self-checks related to procurement (Global) Practices Supply Chain Management the supply chain. 100% implementation rate of supplier sustainability self-checks related to procurement (Domestic) Thoroughly promote corporate activities with a high ● Enhancement of reliability assurance systems covering the entire supply chain Consumer ● 9 Pursuing Customer Fair Operating level of credibility to customers across the entire Group, ● Improvement of customer satisfaction through enhancement of customer support quality Issues Trust and Satisfaction and further develop customer-oriented management. ● Enhancemnet of security system through system construction and supervisory management enhancement Contribute to the creation of healthy living habits such ● Implementation of activities to establish health care habits such as preventive dentistry and hand washing, in Practices Community Involvement and ● 10 Creating Healthy as oral health care, and cleanliness and hygiene practices coordination with business activities Living Habits and habits, in order to extend healthy life expectancy of ● Contribution to the resolution of social issues based on co-existence with communities, involvement by employees, Development all people and to ensure people’s everyday well-being. and enhancement of partnerships Enhance the risk management system for Consumer ● 11 Promoting Risk Management ● Promotion of comprehensive and extensive risk management across the entire Group Issues the entire Group. G ● Construction of a compliance management system Organizational Enhance the effectiveness of compliance ● 12 Embedding Compliance Expand familiarity with the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior and the Behavioral Guidelines (Global) Governance activities across the entire Group. 100% rate of participation in compliance-related training (Domestic) Engage in enhancing governance for the Community ● 13 Enhancing Group Governance ● Arrangement of a Group Governance System in accordance with the Basic Policy for Corporate Governance entire Group. Involvement and * Work styles to promote highly-concentrated work in order to improve productivity. Development 23 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 24 L i o n’s Sustainability Preventive 1 There are many possible reasons for the low figure, but we 2017 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING believe there are two main factors. Highlight Dentistry from The first is that oral hygiene maintenance is not an enjoyable time for parents nor children in the first place. Age 0 Children are not used to having a brush inserted in their mouth and find it uncomfortable. Parents, who often have 2017 Highlights to chase resisting children and almost force tooth brushing on them, feel stressed by the experience. The parent’s face Background unconsciously shows anger as they brush the child’s teeth, and in a vicious circle, this makes the child dislike tooth brushing Organizational Preventive Dentistry is at the Heart of Lion even more. Recent studies show that oral health not only affects the Lion has been a long-standing advocate of preventive The second factor is that parents often brush their children’s Figure 3: W  orry about injury during child’s tooth Governance brushing mouth but also the whole body, with an impact on a wide dentistry aiming to support people’s healthy living. We teeth for them. In order to embed the habit of brushing their array of conditions such as diabetes, heart diseases and actively promote this concept through product development teeth by themselves , it is important that children are taught dementia. It has also been revealed that without having and awareness-raising activities in partnership with Children under 5 habitually brushing to do so at the earliest age possible. However, many parents Worry about injury during enough remaining teeth, it becomes difficult to enjoy talking governments and dental clinics. theirtheteeth are worried about by children theirthemselves injuring own. during child’s tooth brushing Human Rights (Lion survey: mothers with children under 5, n=600) (Lion survey: mothers with children under 5, n=600) or eating, which impacts the quality of life (QOL). In other In 2017, we started promoting “preventive dentistry from tooth brushing (Figure 3) and instead brush the children’s words, maintaining oral health can extend the healthy life age 0” to embed preventive dentistry habits at the earliest teeth for them. Based on these findings, we concluded that, expectancy the number of years a person can expect to live age possible. Habit in order to embed the habit of not in children, we tooth brushing Worried: should focus more on safety informed: 36% in good mental and physical health. product development. Figure 1: Lion’s concept of preventive dentistry 39% We want to allay parents’ fears and turn tooth brushing into a fun, happy time to share from a stressful time — we are approaching this challenge both from product development Labor Practices About 40% of children under 5 do and communication angles. not have the habit of brushing their own teeth Preventive dentistry is the idea that we should focus not on treatment after getting a cavity and periodontal disease, Professional care are Self-care but on prevention before it happens. It is The Environment = = important to maintain both professional care Guidance on tooth Periodical checkups D Lion’s Approach Dental care in which brushing and prevennpeople p do by themtative treatment at selves se what they are by dentists and daily self-care. dental clinics, etc. taught by dental specialists Product Development: Safety Handle for Realizing Preventive Dentistry from Age 0 act s imp Injuries during tooth brushing are typically caused by children Issues Regarding Children’s Tooth Brushing Les Fair Operating running around with the toothbrush in their mouth and the m outh in a the fall brush hitting the inside or outside of the mouth when they on Baby teeth typically start emerging at about 8 months after Figure 2: Tooth brushing habits among children under 5 Bend-Not-Break Practices birth, and permanent teeth start replacing them when the trip and fall. To prevent this, we aimed to develop a tooth Children under 5 habitually brushing Worry about brush injury to cleanduring effective teeth, but also is safe even when the Safety Handle child is around 6 years old. During these years, the inside of the mouth of a child changes considerably as the child their teeth by their own. child’s tooth brushing child falls. grows. In order to protect children’s teeth, it is important (Lion survey: mothers with children under 5, n=600) (Lion survey:What we mothers have with come children up5, with under n=600)is the Bend-Not-Break Safety that children are taught the correct ways of tooth brushing Handle a toothbrush handle that bends sideways. Even when Consumer at different stages of dental development, with the parents the child falls with the toothbrush in the mouth, the brush Habit not Worried: bends inside the mouth to lessen the impact. Its structure is Issues formed: 36% showing them how. It is also important that children acquire the habit of tooth brushing by their own as early as possible. 39% designed to bend only sideways and not lengthways, so it does not compromise the cleaning performance of the brush. However, surveys on children’s oral hygiene habits have We have introduced this safety handle in our CLINICA Kid’s Community About 40% of children under 5 do Toothbrush models in a total product renewal. (CLNICA shown that as many as 39% of children under 5 do not not have the habit of brushing their habitually brush their teeth by their own. (Figure 2). own teeth Kid’s Toothbrush for 0 to 2 years old and 3-5 years old) Involvement and * “Habit” means the child brushes his/her teeth every day by him/herself Development 25 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 26 L i o n’s Communication: Website “HA! HA! HA! Park” Sustainability ● Adding New Value to Parent-and-Child Tooth Brushing Time We have launched “HA! HA! HA! Park,” a website to support Tooth brushing is often a stressful time for parents and being praised by the parent for brushing teeth boosts preventive dentistry for children with ideas to make tooth children, but we believe it can be turned into a precious their confidence; the use of hands and fingers aids the brushing a more enjoyable time for parents and children. time for parent-and-child bonding. For parents and children, development of motor function. It is also an opportunity for Here, parents and children can learn how to brush teeth correctly through quizzes and movies. We have also prepared 2017 tooth brushing is not just about cleaning teeth. For children, communication between the parent and the child. We are Highlights the time spent with their parents while brushing teeth is spreading this message in a variety of ways to reach a wide a movie “Tooth brushing song for parents and children” with also important for their mental and physical development audience. special sound effects to keep children’s attention. ● A movie showing an effectiveness of understanding empathy We developed a movie about Parent-and-Child Tooth brushing time can be an opportunity to build up parentHA! HA! HA! Park: Organizational Brushing Time, sharing problems and honest feelings parents and-child communication if both enjoy brushing teeth URL http://clinica.lion.co.jp/hahahapark/ (Japanese) have, which we believe many parents can recognize an together. It shows a new value tooth brushing can provide. Governance influence of empathy. In this movie, we show that tooth ● Every employee is an ambassador for communicating “preventive dentistry from age 0” In order to spread the message of “preventive dentistry from age 0” to the wider society, Human Rights Lion believes that it is important that every employee understands the concept. In 2017, an internal preventive dentistry learning sessions across the company was held, to foster employees to become preventive dentistry practitioners themselves. Employees also handed out the Introductory Preventive Dentistry Set for Parents and Children to their The Introductory friends and acquaintances who have children in order to spread the message about the Preventive importance of “preventive dentistry from age 0.” Around 10,000 sets were distributed in Dentistry Set Labor Practices total. for Parents A movie showing an effectiveness of understanding empathy: and Children URL http://clinica.lion.co.jp/hahahapark/douga/egao (Japanese) Preventive dentistry from age 0: Lion’s objective ● Parents and children together guidebook for “preventive dentistry from age 0” Daily oral care is an important habit that needs to be acquired care in all stages of life from birth through adulthood to later In order to protect children’s teeth, it is important that units at hospitals across the country. This step-by-step guide at an early age as it can have an impact on health throughout years. The Environment parents have the correct knowledge and habits themselves. to preventive dentistry teaches the correct way to brush life. Lion is delighted to contribute to people’s whole-body We will continue our advocacy on preventive dentistry as a We distributed the “Guidebook for preventive dentistry children’s teeth according to different stages of dental health and extend healthy life expectancy through oral health company-wide mission. from age 0” to consumers at dental clinics and maternity development. oice Our Employee’s V Fair Operating Tomohiro Aoki, Oral Care Business Department Practices My job is to develop the CLINICA Kid’s Toothbrush series products and communication. In the 2017 re-launch of the series, our work was supported not only by our internal team members, but also external partners, such as dental specialists, from product development to post-launch promotion. For example, in the development phase, our consulting dentist gave us a lot of advice on the prototypes and helped us conduct clinical tests with children. In the promotion phase, their support included providing comments about the importance of “preventive dentistry from age 0” and making a joint presentation at the Japanese Society of Pediatric Dentistry Conference. We also received many positive comments from distributors, who were kindly happy to Consumer Issues place our promotional tools on their premises to provide information that allays consumers’ fears. These collaborative efforts of the manufacturer, distributors and academia to promote “preventive dentistry from age 0” have resulted in positive response; comments we have received include: “my children brush their teeth without being told now” and “now I say ‘very good, well done’ to my child at tooth brushing time.” These comments show that our mission is helping many families turn tooth brushing time into a chance for parents and children to enjoy bonding and communication. The contribution of the CLINICA Kid’s Toothbrush series of products to society has also been recognized, and we have won the Kids Design Award and Japan Mothers Selection Award. Community We will continue to do our best to promote “preventive dentistry from age 0” and the concept of tooth brushing as a fun habit for parents and children to share, and to contribute to the healthy growth of children. Involvement and Development Preventive dentistry step by step 27 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 28 L i o n’s Sustainability Lion’s Approach 2017 Highlight 2 Our Open Innovation Work PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS Designing a Dental Check-up System As part of the Hirosaki University COI program, a new health check-up system that promotes health consciousness and Dental Check-up system designed by Lion 2017 lifestyle changes in conditions such as metabolic syndrome, locomotive syndrome, dental/oral conditions, clinical Highlights depression and dementia is under development. Lion is Medical questionnaire Intraoral camera Background responsible for the dental/oral part of the health check-up which consists of a Salivary Multi Test system (SMT) developed Organizational Lion’s Open Innovation originally by Lion, an intraoral camera that lets the examinees look at the state of their own teeth and gums, and a medical Our society and way of life are changing rapidly as we face value to our customers. The key to this is open innovation Governance questionnaire to assess changes in the examinees’ awareness increasingly serious societal issues such as low birth rates, through partnerships with external organizations such as the and behavior. The SMT uses an intraoral camera that lets the an aging population and depletion of resources on the one government and companies in the public and private sector. examinees look at the state of their own teeth and gums, and hand and dramatic progress in technologies such as AI and An example of this is the joint research we are conducting a medical questionnaire to assess changes in the examinees’ Salivary Multi Test (SMT) IoT on the other. In order to keep up with these changes and under the Center of Innovation Science and Technology based awareness and behavior. Human Rights continue supporting the public’s health we are focusing Radical Innovation and Entrepreneurship Program, known as Currently, many companies and local authorities omit not just on providing goods but also on offering new COI STREAM. dental checkup from their health check-up programs due to time constraints, cost or availability of dental clinicians. Lion COI STREAM aims to realize a reliable and easy to use dental check-up system, and turn them more convenient in the future. The Center of Innovation (COI) program is one of programs under the Center of Innovation Science and Technology based Radical Innovation and Entrepreneurship What is a Salivary Multi Test system (SMT)? Labor Practices Program (COI STREAM) launched in 2013 by the Ministry of Education, Culture, SMT is a salivary test system that can measure multiple saliva indicators related to dental and gingival health and oral Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT). Focusing on facilitating breakthrough cleanliness in just five minutes. innovations for the next decade, COI is aiming to realize radical innovation which is difficult to be accomplished by industry or academia alone, but also to establish innovation platforms in Japan. Oral Healthcare Studies Course Opened at Hirosaki University COI at 18 locations* across the country are driving industry-academia collaborative The Environment Lion is funding a new Oral Healthcare Studies course at oral care may prevent lifestyle-related diseases. Offered in research. Lion has been participating in a collaborative team with Hirosaki University, Hirosaki University Graduate School of Medicine for research partnership with the Aomori Medical Association and the where one of the COI has been hosted, since 2015. * As of February 2018 into the relationship between oral health and sleep and Aomori Dental Association, this course searches for scientific the health of the whole body. In recent years, it has been evidence of these links, and aims to create products and Hirosaki University COI Program suggested that the intraoral condition and the quality of services based on these research outcomes. sleep may affect the health of the whole body, and that good The Hirosaki University COI is an innovative social platform currently running a large-scale health examination program Fair Operating for the creation of “sukoyaka-ryoku,” meaning the ability for the residents of the Iwaki district in the city of Hirosaki. oice to maintain health. It focuses on the research, development Around 1,000 residents take part in the Iwaki health exam Our Employee’s V Practices and commercialization of solutions that uses health-related each year, and this exam has accumulated big data on big data to detect early signs of conditions such as dementia health of more than 20,000 individuals in total, comprising and other lifestyle-related diseases with the aim to prevent approximately 2,000 data points. The Hirosaki University Tatsuyuki Midorikawa, Research and Development Headquarters, Pharmaceutical Research Laboratories their onset. One of the primary motivators of this platform COI project uses these health data sets as the basis of their I started a two-year residency at Hirosaki University from April 2016. My job is to analyze big data initiative is the fact that Aomori Prefecture, in which Hirosaki on health for lifestyle habits and physical constitutional factors that can cause sleep disorders, and research, development and commercialization of unique University is located, has the lowest life expectancy in Japan. to establish the relationship between sleep and health. During my residency, I also visited Consumer health innovations that can only come from big data insights Imabetsu, Mutsu and other areas in Aomori prefecture to take part in health awareness activities Aomori Prefecture has an aging population and higher risks from short-life expectancy regions. As a participant in this to raise health literacy* in communities, workplaces and schools. I have been inspired by the Issues of age-related disease and lifestyle-related diseases than the program, Lion is engaged mainly in the research of oral health passion and commitment of the faculty, local residents, partner companies and local government norm. For many years, the average life expectancy in Aomori working together on this unprecedented open innovation. They are driven by the belief that and sleep. We are aiming to establish correlation by seeing good health cannot be achieved without changing the way society works. I feel privileged to be at has been the lowest of all prefectures both for men and how these two factors have an influence on lifestyle habits, the forefront of this creative endeavor at the Hirosaki University COI Program to head in a new Community women. the physical constitution and whole body health. We effort to direction for the healthcare industry. I hope that the data analysis work I carry out will lead to the Hirosaki University has set the goal of reversing Aomori’s develop and promote solutions that help to extend healthy introduction of a new healthcare business that benefits society. reputation as the short-life expectancy prefecture and is Involvement and life expectancy. * Having correct health knowledge and understanding how to put it into practice Development 29 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 30 L i o n’s Biodiversity Biodiversity Conservation Activities at Plants and Offices – Raising Employees’ Awareness Sustainability 3 Conservation We believe that the important first step in biodiversity (including offices) by 2020. With this target, we aim to get 2017 LIFE BELOW LIFE ON WATER LAND conservation through business activities is to raise the every employee to participate in biodiversity conservation Highlight Activities at Lion awareness of individual employees. As part of our Eco Vision 2020 environmental objectives, we aim to carry out activities. Each site has defined its own theme that reflects the issue of its local area and is running ongoing activities in 2017 Domestic Sites biodiversity conservation activities at all domestic sites partnership with the local community. Highlights Eco Vision 2020 environmental objectives (launched in 2013) Lion’s Approach to Biodiversity Conservation Realizing a low Realizing a sound Harmonizing with nature Raising awareness carbon society material-cycle society All living creatures are connected with each other through a chemical emissions and discharges from plants and offices and ● Reduce greenhouse gas emissions ● Reduce water use ● Biodiversity ● Raiseawareness and Organizational ● Recycle factory conservation activities education in society complex web of interactions that form balanced ecosystems. greenhouse gasses from our business activities; as well as the Governance waste water discharge (site-based activities, Humans are also part of ecosystems, and our daily life and use of products and disposal of packaging by our customers. ● Achieve zero emissions CSR procurement) business activities benefit from the biodiversity of these Lion provides various products aiming to help people’s daily systems. life, appreciating the blessings of nature. Thus, Lion considers Lion acknowledges that it has an impact on biodiversity that it is important that to protect biodiversity for the future Human Rights at different stages of the supply chain, either directly or generations, and implement various biodiversity initiatives at Target indirectly. These include plant construction and other forms different stages of our supply chain. Related Information p.47 Carry out biodiversity conservation activity of land use; procurement of materials such as natural oils; at all domestic sites (including offices) by 2020 Initiatives at different stages of supply chain Basic Principles of Site-Based Biodiversity Conservation Activities Labor Practices Procurement Use by Disposal by Based on the Ministry of Environment “Guidelines for Private Sector Engagement in Biodiversity,” we define the following four key of raw Production Transportation consumers consumers principles for site-based biodiversity conservation activities. materials Sustainable Reduction of Modal shift of Development Promotion of 3Rs Principle of prevention procurement of water use freight transport of water-saving (Making products palm oils to rail and ship products refillable, more Understand risks threatening Management of waste The Environment compact, and biodiversity and take Sustainable water discharges Development using recycled preventative actions to sustainably procurement of Reduction of waste of highly biodegradable materials, etc.) harmonize with nature. paper and pulp Management of Avoid/minimize impact Flexible management chemical substances detergents Transportation Take actions to avoid or Monitor continually to understand minimiz our impact on the the impact on the natural natural environment or environment and local communities local communities and adjust the plan flexibly Long-term vision Fair Operating Have a long-term perspective Supervisors: Ecology Path Inc. to ensure that the activities Practices Fumiaki Nagaishi can be maintained as a Reducing our long-term commitment Tetsuya Kitazawa impact on the Reducing our impact on the ecosystems of rivers, ecosystems of agricultural lakes, oceans, forests, soil and wetlands The next pages (p 33–34) present details of the biodiversity conservation activities that are taking place at Lion’s different sites. lands and forests We select activities based on the following considerations: Consumer We have been making various efforts to reduce our burden and sustainable use of natural resources must suit the · Providing a wildlife-friendly environment in rivers, lakes and seas that are connected to our plants either as the source of Issues on the environment and minimize our impact on biodiversity characteristics of each area. Recently, we have put more focus water or outlet for discharges in order to ensure we can continue benefiting from nature in on the areas where our plants and offices are located not only ·P  roviding habitats for creatures that are disappearing, or breeding them under protection with the aim to later return them a sustainable way. to proactively conserve biodiversity but also to regenerate to their natural habitats ·R  eplicating natural habitats lost in the area on the site’s grounds and maintaining them as a biotope Community The natural environment is varied and unique in different and restore it. ·M  aintaining forests, conducting regular assessment of wild life living there and using forests as a place for biodiversity areas, and we believe that biodiversity conservation education · Working in partnership with other stakeholders such as local residents, external organizations and local authorities Involvement and Development 31 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 32 L i o n’s Sustainability Biodiversity Yabuki, Fukushima Prefecture Kamisu, Ibaraki Prefecture Activities at Lion’s ● Lion Packaging Co., Ltd. Fukushima Plant Management of satoyama ● Lion Chemical Co., Ltd. Fine Chemical Plant Restoration of Kashimanada Domestic Sites 2017 “Yasuragi no Satoyama Fukunoshima” coastal pine forest Yoko Highlights Marumoto Akashi, Hyogo Prefecture Sakai, Osaka Prefecture ● Akashi Plant ● Osaka Plant Akemi Miyamoto Organizational Creation of hackberry biotope Conservation of Takahisa Yamazaki We started environmental management of the satoyama (domestic woodland) We take part in the “White Sand, Green Pines” project, which (Protection of the Japanese emperor butterfly) loggerhead sea turtles We are now in the eighth year of our located at the north of the plant in 2013 and started growing pasque flower. The aims to restore the seashore ecosystem of the Kashimanada Coast loggerhead sea turtle conservation work, which main activities include satoyama restoration, installation of signboards, and a staff through beach conservation and the restoration of protected pine Governance started in 2010. After much trial and error with photography contest. The satoyama was named “Yasuragi no Satoyama forests. Every employee has planted a pine seed by the chemical different fencing materials, we finally Fukunoshima” in the employees’ vote. We will continue working together to send plant and is growing the seedling. With the seedling labeled with succeeded in keeping the feeding damage by out information about the satoyama and maintain its three areas (a relaxation their own name, they get a sense of ownership as they look after raccoon dogs to zero in 2016 with the current area for employees, a protected area and a virgin forest area) in order to cultivate their own seedling. After two years, the trees will be replanted metal fencing. We will continue with our work an environment where humans and wildlife can live and thrive side by side. along the Kashimanada Coast. preventing from feeding disruption and beach cleaning to keep the area safe for egg-laying turtles so that hatchlings can safely reach the Human Rights sea and return to lay eggs. Nagoya, Aichi Prefecture Ichihara, Chiba Prefecture Kyoichi Isobe We joined ‘Ecowing Akashi’ in 2013 and have since been helping to implement the Akashi City Environmental ● Nagoya Office ● Chiba Plant Master Plan while working on the creation of a hackberry biotope on the grounds of the Akashi Plant to protect Osaka, Osaka Prefecture Support for Hime-Botaru Firefly conservation Management of “Leotope” satoyama biotope and increase species native to the local farmlands and forests. We raise caterpillars of Japanese emperor activities at Nagoya Castle Moat butterflies donated by the municipal Tamba-no-mori ● Osaka Office Park. Adult butterflies are also released to the sawtooth oak forest in Tamba-no-mori Park as part of their Support for Protection of Japanese wisteria Labor Practices butterfly release event. The original Japanese wisteria, from which many cultivars are derived, is said to come from the Fukushima District of the City of Osaka, where the Lion Osaka Office was located until 2017. As part of Sanae Tomomi Yokkaichi, Mie Prefecture its biodiversity awareness-raising activities, the Osaka Amaike Shinozaki Office supports the Osaka Fukushima Lions Club in its work to protect and raise native Japanese We have been supporting the conservation work of the The Guardian The employees at the plant have hand-built a biotope on the grounds ● Lion Specialty Chemicals Co., Ltd. Yokkaichi Plant wisteria, which had almost disappeared. Successors of Nagoya Castle group since 2014 to protect the of the plant, and named it Leotope. We now see many plants and Hime-Botaru Firefly living around the lion statue by the outer moat of creatures that live near the water there. In early summer, the ancient Conservation of Yoshizaki Beach Nagoya Castle. We take part in various activities with the group, such as Oga lotus flowers bloom. In fall, the paddy field created in the biotope The Environment area cleaning, firefly viewing evenings, lectures and pamphlet turns gold with rice panicles to the delight of visitors to the plant. (Removal of non-native species and Sakaide, Kagawa Prefecture production, as part of the Hime-Botaru Firefly conservation work. beach cleaning) ● Lion Chemical Co., Ltd. Oleochemical Plant Creation of a dragonfly biotope Odawara, Kanagawa Prefecture (Breeding of the endangered the maiko red dragonfly) Koji Kawai ● Odawara Plant In 2012, we created a dragonfly pond on the Breeding of Japanese killfish and fireflies Fair Operating grounds of the Plant to protect the maiko red Eiji Goto dragonfly a rare and endangered species native to in Sakawa River basin Osamu Tatsumi Since 2015, we have been taking part in the cleaning Kagawa Prefecture. In 2015, we confirmed Katsumi Nagashima and non-native species removal activities that are held at sightings of the maiko red dragonflies as well as Practices Yoshizaki Beach in Yokkaichi every first Sunday of the their egg laying behavior in green spaces around Etsuko Wada month, as an event that is organized by a local the dragonfly pond, which means that we have We take part in the scheme for fostering the endangered Japanese non-profit organization. The participation rate of the succeeded in attracting the species and creating an killfishfish of the Sakawa River basin. We raise the fish in the pond on plant’s employees has been rising each year. We are ecosystem. We hope that, in addition to conserving the grounds of the plant. Visitors to the plant can also view them. In aiming for 100% participation of the plant employees in the maiko red dragonfly ecosystem we can attract 2017, we were able to return around 560 fish to the Odawara city the ongoing effort to protect the beach and keep the as many dragonfly species as possible. Other than our ecosystem conservation work, we are municipality. pale pink flowers of sea bindweed flourishing here. also expanding our dragonfly pond nature watch events to invite children from across the We have also built a natural habitat for fireflies on the grounds of the prefecture so that we can teach them about the importance of nature and ecosystems. plant and host firefly viewing evenings with local residents every year. Consumer ● Creation of dragonfly biotope by Lion ● Conservation of loggerhead sea tur tles Issues External Chemical Co., Ltd. Oleochemical Plant by Osaka Plant International Sea Turtle Society President's Award Certifications Japan Greener Contest for Activities on Biodiversity (Joint winner as “Team Minabe”＊ ) Research and Biodiversity Lion’ s biodiversity Special Award, (February 2018) Development Action Awards 2017: Community conservation activities Center Chairman’s the Judging Committee ＊ Lion Osaka Plant, Kiyoshi Goto, Minabe Sea (December 2017) ar e h i g h l y p r a i s e d Award (December 2017) Turtle Research Team and Youth Club Minabe Involvement and outside the company. (November 2016) Development 33 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 34 L i o n’s Organizational Governance Promoting Risk Management Sustainability In order to continue providing our customers with safe and • Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Basic Approach reliable products, we have appointed an officer responsible Lion is pushing ahead with the establishment of its own Lion’s top priorities for corporate governance are ensure compliance. By strengthening and enhancing for comprehensive risk management of Groupwide risk. systems to minimize damages and to continue business so as 2017 Particularly for the risk management of the environment, to provide products to customers even in cases where a large to increase management transparency, strengthen its corporate governance systems, Lion aims to Highlights quality assurance, and accidents and disasters, each committee earthquake, spread of infectious disease (pandemic), or other supervisory functions, accelerate decision making and increase its corporate value. discusses countermeasures in advance and the Executive contingencies occur. Committee deliberates if necessary. Each plant is certified We set up a task force according to the “Manual on with ISO14001 and eagerly works on quality management countermeasures for seismic disasters” in cases where seismic and environmental protection. In cases where physical disasters occur, and the “Manual on countermeasures against emergencies such as natural disasters and accidents arise, in novel influenza and other infectious diseases” in cases where Organizational Corporate Governance System accordance with the Emergency Response System, we report a pandemic due to novel influenza viruses or other infectious Governance the relevant facts to the President and Corporate Auditors, diseases are expected to occur, so as to respond to such among others, and report status to the Executive Committee contingencies. Whether BCP should be implemented or not At Lion, oversight of management is governed under board of transparency and to further enhance corporate governance. Core and the Board of Directors. is determined depending on the size of the disaster and the corporate auditor’s system. In March 2004, Lion has adopted the members of each committee are three external directors and two Also, among the various risks that may arise while doing degree of the damages. If the BCP is implemented, we would Executive Officer System and classified the functions that the Board external corporate auditors, who are all qualified as independent business, the following five points are listed as the main give first priority to the supply of consumer products among of Directors had previously carried out as follows:：the Board of directors. Regular meetings (scheduled every month) are held Human Rights matters that may have a significant influence on investor's our businesses. Directors is responsible for “decision making and oversight functions between the Representative Director and all external directors judgment, in particular, and are disclosed in the Company’s For risks that may have a serious impact on our business, of management” and the Executive Board of Directors for “business to exchange information in order to enhance oversight and Securities Report. we update the countermeasures and report to the Executive execution functions“. monitoring of management. Committee annually. The membership of the Board of Directors was reduced (currently In addition, the Advisory Committee (former Management 9, was 19 before the implementation of the Executive Officer Evaluation Committee) was set up in October 2003 to ensure 1.Product quality evaluation 2.Fluctuation in raw material costs 3.Fluctuation in foreign exchange rates System) to ensure more substantial discussions and faster decision that the opinions and advice of outside experts are reflected in 4.Major lawsuits, etc. 5.Natural disasters (e.g. earthquakes) making. A Nomination Advisory Committee and Compensation management. Labor Practices Advisory Committee were established to increase management • Corporate Governance System (as of April 1, 2018) Shareholder Meeting An arrangements of Internal Control Systems Consultation Response Auditing Monitoring Systems have been arranged to ensure the appropriateness • Internal Audits Accounting Auditors Consultation Auditing The Environment Response Opinions and advice Reporting of the Lion Group’s operations in accordance with Japan’s The Auditing Office implements audits on the operation on legal compliance Auditing Companies Act and the Ordinance for Enforcement of the status of various business units in terms of their legality, Advice Reporting Delegation Reporting Companies Act. With regard to “the systems for evaluating validity, efficiency, and risk management in order to establish Proposals and auditing internal control over financial reporting” as a foundation for healthy business activities. Audit results and Reporting [Report on Corporate Governance](Japanese) prescribed in Japan’s Financial Instruments and Exchange the status of improvements are reported to the President URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/company/about/pdf/abo_gov.pdf Act, we have been establishing controls at the company-wide after each time audit. The results at the corporate level are and business-process levels. Evaluations of internal control summarized and reported to the Board of Directors twice a Auditing effectiveness are carried out by the Auditing Office, which year for PDCA management of audit work. Reports are also Fair Operating *CS/PL Committee reports findings to the President and corporate auditors, provided to the Executive Committee, allowing information CS: Customer Satisfaction as well as to the Board of Directors on a regular basis. As a to be shared with the business execution departments. Practices PL: Product Liability Corporate Ethics Committee results of these evaluations, we have determined that Lion’s Cross-departmental committee to promote quality Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior; Behavioral Guidelines assurance activities. Shareholder Meeting internal control over financial reporting in 2017 was effective, [Securities Report] (Japanese) and submitted the Internal Control Report to the Prime URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/ir/library/yuhou/ Minister together with our Securities Report in March 2018. Establishment of CSV Management Meetings Board of Directors Consumer We have established CSV Management Meetings from January 2018 to promote Executive Committee Issues measures for CSV which are aimed at achieving sustainable management. Our President serves as Chairman for these meetings, where participants include Directors and UN Global Compact Executive Officers. Discuss according to the case The UN Global Compact (UNGC), in which Lion has participated since 2009, is a voluntary initiative of Through these CSV Management Meetings, we will formulate mediumto long-term companies and organizations aiming to realize ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, CSV strategies linked with the creation of both social values and business values while CSV Management Meeting environment, and anti-corruption. Lion is also a member of the Global Compact Network Japan deliberating material issues related to sustainability in our company, and will monitor the (GCNJ), and participates in the subcommittee activities on a regular basis in order to promote the Community status of their execution. Reflect content of decisions CSR activities of the member companies. The content decided at CSV Management Meetings is discussed at Board of Directors [UN Global Compact] URL https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ Involvement and meetings and Executive Committee meetings if necessary, and reflected in the business Business execution departments activities of each business execution department. [Global Compact Network Japan] (Japanese) URL http://ungcjn.org/ Development 35 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 36 Organizational Governance L i o n’s Embedding Compliance Human Rights Sustainability The Corporate Ethics Committee, chaired by the Director • The System of the AL Heart Hotline Basic Approach Responsible for Corporate Ethics, proactively works to foster compliance awareness within the Lion Group. The basis Consulter/Informer Lion has stipulated that we shall “respect human compulsory labor, promotion of equal employment 2017 for compliance is the “Lion Group Charter for Corporate (employees of the Lion Group, temporary staff, or external business partners) Consultations rights” and “observe both the spirit as well as opportunities, fair treatment of employees, and Highlights Behavior” (p.3). This is distributed in pamphlet form to Consultations Feedback Feedback and Notifications the letter of all applicable laws and international human rights of suppliers. In 2009, we declared our Seeking solutions/Resolving Problems all employees and is publicly available via Lion’s website. and Notifications Report contents of consultation/ According to an annual program, e-learning and other notification rules” in the Lion Group Charter for Corporate intention to support the ten principles of the United Internal Contact educations are periodically provided. External Contact (general manager specialized (lawyer) Behavior.” Moreover, the “Behavioral Guidelines” Nations Global Compact. In 2017, in addition to reading through and committing to in corporate ethics) Organizational Report results of the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior, our e-learning investigation and refers to the prohibition of child labor and forced or Reporting Instruction countermeasures program provided further training regarding fundamental Governance Director Responsible Board of quality assurance, the basics of labor management, risks for Corporate Ethics Directors Report as relevant to social media, information security, our information management system, harassment in the workplace, and basic needed Disseminating Human Rights Policy knowledge on insider trading. Corporate Ethics Committee Lion has stated its policies regarding respect for human rights via e-learning or documents to gain a deeper understanding Set up as needed Human Rights • Compliance Awareness Survey in the “Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior” and and commitment to the Charter on an annual basis. All domestic employees of Lion Group are asked annually The Ethics Evaluation Committee “Behavioral Guidelines” based thereon. To ensure thorough Additionally, we conduct a questionnaire survey every year to (consisting of external experts) to complete a compliance awareness survey. In 2017, the communication of the Charter to directors, Lion Group confirm the extent to which the Charter has been adopted. survey was conducted for the fourteenth time. The findings employees, and temporary staff, we provide an opportunity are reported to management and feedback is provided to individual divisions. This contributes to the maintenance and strengthening of the compliance systems. •A  L Heart Hotline Consultations and Notifications (2017) Ensuring Human Rights Due Diligence Labor Practices Continuing from 2016, the pool of respondents in 2017 included part-time workers. The survey (approximately 97% Power harassment behaviors 9 cases of the 4,492 employees responded) solicited opinions on a We are enhancing our systems for reporting, range of issues including problems with work environments. Personnel/labor management issues 5 cases correcting and following-up and thoroughly Introduction of websites understanding the impact of our activities on human [Respect for human rights] (Japanese) Others 4 cases Compliance Awareness Survey rights from the procurement of raw materials to the URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/humanrights/duediligence/ Questionnaire survey in which respondents anonymously answer use of products by consumers. The Environment about , such as compliance staus toward the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior, whether or not the previous results of the Compliance Awareness Survey were feeded back, and awareness •P  ercentage of Employees Who of the Heart Hotline. Received Survey Feedback 0 20 40 60 80 （％） 100 • An Overview of Our Initiatives for Protecting Human Rights • Raising Awareness of the Hotline Procurement of Raw 2015 94.7％ 5.1％ 0.2％ Major Initiatives We have set up the AL(ALL Lion) Heart Hotline in order to Materials, Packages, Use by Consumers Undertaken by Lion and Containers Fair Operating ensure full communication with all domestic employees 2016 95.7％ 4.1％ 0.2％ including our temporary staff. Its recognition rate among Business Partners Employees Customers employees in 2017 was 98%. •Efforts based on the •Widespread promotion of “Harassment Prevention •Aggressive pursuit of safety and Practices 2017 96.1％ 3.8％ 0.1％ Main Objectives and efforts Procurement Principles and Declarations” among employees functionality by using our own In 2017, there were eighteen instances of consultation or (Year) the Lion Group Supplier CSR •Confirmation of recruitment, evaluation, and remuneration at each point in time “product management system” reports, but no cases to be judged as serious misconduct, and Guidelines •Execution of human rights education Related information p.51-53 Feedback Not No Related information p.49-50 •Creation of an environment in which discrimination on the all the cases were appropriately addressed and resolved. received received response basis of religion, race and other factors is curbed •Consideration for “vulnerable [AL Heart Hotline] (Japanese) •Establishment of the Hotline users” such as the elderly and Related information p.37 •Establishment of the Hotline Related information p.37 children, by preparing a URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/company/compliance/index.php “labeling manual” Consumer Introduction of websites Palm oil farms Subjects for Clinical Trials •Participation in RSPO •Respecting the Helsinki Declaration Initiatives for Compliance in Overseas Group Companies Sustainability Management(Japanese) Issues activities •Operation of the Regulations for the Implementation of Clinical Trials in order Aiming to embed compliance throughout the entire group, our http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/ •Continuation of the to place high priority on the safety of the subjects and ethical considerations overseas group companies are also promoting initiatives toward purchasing of RSPO certified compliance. In addition to familiarizing employees with the Lion palm oil derivatives Residents around our plants Group Charter for Corporate Behavior through offices, employee Related information p.50 •Environmental management under Lion’s Environmental handbooks and the intranet, we are introducing a part of overseas Guidelines to prevent contamination and compliance with laws and regulations Related information p.43 initiatives (such as strengthening anti-corruption measures) on the website. Community •Implementation of environmental assessment ahead of construction of new plants [Embedding Compliance](Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/compliance/ Involvement and Development 37 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 38 L i o n’s Labor Practices Human Resource Diversity Sustainability Lion has made efforts toward promoting “human resource •A  pproach for the Promotion of Basic Approach Women’s Participation and diversity” in light of the need to swiftly respond to changes in In the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior, balance and strive to maintain work environments the business environment, and promoted plans and proposals Advancement in the Workplaces 2017 for personnel measures to make diverse human resources Highlights Lion calls for “fair treatment respecting the diversity, that flexibly allow a variety of working styles,” Lion is deeply aware that it is essential for women to work more active, with the participation of employees. Currently a actively in order to further strengthen our corporate value, individuality and personalities of our employees” “do our utmost to assist employees who strive to team for diversity set up within the Personnel Department has and hence we have addressed measures to advance the active and “ensuring a safe and comfortable workplace learn specialized skills and knowledge and aim been implementing measures to promote human resource participation of women in their working life. to realize the mental and physical well-being of for ambitious goals.” and “engage sincerely in diversity. In line with the “Act on Promotion of Women’s ParticipaOrganizational our employees.” Also included in the Behavioral dialog and discussion with employees and their tion and Advancement in the Workplace”, an act enacted by •O  ffering Opportunities to Gain the National Diet in 2016 to promote activities by women as a Guidelines are “to promote a healthy work-life representatives.” Knowledge about Jobs in the part of their working lives, Lion has improved childcare-relatGovernance Company ed systems and implemented support measures for employees (Holding a Career Forum) to maintain a balance between work and childcare so that Career Forums have been held annually since 2012 for the they can continue to work for a long time. Consequently, as seen in Lion’s non-consolidated average service years for male Promoting Amicable Labor-Management Relations purpose of assisting in the career development of young and female employees (including assigned employees), which employees, in order to provide support for designing Human Rights their future careers. In the past, the finance, legal affairs, are respectively 20.4 years and 18.0 years, female employees marketing, public relations, sustainability, sales, and are working actively for long periods. We are also making Lion executes labor agreements with the Lion Workers’ Union in which employees and management proactively conduct efforts to increase the percentage of female managerial offiinternational departments have introduced their business for the purposes of promoting sound labor-management activities such as reporting on business conditions and cials* to 20% or higher in Japan by 2020. (The target has been operations. relations based on mutual understanding and trust, observing exchanging opinions about the working environment at raised from the previous 15%.) In the 6th forum in 2017, award recipients spoke about the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior by realizing labor-management meetings. “Lion’s Action Plans in accordance with the Act on their experiences and views toward work based on the cases the social mission and responsibilities of the company and In overseas group companies, efforts are also made to Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the which received employee awards within the company, giving its workers’ union, and working together to achieve growth build and sustain sound labor-management relations, Labor Practices participants the opportunity to consider their own work Workplace” and “Declaration of Women’s Participation and of the company’s business and maintain/improve working developing better working environments through proactive Advancement in the Workplace” are available on the “Positive duties and turn over a new leaf. conditions of union members. communications between employees and management Action (Women’s Promotion) Information Portal Site,” a The agreements provide that: the company shall recognize in the meetings of the Lion workers’ union and the laborproject commissioned by the Japanese Ministry of Health, freedom of lawful union activities by union members; the management council. Labour and Welfare. company shall not unfairly treat union members by reason thereof; and the company and the union shall have labormanagement meetings on a regular basis to consult with each Union shop agreement [Declaration for the Promotion of Women’s Participation The Environment other on an equal footing. and Advancement in the Workplace](Japanese) A labor agreement in which a worker is employed by a company Operating under a union shop agreement, Lion has on condition of becoming a member of a specific labor union. URL http://www.positiveaction.jp/declaration/add/search_detail/?id=1664 endeavored to build amicable labor-management relations, [Lion’s Action Plans in Accordance with the Act of the Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace] (Japanese) URL http://www.positiveaction.jp/pa/search/detail.php?company_id=1620 Human Resource Development Career Forum *Personnel in a managerial position, which is at the level of an assistant manager or higher. Fair Operating • Regionally Based Employees Program Practices • Improving Training Systems for Each Function • LION CHALLENGE CUP Innovation Since 2013, Lion has had in place the Regionally Based In training for each function, measures to reinforce specialties 2017 was the third year of the “LION CHALLENGE CUP Employees Program with the aim of finding and keeping •E  xpanding work opportunities for in each business are offered. In the marketing division, – Innovation,” in which employees can make a “dreamexcellent personnel from among our temporary employees, People with Disabilities the “Marketing Study Program” has been offered since inspiring proposal for Lion” directly to the management. This who are contributing greatly to the company, as well as In order to make full use of individual abilities regardless 2014. To date, employees who show high performance in event aims to draw out “innovative proposals” leading to enabling regular employees to choose diverse working of whether the person in question has disabilities or not, we their respective divisions were appointed as staff of the significant future growth of the entire company by increasing arrangements. The regionally based employees can select Consumer proactively employ people with disabilities thus developing a marketing division. For further improvement, we have employees’ awareness of personal development, and their workplace from seven regions in Japan that Lion has corporate culture to improve the working environment and Issues designed and operated a program to discover employees thoroughly by considering their further personal growth and chosen for this program. Their compensation and benefits are support such individuals in the entire workplace. who have capabilities in marketing and are enthusiastic change. The contents of the proposals, which got through the at a similar level to regular employees in the same region. In March 2016, we established a special subsidiary, Lion about continuing further efforts and learning. This program preliminary round, are presented to the management in the Number of Appointed Personnel Tomoni Co., Ltd., and have been promoting the employment provides systematic learning opportunities for mastering final round. 2015 2016 2017 2018 (April) of people with disabilities and expanding work opportunities practical marketing theories, as well as planning and In 2017, from amongst the 24 entries, one team was for them. Community designing based on consumer insight and on competitive awarded the gold prize, and two teams the bronze prize. The 9 9 5 16 22 employees and 5 instructors of Lion Tomoni (as of the strategies. In addition to fostering marketing personnel linked proposals that won gold and silver prizes will be subject to end of December 2017) are actively engaged in daily work with career paths. feasibility studies at their related divisions. Involvement and including the management of interoffice mail and printing of Development business cards for all Lion employees. 39 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 40 Labor Practices L i o n’s Sustainability Promoting Work-Life Balance Promoting Employees’ Health Management Lion strives to build an environment where employees can • Approach to Compliance with the Act for Based on the concept that the good health of employees serves continually and systematically promoted mental care for employees deliver results while placing value on balancing work life with Measures to Support the Development as a business foundation to support sound corporate growth, based on the “Guidelines for Maintaining and Improving Mental private life. of the Next-Generation Children Lion has been conducting a variety of measures to assist in Health Workers ” from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. 2017 maintaining and improving the health of our employees. These In 2017, 96% of employees took the stress level check test. Act for Measures to Support the Development of Highlights •B  uilding an Environment Where include measures to improve lifestyle habits and oral health, to The results are compiled and analyzed by section/department the Next-Generation Children Phase 5 Action Plan in such a way that individuals cannot be identified. And the Employees Can Work Dynamically Four goals have been set in the Phase 5 address mental health, to prevent cancer and smoking. We also implement initiatives to improve the health-consciousness feedback is sent to responsible officers and is applied to Since 2010, Lion has worked to reduce prolonged work and Action Plan for the period from April 2015 to December 2018*. of employees and encourage them to voluntarily practice healthy manager training. In this way, Lion has continued to carry out encourage employees to take paid leaves. In 2017, a weekly Kurumin mark: A symbol behavior. By doing so, we aim to be a company where all of our organizational mental health initiatives. Organizational *The period of the Next Generation Support Act Action Plan has been of a company supporting “No-overtime day” and monthly “No-overtime week” changed. childcare employees can work dynamically and deliver fulfilling daily lives. were implemented. In order to facilitate understanding of Stress level check test management of working hours, e-learning is provided for Goal:1 Within the period of the action plan, implement support measures to create a working [Guidelines for Health](Japanese) Governance environment in which employees on childcare leave can smoothly return to work. URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/company/compliance/health.php Test of psychological burdens on employees (obligatory since December all employees. Furthermore, under a labor-management →Launch of individual explanatory meetings for employees on childcare leave and 2015 with the revision of the Japanese Industrial Safety and Health Act). their supervisors. (System implemented for each case, starting from January 2016) [Programs for maintaining mental health, physical health, and health awareness](Japanese) agreement, we proactively encourage employees to URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/health/ systematically take at least three days paid leave per year with →Implementation of “Back-to-Work Seminars” for employees before returning to work. (Implemented in spring and autumn of every year from October 2015) • Preventive Dentistry Program (ALOHA) the aim of having them take more than 70% of paid leave. →Introduction of the “website to support employees returning to work • Organizational Approach to Health Management In collaboration with the Lion Foundation for Dental Health We will make continuous efforts in this regard. (The target and raising children,” for supporting employees on childcare leave to Human Rights (LDH), we introduced dental check-ups for all employees into has been raised from the previous 60%.) achieve a balance between their career and childcare (February 2016). At Lion, the manager who is responsible for health the annual health check-ups from 2002. Since 2016, we have management of the company (The Personnel Manager) provided oral care information through the e-learning system •P  rograms to Help Maintain a Balance Goal:2 Within the period of the action plan, implement measures to foster corporate supervises the overall health management of the entire culture toward women’s participation and advancement in the workplace. (L-navi) and have introduced a “Salivary Multi-Test System” that Between Work and Nursing Care →Held the “Frank Exchange of Opinions on Lion’s Women company, and coordinates with the Health Support Office, can immediately measure oral cleanliness and the risks of cavities Empowerment Meeting” (June 2016). the Health Insurance Society, the person responsible for As part of creating an environment that allows employees and periodontal diseases from saliva samples. We also provide →Held the 4th, 5th, and 6th Career Forums (2015, 2016, 2017). health management at each office and Industrial Health Staff to continue to work without anxiety, Lion has enhanced oral health guidance by using intraoral camera. Our goal is to members (industrial physicians, public health nurses, etc.), to support for employees engaged in nursing care. In addition Within the period of the action plan, have 13 or more improve the awareness of employees toward preventive oral Labor Practices Goal:3 organizationally promote employee health management. to ordinary annual paid leave, we have in place programs for male employees take childcare leave. health care and to encourage the practice of healthy behavior. →15 male employees took childcare leave (as of December 2017). nursing care, including accumulated leave for medical nursing [ALOHA] All Lion Oral Health Activity care (accumulation of expired annual paid leave), shorter • Mental Health Initiatives [Dentistry data of Lion employees](Japanese) work-hours for nursing care (Short Hours Flextime System), Goal:4 Within the period of the action plan, facilitate understanding about and the use of the Lion established our Mental Health Basic Policy in 2004, and have Work-at-Home System, and implement measures to promote the adoption of the system. URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/health/ and nursing care leave expanded up to 365 days (minimum →Promoting usage of the system through workplace hearing, unit of one day). At the same time, we have introduced a utilization of internal newsletters, etc. website targeted to employees aged 40 and provided a variety Enhancing Group-wide Occupational Health and Safety Management System • Employee Data The Environment of information on nursing care. Male 2015 2,268 2016 2,239 2017 2,203 We are taking steps to enhance our Occupational Health and Safety • Occupational Safety • Work-at-Home System Employees Female 758 775 821 Management System in order to achieve our Group target of “Zero In 2017, the number of labor-related accidents was 22 (excluding 2 cases Female employee ratio (%) 25.0 25.7 27.1 serious accidents and zero serious incidents through All Lion Group”. Lion has been making efforts to improve business productivity which occurred during commutes to work). If any occupational accidents New employees*1 Male 57 49 57 We hold Safety, Hygiene and Disaster Prevention Meetings twice a and work-life balance. The Work-at-Home System was (New graduates) Female 28 29 36 occur, the Safety Management Secretariat at our Headquarters conducts year chaired by top management personnel, where ongoing initiatives introduced in 2015 as a flexible way to work outside of the Number of people 262 250 216 on-site investigations and thoroughly identify their causes as well as Re-hired retirees are promoted with the goal of fully eliminating risks related to facility office. In order to facilitate understanding and a penetration % 8.7 8.3 7.1 corrective response measures. Enhancing our safety management system safety and occupational safety across the entire company. Fair Operating Temporary employees 461 467 458 of the system, we repeatedly held explanatory meetings Number of people 135 149 170 and our awareness of occupational safety are essential in order to Female employees at Our company has added “disaster prevention” items into the and individual hearings at workplaces, and confirmed the the management level % 12.0 12.9 14.4 prevent occupational accidents. We will continue to promote measures “Occupational Safety and Health Management System (OSHMS)” Practices effects brought about by facilitating use of the system while Employees with Number of people 51 55 63 to improve individual safety awareness and sensitivity. disabilities % 2.0 2.2 2.4 based on the guidelines of Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Number of Employees who Participated in Risk Simulation Training (Safety Training) (2017) expanded its targets. As a result, the number of users has Employees who took Male 5 2 8 Welfare and has established Lion’s unique “Health, Safety and Disaster been increasing every year. childcare leave Female 33 53 57 Chiba Plant Odawara Plant Osaka Plant Akashi Plant Total Employees who took Male 0 0 0 Prevention Management System” for domestic group companies and shorter work hours for started its operation from 2009. And we are striving to raise standards 429 39 138 135 741  pproach to Compliance with the •A childcare Female 58 40 57 of Safety, Hygiene and Disaster Prevention Activities. . Average overtime per month (hours)*1 12.1 12.3 12.5 Next Generation Support Act Our domestic companies are also actively providing support • Safety of Facilities Consumer Annual paid leave used (%) 51.8 55.1 51.8 Lion has formulated and addressed action plans in accordance Average service years Male 19.8 20.3 20.4 Our company conducts facility inspections to maintain safety, through (excluding re-hired to overseas group companies to aid in preventing occupational Issues Female 17.4 18.0 18.0 with the “Act for Measures to Support the Development of employees) accidents. In 2018 we established a “Safety and Disaster Prevention daily routine inspections and regular maintenance. Diligently performing Employees who resigned Number of people 6 4 1 the Next-Generation Children” by the Japanese Ministry of within three years of Promotion Department” directly below the management level, maintenance inspections allow us to prevent failures and accidents entering the company*1 % 2.4 1.6 0.4 Health, Labour and Welfare. As a result, achieving all goals further strengthening the Lion Group’s Occupational Health, Safety before they occur. There were 0 facility-related accident in 2017. We will from phase 1 to 4, we have been certified as a company *1 S ome errors were found in past data and hence the figures have been revised. continue to focus strongly on passing down the technical know-how to and Disaster Prevention Management System. Applicable scope: Non-consolidated, including employees assigned to affiliated companies supporting childcare with the “Kurumin” Mark. (For female employees in managerial positions: non-consolidated, excluding employees employees and on providing facility-related training. Community assigned to affiliated companies) Occupational Safety and Health Management System (OSHMS) Employee Data related to domestic group companies are available on the Sustainability website. A system to voluntarily conduct continuous safety and health management through PDCA. Introduction of websites (Japanese) In collaboration with our employees (Japanese) Involvement and URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/various/ http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/ Development 41 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 42 L i o n’s The Environment Environmental Management Structure and Management System Sustainability • Environmental Management System • Environmental Management Structure Basic Approach Executive The purpose of the Lion Group’s Environmental Management Environmental Conservation Committee 2017 Committee Lion formulated its “Eco Vision 2020” environmental customers’ environmental awareness through our System is to identify, evaluate and remedy adverse effects Chairman: Director of the Board Responsible Highlights objectives in 2013. Beginning with “Eco Vision 2020,” products, in addition to achieving targeted values that our business activities, products and services have on the Group-wide Manager of Secretariat: environment, and to improve our environmental protection environment CSV Management Department,Environmental our thoughts regarding environmental activities are with the aim of “realizing a low carbon society,” activities on an on-going basis. management Strategies Office (Director of Members of Committee: represented in our environmental message “Lion and “realizing a sound material-cycle society,” and Systems for environmental management and reporting Environmental Directors of Production, Administrative/Sales, R&D/Engineering, and Headquarters Staff Divisions Strategies Office) the Environment,” from which our environmental “realizing a society harmonizing with nature.” activities have been enhanced with the aim of responding to the environment globally. Data on overseas group companies Organizational Production Division Administrative/Sales R&D/Engineering slogan, “Everyday. For the Earth,” is derived. Manager of environment Division Manager of Division Manager of [Every day. For the Earth. (Japanese) ] is available on our website. management environment management environment management Affiliated We will work on communication by increasing URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/ecolion/ [Data on the environmental burden of group companies’ plants (overseas)] (General Manager of (General Manager of (General Manager of companies Production Management General Affairs Corporate Management Governance Department) Department) Department) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/report/pdf/environment-Management.pdf Each plant Each office Each laboratory Status of ISO14001 Certification • Legal Compliance Environmental Guidelines Lion acquired ISO14001 certification covering all its plants in In regard to the revisions of environmental laws and July 2001. The certification was renewed to the latest (2015) regulations namely, “the Act on the Rational Use of Energy” Human Rights version in June 2016, and the Japan Management Association “the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures” Quality Assurance Registration Center (JMAQA) reviewed and “the Act on Confirmation, etc. of Released Amounts of Lion’s Environmental Guidelines adhere to the spirit of formulation of “Eco Vision 2020.” The revised Guidelines verified that all our plants are operating in conformity with Specific Chemical Substances in the Environment and the “Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior,” which more clearly express our attitude toward “realizing a low the requirements of the standards. Currently, the domestic Promotion of Improvements to the Management Thereof” states: “We shall play a positive and active role in creating a carbon society,” “realizing a sound material-cycle society” and Lion group companies, including its affiliated production “the Act on the Evaluation of Chemical Substances and sustainable society that harmonizes economic development “realizing a society harmonizing with nature,” as well as our companies, are performing and managing operations in Regulation of Their Manufacture, etc.” and “the Waste and environmental protection.” stance toward our efforts overseas. compliance with the most recent version of ISO14001. Disposal and Public Cleansing Act” information is collected In 2013, we revised the Guidelines in accordance with the Labor Practices Including the plants of group companies in and outside Japan, from administrative agencies and industrial associations, and the Lion Group has been continuing to push ahead with is then registered with an intranet system for information its management systems and environmental conservation on chemicals-related laws to keep the related departments Environmental Guidelines activities by obtaining ISO14001 certifications and performing updated about latest developments. Lion will act voluntarily and proactively to reduce its 4. Developing Environment-Friendly Products operations in compliance with ISO14001. In addition, we have specified waste management environmental burden to the global environment in all Continue aggressively with product development in tune with regulations and have established a comprehensive processes of business activities from the development of Lion’s own “Lion eco-standards” and in light of life cycle management system. There were no violations resulting in a assessments. The Environment products to the procurement of raw materials, production, fine or other penalty during 2017. distribution, sales, use by customers, as well as disposal. 5. Reducing Environmental Impacts Together with Our This will be done with due consideration to “realizing a Business Partners low carbon society to prevent global warming,” “realizing Strive to reduce environmental burdens at all stages from Pollution Prevention purchase through provision of products to customers, in a sound material-cycle society with maximum usage of cooperation with suppliers of materials, outsourcing contractors, recycled resources” and “realizing a society harmonizing and sales companies. with nature to conserve people’s health, natural Lion also implements voluntary initiatives for reducing maintenance. 6. Harmonizing with Nature ecosystems and biodiversity.” Conduct business activities while taking into account biodiversity emissions of chemical substances, including nitrogen oxides Data on management of chemical substances in compliance Fair Operating and air and water environments, and proactively address natural (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), particulate matter and volatile with the PRTR system* is available on Lion’s website. We will 1. Aiming for a Sustainable Society environment protection activities. organic compounds (VOC). We also strive to reduce Chemical continue to enhance our efforts for proper notifications and Promote an environmental management system, and through Practices ongoing maintenance and improvement of that system, protect 7. Enhancing Environmental Protection Activities Based Oxygen Demand (COD) with improvements in the reliability management of emission volumes. the global environment. on Uniform Understanding of the Guidelines of the waste water processing facilities through periodical [Data of the amount of PRTR-Designated Substances released in Disseminate the Guidelines to all Lion employees, including 2. Complying with Legal and Other Requirements those of its affiliated companies, raise awareness of [Data of environmental impacts of production sites in Japan] (Japanese) production sites in Japan in 2017] (Japanese) Comply with the system of legislation, regulations and environmental protection among them and bolster URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/report/pdf/domestic.pdf URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/enhancement/pdf/prevention_2017.pdf arrangements pertaining to environmental protection, and environmental management activities throughout the entire establish and implement voluntary standards of conduct. Lion Group. 3. Setting and Verifying Implementation of 8. Promoting Disclosure of Information Consumer * PRTR system Environmental Objectives and Targets Seek to maintain and promote communication with Correctly understand the environmental impact of our corporate stakeholders involved in Lion’s businesses. These Environmental A system to measure, compile, and publish emissions volume of Issues activities, and as far as technically and economically possible, Guidelines are freely available to anyone upon request. chemical substances. establish objectives and targets for improvement, while at the same time formulating, implementing and regularly verifying the status of implementation of an environmental management program. Community Revised January 1, 2013 Involvement and Development 43 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 44 The Environment L i o n’s Sustainability ● Achievements and Target Values in the Second Phase of Eco Vision 2020 (2017) Enhancing Group-wide Management of Chemical Substances Target values for Phase 2 Categories Achievements in 2017 Target values for 2020 (2015 2017) Chemical substances are indispensable for people to lead ensure strict management of chemical substances at all stages Emission intensity per unit total revenue Emission intensity per unit total revenue Emission intensity per unit total revenue Greenhouse gases (domestic) Within the comfortable and fulfilling lives. Failure to properly manage from product development to use/disposal in accordance with (1)Reduction of 32% reduction (compared to 2010) 23% reduction (compared to 2010) 34% reduction (compared to 2010) chemical substances, however, can result in accidents that put our own independent standards. greenhouse 47% reduction (compared to 1990) 40% reduction (compared to 1990) 49% reduction (compared to 1990) 2017 company gases from human health and ecosystems at enormous risk. In addition to Highlights [Chemical Substance Management] (Japanese) business activities Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Absolute quantity 47% reduction (compared to 1990) 41% reduction (compared to 1990) 40% reduction (compared to 1990) Realizing a Low Carbon Society compliance with related laws and regulations, Lion strives to URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/enhancement/ Emission intensity per unit total revenue Emission intensity per unit total revenue Emission intensity per unit total revenue Outside the • Lion’s Chemical Substance Management (2)Reduction of 9% reduction (compared to 2010) 7% reduction (compared to 2010) 9% reduction (compared to 2010) greenhouse gases 53% reduction (compared to 1990) 52% reduction (compared to 1990) 53% reduction (compared to 1990) Product company 1 Development 2 Production 3 Transportation 4 Use and Disposal from post-use Organizational products Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Absolute quantity 51% reduction (compared to 1990) 51% reduction (compared to 1990) 41% reduction (compared to 1990) Governance Greenhouse gases (overseas) Within the (3)Reduction of Emission intensity per unit of production Emission intensity per unit of production greenhouse gases Emission intensity per unit of production Provision of 6% reduction in three years 1% reduction year-on-year company Safety verification and Measurement and Provision of safety from business 1% reduction year-on-year information on (compared to 2014) (compared to 2014) management of chemical reduction of information during activities overseas*1 substances contained in chemical substance transportation safety and handling raw materials, packages, releases of chemical products (4)Reduction of Outside the and containers greenhouse gases Reduction of 66 thousand tons Reduction of 100 thousand tons － Human Rights company from post-use annually annually Started Operation of a Management System for Information on Chemical Substances at Lion’s Research and Development Sites products overseas In January 2018, we started operation of a Management System for legal compliance related to the chemical substances we use in Information on Chemical Substances at our research and development development of our own products in all of our business fields, and to Water use per unit total revenue Water use per unit total revenue Water use per unit total revenue Within the sites. immediately search for specific chemical substances contained in (5)Reduction of water 35% reduction (compared to 2010) 15% reduction (compared to 2010) 15% reduction (compared to 2010) use in business 50% reduction (compared to 2000) 34% reduction (compared to 2000) 35% reduction (compared to 2000) Realizing a Sound Material-Cycle Society This system is composed of databases for data related to raw materials products after their market release from the accumulated composition and product compositions, as well as legal information, and includes data. We have therefore been able to successfully improve the level of company activities Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Absolute quantity functions for product composition development. The introduction of our information management, ensure traceability, and strengthen our 49% reduction (compared to 2000) 35% reduction (compared to 2000) 23% reduction (compared to 2000) Water Labor Practices this system has made it possible for us to strengthen our system for ability for compliance. Water use per unit total revenue Water use per unit total revenue Water use per unit total revenue Outside the (6)Reduction of water 27% reduction (compared to 2010) 15% reduction (compared to 2010) 17% reduction (compared to 2010) usage at households 52% reduction (compared to 2000) 44% reduction (compared to 2000) 45% reduction (compared to 2000) Engaging in Progressive Environmental Activities company using our products Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Absolute quantity 51% reduction (compared to 2000) 44% reduction (compared to 2000) 33% reduction (compared to 2000) • Achievements in the Second Phase of Eco Vision 2020 (from 2015 to 2017) and Future Plans (7)Zero emissions Achievement of zero Zero emissions at all Eco Vision 2020 is being conducted by dividing the nine years previous years, all employees of the Lion Group have been Waste within the emissions at all domestic － The Environment domestic production sites*4 company*2 production sites*4 from 2012 to 2020 into three phases of three years each. united in promoting environmental activities and are carrying 2017 was the final year of phase 2 (2015 2017). As with the out activities according to the plans for phase 3 (2018 2020). Stable operation of facilities (8)Recycle of Waste for recycling waste water Recycle factory waste water factory waste － Five Key Items water water discharge*3 from production processes at our Chiba Plant at multiple plants [Greenhouse gas emissions from business activities in Japan] [Greenhouse gas emissions from overseas business activities] (9)Procurement of Harmonizing with Nature plant-derived oils Continuing purchases of All palm oil derivatives Fair Operating In 2017, we reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 47% (compared In 2017, Lion reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 6% (compared Procurement that take RSPO*5-certified palm oil － purchased to be RSPOto 1990, emission intensity per unit total revenue), which is an to 2014, emission intensity per unit of production) with an annual biodiversity into derivatives certified Practices improvement over the previous year’s 43% (same unit as above). average of 2%, achieving the target of 1% reduction for each consideration As with the previous year, integration of production facilities year. Energy-saving measures conducted at each plant contributed (10) Increase of Carried out in all of Lion's and energy-saving activities conducted at all offices and plants greatly to these reductions. We will continue to develop and biodiversity plants, with implementation contributed to the reduction. We will continue to make efforts implement energy-saving programs in our overseas plants. Biodiversity － Carry out in all domestic sites conservation expanding at offices of Lion towards achieving our targets for 2020. activities and its affiliate companies [Water use in domestic business activities] [Greenhouse gas emissions from post-use productions in Japan] Awareness (11)Environmental Education Consumer In 2017, we reduced water used in domestic business activities 80% increase in consumer 80% increase in consumer 100% increase in consumer and awareness and In order to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions from post-use by 50% (compared to 2000, water used per unit total revenue), participation in our awareness participation in our awareness participation in our awareness Education in education for Issues activities (compared to 2010) activities (compared to 2010) activities (compared to 2010) products, we are making products more compact and switching progressing with a pace exceeding the 2020 target of 35% the Society consumers from petroleum-based surfactant ingredients to plant-based reduction. This is mainly due to water-saving activities at all offices *1 Target scope consists of our consolidated subsidiaries as of December 31, 2017. ingredients that do not lead to an increase in CO2 emissions. In and plants, and recycling of waste water from production processes *2 Set direct landfill ratio of total generated waste amount to 1% or less 2017, emissions decreased by 53% (compared to 1990, emission at our Chiba Plant as stated below. We will continue with our *3 Waste water from production processes intensity per unit total revenue), a further reduction from the water-saving activities. *4 Chiba Plant, Odawara Plant, Osaka Plant, Akashi Plant, Hirai Production Site, Sapporo Office, Sendai Office, Headquarters/Tokyo Community previous year’s 52% (same unit as above). We will push on with our Office, Nagoya Office, Osaka Office, Fukuoka Office, Lion Chemical Co., Ltd. Fine Chemical Production Site, Lion Chemical Co., Ltd. activities to achieve the set targets. [Recycling of plant waste water discharge] Oleochemical Production Site, Lion Specialty Chemicals Co., Ltd. Yokkaichi Plant, Lion Specialty Chemicals Co., Ltd. Ono Plant, Lion Involvement and Packaging Co., Ltd. Fukushima Plant Since 2016, our Chiba Plant has operated a facility to recycle waste *5 Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil water from production processes. This contributes not only to a reduction of waste water discharge, but also of waterusage. Development 45 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 46 The Environment L i o n’s Sustainability • Harmonizing with Nature • Realizing a Low Carbon Society / a Sound Material-Cycle Society Lion has taken initiative in responding to the waterharmonizing with nature. Lion has worked to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as available on our website. We will promote activities toward related environment issues such as eutrophication in To this end, Lion will contribute to the development of a well as to recycle and effectively use resources, at each stage realization of a low carbon society/a sound material-cycle lakes and floating bubbles in rivers which is linked to the sustainable society through its businesses by ascertaining the from raw material procurement to disposal. Detailed data is society. 2017 use of detergents, through consideration for biodiversity natural resources used in business activities and the impact conservation at each stage from raw material procurement on biodiversity throughout the supply chain. Additionally, our to disposal. However, in order to receive the blessings of company will carry out biodiversity conservation activities that Highlights Overview of Our Business Activities Toward Realization of a Low Carbon Society/a Sound Material-Cycle Society biodiversity into the future, it will be necessary for us to will lead to the expansion of opportunities and reduction of coordinate with local communities to focus on conservation environmental risks. Also, by having each of our employees Procurement of Raw Major Initiatives Disposal by of biodiversity and promote sustainable use of the resources. participate in activities to conserve biodiversity as part of Materials, Packages, Use by consumers Undertaken by Lion consumers and Containers Additionally, it is important to promote a shift in lifestyle our environmental education, we will spread awareness of Organizational of consumers through products that take biodiversity into biodiversity conservation to all our office sites. • Substituting plantPlants • Education to increase environmental awareness • Substituting plantconsideration, and to contribute to the realization of a society derived materials for • Improving energy efficiency by through products (an environmental label is derived materials for Related Information Highlight 3 p.31-34 petroleum resources attached to products that meet the “Lion petroleum resources Governance reviewing production processes, introducing energy-saving eco-standards”) Web (1) Related Information p.55 Overview of Our Business Activities that Take Biodiversity Conservation into Consideration Related Information equipment when upgrading • Promotion of 3Rs (refills, • Reducingthe use of facilities, and downsizing condensing of content to make petroleum resources products Related Information p.45 products more compact, and Watershed* ecosystem Watershed ecosystem • Reducing power consumption Biodiversity on with biomass-derived during the use of our power-saving development of containers, in raw material where our plants are Watershed ecosystem where consumers reside which Lion relies container materials Office/Facilities products (decreasing the number of e.g. recycled PET (polyethylene origination sites located Activities for • Company-wide energy-saving activities rinsing times when washing) terephthalate) bottles and Human Rights realizing a low including at the Administrative/Sales containers with thin-wall Procurement of Raw carbon society molding) Disposal by Division and the R&D/Engineering Division Related Information Materials, Packages, Production Use by consumers consumers p.55, Web (2) and Containers Distribution after shipment • Plants used as raw • Impact of underground water • Servicewater at the time of • Increasing the rate of modal shift during transportation of Key natural materials (oil palms etc.) intake by production plants on using our products products such as shifting freight from truck to rail or ship resources used • Wood which becomes raw materials surrounding natural environments — • Improving logistics efficiency through by Lion for paper used in packaging and local communities means such as by increasing the transport loading rate Labor Practices • Impactof palm oil • Impactof waste water and • Impact of water intake by consumers • Impactof waste Related Information Web (1) growers on natural exhaust gases from production on surrounding natural water and waste environments and local plants on surrounding natural environments and local communities packaging materials communities (impact on environments and local generated by Procurement of Raw wildlife habitats caused communities consumers on Major Initiatives Disposal by Materials, Packages, Use by consumers by illegal logging of surrounding natural Undertaken by Lion consumers and Containers Possible major tropical forests) • Impact of light and odors from environments and impact of our production plants on local communities • Damage to forest surrounding natural • Using plant-derived Plants • Education to increase environmental awareness • Promotion of 3Rs (refills, activities on raw materials • Promoting zero emissions through products (an environmental label is condensing of content to make environments which are environments and local biodiversity within the company attached to products that meet the “Lion products more compact, and The Environment the source of raw communities • Using recycled • Reducing water consumption eco-standards”) development of containers, materials for paper Related Information p.55 • Cooling water and raw water materials by recycling waste water from e.g. recycled PET (polyethylene for equipment cleaning etc., Activities for production processes and terephthalate) bottles and which are used in production realizing a sound utilizing rainwater • Reducing containers with thin-wall water usage during the plants material-cycle molding) Related Information use of our water-saving products society Office/Facilities Related Information Web (2) p.55, Web (2) • Promoting company-wide • Promotion of • Reduction of production plant wastes • Development of water-saving products • Surveying green purchases • Promoting the procurement of Web (2) • Development of highly biodegradable environmental Related Information Toothbrush Recycling sustainable palm oils detergents impacts of surfactants Related Information Web (2) Related Information Web (2) Program Fair Operating (participation in RSPO Biodiversity conservation activities • Reduction of water consumption at plants Related Information and purchase of Activities to RSPO-certified oils) Related Information Web (2) Web (3) reduce risks Web (1) [Realization of Low Carbon Society] (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/climate/ Practices Related Information p.50 Web (2) [Realizing a Sound Material-Cycle Society] (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/resources/ • Promotion of forest • Conservation of rivers and other conservation (use of Web (3) [Harmonizing with Nature] (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/biodiversity/ ecosystems by implementing purification third-party certified paper) technologies on discharged waste water Web (4) [Biodiversity Conservation Initiatives at Each Production Site] (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/biodiversity/ • Conservation and monitoring of habitats on • Educational activities regarding care of water • Promotion of 3Rs (refills, the watershed where production plants are and natural environments (Activities include condensing of content to make located (Activities include protection of forest maintenance under the name of Lion products more compact, and Consumer endangered loggerhead sea turtles, Forest in Yamanashi, conducting the Rainwater development of containers, Activities to Issues maintaining biotopes, removal of non-native Utilization Ideas Contest, and water-related e.g. recycled PET (polyethylene expand — species on beaches, and activities to environmental research support through the terephthalate) bottles and opportunities maintain satoyama( domestic woodlands )) Japan Society on Water Environment) containers with thin-wall Related Information Web (4) Related Information p.58 molding) Related Information p.55, Web (2) Introduction of websites (Japanese) Highlight 3 p.31-34 Together with the Global Environment (Japanese) Every day. For the Earth. (Japanese) Community http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/ http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/ecolion/ * Watershed: Ecosystems including forests, rivers, domestic woodlands (satoyama), tidal flats and beaches that are connected by water. Involvement and Development 47 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 48 L i o n’s Fair Operating Practices • PDCA Cycle for CSR Self-checks by Suppliers • Aggregate Results of Overall Self-Checks Based on the Lion Group Supplier Sustainability Plan Do CSR Guideline (2017) Establishment and Request for self-checks No response Basic Approach disclosure of CSR Guideline based on CSR Guideline Ask suppliers to conduct online 1% 2017 Share the Procurement Principles In accordance with the “Lion Group Charter for Corporate political bodies.” We also require business partners to and CSR Guideline with self-checks. suppliers. Requested Highlights Behavior” and the “Behavioral Guidelines,” we have comply with laws and regulations. Furthermore, in 2009, improvement made efforts to “engage in fair, transparent and free Lion expressed its support for the ten principles of the UN 20 %* competition and proper transactions” while “maintaining Global Compact, and it has made it clear that the company Action Check Number of No need for sound and proper relationships with governmental and is serious about preventing bribery and corruption. Feedback and improvement Analysis of self-checks companies improvement monitored: 625 Give feedback to suppliers on 79 Organizational Analyze the responses and detailed results and ask for companies which % identify suppliers that need improvement if necessary. the Lion Group’s improvement. domestic companies Governance procure raw materials, packages, and containers In order to have the suppliers understand the importance of addressing from or contract production to (Domestic: 549, Promoting CSR Procurement sustainability, we devise ingenuity such as to describe the circumstances surrounding Overseas: 76). sustainability in our request documents of the self-checks.The self-checks has three* Since 2017, we have strengthened our criteria for requesting improvements, causing stage checking criteria in accordance with the level of each initiative and a glossary. an increase in the percentage of cases where improvements were requested. In our initiatives across the supply chain, we believe that one •P  romotion of Sustainability with Human Rights of our key issues is to enhance our partnerships with material Material Suppliers and Outsourcing Outline of Results suppliers and outsourcing contractors. In order to alleviate any Contractors • In 2017, the response rate was 99%. The questions asked suppliers to rate their activity levels from 1 to 3, and the negative impact of our business activities on the environment overall average was 2.74, indicating that sustainability is widely practiced within the entire supply chain. We require material suppliers and outsourcing contractors • We are currently requesting cooperation from the 5 suppliers who did not respond, through interviews and other and society, and to sustainably develop mutual operations, to carry out self-checks based on the “Lion Group Supplier measures. both our suppliers and our company need to enrich the CSR Guidelines”every year in order to facilitate responsible content of sustainability. procurement activities. Accordingly, we have been promoting Also, regarding the palm oils which are Lion’s primary plantthe development of a system to prevent risks from occurring • Aiming for Sustainable Procurement of Palm Oils Labor Practices derived oils used as raw materials, we are aware that it is in supply chains with regard to human rights/labor practices, critical to promote procurement of sustainable palm oils and We are actively promoting the utilization of plant-derived Ltd.’s oleochemical production site passed the supply chain the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, are proceeding with initiatives toward that goal. materials that are carbon neutral and non-depletable. As one certification system inspection and was certified as a plant and compliance. of the plant-derived materials, we are using derivatives of that is allowed to handle RSPO-certified palm oils. As a result Since 2014, we have made it possible to conduct all selfpalm oil – an oil that is globally produced in largest quantities. of this, Lion started procuring RSPO-certified palm oils in 2012. Substitution of Plant-derived Resources checks online so that our business partners can conduct selfPalm oils are mainly produced in Malaysia and Indonesia. We set our target to complete the switch of all palm oils to Our company is independently developing the recyclable plant-derived raw checks more efficiently. materials “MES” and “MEE”* which are used in products such as laundry Palm oil plants grow constantly meaning that the oil plants be used to certified palm oils by the end of 2015, and all the In addition, by sending feedback based on the results can be harvested throughout the year, with the production purchased palm oil became certified in July 2014. In 2017, we The Environment detergents. We will continue with our activities related to plant-derived materials. to the respondents, a system to continuously promote CSR * MES: Alpha-sulfonated fatty acid methyl ester volumes increasing year after year. However, a number of continued the purchase of RSPO-certified palm oil derivatives procurement has been established. MEE: Polyoxyethylene fatty acid methyl ester issues, such as the logging of tropical forests for development to achieve the new target for 2020. We will continue to promote sustainability together with of new farms leading to a shrinking of wildlife habitats, We will continue with our effort to procure sustainable [Substitution of Plant-Derived Materials for Petroleum] (Japanese) our business partners. URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/climate/ have risen at the production sites, as a result of the sudden palm oils into the future. explosion of production. Also, due to inappropriate farming operations, various labor-management issues regarding social Lion Group Supplier CSR Guideline fairness, including terrible labor conditions with very little Fair Operating consideration for health and safety, very low wages, improper Guideline including the following 5 subjects and 21 items URL Japanese: http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/valuechain/pdf/jpn.pdf 1.Human Rights/Labor Practices English: http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/valuechain/pdf/eng.pdf treatment of migrant workers, and child labor, have been Practices 2.The Environment 3.Fair Operating Practices raised. 4.Consumer Issues 5.Compliance Chinese: http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/valuechain/pdf/cn.pdf Since 2006, Lion has been a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), which attempts to solve all • Timeline of Our Approach to CSR Procurement of the above-mentioned issues. In 2012, Lion Chemical Co., Target 2005 Instituted the Basic Policy Regarding Purchasing for appropriate procurement of raw materials, packages, and 2020: All palm oil derivatives to be RSPO-certified containers, as well as products. Consumer Established the Procurement Principles that clarified our social and environmental considerations. Conducted a RSPO Issues questionnaire survey for domestic and overseas material suppliers and outsourcing contractors about their Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil 2008 corporate activities regarding legal compliance, product service quality and safety, environmental The RSPO sets forth 8 principles and various criteria that apply to considerations, labor and human rights, and fair business transactions. sustainable palm oil production, including those with regard to Revised the Procurement Principles and clarified our stance to select business partners in light of legal “environmental responsibility and conservation of natural resources compliance, environmental conservation, and respect for human rights. Established the Lion Group Supplier CSR 2013 Guideline that shows the initiatives for sustainability which we expect our material suppliers and outsourcing and biodiversity,” “responsible development of new plantations,” and “responsible consideration for employees as well as individuals Community contractors to perform, and began asking them to conduct self-checks on their own initiatives for sustainability. Introduction of websites and communities who are affected by growers and mills,” and only In collaboration with our business customers (Japanese) Involvement and 2014 Introduced an online CSR self-check system, where CSR self-checks can be completed on a website. certifies palm oils produced in compliance with the set principles. http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/ URL http://w w w.rspo.org/ Development [Procurement Principles] URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/company/compliance/procurement.php 49 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 50 L i o n’s Consumer Issues • Developing Safe and High-quality Products Product Sustainability planning Planning products that further satisfy our customers Customer Analysis / Lion's Deliberation and approval of the proposal Basic Approach opinions deliberation proposals Product planning meeting In order to provide products that will satisfy our development, the quality of the developed products Preparation of 2017 a product Executive Committee Highlights customers, Lion carries out quality assurance activities are verified in respect to seven metrics including proposal Marketing at all stages from the very beginning of the product function and performance while considering clear research ・Marketing research results creation process to the customer consumption of our and easy-to-read labeling for our customers. During Market analysis ・Concept products. Specifically, by identifying key requirements production, thorough quality control is performed and customer ・Target quality level Organizational for each stage of corporate activities―product within each process, and products that have passed research planning, product development, production, sales, inspections are shipped with identifiable data for Governance and customer support―we are constantly pursuing each lot, aiding in effective after-sale management. new heights of customer satisfaction. A variety of information is sent to wholesalers and Product Building safety and quality into products During product planning, valuable opinions retailers through explanations and sampling of our development received from customers are analyzed to identify products. Deliberation on the contents Deliberation on and Discussion and approval Human Rights customers’ needs. At the stage of product and containers checking of labeling of development results Quality verification Production Engineering Meeting • Product Development Incorporating Customer Opinions Seven metrics (1) Function/performance Discussion and approval of development results (2) Usability (3) Safety Maximization of customers' satisfaction (4) Product stability Product planning meeting (5) Environmental friendliness Discussion and approval of commercialization (6) Appearance (including design) of the product (7) Compliance with laws and Executive Committee Customers Labor Practices regulations, and self-imposed standards Decision of commercialization Quality Verification Meeting At the completion of Process Safety Verification Meeting When starting development, the suitability of development, the validity Safety assurance in the Customer support target quality and matters deemed crucial to development are confirmed. of the developmental product is confirmed. manufacturing process is confirmed. Management The Environment Flow of developing safe and high-quality products Product planning Product development Production Sales Customer opinions and market Products are developed by Raw materials and production Product information is communicated Production Quality confirmation under mass production survey findings are reflected in translating target quality into processes are managed to result in an accessible manner so that planning and form high target technical parameters for design in the manufacture of products customers can ascertain the product quality for customer satisfaction. quality. with stable quality. features and usage. Preparation for initial manufacturing Manufacturing Storage (shipment) In order to realize a happy life for customers, we are sharing and practicing the origin of Customers’ Satisfaction within the company. By responding to customer opinions and making ongoing quality improvements, Lion will create products that can heighten customers’ satisfaction. Quality control Fair Operating Quality of raw materials, packages, Quality in trial manufacturing is is performed in Practices and containers is confirmed. evaluated.Market reception is surveyed. each process. Product freshness is managed. Group-wide Reliability Assurance System Sales Provision of information about product quality To deliver on our promise of “providing superior products companies. In 2018, we established a “Reliability Assurance Consumer Issues that are helpful in the daily lives of people”, we are Department” for further quality assurance, centered on a Information is provided to Information on products is promoting the developing of safe and high-quality products Quality Management System which extends throughout our wholesalers and retailers to made available via displays ensure communication of and sampleing at stores, that can satisfy our customers based on our “Quality Policy”. supply chain from planning to disposal. In order to respond product features and television and newspapers, With our “Pharmaceutical Affairs and Quality Assurance to growing social quality requirement level, and to customer usage to customers. our website, and other media. Department”, established in 2014, we moved forward to needs diversified by the business expansion of domestic/ Community build quality assurance and development support structures overseas group companies, Lion will continue to provide our across all functions of Lion including our overseas group customers with safe and high-quality products. Involvement and Development 51 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 52 Consumer Issues L i o n’s Providing Information Useful for Daily Life and Promoting Educational Activities Sustainability • Approach to Safety and Reliability • Enhancing the Management We evaluate the safety of materials (at the stage of raw Structure of Advertising materials, package and container) and during product use so Lion are promoting to enhance the “Management Structure The Lion Comfortable Lifestyle Laboratories proactively that our customers can use our products without any concern. of Advertising” aiming to carry out responsible promotional communicate with consumers while aiming to provide more and advertising activities for all products which we sell information that contributes to a healthy and comfortable 2017 Safety of Materials (including food products and pharmaceuticals). life. (1) Enhancements of the check system on advertising for all Survey and Customer Opinions research data First of all, we examine the safety of materials. As the next of our products including food Highlights step, we determine whether or not to use it after evaluating (2) Consultation with government agencies such as the Information collection and accumulation the sample and investigating supplier in order to ensure Consumer Affairs Agency as needed a certain level of quality. In using the materials, they are (3) In-depth training on related regulations, provided to classified into drugs, quasi-drugs, cosmetics, food, and employees Creation of useful information Organizational miscellaneous, and their quality is inspected based on the We will endeavor to enhance the “Management structure inspection items and testing methods appropriate for each of Advertising” to promote responsible advertising activities in the future. Governance classification before they are actually accepted for use. [Safety of Materials] (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/consumer/quality/ • Initiatives to Listen and Respond to The Lion Comfortable Lifestyle Laboratories Meisters of Daily Life Our Customers Transmission Information Events Publications dissemination Safety During Product Use The inquiries made by customers are registered in a database of news under a stringent personal information management Human Rights By considering the various uses of products as well as product structure and then shared throughout the company via an use by socially vulnerable customers, we perform safety information sharing system, with the exception of personal Government-sponsored consumer lifestyle event evaluation of our products from the perspective of avoiding information, so that such information can be used for Media, etc. Consumers Documents Website risks at the stage of product design. improvements of products and services, and for new product Process of providing information Useful for Daily Life Our company uses a checklist in our evaluation to determine development. Among this information, which is considered whether the product design ensures safety from “normal to affect customers’ satisfaction, together with any findings use” cases to “mistaken use” cases. We evaluate if risks can •C  ommunication with Customers using “Lidea,” discovered from our daily customers’ voices, are passed on a Website for Useful Lifestyle Information Labor Practices be alleviated even in the event of “irregular use,” and also to top management as a VOC*1 Daily Letter. And efforts evaluate whether risks can be tolerated. Such evaluations are are made to enhance quality by ascertaining the customers’ Lidea is Lion’s website for delivering lifestyle information and for sharing delightful ideas (tips and reflected in our measures to secure product safety, such as by perspective and through early consideration and handling information) with consumers that make their daily lives more comfortable and enrich their hearts. providing sufficient warnings if necessary. of improvement measures led by the product planning Accurate information that is useful for consumers’ daily lives is provided mainly by “Meisters of Also, in the Quality Verification Meeting for quality departments. In 2017, we sent out 242 VOC Daily Letters. In Daily Life,” specialists with expertise on lifestyle information. [Lidea] confirmation held with representatives of related divisions, addition, we widely collect and analyze consumers’ opinions URL https://lidea.today/ we perform checks from the perspective of our customers not only through telephone and e-mail but also via SNS*2. We are enhancing our communication with consumers in various ways by utilizing the information accumulated in Lidea. The Environment during their actual use of our products in order to prevent Furthermore, in order to take advantage of customers’ damages during product use as well as failure to confirm all perspectives in our business activities, a specialized internal safety check items. organization analyzes customers’ voices and proactively Publishing a newsletter with lifestyle information Two-way communication with consumers In preparation for possible problems with our products, disseminates information to respective departments. we have in place an internal system to quickly take *1[VOC] Voice of Customers Lifestyle Tips countermeasures such as product recall. Lidea Promotion *2[SNS] Social Networking Service (Facebook, Twitter etc.) We publish newsletters Project for Cities of • Scope of Safety Confirmation containing lifestyle topHarmonious Marriages Fair Operating ics based on the analysis Current Status of Recall of Varsan Hyosatsu Jet of consumer-generated We create opportunities, such as private information, including Because the “Varsan Hyosatsu Jet for Flying Insects”and Practices Unforeseeable and events, to engage with Reckless use unreasonable usage “Varsan Hyosatsu Jet for Crawling Insects” led to fire-related customer inquiries, to consumers to deliver meet consumers’ needs. accidents, Lion has been voluntarily recalling such products our messages and lisForeseeable usage, but defying ten to their opinions. since August 27, 2007. As of the end of December 2017, 1.48 Lower risk to acceptable accepted norms (overly excessive million of these products have been recalled (recall rate: level and provide warnings Irregular use use, or use for purposes very different to those intended) 45.7%). We would like to ask our consumers who still have any Communications through mass media Consumer of these products and reside in Japan to assist in the recall. Communicating with overseas consumers Usage not as intended Issues Customer Support for Recall of Session to share Websites of our Mistaken by Lion but which must lifestyle use be expected Varsan Hyosatsu Jet Sprays overseas group information companies Required Safety Assurance Toll-free: 0120-670-225 We h o l d s e m i n a r s Lifestyle information Open: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. (Japan time) regularly for reportthat suits the culture Usage as intended (Except Saturdays, Sundays, public holidays, yearend/ Normal use ers and editors from and habits of local marCommunity by Lion new year’s holidays, and summer holidays) broadcasters, newspakets is provided on the pers, magazines and websites of our overInvolvement and websites to provide seas group companies. lifestyle information. Development 53 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 54 Consumer Issues L i o n’s Offering Products and Information that Contribute to the Development of a Sustainable Society Community Involvement and Development Sustainability • Promoting 3Rs •E  xample of Environmental Labels Attached to Products With a focus to minimize the number of containers and Basic Approach amount of packaging materials we use, we are proactively Championing the spirit of our founder Tomijiro Kobayashi, continue our business, Lion works to solve regional and social 2017 promoting the 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle). which is to “contribute to society through business activities,” issues in cooperation with local residents, government agency Highlights [Lion’s eco-standard] (Japanese) Lion engages in the activities that contribute to improve and citizens’ groups. In addition, by increasing opportunities URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/ecolion/ sustainable society and planet, through the fields of Health, for each employee to involve business-related educational Comfort and Cleanliness with the aim of realizing “healthy activities, we foster human resources that create new values minds and bodies for all”. on the basis of a high level of social and environmental Organizational “CHARMY Magica” This container is made with approximately 10% (by weight) recycled plasAs it is necessary to co-exist harmoniously with the locations awareness. (Dishwashing Detergents) tic. of office sites and other related communities in order to Governance Business Health Comfort Cleanliness Domains Reduction of Usage Reuse of containers Recycle wastes Human Rights Save water with one rinse. Make containers and Increase refill Proactively use Establishing packages more products recycled materials For more information, please visit our website. Promoting Supporting oral health mental and cleanliness and compact hygiene practices care physical comfort and habits •P  romotion of Environmental Communication through Products 本体容器につめかえて使うことで、 廃棄プラスチック量を約81％削減できます。 In order to inform consumers of the importance of （本体450gの容器との比較。重量比） Environmental communication environmental considerations through our products, Lion “TOP SUPER NANOX” Bottle Using refills can reduce plastic waste by Labor Practices approximately 81%. (Compared with has put an “environmental label” on which environmental and its refill products in 450g containers, by weight) explanations are printed, and an “environmental logo” to (Super-Concentrated Liquid Laundry Detergent) products that fulfill our original “Lion eco-standard” since Basic Co-existence Involvement Enhancement 2014. The criteria for the “Lion eco-standard” are set based Policies with of of on the product life cycle. communities employees partnerships (Introduction of eco-friendly products) (Japanese) The Environment URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/ecolion/ “TOP Platinum Clear” Approximately 67% of the content (organic ingredient) consists of plant material. (Powder Laundry Detergent) For more information, please visit our website for details. Health, Comfort and Cleanliness Fields As Lion provide products and services to realize “healthy dental clinics with daily self-care, the “Oral Health Event of Promoting Information Security Fair Operating minds and bodies for all”, we engage in programs to promote Tooth Brushing for Children” aimed at elementary school oral health care, support mental and physical comfort and students, comfortable lifestyle support activities conducted Practices establish cleanliness and hygiene practices and habits actively. through “Meisters of Daily Life”, and activities to promote In order to thoroughly protect personal information and In 2015, with the aim of enhancing internal information For example, we are taking actions across the entire hand washing habits which our employees participate in. ensure information security, Lion has established the“Personal management systems, our company revised the related Lion Group which include: ongoing activities to promote Information Management Regulations”, the “Basic Policy regulations. In 2017, we continued to provide e-learning to all “preventive dentistry” which combine professional care at of Our Information Management”, the “Information employees on the risks of social media, information security Management Regulations,” as well as the “Information and the information management systems. [Achieving “Healthy Minds and Bodies for All”] (Japanese) URL http://w w w. lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/ Security Regulations” which is conformance with the “Act on For our overseas group companies, we promote information Consumer the Protection of Personal Information”. security measures, including the protection of personal In addition, we have in place the “Lion Group Social Media Issues information, based on local legislations. Policy” and basic guidelines to be observed in order for Environmental communication [Lion Group Social Media Policy] (Japanese) employees to use social media (social networking services, URL http://www.lion.co.jp/smp.htm We are engaged in environmental communication with the goal include the “Forest Maintenance Activities” conducted jointly blogs, etc.) to disseminate appropriate information. of environmental contribution in building a sustainable planet. by employees and the local residents of Yamanashi City, and As our company’s business is based on its deep relationship the “Rainwater Utilization Ideas Contest” which is intended to Introduction of websites Community with water through the act of “washing”, we place emphasis educate elementary and middle school students on awareness Involvement and In collaboration with our customers (Japanese) on the “Water Resource Conservation Activities”. These of the water environment. http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/consumer/ [Environmental Communication] (Japanese) URL http://w w w. lion.co.jp/ja/csr/social/ Development 55 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 56 Community Involvement and Development L i o n’s Enhancing Social Contribution Programs to Create Healthy and Comfortable Living Habits Sustainability Activities to Establish Cleanliness and Hygiene Practices and Habits Lion has been working on activities to promote proper handPrefecture where “KireiKirei” hand soaps are manufactured. Activities to Promote Oral Health Care through Foundations washing habits mainly with the “KireiKirei” brand, aiming the In addition, activities to promote hand-washing habits at daily health and comfort of people. kindergartens and preschools are conducted jointly with our Lion has been consistently working on promotional and educational With a policy of “employees voluntarily conducting business partners and are also included as part of corporate activities regarding oral health since 1913, adhere to our consistent activities,” Lion is striving for 100% of employees to participate training programs for younger employees, which help improve 2017 philosophy of “returning profit obtained through corporate activities in activities to promote hand-washing habits by the year 2050. our employees’ awareness for community involvement. Highlights to the society,” which has remained unchanged since the foundation During the period between 2012 and 2017, 851 employees Activities to promote hand-washing habits are also conducted of the company. (33%) took part in the activities. in Asian countries where “KireiKirei” products are sold. In 1964, Lion established a foundation called the Lion Foundation During the same period, approximately 25,000 preschoolers We work with local governments as well. Since 2014, for Dental Health (LDH), which was approved by the Ministry of participated in this activities. We conducted activities to Sakaide City and Lion Chemical Co., Ltd., the production base Health and Welfare of Japan (as it was referred to at the time). In promote hand-washing habits at kindergartens, preschools and of “KireiKirei” hand soap, have been jointly promoting the Organizational 2010, the Cabinet Office approved the change in the foundation’s public facilities in the areas where our office sites are located “KireiKirei City-Sakaide” Project, aiming to spread and establish status to a public interest incorporated foundation, and LDH across Japan, Ishinomaki City in Miyagi Prefecture which is a cleanliness and hygiene practices and habits among the citizens commenced its operations. Through the three public benefit services disaster area of the Great East Japan Earthquake and an area of Sakaide. Governance shown below, LDH has consistently been coordinating with the Japan closely connected to our founder,and Sakaide City in Kagawa 25,000 A scene from an elementary school which participated Dental Association, universities, and administrations to maintain and in the Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for Children Number of participating approx. Accumulated total promote dental and oral health of consumers. LDH is contributing to elementary school students participants society at the forefront of oral health in order to improve the quality •O  ral Health Event of Tooth Brushing • Care for Health and Hygiene During Emergencies of life of all people. Lion gives full support to its activities. for Children It is important to pay attention to health especially in a Human Rights The Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for Children, started in disaster situation. Three Public Benefit Projects of LDH Lion creates and distributes pamphlets / posters tittled 1932, is held every year for elementary school children during a week 1. Oral health promotion projects designated as the “dental/oral health week (June 4th to 10th).” Care for Health and Hygine During Emergencies Promotion activities of oral health at all life stages Previous event was held all over the country by Internet deliveration. providing information on cleanliness and health care. Introduction of websites 2. Research and investigative projects However, from the 74th events in 2017, the event period increased From 2017, we have started conducting educational Promoting oral health care (Japaneses) by 10 days. Accordingly, the participating schools can now set the activities for local residents in the areas of all of our http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/oral/ Investigation/research on the importance of oral health for extending healthy life expectancy, and provision of date from among period and participate by watching educational business offices. We will contribute to make efforts in Establishing cleanliness and hygiene practices and habits (Japaneses) Labor Practices information on research results obtained through DVD. establishing the cleanliness and hygiene Practices. http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/washing/ business and other activities to specialists and consumers In 2017, total of approximately 160 thousand students from 2,893 “Care for Health and Hygiene During Emergencies” Pamphlet/Poster (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/emergency-care/ 3. Educational and training projects elementary schools had joined this events. This events are not limited Holding of various seminars and lectures for health to Japan, but is also held in other Asian countries and regions. instructors and dental specialists Environmental Communication Initiatives [The Lion Foundation for Dental Health, a public interest incorporated foundation] URL http://www.lion-dent-health.or.jp/english/ Number of participating elementary school students Accumulated total participants approx. 1.24 million Through the act of “washing,” Lion has always been deeply involved with water. We are taking action proactively for forest maintenance activities and for promotion and raising awareness of the utilization of rainwater which is a familiar water resource,as a part of our water resource conservation activities. The Environment Activities for oral health promotion for adults (industry) Forest Maintenance Activities at the Lion Forest in Yamanashi Rainwater Utilization Ideas Contest 2017 • Main Activities of LDH in 2017 Education and instruction focused on prevention of a periodontal disease Since 2006, Lion has engaged in improving the forest, which is a water source, The “Rainwater Utilization Ideas Contest” has been held since 2011 with and on maintenance/improvement of at the Lion Forest in Yamanashi for the purpose of increasing employees’ the aim of having elementary and middle school students across Japan “Dental and Oral Health” aimed at employees of various companies. environmental awareness. In think about ways to use rainwater and realize its importance. In addition to Activities for oral health promotion for mothers and children Participants: 21,271 2017, a total of 154 employees honoring individuals for their achievements, rainwater tanks were awarded “Childcare Support Programs” in the area of “Dental and Oral Health” for expectant mothers, infants, preschoolers Accumulated total participants: approx. 2.092 million participated in the forest as group incentive prizes to maintenance activities as part two groups which submitted Fair Operating and their parents Participants: 2  ,790 infants and Activities for oral health promotion for the elderly (From 2007) of new employee training and many outstanding pieces. preschoolers Provision of support to help maintain voluntary forest improvement Practices and 377 parents oral functions to enable eating with activities (which tooka place Accumulated total participants: approx. 1.146 million their own teeth and mouth over a long time in the future two times). Participants: 46,648 Number of participating Activities for oral health promotion for school children employees Accumulated total participants 1,407 employees in total Number of entries Accumulated total participants 50,435 entries Face-to-face educational activities with Accumulated total participants: approx. 73,000 [Lion Forest in Yamanashi] (Japanese) [Lion Rain’s Gift Forum] (Japanese) students and their parents and provision URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/social/forest/ URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/social/rain/ Consumer of support for activities of health Treatment activities instructors Participants: 5  ,935 students Implementation of highly-professional 162 parents and high-quality treatment and preventive dentistry activities based on Plant Tours Issues 723 health instructors concept of the “Risk Control Dentistry*” Diagnosed: 11,171 We regard plant tours as an important contact between customers and Lion. In order to have customers feel familiar with Lion’s products and see our operations placing highest priority on Accumulated total participants: approx. 23.272 million Accumulated total participants: approx. 1.847 million safety and environmental conservation, we welcome many visitors to the plants every year. Community Accumulated totals are total numbers since establishment of the LDH (1964) Plants Chiba Odawara Osaka Akashi Total *[Risk Control Dentistry] Details of Plant Number of study tours 89 86 50 89 314 Customized dental treatment in which care methods are changed according to the risks of cavity or periodontal disease of individuals. Involvement and Tours in 2017 Study tour participants 2,206 1,936 1,211 2,320 7,673 Plant tour at Osaka Plant Development 57 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 58 Third-Party Review Lion’s Response The “Lion Sustainability Report 2018”, published In the future, we look forward to further steps to Under our founding spirit of “Benefiting Society through From here on, with a view to effectively promote alongside the Lion Corporation’s formulation of its new clarify the mutual relationships within the new contents Business Activities,” Lion has always been involved in measures over the entire Group, including its overseas management vision and medium-term management and issues which have been incorporated in this report, solving social issues that change with the times. consolidated subsidiaries, our company will strengthen plan, retains the fundamental structure of past CSR while combining them with prexisitng legacy contents The advance of digital transformation and other our sustainability promotion system while taking further Reports while addressing new issues based on recent and issues which have been addressed over the past. For factors is likely to accelerate changes in our lifestyles and steps to advance its integration with our management trends for disclosure of non-financial information. One example, this could include improving the presentation society even further hereafter. Therefore, in order to strategies for the creation of long-term values. striking point of this report in comparison to those of the of the point “achieving health management”, indicated respond successfully to these changes, this year Lion has Regarding “reinforcement of health and productivity past is a stronger overall awareness of connections with as a key point for the sustainability material issues. Since created a new Management Vision for 2030 : “Becoming management” that have pointed out, Lion is making management strategies. the “Health Guidelines” were established at an early an advanced daily healthcare company”, and we are efforts to establish health care habits in our employees The report begins with a “Message from the stage and health management systems are in place on proceeding with “The LIVE Plan , the medium-term and from 2002, we introduced a preventive dentistry Management” stating the company’s new management a company-wide cross-departmental basis, we believe management plan set for the period from 2018 to 2020. program which applies the unique characteristics of vision for 2030: “Becoming an advanced daily healthcare this is a topic which can effectively apply the company’s Additionally, starting from January 2018, we have our company to address this issue. We will consider its company”. In close connection to the company’s new distinctive strengths, as it has in its independent reviewed our internal organizations and meeting future expansion over the entire Group, including our “The LIVE Plan” medium-term management plan which initiatives including programs for preventive dentistry. structures and arranged a system for promoting CSV, overseas companies. We will also build our health and is oriented toward this goal, value creation scenarios For that reason alone, it is regrettable that the KPIs are as we aim for a management with a longer term productivity management, which will be appropriate which seek to create business values through new unions set only for the target rate of participation in various perspective that simultaneously realizes contributions to for an advanced daily healthcare company, and proceed of technology and services based on diverse and open medical examinations at 100%. It may be worthwhile to sustainable society and business growth. with our enhancement of human capital. personnel, organizations, and cultures, are explained in consider setting KPI connected to outcomes distinctive As for linkage between our non-financial information Through dialogues and cooperation with our clear detail. The new initiatives described in this year’s to this company, which place slightly more focus on evaluated from a third-party review and our stakeholders, Lion will strengthen our initiatives toward report include setting a long-term time scale, clearly the viewpoint of “Enriching the growth foundation management strategies, we have attempted for make sustainability and will promote management to be a identifying social issues to be addressed by focusing that is our human capital, by arranging environments this report even more readily understandable for our highly-trusted company that can fulfill the expectations attention on SDGs Target 3 “Ensure healthy lives and where employees can work energetically”. In the daily stakeholders, through steps such as indicating our “Value from society. promote well-being for all at all ages”, and presenting commodity market, where it is said that generally, Creation Model”. value creation scenarios related to invested capital. These switching costs are low and the competition is high, Furthermore, our company have identified 2020 can be seen as contents that respond to demands from there is an importance in properly understanding market Sustainability Material Issues to be addressed by entire the perspective of ESG investments, which is growing needs and being able to act accordingly. There is also a Lion Group in conjunction with our “The LIVE Plan”, significantly in influence and importance. Emphasis high interest in human capital and technical ability as a and have set related objectives to realize sustainable is given to the point of contributing to solutions for key differentiatior to drive innovation. The presentation management. We are proceeding with initiatives social issues through businesses, and the shift from of the company’s strategies aimed at enhancing human aimed at creating more robust foundation for business, passive CSR management to active CSR management capital with “health management” as a keyword is seen including enhancements of our risk management system (CSV management) is clearly conveyed. The new as highly meaningful from the aspect of ESG investments. Director, Senior Executive Officer starting with the construction of a group system which Director in Charge of CSV Management Department establishment of CSV Management Meetings with the Organizing issues from such perspectives will lead to places the highest respect on human rights, as well company’s President as Chairman can be viewed as a advantageous connections over the medium-term as initiatives intended to create opportunities such as Kenjiro Kobayashi method of reinforcing these points from the perspective between sustainability material issues identified from activities to create healthy living habits for all people. of corporate governance, which invites high anticipation social issues, and the basic strategies of the medium-term for even greater involvement by management in future management plan, with great promise for non-financial CSV promotion and advancement. values and management strategies to become integrated In conjunction with the new medium-term just as intended. management plan, sustainability material issues are By means of this report, which has reached a new Participation in External Groups Evaluation and Certification from External Sources specified in terms of both risks and opportunities. stage as a powerful communication tool, I am expecting These, together with steps to deploy them throughout that many stakeholders will be able to deepen their the supply chain, shows a strong intention to gain an understanding of this company’s CSV management and understanding of diverse social issues through their the social values achieved through it. businesses and partners. In particular, we see a firm declaration to strengthen risk management of human rights by the year 2020, as an extremely important stance, since the business of overseas is expected to expand in the future. This Sustainability Report can be considered an ambitious work which maintains its nature of being an easily-understandable tool for communicating with its assumed readers consumers and employees while also Development Bank of Japan Inc. undertaking the challenge of addressing difficult issues Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Research Officer such as responding to trends toward disclosing recent non-financial information. Keisuke Takegahara 59 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 Lion Sustainability Report 2018 60 Published by Lion Corporation Published on: June, 2018 To be published next on: June, 2019 Inquiries CSV Management Department, Lion Corporation 3-7, Honjo 1-chome, Sumida-ku, Tokyo 130-8644, Japan Website (English) : http://www.lion.co.jp/en/ Tel: +81-3-3621-6275 Fax: +81-3-3625-8625
