ALWAYS ONE STEP AHEAD TELENET SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CONTENTS TABLE OF CONTENTS FO RE W O RD BY T HE CHAIRM AN AND T HE CEO 04 COMPANY PRO FILE 06 T HE CHANGING SO CIE T Y 07 OUR SUS TAINAB ILI T Y P O LIC Y 09 OUR MOS T IMP O RTAN T SUS TAINAB ILI T Y PRO GR A MS COMMITMENT COMMITMENT TO OUR TO OUR CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES 17 24 COMMITMENT TO COMMITMENT TO FAIR, SOCIETY AND LOCAL OPEN AND TRANSPARENT COMMUNITIES BUSINESS PRACTICES 32 42 SUS TAINAB ILI T Y REP O RT ING 2017 56 T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 2 I CONTENTS OUR CREDO Look at how we live today. We live more individual lives, but we share more than ever before. We are surrounded by devices that divide us, but at the same time bring us together. We are increasingly busy, but we manage to do more than we ever did. Today, life is fluid. Full of anchoring and liberating moments. Unifying both is what we, as a company, aspire to. Connecting people, while setting them free. Bringing people together in surprising ways. With innovative technologies and with exciting entertainment. To create shared experiences, accessible to anyone. We pass our enthusiasm on to eager learners, bringing them up to speed for the digital age. We coach small business owners to explore online opportunities for growth and empower people to achieve a better quality of life. Without exception. That is what drives us. That is why we innovate. That is why we invest in technology and talent. To always stay one step ahead in the digital world. Because we are pioneers, first-movers. But with a clear purpose: Staying one step ahead in the digital world Connecting people and creating experiences For a better quality of life T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 3 I CONTENTS ALWAYS ONE STEP AHEAD FOREWORD BY THE CHAIRMAN AND THE CEO Dear customer, Imagine a future with smart cities, more sustainable Dear partner, mobility solutions and affordable health care Dear shareholder, services. Think about flexible working environments and memorable entertainment experiences at home. Digitalization will power the engine of innovation and No company is an island. We thrive and live by grace boost economic growth in the years to come. of our customers, our employees and the society in which we operate. Keeping our finger on the pulse of The good flow what is happening in society is vital as it impacts all of We are devoted to making our customers’ lives work our internal and external stakeholders. One of the key better, offering them an amazing experience in the societal forces driving rapid change in our business and digital age. We want their home life to be easier and in society at large is digitalization. smoother, their family life richer and uplifting, and their work life hassle-free. We do this by connecting Our conviction: digital technologies people through smart technologies and seamless will improve the quality of life networks, by delivering great customer services and We see the tremendous potential of digital. We by creating inspiring entertainment content. The result believe it will change our private and professional of all of this is “the good flow”. When the flow is good, lives for the better. everything comes more naturally. > T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 4 I CONTENTS Digitalization comes Successfully delivering on our 2020 strategy with its own unique challenges 2017 was once again an important year on the road As a leading Belgian telecom and entertainment to become the leading national provider of converged company, we are committed to building a society in connected entertainment and business solutions which people and businesses can stay one step ahead in in Belgium. Mid-2017, we acquired SFR Belgium the digital world. However, we are keenly aware of the and Luxembourg, a significant cable operator active potential challenges of digitalization. We want people in parts of Brussels, Wallonia and the Grand Duchy to find and keep the right digital balance: they should of Luxembourg. have fun with technologies without damaging their In May 2018, we received the green light to acquire ICT social relationships or their health. We want digital to integrator NEXTEL allowing us to offer end-to-end be inclusive: every individual should have access to solutions to our business customers. connectivity and get the opportunity to strengthen his/ In March 2018, we publicly released our second highher digital skills and media literacy. quality tv series ‘De Dag’ and announced our intention to take the entire ownership of De Vijver Media. This We want to build innovative technology solutions, will solidify our position as a media player and we are without compromising the trust of our customers and convinced this investment will help provide oxygen to stakeholders. Together with our stakeholders, we work the local media ecosystem. on balanced and future-proof customer guidelines and business practices. Crucial in this is finding the right Acting in a socially responsible way balance between innovation, business growth and trust. At Telenet we strive for sustainable growth, with a good balance between operational excellence and social Telenet’s impact on society responsibility, taking into account the social, economic We are aware of the important role that Telenet plays and environmental aspects of our business operations. in the Belgian community. We remain committed to Because, together with our employees and our being a responsible company in the digital age and stakeholders, we want to make a positive contribution we will further strengthen our relationship with our to the Belgian economy and build a digital society that stakeholders through consultation and dialogue. propels us and helps us stay one step ahead. Our actual societal contribution is demonstrated by our ranking in the annual Dow Jones Sustainability Index. This recognizes leading companies in each industry for Bert De Graeve John Porter their responsible economic, social and environmental Chairman Chief Executive Officer performance. In 2017, we were once again included in the Index, for the 7th consecutive year. Since 2011 we also support the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and we actively embrace the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 5 I CONTENTS COMPANY PROFILE Underpinned by high quality fixed and mobile networks, We are committed to be the leading provider of Telenet is the leading entertainment and business converged connected entertainment and business solutions provider in Belgium. Under the brand name solutions in Belgium by 2020. Telenet, we focus on offering digital television, highspeed Internet and fixed and mobile telephony services Telenet is 57.4 percent owned by Liberty Global to residential customers in Flanders and Brussels. Under the world’s largest international TV and broadband the brand name BASE, we provide mobile telephony company, investing, innovating and empowering people solutions across Belgium. The Telenet Business in more than 30 countries across Europe, Latin America department serves the business market in Belgium and and the Caribbean to make the most of the digital Luxembourg with connectivity, hosting and security revolution. solutions. With SFR, we provide solutions to business and residential customers in parts of Brussels, Wallonia SUPERIOR CONNECTIVITY and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. € 1.8 MILLION To meet the expectations of all customer segments, INVESTMENTS Telenet also welcomes Mobile Virtual Network PER DAY Operators (MVNO) on its network. An overview of these UPGRADE AND MODERNIZATION strategic partnerships can be found on the OF THE FIXED AND MOBILE NETWORKS Telenet corporate website. INSPIRING ENTERTAINMENT 50% PARTICIPATION IN DE VIJVERMEDIA, WITH THE INTENTION TO TAKE FULL OWNERSHIP € 8.4 MILLION INVESTMENTS IN 2017 IN LOCAL MEDIA PRODUCTIONS SUPERIOR BUSINESS SOLUTIONS O U R VALU E S PRODUCTS CONNECTIVITY, CLOUD, HOSTING WE SET THINGS IN MOTION AND IT-SOLUTIONS ACQUISITION OUR PASSION IS CONTAGIOUS TAKE OVER OF ICT INTEGRATOR NEXTEL WE ARE CLOSE Status: June 01, 2018 WE SAY WHAT’S WHAT WE WORK BETTER TOGETHER More information about Telenet and its financial results can be found in the Financial Annual Report 2017. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 6 I CONTENTS THE CHANGING SOCIETY: HOW TODAY IMPACTS TOMORROW As a responsible company, we keep a close eye on key societal trends that influence how we live and work, today and tomorrow. Climate change Another notable demographic trend is the growing Global warming has serious consequences for humans urbanization: already over half of the world population and the environment. The Paris Climate Agreement resides in cities. In the next decades this is expected to (2015) recognizes the significant impact of corporates increase to 80 percent, creating new challenges in on the health of our planet. There is an urgent plea to terms of livability, energy supply and mobility. Digital limit harmful emissions, reduce our ecological footprint innovations play a crucial role in creating smart cities and to take bold steps in developing environmentally that offer a better quality of life. In Belgium too, regional sound technologies, in order to reach the COP 21 target and local governments, companies and research of limiting global warming to 2°C above the preinstitutes are joining forces to shape the smart cities of industrial level by 2030. the future. This is based on the constant connection of people, devices and objects, requiring high-performing Demographic changes: networks and advances in big data technologies. the world versus local communities The steady progress of transport, telecommunications Finally, the aging population is an important and international trade leads to a strong globalization demographic trend. Our society is aging: the life and to a shift in the global power balance: the economic expectancy increases while the proportion of elderly dominance of the West is being challenged by the East people in the total population is growing. This causes a and South, with major implications for the position of strain on our health care and social security systems. Europe where economic growth and job creation are Digital applications can offer a sustainable solution, under pressure. Yet Europe continues to attract migrants both preventive and curative. who for humanitarian, economic and geopolitical reasons are leaving their home country. This leads in several Economic growth and jobs European countries to political tensions and public Digitalization fuels job creation and sustainable debates on the cultural and economic integration of the economic growth. The European Commission’s migrant population in the local community. Digital Economy and Society Index (DESI) annually Despite the globalization, there is a new-found appreciation for ‘being local’: local communities flourish, grassroot organizations and citizens unite around common causes, close to home. These networks often grow into powerful voices in the public debate, thus having the power to influence governments and corporations bottom-up. In this world, stakeholder engagement is no longer ‘a nice to have’. Localization also leads to new business models like the sharing economy, facilitated by technology platforms and digital applications. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 7 I CONTENTS key in attracting talented people. In order to remain competitive in a digital first world, employers should also invest in life-long learning and development initiatives that create a digital-savvy workforce. Digital is the new normal Digitalization offers a wealth of opportunities to consumers and businesses. One area where this is particularly clear is entertainment: linear tv watching is declining year on year. More personalized media platforms offering maximum freedom to consumers such as VRT NU, Netflix, Yelo TV and YouTube are on the rise. In the market place, eCommerce is no longer a gimmick but a fierce competitor putting pressure on the traditional retail sector. tracks the digital performance and competitiveness In this type of world, the consumer’s demand for speed of its member states. In 2018, Belgium ranks 8th in this and data continues to increase. A recent large-scale index, a slow decline compared to 2017, with strong study (February 2018) commissioned by Telenet and performances on broadband connectivity (5th) and the carried out by iVOX among thousand Flemish families, integration of digital technologies by businesses (5th). showed that 70 percent of the respondents consider The country’s performance on digital skills (12th) and Wi-Fi connectivity as indispensable as water and the adoption of digital public services (15th) showed electricity, with increasingly higher expectations about room for improvement. the quality and speed of the internet connection. To cater for this demand, continuous investments in fixed To fully exploit the digital opportunities, Science, and mobile networks by operators are the lifeblood Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (STEM) of the economy. Looking further ahead, we should competencies, creativity and entrepreneurship are of prepare for a transition to 5G networks. Today, many vital importance. Governments and corporates need to technological applications are leaving the realm of partner up to strengthen these skills through education science fiction and are becoming reality in our day-toand lifelong learning initiatives. day lives. Think about augmented reality, virtual reality, artificial intelligence and autonomous vehicles. According to the DESI 2018 report, the number of STEM graduates in Belgium remains persistently low and At the same time consumers are becoming increasingly below the EU average. The lack of STEM graduates and aware of the risks related to digital, in particular in the shortfall of ICT workers are expected to lead to terms of privacy, the protection of personal data and 30,000 open job vacancies by 2020 in Belgium. the prevention of data fraud. It is our responsibility to take appropriate action and to protect in particular Youth unemployment is a key issue in the digital economy those who are vulnerable in the digital world, such as and remains hard to tackle. Low education levels increase children. Digital technologies should also be inclusive: the risk of long-term unemployment. The potential to not everybody is a digital native and knows how to fill train and activate Not in Education, Employment or out a tax statement online or transfer money via an app. Training (NEET) youngsters and to guide them to jobs, particularly in the digital space, is tremendous. Finally, new business models, such as targeted and personalized advertising, have the potential to provide Finally, how we work is set to change. As digitalization oxygen to the local broadcasting industry. But allows us to work where and when we want, the these initiatives should not compromise the trust of relationship between employee and employer is customers and stakeholders. They should therefore be changing. Standing out as an employer by creating set up in dialogue with the respective regulators and meaningful jobs with a good work/life balance will be respect the local privacy and data regulations. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 8 I CONTENTS OUR SUSTAINABILITY POLICY THE MATERIALITY MATRIX Sustainability is a multi-faceted concept – more and their relative importance: the materiality matrix. than one can company can tackle at the same time. Initially defined in 2012, the materiality matrix was Therefore, we have made the conscious decision reviewed in April 2015 to reflect the most current to focus our efforts on the most relevant issues: interests of our stakeholders. We will start a new the materialities. We determine the importance of stakeholder consultation in summer 2018 to update the the various material matters in close consultation materiality matrix so it better reflects the extended and dialogue with our stakeholders. The result is a footprint of Telenet in all regions of Belgium and the schematic representation of the sustainability priorities Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. HIGH Privacy & data security Fair, responsible & transparent business conduct Best-in-class quality products and services Pricing & billing transparency IMP ORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Customer Open internet experience Being an innovative and leading company Customer’s energy consumption Responsible Attracting, retaining employer and developing talent Offering customer-centric products Electronic waste and equipment recycling Reducing environmental impact Customer health & safety Supply chain management Safe use of internet by children Role in society Promoting skills for the 21st century society Media landscape Employee engagement MEDIUM HIGH INFLUENCE ON BUSINESS SUCCESS We apply a structured process to design the materiality matrix. Read more about our methodology on the sustainability section of the Telenet corporate website. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 9 I CONTENTS THE SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY At Telenet we strive for sustainable growth, with a good In this digital era, we want to make a real difference by balance between operational excellence and social engaging with our customers and employees in an responsibility, taking into account the social, economic inclusive and empathic way. We are committed to and environmental aspects of our business operations. In build an open and transparent relationship with all 2016, following the major acquisition of BASE Company our stakeholders, looking them straight in the eye and we have taken the decision to thoroughly rethink our responding to their expectations as it comes to our sustainability strategy. Not to drastically change course, social, economic and environmental impact. but to ensure that in terms of sustainability, we also maintain our leading position among Belgian companies. Our focus domains The Telenet sustainability program underscores our Our commitment: Always one step ahead! commitment to the key stakeholders and reflects At Telenet, we believe in the tremendous potential their interests as defined by the materialities. Per of digital and we are committed to help people and commitment, we have defined a set of measurable businesses to stay one step ahead in the digital age. targets, to be reached by 2020 (and 2025 as far as the We want to build a society in which people enjoy to live environmental objectives are concerned). and work together, embracing the endless possibilities of the digital world at the fullest and with pleasure. For a better quality of life. AMAZING CUSTOMER GREAT EXPERIENCE WORKPLACE our commitment our commitment to customers to employees DIGITAL RESPONSIBLE SOCIETY BUSINESS PRACTICES our commitment to society our commitment to a fair, and local communities open and transparent dialogue with all stakeholders T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 10 I CONTENTS TELENET SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK 2017-2020 OUR 2020 VISION GUIDING PRINCIPLES OUR BUSINESS PRIORITIES To be the leading converged One step ahead pioneering – close • Build a leading integrated network connected entertainment and to you – good neighbor sparkling • Lead in inspiring entertainment business solutions provider in passion – enthusiasm pleasure • Unlock the potential in business Belgium. sincere, honest and transparent solutions inclusive • Create memorable customer experiences Always one step ahead At Telenet, we believe in the tremendous potential of digital and we are committed to help people and businesses to stay one step ahead in the digital age. We want to build a society in which people enjoy to live and work together, embracing the endless possibilities of the digital world at the fullest and with pleasure. For a better quality of life. In this digital era, we want to make a real difference by engaging with our customers and employees in an inclusive and empathic way. We are committed to build an open and transparent relationship with all our stakeholders, looking them straight in the eye and responding to their expectations as it comes to our social, economic and environmental impact. AMAZING CUSTOMER GREAT DIGITAL SOCIETY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS EXPERIENCE WORKPLACE PRACTICES Our commitment We do everything to give our We want every Telenet We want to build a society in We do business in an open an customers the best experience employee to be proud to work for which people enjoy to live and transparent way, taking the possible and to build lasting our company and to become real work together, embracing the expectations of all our trusted relationships with them Telenet ambassadors. We want possibilities of the digital world stakeholders into account, as it to empower, enable and inspire at the fullest, with pleasure. For comes to our social, economic our employees to flourish a better quality of life and environmental impact 2020 Objective Net Promoter Score -5 Zoom employee engagement Unlock the potential of digital • RepTrak scores on Governance score of 61% with a clear for all through at least 3 digital & Citizenship + 3 percentage ambition to reach a score in skills programs points (compared to base the top quartile Accelerate 25,000 young people 2016Q4 Flanders & Brussels) in the digital age • Become 5 times more carbon efficient by 2025 (compared to 2016), and improve our energy efficiency by 15% every year through 2025 We’ll do this by • Bringing the best • Attracting & retaining • Investing in high-performant • Limiting our environmental customer experience the best talent fixed & mobile connectivity footprint • Delivering top quality products • Stimulating learning solutions • Managing our supply chain & services that are easy to use & development • Boosting the digital and in a responsible way • Ensuring privacy & data • Engaging our employees creative economy • Demonstrating good security through internal • Nurturing 21st century governance & transparency • Driving transparent pricing communications and skills for children and in our business practices & billing corporate culture empowering youth through • Cultivating employee entrepreneurship and digital wellbeing & diversity literacy training • Ensuring basic digital literacy skills for all • Promoting the right digital balance T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 11 I CONTENTS OUR PERFORMANCE PROGRESS MADE IN 2017 ON THE 2020 SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES RESULT 2016 RESULT 2017 AMAZING CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE 2020 Telenet: -8.8 Telenet: -14.9 Net Promoter Score of -5 Objective BASE (Mobile NPS): -10.3 BASE (Mobile NPS): -4.5 Customer churn rate 8.0% 9.3% # Data protection breaches 0 0 KPIs CES 2016: 15.42% CES 2017: 20.25 % Customer Effort Score (CES) & Billing NPS Billing NPS 2016: -13.2 Billing NPS 2017: -12.0 GREAT WORKPLACE 2020 Zoom employee score of 61%, with a clear ambition 60% 58% Objective to reach a score in the top quartile # Newly hired employees 336 726 Voluntary employee turnover 5.0% 9.5% KPIs Training hours per FTE 24.4 12.1 % female sr. managers (Senior Leadership Team) 50% 50% DIGITAL SOCIETY Unlock the potential of digital for all through at least 2 programs in place 3 programs in place 2020 3 digital skills programs. Objective Accelerate 25,000 young people in the digital age 21,150 people reached 41,000 people reached Investments in network growth € 250.6 million € 295.7 million Total number of youngsters empowered through 450 (YouthStart) 450 (YouthStart) coding & entrepreneurship initiatives 50 (BeCode) Total number of children reached through digital 20,700 (CoderDojo) 25,500 (Coderdojo) KPIs skills training 15,000 (Digitale Duik) Total number of start-ups accelerated with Telenet 88 86 investments Total number of SME’s accelerated through Digitale 1,400 Versnelling RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RepTrak scores on Governance & Citizenship Q4 2016: Q4 2017: 2020 +3% percentage points (compared to base RepTrak Citizenship: 60.8, Citizenship: 57.4 (-6%), Objective 2016Q4 Flanders & Brussels) Governance: 61.3 Governance: 57.5 (-6%) Carbon efficiency ratio: Total scope 1 + 2 CO2emissions including compensation per terabyte 0.008 0.008 of data usage KPIs % renewable energy consumption 91% 80% Waste recycling rate 71% 75% # Suppliers monitored on ESG issues 46 100 T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 12 I CONTENTS THE DECISION MAKING PROCESS • 10 members, 3 of which are independent directors BOARD OF • Design, implementation and checking the sustainability program DIRECTORS as a permanent item on the agenda • Meets at least once per quarter • Top 12 managers SENIOR • Sustainability progress as fixed agenda item LEADERSHIP TEAM • Meets fortnightly • Board consisting of SLT and board members REPUTATION • Assesses and directs improvements to Telenet’s corporate reputation, BOARD including sustainability aspects • Meets quarterly • Manages daily activities and provides reports CORPORATE AFFAIRS DIRECTOR T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 13 I CONTENTS OUR COMMITMENT TOWARDS OUR STAKEHOLDERS At Telenet, each department is responsible for developing structured stakeholder relationships. At the corporate level, Telenet maintains dialogues with the following stakeholder groups: • Telenet uses the Net Promoter Score (NPS) to assess the satisfaction of its customers. CUSTOMERS • Telenet applies the following core values and guiding principles to its products and services: simplicity, transparency, focus on loyal customers, and forward-looking. • Telenet maintains transparent communication around sensitive issues such as price adjustments. • Through our social media channels we actively engage in dialogue with our customers. • Telenet actively assesses the satisfaction of its employees through the bi-annual Zoom survey. EMPLOYEES • Telenet employees work in an environment that encourages personal development. • Telenet gives young employees the opportunity to develop their talent in the Young Graduates program. • Telenet promotes equal opportunities and works on diversity to ensure our organization is a good reflection of the broader society and our customer base. • As a listed company, Telenet openly, actively and simultaneously communicates with all its investors. INVESTORS • Telenet issues financial reports in accordance with International standards such as the International Financial Reporting Standards (EU) and the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 14 I CONTENTS • Telenet uses a code of conduct on sustainability that has to be signed by every supplier. SUPPLIERS • Telenet evaluates and monitors the sustainability risk of each supplier through the EcoVadis platform. • Telenet develops structural partnerships with suppliers who have a strong social dimension, such as the company Vlotter (IMSIR cvba). • Telenet consults local communities and neighborhood committees for major projects, such as the roll-out of ‘De Grote Netwerf’ project LOCAL COMMUNITY in Flemish cities and municipalities, and the SFR network upgrade initiative in La Botte du Hainaut. • Telenet actively supports social initiatives that boost the digital talents of the future, like Coderdojo Belgium, ToekomstAtelier, YouthStart and BeCode. • Telenet has adopted a charter with specific guidelines on stakeholder engagement, with a particular emphasis on our dealings with public POLICY MAKERS authorities. • Telenet is a member of professional organizations, such as the ISPA (Belgian Internet Service Providers Association), the GSMA, Cable Europe and the Agoria Federation of Telecom Operators. • Telenet seeks transparent interactions with policy makers, but does not support political parties. IMPORTANT MEMBERSHIPS Discover the full list of our corporate memberships on the sustainability section of the Telenet corporate website T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 15 I OUR MOST IMPORTANT SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMS CONTENTS COMMITMENT TO OUR CUSTOMERS It is our ambition to develop lasting trusted relationships with our customers by investing in best-in-class, customer-friendly products and services, by driving a transparent pricing policy, by respecting our customers’ privacy, and by striving for memorable experiences that enhance customer satisfaction. THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS WE ADDRESS T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 17 I CONTENTS LOOKING BACK AT 2017 At Telenet, we put in all effort to offer innovative • In June 2017, we optimized WIGO, the first fullproducts and services to our customers. fledged all-in package for families and businesses The technology as such does not matter to our users. that responds to changing customer behaviors and What does matter is how it helps them gain business removes the traditional barriers between fixed and productivity, relax carelessly or interact freely. These mobile services. Initially launched in June 2016, the are all experiences to which Telenet actively contributes WIGO proposition was complemented by additional by investing in state-of-the-art fixed and mobile customer service offerings like the principle of a network connectivity and by delivering high-quality shared data bundle for the entire family and the connected entertainment and business solutions. increase of data volumes. At end December 2017, Telenet added approximately 177, 500 net post-paid In June 2017, Telenet acquired SFR Belgium and subscribers driven by the continued uptake of the Luxembourg, extending its footprint in Brussels and WIGO proposition and its improved services. in parts of Wallonia (La Botte du Hainaut) and the • In September 2017, we revamped the mobile lineGrand Duchy of Luxembourg. Like the BASE Company up under the BASE brand. This ‘BASED on You’ acquisition in 2016, this was a key momentum in proposition offers more flexible bundles adjusted our 2020 growth strategy, turning the company to the customers’ needs so they can use the full into a national telecom services provider. These capacity of their package, regardless of their recent acquisitions allow us to better respond to the appetite to either use more data, more calling rising demand from both residential and business minutes or more text messages. customers across the country for the full range of fixed and mobile telecom services. • The Helemaal Mee Tournee, a full and free check-up of the indoor installation at our Telenet An important step in the onboarding of BASE customers’ homes, continues to set the standard Company and SFR customers was our decision to for customer-centric servicing. Since its launch invest in the upgrade of the BASE mobile network in 2015, the program has already reached over across Belgium (initiated mid 2016) and the 440,000 residential customers, out of which optimization of the SFR coaxial cable infrastructure in 121,206 in 2017. We plan to reach 57,000 customers La Botte du Hainaut and Brussels (initiated in autumn in 2018. 2017). These network investments complement our ongoing efforts to optimize our fixed network infrastructure in Flanders and Brussels through De Grote Netwerf and Nexus projects, that will enable residential and business customers to benefit by 2019 from high-speed internet connections with broadband speeds up to 1Gbps and large data volumes. It is our commitment to continuously improve the customer experience by driving innovation across our various business domains. Besides investments in network innovation, we also drive product and service innovation: T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 18 I CONTENTS • 1 file per 2,081 services delivered in 2015 • 1 file per 2,212 services delivered in 2016 • 1 file per 1, 992 services delivered in 2017 2017 was a challenging year for Telenet, with several events that put our customer experience under pressure: • the ongoing efforts to align and integrate business processes and systems after the acquisition of BASE Company; • the growing number of customers transitioning to the upgraded Telenet networks; • the introduction of the renewed WIGO proposition and the transition of customers to this reviewed bundle offer, with a certain number of customer inquiries on the increased bill the first month after the transition The best experience in a digital world Positive customer experiences form the foundation of We were as such not fully successful in responding sustainable growth. Through our different customer to our customer promise: delivering a smooth and engagement channels, we guide our customers to effortless end-to-end customer experience. the best and most efficient solution, offering them a seamless, high-quality and personalized service. As a company, we have to keep on improving this experience to earn the trust of our customers. The In 2017, the Telenet Business team initiated an acquisition of BASE Company in 2016 was the starting iCare pilot project ‘Amazing!’ in order to provide point of a transformation journey to build by 2020 its customers with a more effortless customer care an integrated approach to customer engagement, service. The outcomes and learnings of this pilot with aligned business processes, systems and tools. project will be gradually implemented across the The following focus domains will be instrumental for customer services processes and procedures at strengthening customer engagement: Telenet Business. • Better aligning internal processes to the customer In December 2017, the Residential Customer Services journey: customers expect Telenet to deliver a team opened its first experience flagship store in seamless experience across all touchpoints, from the city of Antwerp. In an open and innovative shop initial inquiry right through post-sales support. As environment, customers can be inspired by new an organization, we should further improve internal products and services; can attend expert workshops process efficiencies, remove barriers between on digital solutions and get a fully personalized business functions and channels, and proactively service. This flagship store will set the new standard capture the impact of internal developments on the for all other Telenet and BASE shops across Belgium. customer journey. • Embracing a new digital customer experience: Telenet has a long-lasting tradition of investing in growing digitalization leads to changing customer qualitative customer services. Since 2014, we have expectations. In the digital economy, customer been investing in the Amazing Customer Experience contacts must be quick, easy and fun with a 24/7 Program (ACE), through which we monitor, analyze service delivery. As an organization, we have and report on the experiences of our customers. For to develop a real digital customer interaction the first time in several years, the number of residential approach that is complementary to the non-digital customer complaints about Telenet reported by the customer engagement channels where a warm, Ombudsman for Telecommunications increased: human experience makes the difference. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 19 I CONTENTS Ensuring privacy and data security Compliance with government-led Earning trust also implies that customer interactions programs and regulations are handled with respect of privacy and data security. Mandatory pre-paid registration We manage a vast amount of information from and In the first half of 2017, the Telecommunications about our customers. The Telenet Customer Data regulator IBBT and the Belgian mobile telecom Policy describes what information we process, why providers joined forced to register the more than we do so and what our customers’ rights are. It is 6 million pre-paid SIM cards in use in Belgium. applicable to all commercial activities of Telenet and The identification of the pre-paid SIM cards was is publicly available on the Telenet website. a concrete measure taken by the Belgian federal government after the March 22, 2016 attacks in In autumn 2016, we amended the policy, in view of the Brussels. Initiated at the end of 2016, users of prelaunch of a targeted advertising test case on the SBS paid cards received a six-month deadline to register TV channels. We communicated the changes to this their identity with a mobile operator. Customer Data Policy in an open and transparent way to our customers. On December 31, 2017, Telenet counted 515, 200 pre-paid mobile subscribers under the BASE brand In 2017, we started a consultation with the Belgian and various branded reseller contracts. Compared Privacy Commission on Telenet’s Customer Data to the previous reporting year, we recorded a 6 Policy in general and its compliance with the EU percent decrease in the total number of active mobile General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in subscribers, partly due to the impacts of the June particular. Early 2018, we further refined our 2017 mandatory pre-paid registration. Customer Data Policy in accordance with the relevant legal provisions and – prior to the implementation Roam like at home of the GDPR in May 2018 – we informed our entire Mid-June 2017, the EU ended roaming surcharges customer base again on the Customer Data Policy and for all people travelling periodically within the EU its 4 privacy levels: general, targeted, personalized, member states, implying that travelers can continue unique. Ninety percent of the Telenet customers are using their mobile devices at domestic charges when currently on the third privacy level, but any customer visiting other EU member states. can change at any time its privacy settings online. Prior to the 2017 summer holidays, we initiated a Driving transparent pricing and billing broad awareness campaign in order to inform all our In February 2017, Telenet informed all its customers Telenet and BASE customers about the implications personally about a price adjustment to a number of of the EU ‘Roam like at home’ initiative. its products and services. These price changes were led by the growing demand for faster connections, more data, more mobile Internet, and more capacity. To meet these consumer and business expectations, we need to invest more in our network, our products and our services. While on-going investments will be required in the future potentially leading to price adjustments -, we have the responsibility to reflect on how we can keep ensuring the best value for money to our customers, earning their long-term trust. As far as billing is concerned, Telenet actively promotes sustainable and environmental-friendly billing solutions and therefore invites its customers to choose for e-billing. In 2017, 70 percent residential customers and 12 percent Telenet Business customers opted for an e-bill. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 20 I CONTENTS IN A NUTSHELL: MAJOR EVENTS AND ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2017 FOCUS 2017 EVENTS AND ACHIEVEMENTS STATUS NEXT STEPS Bringing the best A new family of customers: SFR A new family of customers: SFR customer experience The acquisition of SFR Belgium and After the upgrade and modernization of the Luxembourg in June 2017 further extends ON TRACK/ COMPLETED SFR cable network infrastructure, we will our footprint in Brussels, Wallonia (La proceed to the migration and transition of SFR Botte du Hainaut) and the Grand Duchy customers to Telenet, starting with customers of Luxembourg, turning Telenet into a in La Botte du Hainaut and the Brussels national telecom provider. communes Wemmel and Drogenbos. In order to ensure a high-quality We will gradually extend the transition program experience for the SFR customers, to the other Brussels communes. we have made investments in the Through broad promotional campaigns and optimization of the fixed coaxial cable individual customer communications, we will infrastructure and in the improvement of invite SFR customers to ‘opt-in’ for Telenet the customer service. products and solutions, leaving them the freedom to explore and consider alternative market offers. Net Promoter Score (NPS) Net Promoter Score (NPS) for Telenet and BASE for Telenet and BASE 2018 NPS is our main performance indicator WORK IN PROGRESS As far as Telenet is concerned, we have set for customer loyalty and is based on a a -17.2 annual average NPS target. monthly online survey among 12,000 As far as BASE is concerned, we target residential and business customers. a -4.0 annual average NPS score. In 2017, Telenet achieved an annual average NPS of -14.9, slightly below target. The annual average NPS score for BASE was of -4.9. Delivering top Telenet WIGO Continue to offer the WIGO all-in package quality products & Initially launched in June 2016, the WIGO services that are proposition was complemented by ON TRACK/ COMPLETED easy to use additional customer service offerings like the principle of a shared data bundle for the entire family and the increase of data volumes. At end December 2017, Telenet added approximately 177, 500 net post-paid subscribers driven by the continued uptake of the WIGO proposition and its improved services. BASED on You Continue to offer BASED on You bundles. The BASED on You proposition offers ON TRACK/ more flexible bundles adjusted to the COMPLETED customers’ needs so they can use the full capacity of their package, regardless of their appetite to either use more data, more calling minutes or more text messages. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 21 I CONTENTS FOCUS 2017 EVENTS AND ACHIEVEMENTS STATUS NEXT STEPS Inspiring entertainment Continue to offer inspiring entertainment In Autumn 2017, Telenet announced solutions it would extend and diversify its on ON TRACK/ COMPLETED 2018 will be marked by the launch of new local demand content offer for children content (own TV series ‘De Dag’ in March and youngsters, following Studio 2018), by the development of new technology 100’s decision to offer its on demand solutions (Yelo Play via 3G/4G and abroad – content exclusively to another telecom April 2018) and the introduction of innovative operator. From January 2018 onwards, entertainment experiences (Virtual Reality Telenet offers Baby TV to young families gaming at The Park – May 2018). and broadcasts new programs and More innovative entertainment offerings are series from Disney, Nickelodeon, and to be publicly announced in the second half Awesomeness TV. of 2018. Ensuring privacy & Telenet Customer Data Policy Telenet Data Protection Policy and EU GDPR data security In 2017, we started a consultation compliance with the Belgian Privacy Commission WORK IN PROGRESS Early 2018, we further refined the Telenet on Telenet’s Customer Data Policy in Customer Data Policy in accordance with the general and its compliance with the EU relevant legal provisions. In April 2018, we General Data Protection Regulation informed our entire customer base on the (GDPR) in particular. the reviewed Customer Data Policy and its 4 privacy levels: general, targeted, personalized, unique. Ninety percent of the Telenet customers are currently on the third privacy level, but any customer can change at any time its privacy settings online. Focus in 2018 will be on the further implementation of the EU General Data Protection Regulation. Privacy complaints and breaches Continue to monitor In 2017, the Data Protection Authority privacy compliance through the relevant sent Telenet 3 requests for information WORK IN PROGRESS internal councils and consultative bodies. with regards to the processing of (personal) customer data. 17 potential incidents were investigated (15 for Telenet and 2 for BASE), of which 11 derived from a customer complaint. One incident was reported to the Data Protection Authority. None of the incidents resulted in a fine. Driving transparent Telenet price adjustment Telenet price adjustment pricing & billing In January 2017, Telenet announced a We need constantly to reflect on how to ensure price adjustment to a number of services REQUIRES ATTENTION the best value for money to our customers, and products, to cover additional earning their long-term trust. investments in network, services and products, and to meet growing consumer and business expectations. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 22 I CONTENTS THE GOLDEN PRINCIPLES FOR BUILDING TRUSTED CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS Delivering top quality products Ensuring Privacy Driving transparent and services that are easy to use and Data Security pricing and billing • Simple and easy product choices: • The Telenet Customer Data Policy • Pricing: We strive to transparently Telenet Whop and Whoppa. Telenet describes what information we show our prices and any other costs Play, Play More and Play Sports. process, why we do so and what our both on our websites and in our WIGO, BASE 15-25-35-45. Thanks customers’ rights are. The policies promotions or advertisements. Oneto a clear and limited offering, it is are applicable to all commercial off costs for activation, installation easy for the customer to compare activities of Telenet and BASE. or the exchange of hardware are different products and to make a fast They are publicly available on the as clearly as possible shown on our and balanced choice. respective websites. We are seeking website. • Clear product information: With every full c ompliance with the EU General • Invoicing: Telenet customers, who Telenet or BASE product, the customer Data Protection Regulation. choose to receive an electronic will find a leaflet with the general • The Privacy Council since 2014 invoice, will automatically receive conditions, an installation guide and an discusses all privacy matters an email notification when a new explicit CE certificate or technical flyer, and priorities. It comprises invoice is available on My Telenet, if needed. We will also state the legally representatives from the various where invoices can be viewed required information about waste business departments. for up to fourteen months. BASE treatment and energy use, and the SAR • The Security Council formulates customers can review their invoices values of mobile phones. strategic recommendations around online in the customer section • Availability: We remain close to our risks and threats arising from of the BASE website or on the customers and actively guide them malicious or erroneous use of data. MyBASE application. SFR customers towards the best digital experiences, • The Cyber Security Road Map can review their invoice on the using different channels: outlines the most important security MyAccount platform. On the television channel 444 and projects and is revised annually • Proactive communications: When the Telenet YouTube Channel short based on the recommendations of making important changes to our videos provide extra information on the Security Council. products and services, we notify Telenet products • Internal awareness through customers well in advance via email On My Telenet, customers can training: In 2017, 606 employees our through bill insert. subscribe to various Telenet received an introduction to privacy • No Notice Period: We do not apply a newsletters and security while attending the notice period for product bundles, On the Telenet and BASE social mandatory Business Discovery Internet, fixed or mobile telephony media, such as Facebook, Twitter Day. In view of the GDPR launch. and television, with the exception and Linkedin, we enter into a In addition, 638 employees took a of the paid channel package Telenet dialogue with our customer basic Privacy and Security Training Play Sports where a legal contract On the Telenet story platform in 2017. Telenet started an internal term of six months is applied as set SNAP (snap.telenet.be) the awareness and training program on by the Telecommunications Act. customer can read more about privacy and personal data protection • Tariff Plans: We proactively contact the Telenet company and our in April 2018. customers for whom it is cheaper entertainment offerings to change to a product formula that On our Online Community Forums better matches their product use. – Telenet Netweters and BASE Go Mobile Forum – customers ask questions, share experiences and make suggestions to improve new or existing products On the SFR website and through personal mailings, the customer can stay fully up to date on the latest SFR products and services. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 23 I CONTENTS COMMITMENT TO OUR EMPLOYEES As an employer, Telenet wants to be a passionate partner that encourages strong work performance and personal growth in a continuously changing working environment. We drive an employment policy that builds talent and stimulates maximum engagement. And we ensure that everyone feels happy at work. THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS WE ADDRESS T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 24 I CONTENTS LOOKING BACK AT 2017 The take-over of BASE Company in 2016 marked the and effective HR practice. In 2018, we will continue start of a company-wide transformation journey our efforts in building fully integrated HR processes that touches all parts of our business operations. and systems. Important will be the harmonization The Human Resources department is one of the of the working conditions between former Telenet cornerstones of this transformation program: it is in and former BASE Company employees, in close charge of ensuring the people’s wellbeing in times of consultation with the social partners. change. It also focuses on optimizing the processes and systems that underpin our employment policy. In June 2017, Telenet closed the acquisition of SFR Belgium and Luxembourg. Our first priority was to The first HR priority right after the acquisition ensure smooth and optimized day-to-day business was the smooth integration of both organizations, operations offering the SFR customers in La Botte du ensuring all employees quickly got clarity about their Hainaut (Wallonia) and Brussels an improved network job position and their roles and responsibilities within and customer service experience. In order to increase the new organization. the operations efficiency, the SFR employees moved their offices to the Telenet headquarters in Brussels. In 2017, we continued our efforts to optimize the However, as SFR Belgium and Luxembourg will remain team operations by building fully integrated teams a separate legal entity until 2019, we have no yet that are ready to successfully deliver on our business started the full integration of the SFR teams within and corporate priorities. One example was the the Telenet organization. redesign of the network-engineering department in charge of the planning, design, build and operations In 2018, Telenet will continue its transformation of both the fixed and mobile network infrastructure. journey and extend its business portfolio with the While at the time of the BASE Company acquisition, acquisition of the Belgian IT systems integrator the department consisted of separate expert teams NEXTEL, an important next step in the development for the fixed Telenet network and the mobile BASE of the Telenet Business department. In March network, efforts were made to merge and integrate 2018, we also announced our intention to take both practice teams. Today, mobile and fixed experts full ownership of De Vijver Media, reinforcing our are joining forces into one integrated ‘Technology position in the Flemish entertainment sector. These & Innovation’ department that is ready to fulfill our acquisitions are another important milestone in our customers’ drive towards more convergence. transformation and growth process, requiring us Besides the core focus on our people within the new organization, we kicked-off an extensive program to align the different HR business processes and to optimize the back-office systems and IT tools in order to build a fully integrated HR practice by 2018. These efforts already materialized in the completion of an integrated performance management process, a unified approach to recruitment, and the assignment of one external Service for Prevention and Protection at Work for all legal entities (Telenet, Telenet Group and Telenet Retail). In addition, we built a unified payroll system, in close cooperation with the IT department. The integrated systems and processes will optimize the internal HR data collection and analytics processes which will allow us to drive a more efficient T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 25 I CONTENTS In order to address these concerns, we are actively looking into innovative approaches to performance management. In that perspective, our Retail and Customer Services organization is currently test running a strength-based performance model that focuses on the employee’s strengths rather than on his/her weaknesses or attention points. In January 2018, we launched our first online survey to measure the Employee Net Promoter Score: we reached an E-NPS of +13 points, with 32 percent promoters and 20 percent detractors within our employee community. The three main drivers for employee satisfaction are: (1) a challenging working environment with exciting tasks and assignments; (2) a dynamic ‘always on the move’ company culture; and (3) a pleasant working atmosphere. In order to strengthen the employee engagement, we strongly focus on internal communications and corporate culture initiatives. Since 2016, we have been intensifying internal communications to ensure all employees are fully informed about our integration and transformation journey. Major initiatives include: regular newsletters, a yearly All Employees Meeting ‘The Telenet Way Day’ and a dynamic Intranet ‘Tellit’ with an ongoing flow of business, corporate and employee stories from across the organization. In 2017, special emphasis was put on building a new corporate narrative that has the power to engage our employees turning them into real Telenet ambassadors. Early 2018, we presented our new company purpose, our new corporate behaviors and to invest even more in building a future-proof and our reviewed employee value proposition. These will agile organization with new ways of working, new be complemented by a new set of employee values operating models and an employee community that that will be internally communicated and rolled-out fully embraces the culture of change. across all departments and teams from autumn 2018 onwards. A key success factor in this transformation journey is the active engagement of the employees in the In times of transformation, building a future-proof, new organization. Telenet measures the employee resilient workforce that can cope with uncertainty, engagement on a bi-annual basis through the unexpected changes and stress, makes a real Zoom survey. In 2017, Telenet reached a 58 percent difference. Already in 2015, we initiated a special engagement score, 7 percentage points above development program in this respect for people the Belgian average. Employees indicated career leaders and employees, with training sessions, an opportunities and performance management as key employee assistance program, personal coaching attention points. and on-the-job support. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 26 I CONTENTS Special attention is put on addressing and preventing (long-term) absenteeism. In 2017, the employee absentee rate represented 7.17 percent of the total scheduled working days. An important trend that does not only affect Telenet but the economy at large is the war on talent. In a highly competitive market where talent is scarce, we face – like many companies and organizations a growing challenge in filling open positions, in particular those for technical experts, such as data scientists and information security specialists. In the short term, we ensure access to talented people by investing even more in employer branding initiatives and talent retention programs. We also have a structural cooperation with higher education schools and universities, with particular focus on students out of engineering and technical professional trainings. The Young Graduate program, a two-year training program for recently graduated master students, gives new talent the opportunity to develop a first working experience. In order to nurture tomorrow’s workforce, Telenet stimulates Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education and skills development, as outlined in the chapter on our commitment to society and local communities. Telenet is committed to be a responsible employer who As far as our recruitment policy is concerned, we creates a diverse and inclusive working environment became a preferred partner of WannaWork, a job that nourishes talent and stimulates engagement. platform that works on creating better opportunities In 2017, Telenet strengthened its focus on diversity. on the labor market for millennials with a migrant Giving opportunities to people with a physical background or coming out of vulnerable social disability or jobseekers who find it difficult to enter environments. Telenet also continued its commitment the employment market, welcoming workers who are to YouthStart, an international organization that re-entering the market after a long-term illness, being unlocks the potential of unemployed youngsters by open to people with different origins, age, religions or strengthening their entrepreneurial skills, and to cultures: diversity is a term that covers many different BeCode, a professional training program that aims facets. Driving an inclusive employment policy requires at cultivating web developer and web designer skills an open mindset, but also a clear signal: it is not the of young underprivileged people in Brussels. origin or background of a person that counts, but his/ Telenet created internship opportunities for both her skills, his/her experience and his/her personal and YouthStart and BeCode graduates and hired two professional attitude. alumni of these programs. Being inclusive calls for a continuous investment in Moving forward, we will stay committed to drive every aspect of talent management: recruitment, an employment policy that invests in learning and training and education, as well as career planning. development, diversity, health and wellbeing, and that In 2017, we took several initiatives to strengthen our generates an open and transparent company culture commitment to diversity. through internal communications and social dialogue. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 27 I CONTENTS IN A NUTSHELL: MAJOR EVENTS AND ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2017 FOCUS 2017 EVENTS AND ACHIEVEMENTS STATUS NEXT STEPS Attracting & A new family of colleagues Continue the integration journey retaining the best After the acquisition of BASE Company in by harmonizing business processes and talent 2016, we started an extensive integration WORK IN PROGRESS optimizing back-office systems, building one fully journey. Shortly after the take-over, all integrated human resources practice by 2018, in employees got confirmed job positions close consultation with the social partners. with clear roles and responsibilities. In In 2018, Telenet will continue its growth and 2017, emphasis was on building optimized transformation process with the acquisition and fully integrated teams. of the Belgian IT systems NEXTEL (approved in After the acquisition of SFR Belgium and May 2018) and the full ownership of Flemish Luxembourg in June 2017, the employees media & entertainment company De Vijver physically moved to the Telenet Media (awaiting approval from the competent headquarters in Brussels. As SFR remains competition authorities). a separate legal entity until 2019, full integration of the teams within the Telenet organization has not yet been initiated. All employees are regularly informed about the integration and transformation journey. Young Graduate Program Continue the Young Graduate Program Selected in spring 2017, 20 Young with special focus on STEM graduates, to Grads kicked-off the two-year training ON TRACK/ COMPLETED increase the inflow of technical profiles within the program for recently graduated master IT and Technology & Innovation departments. students in September. The third batch of Young Graduates program will be onboarded in September 2018. Attracting talent through partnerships Continue to build partnerships with social with social entrepreneurs entrepreneurs Signed in September 2017, the WORK IN PROGRESS WannaWork, BeCode and YouthStart, creating partnership with WannaWork, gives internship and job opportunities for promising Telenet access to employees with a talent with difficult access to the job market. more diverse profile and background. WannaWork is a job platform that works on creating better opportunities on the labor market for millennials with a migrant background or coming out of vulnerable social environments. Refer a Friend (RAF) Program Continue the Refer a Friend Program In 2017, we hired 24 new employees following in order to fill the job vacancies. a recommendation by Telenet employees. ON TRACK/ COMPLETED Stimulating learning Learning & Development Continue Learning & Development initiatives & development In 2017, 2,510 Telenet employees followed training, representing a total of 38,245 ON TRACK/ hours of training. Additionally, SFR COMPLETED employees received 56 hours of training. Leadership Launch Path Continue the Leadership Launch Path In 2017, 18 recently promoted people leaders ON TRACK/ program roll-out. COMPLETED and managers followed this personal development program which aims at boosting (people) leadership in times of change, by finding the right balance between technical expertise and people management skills. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 28 I CONTENTS FOCUS 2017 EVENTS AND ACHIEVEMENTS STATUS NEXT STEPS Engaging our Zoom Employee Engagement Continue Zoom Employee Engagement employees In April 2017, the Zoom employee on a bi-annual basis. The next survey will take through internal engagement survey including both ON TRACK/ COMPLETED place in 2019. In January 2018, we launched communications and Telenet and BASE Company employees the first Employee Net Promoter Score corporate culture showed a 58 percent engagement score, measurement, reaching a score of +13 points, which is 7 percentage points above the with 32 percent of promoters and 20 percent of Belgian average. Key attention points detractors. were job opportunities and performance management Internal Communications Continue Internal Communications efforts Since the kick-off of the integration and transformation journey in 2016, we ON TRACK/ COMPLETED intensified internal communications. Key initiatives include regular newsletters, the yearly All Employees Meeting ‘Telenet Way Day’, and an ongoing flow of news articles on the Intranet ‘Tellit’. New Corporate Narrative Roll-out the new corporate narrative across In 2017, we defined a new company the full Telenet organization WORK IN purpose, new corporate behaviors and PROGRESS The new corporate narrative will be a new employee value proposition, complemented by a new set of employee values presented to the Telenet Leadership to be rolled-out and implemented across the team early 2018. organization from autumn 2018 onwards. Cultivating employee Gender diversity Continue ensuring gender diversity wellbeing & diversity Telenet has a diverse employee base with a wide range of professional and cultural ON TRACK/ COMPLETED backgrounds and a healthy mix of male and female, young and old. In 2017, the number of female employees was 35 percent. At the end of 2017, Telenet’s Senior Leadership Team consisted of 50 percent females. The Board of Board of Directors included 3 women. Diversity in talent management Continue efforts to strengthen diversity in Telenet is committed to more diversity talent management in every aspect of talent management: WORK IN PROGRESS recruitment, training and education, as well as career planning. We outlined our commitment to diversity in a blogpost by Christophe Vanden Eede, Talent and Development Director, as published on the Telenet Talks online story platform. Resilience Program Continue Resilience Program implementation Initiated in 2015, this program as part of the companies’ integration and strengthens personal resilience in times ON TRACK/ COMPLETED transition journey of change. It includes several training and coaching initiatives for both people leaders and employees. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 29 I CONTENTS A SUSTAINABLE EMPLOYMENT POLICY Telenet makes sustainability and the wellbeing of its representatives, the occupational doctor and the employees central to its employment policy, which is internal service for prevention and protection at developed in close consultation with the social partners. work. The CPPW is providing advice on the wellbeing at work policy and actively considers health, safety Key employment initiatives and environment issues. It focuses on the global Sabbatical: a career pause is part of the legal regulation prevention plan and the annual action plan and of time credit. The maximum duration is one year of the it includes the domains of occupational safety, entire career and can be either a full suspension or a occupational health surveillance, ergonomics, work reduction of working hours. Upon return, the employee hygiene, work post embellishment, the psychosocial must take up the same position. At the end of 2017, risks at work, including bullying, violence and sexual 523 employees took advantage of this program. harassment, and all environmental-related aspects. The CPPW has primarily advisory tasks around new and Employment plan for older employees: companies changing technologies, work procedures, the design with more than 20 employees must develop such a plan of the workplace, work means, protection measures, in order to realize an increased participation rate of trainings, instructions, periodic check-ups, etc. In 2017, employees of 45 years and older. Telenet particularly the CPPW was actively involved in the assignment focuses on 45+ employees. The program includes the of a common External Service for Prevention and promotion of general physical and mental health, a Protection at Work for the legal entities Telenet, reviewed approach to candidate selection, assessment Telenet Group and Telenet Retail. and recruitment, additional competencies training efforts, special career development and coaching Health, Safety and Wellbeing initiatives, the promotion of internal mobility and the The Wellbeing Survey: this survey is generally recognition of acquired competencies. conducted every three years based on a scientifically proven tool. It identifies psychosocial risks at work Outplacement: the employer offers the employee a set related to work organization, work content, interof guiding services and advice to enable him/her to find professional work relations, work environment and employment with a new employer as soon as possible, work conditions, and their impact on stress, burnout, or to develop a professional activity as a self-employed conflicts, and unwanted behavior at work such as person. Outplacement is arranged for by law. In 2017, (sexual) harassment, discrimination and violence, 27 employees were offered outplacement. both on an individual and organizational level. In 2014, the Wellbeing survey was completed by 75 percent of Consultation with social partners all employees. A detailed follow-up action plan was The Works Council (WC; OR: Ondernemingsraad; developed and carried out in 2015 and 2016 for the CE: Conseil d’Entreprise) has an equal representation highest risk factors. We will conduct a new Wellbeing and comprises the same number of employer and Survey in autumn 2018. employee representatives. It is involved in the social, economic and financial policies of the company. The Global Prevention Plan: outlines the company’s Reports from the WC are, as required by law, published wellbeing and environmental goals for five years, to all employees. In 2017, Telenet’s majority shareholder as identified through audits, risk analyses, yearly Liberty Global established a European Works Council, evacuation exercises, periodic and specific inspections, in which Telenet has two representatives. incident and accident analyses, the results of the Wellbeing survey, new legislation or important The Committees for Prevention and Protection organizational changes. This is in accordance with at Work (CPPW; CPBW: Comités voor Preventie the act on wellbeing at work. Every year, progress en Bescherming op het Werk; CPPT: Comités is measured and goals are reset if needed and pour la Prévention et la Protection au Travail) is a translated into specific annual action plans. In consultative body that represents all employees and 2017, the most important actions concerned the that is composed of both employer and employee review of the training program regarding technical T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 30 I CONTENTS risk functions and the closing of the fire risk analysis and its related action plan. In addition, a general analysis on absenteeism due to illness was done, resulting in a policy and process for the re-integration of employees after long absence (more than one month). Special attention was also put on the ergonomics and safety of the new Telenet offices at KV Mechelen and the project ‘New Way of Working’ in the Mechelen offices. Finally, various environmental activities were carried out, including among others the uploading of environmental permissions to the new electronic platform in Flanders, environmental declarations, infrastructure projects related to emergency power, tanks and cooling, and an energy audit for the Telenet subjects. Internal trusted counsellors and external headquarter offices in Brussels. psychosocial prevention advisors can be consulted by employees for specific psychosocial issues at work, The status and results on wellbeing are reported with personalized advice, referral, mediation, and yearly to the General Direction Supervision on further analysis if needed. Wellbeing at Work, which is part of the Federal Government Service Employment, Labor and Social Internal awareness initiatives: All employees are Consultation and to the Committees for Prevention activated as it comes to wellbeing and environment and Protection at Work. In 2017, there were 84 work in general and the psychosocial aspects of accidents, including occupational work accidents and work in particular. The Resilience Program is a accidents from and to work, with a total temporary concrete example of how people leaders and incapacity for work of 688 calendar days. There were regular employees are prepared to cope with no fatal occupational accidents or accidents with stress and uncertainty in times of change. Other confirmed permanent disability. Overall, the work training initiatives include work in flow, assertive accident frequency and severity continue to remain communications, and dealing with aggression, below the sector levels for all divisions. mindfulness, problem solving and emotional intelligence. When needed, individual employees Roles and Responsibilities: The wellbeing policy, are referred to an employee assistance program or under the responsibility of the CEO, is carefully other forms of personal coaching. For administrative monitored at both the business and department employees, a training program on PC & ergonomics is level. Directors and managers are responsible for offered. A special training for preventing and dealing translating the wellbeing policy into their specific with aggression has been developed and has been businesses and into the global prevention plan rolled out in 2017 to all retail employees. Technicians and yearly action plans. Advice and assistance is in various risk functions receive basic safety training provided by the Safety, Health and Environment team according to the SCC standard (Safety Checklist for consisting of the internal prevention advisors, the Contractors) and specific safety training related external environmental consultants, occupational to their risk activities (e.g. working at height or doctors from the external prevention service, and very high height, lifting and hosting, working near other internal and external experts on specific electromagnetic fields). T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 31 I CONTENTS COMMITMENT TO SOCIETY AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES Digitalization offers significant growth opportunities for society. By investing in our fixed and mobile networks, we help build the knowledge society of the future. We believe people should feel good about the way digital can play a part in their lives. That is why we empower children and youngsters by nurturing their 21st century skills. That is why we encourage digital entrepreneurship and give the Flemish media landscape a boost. That is why want to equip everyone with the right digital literacy skills, so they can embrace the possibilities of digital at the fullest, in their own way and at their own pace. THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS WE ADDRESS T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 32 I CONTENTS LOOKING BACK AT 2017 Investing in digital innovation to benefit by 2019 from internet connections with and high performing network infrastructures broadband speeds up to 1 Gbps and large data Digital innovation is of crucial importance to the volumes. After the BASE Company acquisition in prosperity of our region: it ensures an increased quality 2016, we also decided to invest in the upgrade of the of life, sustainable growth and new jobs. The European BASE mobile network across Belgium, increasing Commission therefore intends to stimulate the digital the capacity and the 3G, 4G and 4.5G coverage by economy, boost the European GDP by 5 percent by 2018. The program foresees the installation of up to 2020, and create 3.8 million new jobs. thousand new mobile sites. At the end of 2017, we had upgraded 67 percent of the nodes in our Hybrid FiberInvestments in superfast broadband networks Coaxial (HFC) network and 87 percent of our 2,800 generate an important economic benefit for macro-sites in the mobile network. We also completed society. High-quality broadband networks provide the rollout of over 210 new mobile sites. The progress consumers with state-of-the-art communications and made on the mobile network upgrade allowed us to entertainment services. Reliable broadband solutions onboard up to 90 percent of the full MVNO customers, boost information sharing and education and increase with a firm commitment to complete the onboarding the productivity of businesses. by mid-2018. In 2017, our investments totaled 729.2 million euros – or Following the acquisition of SFR Belgium and 29 percent of the corporate revenue. The majority of Luxembourg in June 2017, Telenet started an additional these investments were used to upgrade our network network upgrade program representing an investment infrastructure. Telenet invests 1.8 million euros per day of 12 million euros, in order to offer SFR customers in in its fixed and mobile networks. It is our ambition to Brussels and in La Botte du Hainaut (Wallonia) with a lead with respect to superior converged connectivity. more powerful connected experience. Initiated in 2014, De Grote Netwerf and Nexus projects In 2017, our total contribution to the Belgian treasury are turning our fixed network infrastructure in was 584.5 million euros. The total contribution was up 9 Flanders and Brussels into a high performing network percent from 2016. that will enable our residential and business customers Overview investments 2017 Contributions to the Belgian treasury 2017 in millions of euros 3% 176.9 Rental of set-top boxes for digital television Corporation tax 41% on the results Network investments 71.9 266.1 Social security Difference between payable and 47% deductible VAT Maintenance of 64.6 9% the network and Payroll tax 5.0 Customer other maintenance installations Company contributions and taxes T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 33 I CONTENTS Taking a collaborative Investing in the local media sector approach to digital innovation to boost creative entrepreneurship A continuous investment in innovation is the lifeline for The Belgian media landscape is rapidly evolving. The our company, particularly in a world of rapidly changing viewing behavior of the consumer is changing and local technology developments. In order to further stimulate, media channels have to compete with global content deepen and streamline our internal and external providers such as Netflix and Amazon. These players innovation initiatives, we opened our own Innovation make massive investments in new series and movies Center in October 2017. Located in our Brussels and in the technology platforms to make this content headquarters, the Telenet Innovation Center is the core globally available. The Over-the-Top (OTT) content environment to test new technologies for connectivity, providers have set the bar for the production and entertainment, value-added services and customer provision of both international and national content experiences. The Telenet Innovation Center’s primary very high. This has an important impact on the business focus is currently on 5G and the Internet of Things (IoT), model of traditional local television providers. It is our serving as a test bed and knowledge center for the ambition, as a local entertainment player, to strengthen entire Liberty Global Group. the Flemish media ecosystem, helping local production companies and creative entrepreneurs to flourish and At the Telenet Innovation Center we take a providing local viewers with strong local content and collaborative approach to innovation. It aims to be a entertainment innovations. platform where Telenet experts can partner up with external industry partners, academic institutions and In 2017, we continued to foster local television startups to test new products, services, applications series and movies by investing in three promising and prototypes. co-productions, respectively with media channels VRT, Medialaan and SBS. We believe that the best innovation emerges from collaborations between different partners. We thus Telenet is also investing in the production of own local have a long-standing experience in building innovative drama series. A recent milestone was the release digital solutions in partnership. We actively participate of ‘De Dag’ in March 2018, a production of FBO and in industry-led initiatives that market new products Woestijnvis, with the support of VAF/Mediafonds. This is and services, such as Doccle, Spencer and the Belgian our second drama series since the release of ‘Chaussée Mobile ID ‘Itsme’. We also contribute to a healthy d’Amour’ in May 2016, made in collaboration with the Belgian startup ecosystem in cooperation with leading production company De Mensen. This new cooperation incubators and accelerators. model for Flemish fiction series ensures a win-winwin situation for viewers, for Telenet as a Flemish In autumn 2017, Telenet entered into a long-term entertainment player, and for local media channels that strategic partnership with imec, the leading research can continue to produce and offer top-class fiction in and innovation hub in Flanders in the area of this way. nanoelectronics and digital technology. We will join forces on the Internet of Things (IoT) and smart cities. Telenet holds a 50 percent stake in De Vijver Media In this context, Telenet will be actively involved in imec’s and it is working with channels VIER and VIJF on the City of Things programme, supported by the City of opportunities the convergence of TV and Internet Antwerp and the Flemish government. offers. In March 2018, we announced our intention to take full ownership of De Vijver Media. After the approval by the competent competition authorities, Telenet will become the full owner of the commercial TV channels VIER, VIJF and ZES and the production house Woestijnvis. This will enable us to respond even more and even faster to innovations in the field of entertainment and consumer viewing experiences. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 34 I CONTENTS insecure in the digital age. A similar study commissioned by Gezinsbond/Ligue des Familles in 2016, unveiled that 20 percent of the Belgian population has issues using the internet and 50 percent of the population is unable to complete a public administration form online. The digital literacy gap is mostly hitting elderly people and socially underserved people. The Helemaal Mee Tournee, a full and free check-up of the indoor installation at our Telenet customers’ homes, offers our technicians with the opportunity to engage with people on the use of digital technologies. They educate them on basic digital skills such as how to use the internet safely, how to get out more of their digital TV and how to use the Telenet Yelo app. At the same time, we should make consumers more aware of the risks related to digital, in particular in terms of privacy, the protection of personal data and the prevention of data fraud. It is our responsibility to The power of digital: take appropriate action and to protect those who are opportunities and challenges vulnerable in the digital age, in particular the children. Digital innovation creates new opportunities, in both In 2016, Telenet joined the Belgian Better Internet our private and professional lives. We see a future of Consortium (B-BICO) that aims at promoting media smarter cities, more sustainable mobility solutions literacy and a safer use of the internet by children. and affordable health care services. We experience Through our main shareholder Liberty Global, we are more flexible working environments and memorable also a Gold Partner of the annual Safer Internet Day, a entertainment experiences at home. European awareness campaign. To increase the online safety of children and youth, we also offer parental control Making and using digital technologies has become solutions for all our Internet and television services. essential in today’s and tomorrow’s society. However, as a leading telecom and entertainment In an inclusive digital society, technological innovations company in Belgium, we are also aware of the potential should be available to all. For this reason, Telenet challenges that come with digitalization. applies a social fee to all its telecom products and services (internet, television, fixed & mobile telephony) We focus our efforts on four key domains of digitalization: and thus goes beyond what is legally required in Belgium. The Telenet Business department also offers – in 1 I Unlocking the potential of digital for all cooperation with the Flemish government SchoolNet+, To succeed in today’s knowledge economy, digital skills a commercial solution with a social purpose. Under are imperative, for all. Not everybody is a digital native the SchoolNet+ proposition, we offer elementary and though and knows how to fill out a tax statement online secondary schools and libraries, internet and security or transfer money in a secure way using an e-banking packages at a strongly reduced price, approximately application. 50 percent below standard market rates. The aim is to provide educational organizations with a fast internet In the European Commission’s Digital Economy and connection and protection against volatile influences. Society Index (DESI) 2018, Belgium only ranks 12th Telenet manages and secures all systems and services. on human capital and digital skills adoption by the We are taking over the operational responsibilities of population. An iVox study commissioned by OKRA and ICT-coordinators at schools so they can focus on their Gezinsbond/Ligue des Familles in 2017 showed that 20 key role of enabling teachers in the effective use of ICTpercent of the Belgian population feels uncertain and tools in the classroom. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 35 I CONTENTS 2 I Empowering the future generations cooperation with more than twenty content partners, The European DESI tracker 2018 clearly highlights this digital experience event immersed 15,000 visitors in it: Belgium has a low share of Science, Technology, the world of digital. Together, children and their parents Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) graduates. learned how to steer a drone or to build a robot, how Belgium only ranks 23th on a European scale. Only 13 out to develop a computer game or how to create a vlog. of 1000 individuals are graduated from the technical Besides discovering the endless possibilities of digital and science branches of education, leading to an ICT technologies, visitors could also strengthen their media workforce shortfall and eventually 30,000 open job literacy by learning how to secure their personal data vacancies by 2020. and privacy, and how to find the right digital balance. As such, families could close a ‘Digideal’, an agreement In 2012, the Flemish government therefore decided to between parents and children on the use of digital tools encourage careers in math, science and technology at home. through the STEM action plan. In November 2015, Telenet signed the STEM charter and we became an In October 2017 as part of the EU Code Week-, we active member of the STEM academy, which mainly further built on the ‘Digitale Duik’ experience by supports extracurricular STEM activities. actively supporting several third-party driven STEM events for children. We Go STEM, an initiative by In this context, we collaborate with CoderDojo Belgium, ShegoesICT and Dwengo, visited 90 primary schools a non-profit organization that teaches boys and girls across Belgium teaching children how to build and between the ages of 7 and 18 in a group setting to code, program a drawing robot. The Microsoft Innovation build websites, and develop apps and games. Already Center Brussels organized Micro: Bit-coding sessions well deployed in Flanders and Brussels, the Coderdojo for Brussels schoolchildren. Belgium network further expanded in 2017 to Wallonia, with the support of the Walloon government and the Besides strengthening the digital skills of youth, it is Digital Wallonia program. also key to boost their creativity and entrepreneurial spirit. By doing so, we create economic benefit and In September 2017, Telenet organized its first ‘Digitale sustainable growth in a competitive global market. The Duik’, a free festival on digital technologies for 9 to growing startup community has already proven that 12 years old children and their parents. Organized in it pays off to bet on innovation and creativity – with a good dose of courage and entrepreneurship. Since 2014, Telenet stimulates young digital entrepreneurship via the Telenet Kickstart startup acceleration program, with a special focus on startups active in the telecom, media and entertainment (TME) sector. A survey among 74 Belgian TME startups done by Telenet and Startups.be in spring 2017 showed that whereas the Belgian ecosystem has become stronger, sustainable growth continues to be a major challenge for a substantial group of Belgian startups. It appears startups too often lack ambition and an international mindset while investors are too conservative. Moreover, the gap between the startups on the one hand and the corporates on the other is still too large. Through the Telenet Kickstart program, we are committed to develop an even closer collaboration with startups, involving them more in our company’s innovation processes and offering them the opportunity to develop proof of concepts and test new services in the Telenet Innovation Center. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 36 I CONTENTS Youth unemployment is a key issue in the digital 4 I Accelerating digital economy and remains hard to tackle. In January entrepreneurship of SME 2018, the youth unemployment rate reached 19.1 Early 2017, the Telenet Business department launched percent in Flanders, 20 percent in Wallonia and 24.3 an ambitious program to accelerate the adoption of percent in Brussels. Low education levels increase digital technologies by SME entrepreneurs. A GfK the risk of long-term unemployment. The potential to study (February 2017) unveiled that 25 percent of train and activate Not in Education, Employment or Flemish SMEs are not leveraging the power of digital to Training (NEET) youngsters and to guide them to jobs, grow their business and strengthen their competitive particularly in the digital space, is tremendous. Telenet position: 43 percent have no website, 56 percent therefore partners up with YouthStart, an international have no Facebook page, and more than 80 percent organization active in all Belgian regions, to unlock the are not active in the ecommerce space. De Digitale potential of unemployed youngsters by strengthening Versnelling program brings those entrepreneurs up to their entrepreneurial skills. Telenet is also one of the speed providing them with free expert consultancy on founding partners of BeCode. Launched in February email marketing, social media, ecommerce and online 2017 in Brussels, this program offers youngsters security. Since the launch of the program, fifteen digital out of underserved communities the opportunity experts have digitally accelerated more than 1,400 SME to develop their digital and entrepreneurial skills across Flanders. through a 6-months professional web development and web design training. The initiative strengthens the competencies and shapes the professional attitude of unemployed and low-skilled youngsters improving their chances on the job market. Successfully kicked-off in Brussels in 2017, the project is currently expanding its operations to Wallonia and Flanders. 3 I Finding the right digital balance Digital technologies enable people to be connected anytime, anywhere and on any device. Digital is changing our personal and professional lives, mostly for the better. As a telecom and entertainment provider, we are enabling and promoting a digital lifestyle through the high performing (mobile) connectivity solutions we offer. We should however remain conscious about the downsides of this ‘always on’ lifestyle. It is our responsibility to help people find the right balance: digital technologies should not harm personal interactions, nor present a serious risk for people’s life or health. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 37 I CONTENTS A committed member of the local community In order to get the telecom and network infrastructure Telenet invests in various social projects. In 2017, our back up and running, Liberty Global Puerto Rico financial contribution to charities and community developed an emergency recovery plan to repair the initiatives was over 1.9 million euros. However, we network within three months. More than 200 technical go beyond mere financial support: we encourage teams were deployed, supervised by network experts and support our employees’ active engagement. coming from the different Liberty Global branches, Our employees are strongly anchored in the local including eight Telenet employees. community. Together they bike and run for the good cause, they raise money for charities and they invest From 2015 onwards, every Telenet employee can take time themselves as mentor or coach in social projects one day paid leave per calendar year to volunteer on one that Telenet supports. of the projects supported by Telenet. In 2017, Telenet employees thus invested 2,232 hours of community Mid December 2017, eight Telenet employees left for a work. In 2018, we aim to extend this employee3-month emergency relief assignment in Puerto Rico. volunteering program to the former BASE Company The passage of Hurricane Maria over Puerto Rico on employees who joined our organization in 2016. September 20 caused tremendous havoc on the island, demolishing almost the entire electricity supply system and about 95 percent of the telephone masts. +53% Cash contributions compared to 2016 Community Investments 2016 2017 Type of contribution Total Amount in € Total Amount in € Cash contributions 1, 156,112 1,771,486 Time: Employee volunteering 51,480 53,567 during paid working hours In kind-giving: Product and services donations, projects, 18,026 62,029 partnerships or similar Management overheads 0 0 Employee Volunteering Work in hours in hours 2, 145 2,232 +4% Employee volunteering during paid working hours compared to 2016 T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 38 I CONTENTS IN A NUTSHELL: MAJOR EVENTS AND ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2017 FOCUS 2017 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS STATUS NEXT STEPS Investing in highDe Grote Netwerf and Nexus Continue De Grote Netwerf and Nexus performant fixed & Initiated in 2014, De Grote Netwerf fixed At the end of March 2018, we had modernized mobile connectivity network optimization represents an ON TRACK/ COMPLETED approximately 95 percent of our macro sites solutions investment of 500 million euros over 5 and had upgraded around 75 percent of our year. We invest an additional 9.5 million HFC nodes within our footprint. This puts us euros in Nexus to connect SME business in a good position to finalize these projects as parks to the network. Per end 2017, 67 expected towards mid-2018 and mid-2019, percent of the fixed network nodes had respectively. been successfully upgraded. We will continue to invest in the SFR network upgrade providing SFR customers in Brussels and Wallonia with an improved connectivity experience. BASE Mobile Network Upgrade Continue BASE Mobile Network Upgrade Announced after the BASE Company We target an upgrade of 2,800 macro sites ON TRACK/ acquisition in spring 2016, we invest COMPLETED and the rollout of 800 to 1,000 new mobile 250 million euros in the mobile network sites. These upgrades are to be substantially upgrade across Belgium by 2018. completed by mid-2018. In 2017, 87 percent of the 2,800 macro sites had been upgraded and 210 new sites rolled out. Telenet Innovation Center Continue the development of the Telenet Opened in October 2017, the Telenet Innovation Center WORK IN Innovation Center offers a platform PROGRESS We will continue research and testing of 5G for collaborative innovation on digital connectivity. technologies. Its primary focus is on 5G We target additional partnerships with industry and the Internet of Things (IoT), serving partners, academic institutions and startups as as a test bed and knowledge center for part of our Internet of Things business strategy the entire Liberty Global Group. as publicly presented in June 2018. Boosting the Telenet Kickstart Establish Telenet Kickstart 2.0 Program digital and creative In summer 2016, Telenet refocused We will continue to boost the Belgian startup economy in Belgium its start-up program on 3 activity WORK IN PROGRESS landscape. In order to create a higher material domains: Community, Acceleration and impact, we need to further diversify our Sustainable Growth. approach and better align our initiatives to the lifecycle of startups. In addition, we need to Community: partnership with Start build sustainable partnerships and cooperation it@kbc, the largest Belgian start-up models in all regions of Belgium, with special community. focus on Wallonia. Acceleration: partnership with imec IStart, with a key focus on startups in the Telecom, Media and Entertainment sector. Sustainable Growth: investments in promising startups, scaleups and spinoffs offering a value-add for the Telenet business units. In 2017, Telenet invested in the mobile workplace assistant Spencer, a spinoff of Antwerp-based November Five. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 39 I CONTENTS FOCUS 2017 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS STATUS NEXT STEPS Digitale Versnelling Continue the rollout of Digitale Versnelling Launched by the Telenet Business We will continue the rollout of the Digitale ON TRACK/ department in February 2017, the COMPLETED Versnelling program among SME entrepreneurs program aims at accelerating the looking into smart ways to make the program adoption of digital technologies by SME more scalable in order to reach a larger number entrepreneurs. De Digitale Versnelling of entrepreneurs while still guaranteeing a high provides them with free expert quality of service. consultancy on the use of digital. Since the start of the program, 15 digital experts have accelerated more than 1,400 SME across Flanders. Investments in the Flemish Continue investments in the Flemish Media Landscape Media Landscape In February 2017, Telenet announced ON TRACK/ COMPLETED We will continue our investments in promising an investment in three promising colocal content in 2018 and beyond. We productions, respectively with media will review our investment plans in close channels VRT, Medialaan and SBS. consultation with the relevant stakeholders in the Flemish media and entertainment sector. In March 2018, Telenet released its second drama series ‘De Dag’, In March 2018, we announced our intention to a production of FBO and Woestijnvis, take full ownership of De Vijver Media. After with the support of VAF/Mediafonds. the approval by the competent competition authorities, Telenet will become the full owner of the commercial TV channels VIER, VIJF and ZES and the production house Woestijnvis. Nurturing 21st CoderDojo Belgium Continue Coderdojo Belgium century skills In 2017, Coderdojo Belgium organized In order to maximize the reach in all regions of for children and 85 dojo sessions on a monthly basis ON TRACK/ COMPLETED Belgium, we need to build structural partnerships empowering thanks to a community of 425 enthusiast and invest in complementary training and youth through volunteer coaches. They reached 25,500 communications initiatives that strengthen the entrepreneurship children in Flanders and Brussels. Coderdojo community in a material way. There and digital literacy is a special emphasis on reaching children out of Coderdojo Belgium extended its training underserved communities. operations to Wallonia, with the support of the Walloon government and the Digital Wallonia program. In Wallonia, Coderdojo Belgium currently runs 6 dojos reaching up to 180 children per month. Digitale Duik Continue Digitale Duik experiences Organized in September 2017 in We will continue to inspire children, their cooperation with more than twenty WORK IN PROGRESS parents and their teachers on the great content partners, this free festival on opportunities offered by digital. digital technologies immersed 15,000 We will continue to support and sponsor thirdvisitors in the world of digital. Besides party driven digital skills training programs for discovering the endless possibilities of 9-12 years children, both in primary schools and digital technologies, visitors could also through extra-scholar initiatives, by working strengthen their media literacy and learn in close partnership with relevant content how right digital balance. partners and educational experts. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 40 I CONTENTS FOCUS 2017 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS STATUS NEXT STEPS Youth empowerment Continue youth empowerment Telenet is Platinum Partner of We will continue our commitment to ON TRACK/ YouthStart, a global organization that COMPLETED YouthStart and BeCode, supporting the stimulates entrepreneurial spirit among organizations further development and opportunity-seeking young people deployment in all regions of Belgium. across Belgium through coaching In January 2018, BeCode welcomed 108 new and training. We structurally help students in Brussels. It also extended its the organization in setting-up up to operations to Charleroi reaching 27 students. 50 training sessions for about 450 youngsters in Brussels and Wallonia. Telenet is a founding partner of BeCode, a professional training program that aims at cultivating web developer/designer skills of young underprivileged people in Brussels. In its first year of operations, BeCode trained 50 youngsters. Early 2018, 29 students graduated. Following the training, 20 students found a job, started their own business or decided to continue their professional training. Ensuring basic digital Online safety Continue focus on online safety literacy skills for all In 2016, Telenet signed the Belgian Better In 2018, the B-BICO partners renewed their ON TRACK/ Internet Consortium (B-BICO) charter. COMPLETED commitment, by adopting an updated charter. A joint action plan will be deployed in order to increase the Internet safety for all and in particular for children. Promoting the right No activities in 2017 digital balance REQUIRES ATTENTION T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 41 I CONTENTS COMMITMENT TO FAIR, OPEN AND TRANSPARENT BUSINESS PRACTICES As an important Belgian player in telecommunications, media and entertainment, we want to maintain and strengthen the trust of our stakeholders. We pledge to conduct our business in a fair, responsible and transparent manner. To do so, we apply the highest corporate governance standards and actively engage with our stakeholders to respond to their expectations as it comes to our social, economic and environmental impact. THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS WE ADDRESS T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 42 I CONTENTS LOOKING BACK AT 2017 1 I Limiting our environmental impact It is our ambition to grow Telenet as a company while In March 2018, we formalized our commitment in an reducing our impact on the environment. Environmental Management Policy Statement, which outlines our approach to environmental management, Our top environmental priorities are threefold: with focus on the three above-mentioned strategic environmental priorities we identified as material to our 1. Improving energy efficiency: Telenet is committed to business. The statement underscores our commitment reduce the energy consumption of its own operations to environmental-friendly business operations that are and at customers’ homes. aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations and the principles as set forward in the 2. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions: Telenet Paris Agreement on Climate Action. Moving forward, perceives climate change as a potential threat and the Environmental Policy statement will guide the therefore manages it as a business risk. The company actions of Telenet’s senior leadership, employees, and is switching as much as possible to renewable energy suppliers in achieving our environmental objectives. sources and offsets emissions by investing in carbon The acquisitions of BASE Company (2016) and SFR compensation programs. Belgium and Luxembourg (2017) – with their own network infrastructures and their own operational 3. Reducing the use of resources and generation activities along the supply chain, have put our of waste: Telenet’s approach to waste focuses overall energy and carbon efficiency under pressure. on reducing the use of resources, recycling and Considering the important impact of these acquisitions, refurbishment of customer premise equipment, we have decided to define a new baseline for our and accurate waste disposal and processing. The environmental impact, based on the consolidated 2016 company contributes to the circular economy by results for Telenet and BASE Company, as published in developing circular supply chains, recovering and the Telenet Sustainability Report 2016. recycling materials, extending the product lifecycle In spring 2018, we have also set new energy efficiency through refurbishment of customer premise equipment targets for 2025, taking into account the consolidated (CPE), and by offering products as a service. environmental impact results for Telenet, Telenet Group and SFR Belgium and Luxembourg: Carbon Efficiency Target: Electricity Efficiency Target: 15% electricity 5X more carbon efficient in 2025 efficiency improvement year on year through 2025 Ratio scope 1+2 market-based emissions (tons CO2e)/terabytes of data Ratio electricity consumption (kWh)/terabytes of data 0.009 160 0.008 140 0.007 120 0.006 100 0.005 80 0.004 60 0.003 0.002 40 0.001 20 0.000 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 Our goal is to improve the efficiency of our electricity consumption by 15% every year through 2025. We also aim to be five times more carbon efficient by 2025, using 2016 as our base year for both targets. In order to provide meaningful targets, we measure our energy consumption and GHG emissions per terabyte (TB) of data transported through our networks. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 43 I CONTENTS As part of our commitment to environmental • We continue investing in a carbon compensation sustainability, we are constantly reviewing and initiative to reduce our environmental footprint. optimizing our environmental management processes Since 2011, Telenet has a structural partnership and programs: with the nature organization Bos+, dedicated to better and more forests in Flanders and the world. • Environmental data collection processes are being Together with local NGOs, Bos+ is working on a further consolidated to integrate all systems and sustainable reforestation project in Ecuador. Since procedures of all our legal entities. We report our the start of the project in 2011, 389,273 native trees environmental data to our main shareholder Liberty have been planted, representing a reforestation of Global, using its Credit360 system. Liberty Global 408 hectares with estimated accumulated carbon annually reviews Telenet’s environmental data. At sequestration storage of 8,473 in 2017. The benefits group level, Liberty Global engages KPMG to provide of this nature-friendly forest management initiative limited assurance, reporting to Liberty Global plc, stretch far beyond carbon sequestration. The forest using the assurance standards ISAE 3000 and ISAE is reviving the local fauna and flora, providing shadow, 3410, of the energy consumption and greenhouse clean air and food. Growing trees and the planting gas emissions data, as presented in Liberty Global’s and management of forests also creates local jobs Annual Report and Accounts. resulting in the professional activation of dozens of local residents. • We continue our investments in the upgrade and optimization of our fixed and mobile networks, An important challenge for Telenet when addressing ultimately resulting in more energy efficiency and its environmental priorities are the local regulatory reduced greenhouse gas emissions. developments requiring more elaborate environmental • We invest in the development of innovative products reporting. In addition, the regional differences on and solutions. As such, we currently develop and test radiation norms are creating both operational and a new generation of set-top boxes with significant innovation challenges for improving and expanding our lower energy demand, to be deployed in the market in network infrastructure service coverage. the course of 2018 and 2019. Telenet’s climate action plan is regularly benchmarked by independent sustainability rating agencies for analysts and investors like the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, ISS Corporate Solutions and Sustanalytics. Telenet is generally recognized for taking a coordinated action on climate change issues and for its strong performances on governance and emissions management. Key areas for improvement include a more proactive approach to risk management as well as a third-party verification of the Scope 1-2-3 emissions data. In 2017, Telenet’s climate action plan was not individually reviewed by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), since we submitted a consolidated climate change report together with Liberty Global. Our main shareholder received an Aclimate change management score for 2017. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 44 I CONTENTS Our main energy efficiency initiatives Mobility alternatives for company cars – Telenet In order to increase our energy efficiency, we continue employees can combine their company car with to take appropriate actions in the following domains: a rail subscription or opt for a smaller lease car with lower CO₂ emissions and a compensation • Electricity consumption within our own buildings for unused budget. They can even opt out of the and leased premises. Telenet uses 100 percent green company car in exchange for compensation or a energy within its own buildings, including the facilities public transport subscription. Employees working of Hostbasket, Belcompany and Interkabel. out of the Telenet offices in Mechelen can use rental bikes from the social workshop ‘t Atelier to We opt for renewable energy sources such as solar commute to the train station. panels. Our leased buildings – including the former BASE Company offices in Woluwe, do not all use green • Waste reduction. We are taking a variety of measures: electricity. In 2017, the share of grey electricity was 20 Recycling and reusing set-top boxes and modems percent, an important increase compared to 2016. In Every year, Telenet recycles more than 220,000 the years to come, we will look into ways to convert the set-top boxes and modems that its end-customers grey electricity into green energy as much as possible, in return to the Telenet Centers or that are replaced consultation with the owners of the leased properties. by Telenet technicians. Since 2007, Telenet works with the social profit organization Vlotter (IMSIR • Energy efficiency of our network infrastructure. cbva) in Boom (Flanders) on a reverse logistics We ensure important savings by upgrading our solution. Through this collaboration, Telenet networks and by replacing old equipment with more avoided 330 tons of waste in 2017. On top of the efficient equipment. The energy efficiency – Power environmental benefit, there is an important social Usage Efficiency (PUE) – of the 94 technical stations advantage to this reverse logistics cooperation as of the fixed network and data centers is continuously it creates job opportunities for 60 individuals with measured to enable fast adjustment and optimization limited access to the labor market. of the systems and processes. Recycling and reusing computers, mobile phones • Energy efficiency of the data centers. Telenet and IT equipment Telenet’s old PCs and other supports the EU Code of Conduct on Data Center office IT equipment are given a second life thanks to Energy Efficiency. Besides the electricity consumed a cooperation with the non-for-profit organizations by the fixed and mobile networks, the data centers are Close the Gap and Pro Used Computers (PUC). In responsible for a major share of the total electricity 2017, 2.25 percent of the Telenet customers and 2.19 usage. To improve the Power Usage Efficiency values, percent of the BASE customers who bought a new we invest in LED technology, alternating pulsion for mobile handset at a Telenet or BASE point of sales climate cabinets and turbo compressors for cooling traded in their old device. Some of these mobile units. We are also increasing the use of the server devices are reprocessed as second-hand devices. farm. The implementation of a free cooling solution in the technical locations in 2017 allows for an increase Correct disposal of waste – First and foremost, of the maximum temperatures, reducing the need for we try to avoid waste as much as possible by cooling and therefore improving energy efficiency. promoting rational paper use in our offices and by adopting smart and environmentally friendly • Mobility and transportation. We encourage packaging solutions leading to a saving of no less responsible mobility solutions among our employees: than 285 tons of paper and 600 tons of CO₂ every Clean vehicles The average CO₂ emissions of all year. In addition, we opt for digital administration passenger vehicles in 2017 was 109 g/km while the solutions. Since 2013, Telenet uses electronic meal average CO₂ emission of newly deployed passenger vouchers and in 2017, 2,712 employees opted for an vehicles was 109 g/km. In 2017, we introduced electronic pay slip. In 2017, 12 percent of the Telenet compressed natural gas vehicles to the fleet of customers, 70 percent of the BASE customers and technical and personal vehicles, with lower NOx more than 30 percent of the SFR customers had emissions compared to traditional fuels. opted for an electronic invoice. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 45 I CONTENTS When waste is inevitable, we put in every effort In 2017, no new environmental incidents such as to ensure it is correctly disposed. Normally, spills occurred, but one past incident at the Telenet the waste that we produce is recycled or offices in Mechelen was resolved: ongoing ground permanently removed with energy recuperation watering in follow-up of a fuel leakage in 2012 was (e.g. incineration). For its waste disposal, Telenet closed in 2017. works mainly with SUEZ and Brussel Energie for processing everyday waste (e.g. from offices and For a proper disposal of the waste created by shops). Electronic waste is treated separately. SIMS our customers, Telenet is affiliated with several Recycling Solutions processes discarded electric government recognized organizations. For every and electronic network products and ensures purchase of a Telenet BASE or SFR product, a 95 percent of the material from these devices is contribution is made to Recupel and Bebat. For other recycled into reusable raw materials or energy. waste streams, such as packaging and ad prints, we BASE network waste is treated by the companies pay an annual contribution to Fost Plus, Val-i-Pac, Timeline and CDPI. Mobile phones are treated by and the non-profit Interventiefonds Oud Papier. AmTrust and Ecowave (recycling and reuse). T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 46 I CONTENTS 2 I Managing our supply chain in a responsible way The products and services that we purchase from our The Supplier Code of Conduct covers the following themes: suppliers have as much of an ethical, environmental and • environmental standards for the supplier’s activities, social impact as our own products and services. We reward products and services; those suppliers who strive for sustainable operations and • fundamental human rights (such as the prohibition on we encourage the others to improve in that area. This goal forced and child labor); is firmly embedded in our procurement process. • working conditions (such a working hours and termination procedures); We require our suppliers to provide the following • health and safety at work; information with every quotation: • business ethics (such as anti-corruption). • social policies in the workplace; • respect for legislation and regulations on child labor; Suppliers also guarantee to comply with the • commitment to efficient transportation; Responsible procurement and Supply Chain Principles • environmental efforts in business operations. from our parent company Liberty Global. These principles contain international labour standards, When we select a supplier, these criteria are given including the International Labour Organization Core a relatively high weight, in addition to the price and Conventions, the UN Treaty on Human Rights, Bribery quality of the goods or services to be supplied. and Corruption, Health, Safety and the Environment. Once the contract is agreed on, we very precisely We continuously encourage our suppliers to raise their include the security and environmental specifications sustainability through the following initiatives: guidelines on equipment and raw materials, • developing a supplier manual that is given to every specifications on energy consumption and packaging, new supplier; waste and recycling. In addition, all suppliers confirm • developing a quality handbook with the warehouse to acknowledge our Code of Conduct and Antipartner; Corruption Policy. It also officially confirms that there is • organizing an annual ‘day of the contractors’ no conflict of interest between the suppliers and their gathering, with a prize for the best contractor; representatives on the one hand, and between Telenet • training new employees at installation companies on and persons affiliated with Telenet on the other hand. customer service and technical aspects; including bonus/ malus clauses in the contract with critical suppliers. • Suppliers and subcontractors should comply to the conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO) in relation to the prohibition on child and forced labour, discrimination and freedom of association. • Covers all labour policies and standards, including health and safety, working conditions TELENET and remuneration. SUPPLIER POLICY • Is publicly available. • Is firmly embedded in the procurement process. • Communicating the Supplier Policy to all its suppliers worldwide. All supplier contracts do include clauses regarding labour standards and policies. • Regularly assessing its suppliers on policy compliance. TELENET • Driving audits to check policy compliance. When suppliers are suspected to breach the policy, a formal audit is done. ENFORCES ITS SUPPLIER • Providing support and guidance to non-compliant suppliers through the implementation POLICY BY of corrective actions and recovery plans. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 47 I CONTENTS In 2017, a risk analysis was carried out on 234 suppliers, Kraljic matrix out of which 100 supply directly to Telenet. Ten of the screened Telenet suppliers were listed for corrective actions. Leverage Strategic Telenet itself is also acting as a major supplier to large Impact on profts items items corporations. In august 2016, we were solicited by Nestlé to respond to their EcoVadis supplier assessment to measure our sustainability performance in terms of Non-critical Bottleneck environmental, social and governance topics. items items Telenet maintained its Gold EcoVadis CSR Rating and slightly improved its overall score: from 63 points achieved in the EcoVadis assessment in 2014, to 64 points in the 2016 evaluation. We scored fairly good Procurement risk grades in the areas of labour and fair business practices and sustainable procurement, but we lagged behind on environment. The main environmental risks identified by EcoVadis were a lack of certification and formal policy, In order to effectively manage our supply chain, we have which is similar to other third-party sustainability formalized a process to identify critical suppliers using the reviews and benchmark exercises. Kraljic matrix to classify the 4 main categories: leverage items (15 percent of suppliers), strategic items (5 percent At the end of June 2018, Telenet’s sustainability of suppliers), bottleneck items (5 percent of suppliers) and performance was once again assessed by EcoVadis, non-critical items (75 percent of suppliers). following a request from SPIE. Results are expected in summer 2018. Since 2013, Telenet – together with its main shareholder Liberty Global – also applies the dynamic scorecard of EcoVadis to measure the ethical, environmental and social risks of our suppliers. This assesses the CSR performance of companies on twenty-one indicators, Example EcoVadis Scorecard grouped into four themes: environmental risk, social risks (working conditions and human rights), ethical risk and supplier risk. On this basis, every company is given a score between 1 and 100. We use this system to compare and benchmark the performance of our suppliers. We regularly monitor our suppliers and, in case of a suspected breach, we will start a formal audit. In case of non-compliance with CSR principles, we will initially help the supplier to take corrective action. If no agreement is reached on an acceptable recovery plan, the business relationship may be terminated. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 48 I CONTENTS 3 I Demonstrating good governance & transparency in our business practices At Telenet, we are committed to conduct our business In addition, there are special codes of conduct for antiin a fair, honest and respectful manner. corruption and bribery, competition and privacy issues In that perspective, we are subscribing to a series that apply to the entire workforce. Through training and of internal codes of conduct and external economic, information sessions, Telenet employees are regularly environmental and social charters, principles and informed about these codes of conduct. Violations initiatives. We ensure that the human rights are can be reported anonymously. In 2017 – for the tenth respected across our value chain by setting the consecutive year – no violations were reported. highest standards for our employees, our customers and our suppliers. All complaints are handled by the Company Compliance Officer and the chairman of the Audit Committee. As such, we apply the United Nations Global Compact Compliance with the codes of conduct is periodically to guide our strategy and our corporate culture, and monitored through Entity Level Controls (ELC) and to drive our daily operations in a sustainable manner. IT General Controls (ITGC). On an annual basis, these In 2011, we formalized our commitment to these ten monitors are tested by the main shareholder Liberty principles with regard to human rights, environment and Global and the auditor (KPMG). anti-corruption. On an annual basis, we report on the progress achieved on these principles, as shown in the The Corporate Governance Charter contains a table on p. 68 of this report. Telenet is an active member summary of the rules and principles around which the of the UN Global Compact Children Rights and Business Corporate Governance of the company is organized. Practices Commission as managed by the Belgian The charter can be found on the Investor Relations sustainability network The Shift. website of Telenet. In 2015, we also embraced the UN Sustainable In compliance with all applicable legislation, Telenet Development Goals, 17 internationally agreed targets has a dedicated Customer Data Policy in place that for the development of a more sustainable society and stipulates the collection, use, storage and protection economy. Page 67 of this report outlines how Telenet of customer data, which settings the customer can commits to these goals. control for the use of his/her personal data, how Telenet is authorized to contact the customer, and guidelines To guarantee the integrity of our business practices, we for passing on personal data to third parties. Internal are convinced that we must meet the highest standards guidelines about how to practically follow the policy and of corporate governance. We therefore monitor all a specific training for employees have been developed aspects of our business with several internal codes of in order to implement the policy. Telenet engages conduct, as outlined below: with the Belgian Privacy Commission for its practical implementation and potential sharpening of clauses Our Code of Conduct is signed by the management where necessary. board, senior management, and all employees with confidential roles. The code integrates principles of In 2017 a lot of attention was put on getting clearance for the OECD Guidelines for Multinationals and includes a the Telenet Customer Data Policy by the Belgian Privacy number of business policy principles. It covers themes Commission. The Telenet Customer Data Policy was such as equal opportunities, fair competition and initially amended in autumn 2016 in view of the launch of anti-corruptions, confidentiality of information and a targeted advertising test case on the SBS TV channels. protection of privacy, proper accounting, conflicts The launch of this targeted advertising test case stirred of interest, insider trading and business integrity, up the public debate about the necessity of transparent protection of safety, health and environment, and rules privacy policies and led to an inquiry by the Belgian on whistleblowers. In 2017, no violations were found on Privacy Commission on the Telenet Customer Data Policy fair competition and monopoly practices. in general, and its compliance with the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDRP) in particular. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 49 I CONTENTS The GDPR, a regulation intended to strengthen and unify • Active public corruption: Presenting a public data protection for all individuals within the European official (or a person introducing himself as such), Union, came into effect in May 2018. Telenet took either directly or through an intermediary, with an several actions to ensure compliance with the GDPR: offer, promise or benefit of whatever kind in favor • the appointment of a dedicated Data Protection of that same official or any other person, to adopt a Officer; particular course of action that could yield some kind • the set-up of several internal workgroups to drive of commercial advantage. the GDPR implementation across the different • Active private corruption: Presenting any other business units; person (business partner, supplier...), either directly • the update of the internal procedures and IT systems. or through an intermediary, with an offer, promise or benefit of whatever kind in favor of that person or any While we are currently fully compliant with the GDPR other person, to perform or refrain from a particular rules as it comes to customer communications on the action as part of his position within his company, Telenet Customer Data Policy, we are continuing our without the knowledge and authorization of that investments in 2018 to assure full compliance. Further person’s company. actions are particularly required in the B2B area. • Passive private corruption: Requesting or accepting, either directly or through an intermediary, an offer, Telenet’s anti-corruption policy is in line with promise or benefit of whatever kind from another international regulations, the Belgian legislation and person, without the knowledge and authorization of the policy of Liberty Global. It has been approved by the the company, to perform or refrain from a particular Board of Directors and the Audit Committee. The antiaction as part of his position at the company. corruption policy identifies corruption and bribery risks in three categories: Telenet has identified a number of high-risk departments Finance, Corporate Public & Regulatory Affairs, Procurement, and Telenet Business – which are presenting a higher risk of any of these types of corruption compared to the rest of the organization. To ensure internal adoption, the policy is extensively communicated to all employees and agents, contractors and suppliers. It is further clarified with the help of specific examples and practical guidelines. The anti-corruption policy contains a prohibition on the giving and taking of bribes, a limitation on the giving and receiving of gifts, and a reminder to observe laws and regulations, restrictions on the giving and taking of gifts, and an obligation of transparency around political donations. Telenet did not spend any money on political contributions in 2017. The company invested 76,000 euros in lobby activities including salaries, administrative fees and sponsoring contributions. It also spent 658,652 euros on memberships with trade associations. The highest trade association fees were paid to Agoria, VOKA and RISS. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 50 I CONTENTS Early 2017, Telenet was caught in a public debate on the Furthermore, Telenet uses specific codes of conduct nature and role of its Advisory Board. on energy efficiency. For example, it endorses the Initially created in 2007, the Advisory Board European Code of Conduct on Energy Efficiency of aimed at guaranteeing involvement of the mixed Data Centers. intermunicipalities after these entities sold the majority of their shares in Telenet. The high ethical standards that Telenet imposes on itself, also apply to its advertising and publicity In 2011, the role of the Advisory Board was redefined to campaigns. Telenet acts in accordance with the advise the Telenet management on socio-economic, rules of the JEP – the Jury for Ethical Practices in political and media challenges the company faces. The Advertising. The JEP is a self-disciplinary body of the members of the Advisory Board – most of them were advertising sector in Belgium and guards the correct also active in the Belgian political scene committed and fair nature of advertising messages. The JEP’s to refrain from providing advice in relation to issues decisions are considered opinions. These opinions are they were actively involved in as part of their political published on the JEP’s website. Telenet follows these mandate. The Advisory Board members received a fixed recommendations as far as possible. In 2017, three remuneration of 12,000 euros per annum, and 2,000 alleged breaches of ethical advertising practices euros per session they attended, with a maximum of were reported for Telenet, however they were not 4 sessions per year. Since 2015, the Advisory Board had acknowledged by the JEP. No breaches were reported de facto evolved towards bilateral contacts between its for BASE. As far as SFR advertising practices are members and the Telenet management. concerned, one breach was received and acknowledged by the JEP. SFR adjusted a poster advertisement to We are fully committed to being a responsible company provide more clarity on pricing. that takes into account the broader impact of its business activities and corporate decision making on Finally, through its main shareholder Liberty Global, the community we are operating in. Telenet is a member of AAPA – the Audiovisual We have therefore decided to formally dissolve the Anti-Piracy Alliance. The AAPA represents major Advisory Board in summer 2017. European players in the digital television and telecommunications. We will continue to engage with corporate stakeholders including public authorities – through consultation and dialogue. In that perspective, we have established a stakeholder engagement charter with a number of principles that will allow us to develop lasting, trusted relationships with our corporate stakeholders in an open and transparent way. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 51 I CONTENTS FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION: TELENET’S CODE OF ETHICS FOR ADVERTISING MAXIMUM BUT NOT ABSOLUTE AND PROMOTIONAL ACTIVITIES As a leading provider of Internet services, we have Telenet’s commercials and advertisements must a special social responsibility with regard to the represent the products and services in a fair and freedom of expression. Our general principle: we do accurate manner, with respect for the relevant laws not limit it in any way except when requested by an and marketing guidelines. With its four core values – authorized authority. ‘catching, attentive, agreeable and entrepreneurial’ – Telenet goes beyond the fair and accurate advertising Together with other Belgian Internet providers, practices required by law. These values are essential we signed a Protocol with the Belgian Gaming to our good reputation with our stakeholders. All Commission in which we, in cooperation with the claims in advertisements and other statements to Federal and Regional Computer Crime Unit, take customers and potential customers must be done on action against websites offering illegal gambling. The a sincere and reasonable basis. Moreover, they must judicial powers can also require us to block websites be tested before they are published or distributed. that violate copyrights or that distribute illegal This applies to all advertising statements across pornographic material. all types of media, as well as to oral presentations and even casual conversations wherein objective, Finally, we are a leading member of the Association factual or quantifiable remarks are made about our of Internet Service Providers in Belgium (ISPA) and products or services. adhere to their code of conduct to – in cooperation with Child Focus – prevent and combat child abuse via Finally, suppliers such as research bureaus or (digital) chat applications and websites. marketing agencies take care of the protection of privacy and information when they collect, use and retain information about customers. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 52 I CONTENTS IN A NUTSHELL: MAJOR EVENTS AND ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2017 FOCUS 2017 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS STATUS NEXT STEPS Limiting our Energy & carbon emission results 2017 Energy & carbon emissions environmental In 2017, Telenet’s energy consumption Continue to invest in measures, programs footprint and market-based carbon emissions REQUIRES ATTENTION and initiatives to reduce energy and carbon further increased due to a growing emissions demand for data and digital services. Our consolidated market-based carbon emission impact was 20,527 tons CO₂ equivalents, an increase of 22 percent compared to the restated 2016 baseline. A new set of energy and carbon efficiency targets have been set for 2025. (E-)waste recycling and recuperation (E-)waste recycling and recuperation results 2017 Continue to invest in measures, programs and Telenet’s consolidated (e-)waste REQUIRES ATTENTION initiatives to increase (E-) waste recycling and recycling and recuperation result was recuperation 45 percent refurbishment of collected customer premise equipment, and 100 percent recycling of hazardous waste, a slight increase compared to the 2016 restated baseline. Vlotter (IMSIR cvba) Reverse Logistics Continue Vlotter (IMSIR cvba) Reverse In 2017, Telenet avoided more than 330 Logistics cooperation tons of waste through the recycling and ON TRACK/ COMPLETED The cooperation will be further consolidated revaluation of used set-top boxes and and extended modems through the social entrepreneur Vlotter. This reverse logistics solution created 60 jobs for people with limited access to the labor market Managing our supply Managing our supply chain in a Continue EcoVadis Risk Analysis chain in a responsible responsible way In 2018, Liberty Global plans to assess a total of way In 2017, an EcoVadis risk analysis was ON TRACK/ COMPLETED 100 suppliers, including Telenet suppliers, using carried out by Liberty Global on 234 the dynamic scorecard of EcoVadis. suppliers, out of which 100 supply SFR suppliers will not be included in the directly to Telenet. EcoVadis risk assessment process. 10 Out of the screened Telenet suppliers were listed for corrective actions. Another 9 suppliers received an EcoVadis score below 30 and are recommended to improve their operations. EcoVadis Supplier Assessment Telenet New EcoVadis CSR Assessment In 2016, Telenet maintained its Gold In June 2018, Telenet responded to a new ON TRACK/ EcoVadis CSR Rating for Nestlé, with COMPLETED EcoVadis CSR assessment as requested by a score of 64 points. Telenet scores SPIE. The EcoVadis score was not yet known good grades in the areas of labour and at the date of the publication of the Telenet fair business practices and sustainable Sustainability Report 2017. We are aiming a procurement, but lags behind on confirmation or even an improvement of the environment. 2016 rating. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 53 I CONTENTS FOCUS 2017 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS STATUS NEXT STEPS Demonstrating UN Sustainable Development Goals Continue our commitment good governance & At end 2015, Telenet formalized its to the UN Sustainability Goals transparency in our commitment to the UN Sustainable ON TRACK/ COMPLETED (an overview can be found on page 67 of this business practices Development Goals. In October 2016, report) Telenet also signed the Belgian SDG Telenet’s aims at further aligning its social, Charter as issued by the Belgian economic and environmental priorities and Sustainability Platform The Shift. targets to the UN Sustainable Development Goals Telenet Customer Data Policy Telenet Customer Data Policy: Initially updated in autumn 2016, the GDPR compliance Telenet Customer Data Policy was WORK IN PROGRESS 2018 Focus will be on the further GDPR submitted for review to the Belgian implementation (effective on May 25, 2018). Privacy Commission. Requested changes Telenet strives for full compliance across the and amendments were incorporated in business. Internal implementation plans are the policy. defined; internal communications and training initiatives are rolled-out to ensure companywide awareness and adoption. In April 2018, the full customer base has been informed about the reviewed and updated Telenet Customer Data Policy, which is compliant with the GDPR requirements. Stakeholder Engagement in 2017 Continue Stakeholder Engagement, in line Telenet actively engages in an open with the guiding principles and charter dialogue with its main stakeholders to ON TRACK/ COMPLETED In 2018, Telenet plans three expert round tables collect their viewpoints and insights, (Telenet Talks), two to three stakeholder panel to address their perspectives, to sessions and at least one large networking strengthen our license to operate and event. to earn their trust. The most important An overview of the stakeholder engagement stakeholder engagement platforms events will be included in the 2018 include 1:1 stakeholder meetings, expert Sustainability report, to be issued in June 2019. round tables, networking events, publications and speaking engagements at third-party events. Mid 2017 Telenet’s approach to stakeholder engagement has been formalized in a Stakeholder Engagement Charter. In 2017, Telenet organized two expert round tables (Telenet Talks), one stakeholder panel session (Executive Circle) and one large networking event (Mix & Mingle). The participation in these stakeholder engagement events was not remunerated and no expense fees were paid to the attendees. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 54 I CONTENTS LEARN MORE ABOUT OUR SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMS ON THE TELENET CORPORATE WEBSITE TO OUR EMPLOYEES TO OUR CUSTOMERS Installing a Digicorder? Child’s play! Telenet developed an Augmented reality demo “A workplace with a together with the Belgian digital agency In the Pocket. diversity of profiles leads to new The application guides customers through the whole insights, promotes innovation and has installation process of the Digicorder, making it child’s a positive impact on the company.” play. Although just a pilot Christophe Vanden Eede project, The solution shows Talent & Development Director the many possibilities of the digital (r)evolution. Discover how > More about our digital innovations > Equal opportunities to everyone TO SOCIETY AND Meet Adrian Zochowski, our first employee LOCAL COMMUNITIES to come through the ranks of the BeCode coding school. Watch the video > Every Telenet employee is given the opportunity one day a year to do paid voluntary work. Discover TO FAIR, OPEN AND TRANSPARENT how stimulating community engagement gives our BUSINESS PRACTICES corporate culture a real boost. Read the blog post > Did you know … … that our modems and Telenet supports community initiatives in Brussels decoders have a second life? that boost the talent of youngsters out of underserved Show me how > communities. Read the blog post > T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 55 I CONTENTS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING CONTENTS OUR APPROACH TO REPORTING: GENERAL PRINCIPLES Scope strives to achieve, of the latest achievements and of the This sustainability report is an explanation of extranew initiatives that are being developed to realize the financial parameters and indicators from all sectors sustainability goals of the company. of the company Telenet over the calendar year 2017 (01/01/2017 to 31/12/2017). This report follows Telenet’s In its sustainability management, Telenet strives Financial Annual Report 2017, published in March 2018. to adhere to the general applicable principles of inclusion, materiality and responsiveness. This report Every year, Telenet publishes a detailed insight in its CSR emphasizes the strengths and weaknesses of each of activities in a sustainability report. It complements the the defined physical aspects and provides us with the non-financial information as included in the Telenet opportunity to continuously improve processes and Financial Annual Report 2017. When the report performance. mentions Telenet, we, us, the company, the corporation, the group or the business, it refers to Telenet Group Because all concerned departments respect the Holding NV/SA, including its subsidiaries and within results of this analysis, we can make an important the context of the Belgian market engagement. Unless contribution to the further progress of the ratings in stated otherwise, this includes SFR Belgium and 2017. To us, extra-financial information is as important Luxembourg. Data and information about the extraas financial information. Telenet is working to have financial practices and performance of Telenet Group more environmental aspects and social data externally from the year 2017 are reported through two additional verified. This report is read and approved by Birgit documents: Conix, Telenet’s Chief Financial Officer. • Telenet Financial Annual Report 2017 • Telenet Sustainability Report 2017 Explanation of key numbers The reported results and key social numbers relate to all Commitment Telenet Group Holding NV/SA offices and locations, With this document, Telenet wants to report truthfully unless stated otherwise. Telenet’s policy is to include on the economic, social and ethical activities and any new subsidiaries that have been acquired in the environmental achievements that are most relevant first six months of the reporting period. Therefore, to the company and its stakeholders. In this annual we include the recent acquisition of SFR Belgium and report, Telenet provides an overview of the goals it Luxembourg, completed in June 2017, for the full year. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 57 I CONTENTS GRI STANDARDS CORE RELEVANT TOPICS CATEGORY ASPECT GRI BOUNDARY BOUNDARY STANDARDS WITHIN OUTSIDE DISCLOSURE ORGANIZATION ORGANIZATION Customer Telenet Group Privacy & data security Economic 418 customers privacy Holding NV/SA only relevant Fair, responsible and Telenet Group Economic Society 206 & 419 within transparent business conduct Holding NV/SA organization Best-in-class quality Telenet Group Economic Compliance 419 customers products and services Holding NV/SA Pricing and billing Marketing Telenet Group Economic 417 customers transparency Communications Holding NV/SA Product and Telenet Group Customer experience Economic 102 customers Service Labeling Holding NV/SA Indirect Being an innovative and Telenet Group customers, Economic Economic 203 leading company Holding NV/SA society Impacts Offering customer-centric Telenet Group customers, Economic Compliance 419 products Holding NV/SA suppliers PA7 (TelecommuAccess to Telenet Group Open internet Social nication Sector customers content Holding NV/SA Supplement) Attracting, retaining and Telenet Group Social Labor 401 & 404 employees developing talent Holding NV/SA Telenet Group Responsible employer Social Labor 403 employees Holding NV/SA T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 58 I CONTENTS Principles to determine the content Significant changes and restatements of the sustainability report Telenet is part of Liberty Global plc and in order to Telenet takes various elements into account when align group reporting, as of 2014 the environmental deciding on the content for this report. Telenet has reporting for Telenet is fully aligned with that of its main identified its main stakeholders, identified the key shareholder, Liberty Global. Environmental figures in expectations from these shareholders and describes the report were restated for the past three years (2014, how Telenet meets these expectations. In addition, 2015 and 2016). the company looks at its own performance in the broader sustainability context by determining, among others, the most important trends faced by telecommunications companies today. With this report, Telenet wants to show how the company will encourage economic, social and environmental developments both locally, regionally and globally. Telenet does this with a focus on the material aspects, provided to it by its stakeholders. Contact Financial information CSR information Rob Goyens Ineke Rampart +32 15 333 054 +32 15 366 262 rob.goyens@telenetgroup.be ineke.rampart@telenetgroup.be T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 59 I CONTENTS SUMMARY OF THE PERFORMANCE Scope: Telenet Group Holding NV/SA, including historic consumption by SFR Belgium and Luxembourg ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE METRIC 2014 2015 2016 2017 Energy consumption Non-renewable fuel Burning oil kWh 0 0 0 0 CNG kWh 0 0 38 11,849 Diesel kWh 25,445,053 26,205,014 27,587,034 24,706,510 Fuel oil kWh 0 0 0 0 Gas oil kWh 1,831,853 1,853,431 1,765,965 1,506,804 Jet fuel kWh 0 0 0 0 LPG kWh 0 0 0 0 Natural gas kWh 4,297,331 4,428,953 4,099,468 4,679,344 Petrol kWh 103,220 86,496 120,043 477,064 Total kWh 31,677,457 32,573,895 33,572,548 31,381,570 Electricity, heating and cooling Electricity kWh 182,820,447 190,693,438 188,276,412 189,441,397 Heating and cooling kWh 0 0 0 0 Total kWh 182,820,447 190,693,438 188,276,412 189,441,397 Electricity sold kWh 0 0 0 0 Total energy consumption(1) kWh 214,497,904 223,267,332 221,848,961 220,822,968 Energy intensity kWh of electricity / Energy intensity 273.9 185.9 135.0 97.0 terabyte of data usage Electricity generated from onsite renewables Kwh 28,882 32,662 31,474 30,613 GHG Emissions(2) Scope 1 emissions Metric tons CO2e 7,393 7,701 7,933 7,607 Scope 2 market-based emissions Metric tons CO2e 31,278 42,309 3,243 7,709 Scope 2 location-based emissions Metric tons CO2e 38,191 43,364 42,814 43,079 Scope 3 emissions Metric tons CO2e 5,234 5,379 5,681 5,212 Total location-based GHG emissions Metric tons CO2e 50,818 56,443 56,428 55,897 Total market-based GHG emissions Metric tons CO2e 43,905 55,389 16,857 20,527 Carbon credits Metric tons CO2e n/a (12,306) (8,627) (8,473) Emissions intensity Metric tons CO2e / 0.058 0.049 0.008 0.008 (scope 1 and 2 market-based) terabyte of data usage Emissions from business travel Metric tons CO2e 696 702 543 534 Waste by type and disposal method Reuse Metric tons 127 190 127 167 Recycling Metric tons 2,118 1,919 1,961 2,662 Incineration Metric tons 635 655 649 708 Landfill Metric tons 0 0 0 0 Composting Metric tons 13 16 9 14 Total waste generated Metric tons 2,893 2,779 2,746 3,551 Recycling rate % 73 69 71 75 Water withdrawal by source Municipal water supplies m3 21,323 24,254 21,976 21,785 Other m3 1,045 1,076 1,453 1,062 Total m 3 22,368 25,330 23,429 22,847 Initiatives Emissions reductions Metric tons CO2e 116 126 227 455 Energy saved through efficiencies kWh 555,000 555,000 1,000,000 2,000,002 Costs savings from environmental initiatives € 161,150 81,552 107,771 197,947 Revenue generated from environmental initiatives € 0 0 0 0 (1) Sum of total energy consumption from non-renewable fuel and electricity, heating and cooling, minus electricity sold (2) Refer to page 62 for definitions of our greenhouse gas emissions T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 60 I CONTENTS SUMMARY OF THE PERFORMANCE Scope: Telenet Group Holding NV/SA, including SFR Belgium and Luxembourg as of 2017 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE METRIC 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total community investment € 2,112,129 1,351,559 1,225,618 1,887,085 Total workforce and breakdown by employee category Employees Headcount, year end 2.247 2.415 3,290 3,364 Outsourced employees Headcount, year end 1.766 1.938 2,444 3,156 Employees by contract type Permanent contracts Headcount, year end 2.245 2.415 3,261 3,313 Temporary contracts Headcount, year end 2 0 29 51 Employees by contract type Full time Headcount, year end 1.868 2.014 2,714 2,775 Part time Headcount, year end 379 401 576 589 Average age* Total In years 38 38 38 39 Men In years 39 40 39 41 Women In years 35 36 36 36 Employees by age group Under 30 years old Headcount, year end 483 537 619 696 30-50 years old Headcount, year end 1.516 1.613 2,239 2,220 over 50 years old Headcount, year end 248 265 360 448 Division of employees by department* Engineering/technical profiles % of total staff 26 27 27 27 Sales & Customer Care % of total staff 36 33 31 28 Marketing & Product Management % of total staff 5 5 4 5 Telenet Business % of total staff 15 16 20 21 IT % of total staff 8 9 9 9 Staff & administration % of total staff 10 10 10 9 Women in management Women in management positions % of total management 25 25 29 30 workforce New employee hires and employee turnover New employee hires by age group and gender Under 30 years old Headcount 155 126 233 337 30-50 years old Headcount 122 120 91 367 over 50 years old Headcount 4 4 12 22 Total Headcount 281 250 336 726 New hires – male Headcount 153 141 192 501 New hires – female Headcount 128 109 144 225 Rate of new hires Rate (%) 13 10 10 21 Employee turnover by age group Under 30 years old Number of leavers 104 93 97 173 30-50 years old Number of leavers 89 95 131 187 over 50 years old Number of leavers 30 27 37 28 Total Headcount 223 215 265 388 Employee training Average training hours Hours per FTE 31.6 35.5 24.4 12.08 Average training investment € per FTE 522 530 384 334 Freedom of Association Employees represented by an independent % of employees 100 100 100 100 trade union or covered by collective bargaining agreements Occupational health and safety Absentee rate % of total days scheduled 6,97 7,12 7.00 7.17 Work-related fatalities # 0 0 0 0 Employee performance reviews Employees reviewed % 93 95 93 94 Breakdown by gender and employee category Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Senior Management % 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 Managers/ Supervisors % 95 97 97 106 82 84 99 100 Non-management % 92 91 91 95 98 92 98 99 * Key figures and percentages shown only relate to (employees of) Telenet NV T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 61 I CONTENTS TELENET’S REPORTING METHODOLOGY All environmental and social data relate to the period systems). This information is collected via company from 1 January to 31 December – unless otherwise stated. fuel cards, business travel expenses, third party For comparative purposes and to create new base-year invoices and third party site visits. values, we have made adjustments to our environmental • Scope 2 (Indirect): emissions from purchased results for 2014 to 2016 including representative electricity, heat and steam. This information is preacquisition values for BASE Company in Belgium, collected in electricity consumption invoices, cowhich we acquired in February 2016, and SFR Belgium and location service invoices (i.e. where electricity is Luxembourg, which we acquired in June 2017. estimated by market operations), on-site meters or inverters. Telenet’s reported environmental data follows the • Scope 3 (Indirect): emissions from business air and World Resources Institute and World Business Council land travel (includes the use of employee-owned on Sustainable Development’s GHG Protocol Corporate vehicles for business purposes, flights taken by Standard, using the operational control approach. employees and travel in rental cars, taxis and public Emissions from businesses in which we have nontransportation); emissions arising from water, waste controlling equity stakes are not included within our (which includes the impact of recycling customer reported figures. premises equipment) and travel by our third-party service and installation vehicles. As of 2014, emissions Our Scope 1 and 3 emissions are calculated by using from travel by our third-party service and installation the UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural vehicles are included as part of our Scope 3 emissions. Affairs (DEFRA) emission factors (2017). We calculated This information is collected via third party service our Scope 2 location-based emissions by using IEA invoices and reporting (e.g. corporate travel agency), emissions factors (2017). business travel expenses and estimations by the market operations. Our market-based emissions are calculated by using supplier-specific emissions information wherever it is Location-based and market-based emissions available and then applying the relevant “residual mix” As prescribed by good practices, we publish both the emissions factor to any electricity that does not have location-based and market-based emissions, which supplier-specific emissions information. Reliable Disclosure provide a good illustration of the impact of our (RE-DISS) European Residual Mixes (2016) emission purchase and production of alternative energy. factors are available for all operations. Location-based emissions are calculated using the average conversion factors of the national grid for the Carbon offsets and their related CO2 savings have been entire electricity consumption. This does not take into reported separately and they do not form part of account activities that reduce emissions, such as the our total GHG emissions, as per the GHG Protocol purchase of CO2 compensation or the use of electricity Corporate Standard. from renewable energy sources. Marked-based emissions are calculated using a conversion factor of • Scope 1 (Direct): emissions come from sources zero for all the used electricity that comes from locally that are company owned or controlled, including: generated renewable energy and from certified green emissions from static combustion (i.e. fuel used in energy contracts. generators for heating/power); mobile combustion (i.e. vehicle and aviation fuel from company owned For more information, go to www.libertyglobal.com/ or leased fleet); and coolants and propellants used responsibility/reporting-and-performance/ and view (i.e. in air conditioning units and fire suppression our full criteria for environmental reporting. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 62 I CONTENTS TELENET’S GRI CONTENT INDEX 2017 The extra-financial parameters and indicators reported hand is focused on the general disclosures, and on the in this document are organized in accordance with the other hand plots the ten most important material issues Global Report Initiative (GRI) guidelines. This report has to Telenet and reports on at least one of the indicators been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards per aspect. Where information was available, multiple Core option, which means that the report on the one indicators were included in the report. GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NR AND/OR URL(S) OMISSION GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2017 GENERAL DISCLOSURES 102-1 Name of the GRI 102: General Disclosures 2017 Page 6 organization 102-2 Activities, brands, Page 6 products, and services 102-3 Location of Pages 6 and 25 headquarters 102-4 Location of Page 6 operations Page 6 and Page 37 of 102-5 Ownership and legal Telenet Financial Report form 2017 102-6 Markets served Page 6 Page 6 and Pages 9 and 31 102-7 Scale of the of Telenet Financial Report organization 2017 Due to our limited geographic scope, Telenet 102-8 Information on does not differentiate employees and other Page 61 between regions, therefore workers employee data is not reported per region, but at company level. 102-9 Supply chain Pages 47-48 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its Pages 47-48, 57 and 59 supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Pages 23 and Pages 49-52 Principle or approach 102-12 External initiatives Pages 49-52 102-13 Membership of Page 15 associations 102-14 Statement from Pages 4-5 senior decision-maker 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of Pages 6 and Pages 49-52 behavior Page 13 and Pages 40-46 102-18 Governance of Telenet Financial Report structure 2017 102-40 List of stakeholder Pages 14-15 groups 102-41 Collective Page 61 bargaining agreements 102-42 Identifying and Pages 14-15 selecting stakeholders 102-43 Approach to Pages 14-15 stakeholder engagement 102-44 Key topics and Pages 9 and Pages 14-15 concerns raised T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 63 I CONTENTS GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NR AND/OR URL(S) OMISSION 102-45 Entities included in Pages 150-151 of Telenet the consolidated financial Financial Report 2017 statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Pages 57-58 Boundaries 102-47 List of material Page 9 topics 102-48 Restatements of Page 59 information 102-49 Changes in Page 57 reporting 102-50 Reporting period Page 57 102-51 Date of most recent Page 57 report 102-52 Reporting cycle Page 57 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the Page 59 report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Page 63 Standards 102-55 GRI content index Pages 63-66 102-56 External assurance Page 57 MATERIAL TOPICS Privacy & data security 103-1 Explanation of the GRI 103: Management Approach material topic and its Pages 9, 20, 22 and 58 2017 Boundaries 103-2 The management approach and its Page 20 components 103-3 Evaluation of the Page 22 management approach 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning GRI 418: Customer Privacy breaches of customer Pages 12 and 22 privacy and losses of customer data Fair, responsible and transparent business conduct 103-1 Explanation of the GRI 103: Management Approach Pages 9, 42, 49-52, 54 material topic and its 2017 and 58 Boundaries 103-2 The management approach and its Pages 42 and 49-52 components 103-3 Evaluation of the Page 54 management approach 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, GRI 206: Anti-competitive behavior Pages 49-52 anti-trust, and monopoly practices 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance Pages 49-52 in the social and economic area T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 64 I CONTENTS GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NR AND/OR URL(S) OMISSION Best-in-class quality products and services 103-1 Explanation of the GRI 103: Management Approach material topic and its Pages 9, 19, 21-22 and 58 2017 Boundaries 103-2 The management approach and its Page 19 components 103-3 Evaluation of the Pages 21-22 management approach 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance Pages 17-20 in the social and economic area Pricing and billing transparency 103-1 Explanation of the GRI 103: Management Approach material topic and its Pages 9, 20, 22, 23 and 58 2017 Boundaries 103-2 The management approach and its Page 20 components 103-3 Evaluation of the Page 22 management approach 417-3 Incidents of nonGRI 417: Marketing and Labeling compliance concerning Pages 20 and 22 marketing communication Customer experience 103-1 Explanation of the GRI 103: Management Approach material topic and its Pages 9, 17-21 and 58 2017 Boundaries 103-2 The management approach and its Pages 17-20 components 103-3 Evaluation of the Page 21 management approach 102-44 Key topics and GRI 102: General Disclosures 2017 Page 12 concerns raised Being an innovative and leading company 103-1 Explanation of the GRI 103: Management Approach material topic and its Pages 9, 33-34, 39 and 58 2017 Boundaries 103-2 The management approach and its Pages 33-34 components 103-3 Evaluation of the Page 39 management approach 203-1 Infrastructure Page 33, overview of GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts investments and services investments 2017 supported Offering customer-centric products 103-1 Explanation of the GRI 103: Management Approach material topic and its Pages 9, 17-21 and 58 2017 Boundaries 103-2 The management approach and its Pages 17-20 components 103-3 Evaluation of the Page 21 management approach 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance Page 21 in the social and economic area T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 65 I CONTENTS GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NR AND/OR URL(S) OMISSION Open internet 103-1 Explanation of the GRI 103: Management Approach material topic and its Pages 9, 52, 54 and 58 2017 Boundaries 103-2 The management approach and its Page 52 components 103-3 Evaluation of the Page 54 management approach PA7: Policies and practices to manage human Telecommunication Sector rights issues relating Supplement – Management of Page 52 to access and use of Access to Content telecommunications products and services Attracting, retaining and developing talent 103-1 Explanation of the GRI 103: Management Approach material topic and its Pages 9, 24-29 and 58 2017 Boundaries 103-2 The management approach and its Pages 24-27 components 103-3 Evaluation of the Pages 28-29 management approach Due to our limited geographic scope, Telenet does not differentiate 401-1 New employee hires GRI 401: Employment Pages 12 and 61 between regions, therefore and employee turnover employee data is not reported per region, but at company level. 404-1 Average hours GRI 404: Training and Education of training per year per Pages 12, 28 and 61 employee 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills GRI 404: Training and Education Pages 28-30 and transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving GRI 404: Training and Education regular performance Page 61 and career development reviews Responsible employer 103-1 Explanation of the GRI 103: Management Approach material topic and its Pages 9, 24-29 and 58 2017 Boundaries 103-2 The management approach and its Pages 24-27 components 103-3 Evaluation of the Pages 28-29 management approach 403-1 Workers representation in formal GRI 403: Occupational Health and joint management– Pages 30 and 61 Safety worker health and safety committees T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 66 I CONTENTS UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 1 Telenet applies a social fee to all its telecom products and services ensuring an inclusive digital society accessible to all 4 Telenet helps youth and adults in developing digital skills that prepare them for employment and entrepreneurship. 5 10 Telenet promotes a culture of inclusion and diversity, offering equal opportunities irrespective of race, religion, sexual orientation, gender, disability or age. 7 13 Telenet limits its environmental footprint with a strong focus on improving our carbon efficiency. Our services also help others to cut back carbon emissions. We actively invest in renewable energy solutions 8 9 Telenet is an important player in the Belgian economy. We stimulate growth by providing competitive and innovative products and services for our customers and by investing in a leading integrated network, We create good jobs in our own company and help entrepreneurs thrive. Of course, we also ensure decent working conditions in our supply chain. 11 Telenet and its partners contribute to making cities and communities more sustainable with smart and innovative IT-solutions. 12 Telenet promotes sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources. We actively reduce the amount of waste generated in our business processes through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse. 17 We can’t do all of this by ourselves. Telenet collaborates with many different partners across the value chain to create positive change. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 67 I CONTENTS UN GLOBAL COMPACT COP Area Indicator Description Page Human rights GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 48 GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 48 Labour GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 61 GRI 108-41 Collective bargaining agreements 61 GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 61 Percentage of employees receiving regular GRI 404-3 61 performance and career development reviews Environment GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 60 GRI 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 60 GRI 302-3 Energy intensity 60 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 60 GRI 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 44, 60 GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 60 GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 60 GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 60 GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 60 GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 60 GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 60 GRI 306-3 Significant spills 46 GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 48 Negative environmental impacts in GRI 308-2 48 the supply chain and actions taken Anti-Corruption GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviors 6, 49-52 T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2017 I 68 I Corporate Communications T. 015. 33. 30.00 – www.telenet.be Responsible editor Telenet, Rob Goyens Rue Neerveld 105, 1200 Brussels
