CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS OUR ACTIVITIES IN 2017 OUR FOCUS IN 2018 CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER STATEMENT The 17 global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) represent It is our fervent belief that knowledge – in its many forms – will an ambitious agenda with clear targets to reach and important provide the answers to the world’s water challenges. As such, monitoring mechanisms to follow up. They recognise the knowledge-sharing remains one of our core CSR focus areas. interrelated nature of development issues such as poverty, Through our local teams, MIKE technology, training courses and inequality, food production, climate change and ecosystem online resources, we make it easy for clients to access our conservation, as well as the necessity for all societal actors to knowledge bank wherever they are. jointly tackle them. DHI is pleased to reaffirm our commitment to providing our DHI is contributing to the SDGs through our formulated quest to strong support to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact’s help solve the world’s toughest challenges in water efforts in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and environments. Our main activities are directed towards the goals anti-corruption. We strive to continue the integration of the and targets relating to natural resource sustainability, Global Compact and its principles into our business strategies, particularly Goals 6 and 14 on sustainable management of water culture and daily operations. and marine resources, respectively. This also transpires in this year’s Communication of Progress (COP). However, it is important to note that water plays an important role in the Yours sincerely, majority of the SDGs. We have also illustrated this with examples on how we contribute to other goals and targets through our global activities. We work with clients, partners, universities, as well as public and private organisations to develop innovative solutions that can support sustainability and avoid water from Jacob Høst-Madsen being the limiting factor for development. Chief Operating Officer 2 Integrating the principles of the United Nations Global Compact into our business strategies, culture and daily operations remains a true focus at DHI. CORPORATE SOCIAL INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Corporate sustainability stems from a company’s value system, At DHI, we contribute to our CSR through three focus areas: beliefs and principled approach in conducting businesses. Since  Improving the environment joining the UN Global Compact in 2013, we have been aligning  Responsible business practices our strategies and activities to its ten principles, meeting fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights,  Sharing knowledge and technology labour, environment and anti-corruption.  Community engagement As a responsible business with more than 30 offices around the Our global activities support the 17 UN Sustainable SDGs. In the world, we believe that establishing a culture of integrity – and coming period, we will increase our focus on supporting the being responsible to the world we live in – is core to achieving SDGs through our global operations. long-term success. This Communication of Progress is our third annual report since joining the UN Global Compact. We are pleased to share our results and achievements. The UN Global Compact is a guiding framework for us to:  carry out Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives within DHI Group and ensure that our business partners support and are in line with the Compact’s principles  communicate effectively with the world around us – because upholding social responsibility and conveying its importance in the work that we do, matters  maintain a meaningful dialogue with our staff, clients and external business partners This report is produced for the purpose of:  explaining our progress to the UN  communicating our messages, challenges and achievements to various stakeholders  describing the actions we have taken to implement the UN Global Compact principles to our staff, as well as to others who have an interest in CSR and social responsibility efforts 3 IMPROVING THE ENVIRONMENT Through our projects, our services and products have helped improve the environment as well as contribute to social and economic development worldwide. OUR ACTIVITIES IN 2017 Our projects described here provide concrete examples of how that involve the handling of sediments in different environments we have helped solve the world’s toughest challenges in water (coastal areas, confined basins and off-shore) and aims at environments. Each of these projects has ushered in optimising the intervention with regard to expected considerable environmental, social and economic benefits in environmental effects. It includes basic knowledge of the their respective areas. operational indications for different marine-coastal areas, and explains the mutual relationship between numerical and Improving water quality of key rivers, ensuring safe drinking environmental monitoring. The manual is addressed to all waters, and recuperating rivers and lakes by 2020 are the main parties involved, including project owner/developer or client, targets of the Major Science and Technology Program of Water regulators, operators and stakeholders. Pollution Control and Management in China. DHI was part of the water project ‘Research on Water Environment Risk Assessment Together with the Vltava River Board, State Enterprise, DHI CZ and Early Warning Technology in Cross-border Areas of China promoted ‘20 years of flood model of the capital city of Prague’ and Russia’, where we developed a water quality model that through a special seminar, presentations and conference adapts to frigid areas and used data assimilation technology to papers. We provided information about flood modelling and its improve simulation accuracy in water quality forecasting and role in solving flood issues in the last two decades. During this built a Sino-Russian cross-border water environment prediction campaign, there was raised interest of municipalities and cities and early warning system. It provides technical support for risk representatives to use appropriate flood prevention models management in water environments, emergency response in where urbanisation impacts are considered. As pointed out at water pollution accidents, and identification of water the seminar, the Vltava River Board has greatly succeeded in environment responsibilities in cross-border areas of China and implementing DHI’s mathematical models into its overall flood Russia. protection measures – proven by the way it tackled huge flood events over the last two decades. Operations involving sediment handling in marine waters, such as dredging, disposal and nourishment, can significantly affect The aquacultural production of fish and especially Pangasius in the marine environment, with potential effects extending from southern Vietnam has caused severe pollution in the rivers in the physical to chemical and biological fields. Based on our Mekong Delta. To enable a more sustainable production of worldwide experience in environmental modelling, DHI Pangasius, a group of Danish companies, including DHI, decided supported the Italian Superior Institution for Environmental to form a project-relation called VIDATEC, which would work Research (ISPRA – directly linked to the Ministry of closely with the aquaculture institute of Can Tho University in Vietnam as well as with production companies. The aim was to Environment), in writing a comprehensive guideline ‘Mathematical modelling in the assessment of physical effects study existing production methods and optimise production by induced by sediment handling in marine-coastal areas’. using modern technology. VIDATEC built new production facilities on the Can Tho University to demonstrate how modern Published in December 2017, the manual is focused on activities 4 IMPROVING THE ENVIRONMENT OUR FOCUS IN 2018 production could take place. The results from this plant revealed In 2018, we will continue our focus on improving the that the feed-conversion rate could be improved and treatment environment by developing and delivering services and of the wastewater before discharge would provide additional products that help solve water challenges related to global benefits in lowering the overall pollution. urbanisation. This includes using water more efficiently, reducing energy consumption, helping cities adapt to climate In Denmark, we carried out a detailed plan for handling the change and increasing wastewater treatment efficiency. wastewater from Rigshospitalet, Denmark’s largest hospital. Hospital wastewater is characterised by high concentrations of We will also offer more services and technologies to help solve hazardous pharmaceuticals and critical pathogens like multichallenges in the industrial water sector. Examples include using resistant bacteria. This is why Danish authorities demand that water more efficiently, re-using water and developing waterthe larger hospitals treat wastewater locally. Together with free production methods. In addition, we will continue to Danish technology suppliers, DHI had earlier developed develop advanced decision support technology for water advanced treatment solutions which are already in operation in management. full scale in another Danish hospital (Herlev Hospital). The plan for Rigshospitalet includes an ambitious goal to discharge the In 2018, we resolve to implement an environmental policy treated water to the famous Copenhagen lakes in the city which sets out the framework for environmental management – center. This way, the treated water would also act as recreational with objectives and measurable targets to be achieved by all DHI water, improving the water quality of lakes and keeping water offices worldwide. levels high during drought periods during summer. 5 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES We stand firm in our commitment of ensuring responsible business practices throughout our global offices. OUR ACTIVITIES IN 2017 To enhance our internal focus on CSR, we have been working on We have continued to update our workplace risk assessment implementing a process to ensure that all projects carried out by register for frequently occurring activities performed by DHI DHI are screened for violation of human rights and labour staff to improve our working environment and prevent workprinciples, damage done to the environment and governmental related accidents. corruption, as part of the risk analysis during the bidding decision process prior to entering into contracts and Our commitment to CSR is upheld in our offices worldwide. In agreements. July 2017, DHI New Zealand became a member of The Sustainable Business Network, a membership-based social In our Code of Conduct for partners and subcontractors, we now enterprise that helps businesses succeed through sustainability. require them to: Their vision is to make New Zealand a model sustainable nation. Our involvement in the network has helped lessen our company  support and protect human rights both in the workplace and footprint in these ways: by moving to a modular office, creating more broadly in all their business activities more public transport options, using less space and working day  manage their operations responsibly in relation to -to-day in a more sustainable way. It also gives us access to a environmental risks and impacts and to adopt a previously-untapped network of people in New Zealand working precautionary approach in their business operations towards a circular economy and a sustainable future.  conduct business in compliance with legal requirements and to adhere to internationally agreed standards of business ethics  be in strict compliance with named anti-corrupt practices acts and anti-bribery acts We will continuously monitor partners’ and subcontractors’ compliance with the standards set out in our Code of Conduct by requiring them to submit relevant information and by conducting supplier audits and reviews. Our Code of Conduct is publicly available on our web site. 6 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES OUR FOCUS IN 2018 We will develop policies and guidelines on sustainability and CSR, We aim to fully implement the process to ensure that all projects which set out the overall framework on a daily basis. These carried out by DHI are screened for violation of human rights policies and guidelines will cover the following areas: and labour principles, damage done to the environment and governmental corruption, as part of the risk analysis during the  Environment bidding decision process prior to entering into contracts and  Health and safety agreements.  Security At the same time, we will continue to update our workplace risk assessment register for frequently occurring activities  Responsible business practice performed by DHI staff to improve our working environment and prevent work-related accidents.  Good DHI behavior All policies will be made available on our website. 7 SHARING KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNOLOGY Knowledge empowers our clients and partners to identify and apply appropriate solutions to their unique challenges. OUR ACTIVITIES IN 2017 Climate change is affecting hydrological fluxes at all scales. We In 2017, we continued to co-organise UNEP-DHI Eco Challenges already have the capability to prepare for and avoid some of the – online serious gaming competitions for high school students associated hazards, through a combination of selected in ten countries based on our Aqua Republica game. The technologies and technical expertise, though those looking for challenges presented in Aqua Republica educate youth about appropriate solutions inevitably face the difficult task of the importance and interconnectivity of water, and inspire them identifying and evaluating a bewildering range of options. to ponder how it can be managed more sustainably. Almost Together with two other organisations, UNEP-DHI prepared and 10,000 students have participated since 2013. published the guide ‘Climate Change Adaptation Technologies for Water’. This practitioner’s guide focuses on adaptation In Chile, a successful DHI technology transfer to the Institute for technologies for building resilience to climate change-induced Fisheries and Aquaculture Research (IFOP) helped in the setting hazards in the water sector. It provides a simple and up of new government laws and regulations for the aquaculture comprehensive overview of specific water technologies and industry. This enabled IFOP to guarantee industry interests in a techniques that address challenges resulting from climate market worth 4,000 million USD a year, while ensuring change and help to build adaptive capacity. consistent and environmentally-sustainable aquaculture production – protecting the natural resources of the Patagonian DHI WaterNet Advisor was awarded the title ‘Gold VOD-KA fjord ecosystem. 2017’ as a part of the 2017 International Water Supply and Sewerage exhibition in Prague, as the best original technology to meet innovation and applicability. This is a very prestigious award in the field of water management in the Czech Republic. The Climate Technology Centre and Network (CTCN) promotes the accelerated transfer of environmentally-sound technologies for low carbon and climate resilient development at the request of developing countries. Being a consortium partner under CTCN, UNEP-DHI provided knowledge support on technologies for climate change adaptation to eight countries. Examples of these projects are: Development of flood mitigation approaches in Tbilisi, Georgia; Shoreline management training in Mauritius; and Green infrastructure interventions in six cities in Laos. 8 SHARING KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNOLOGY Knowledge has a beginning but no end. OUR FOCUS IN 2018 In 2018, we aim to continue sharing our knowledge of water At DHI, it is all about creating value for our customers – by environments through capacity development programmes, understanding what they need, how they think, and how they training courses and seminars around the world. Our online behave. At the end of the day, all these will translate to smarter learning platforms such as webinars and self-paced courses business management and success for our clients all over the proved to be welcomed additions in 2017 – and we will strive to world. explore even better ways of knowledge-sharing that make learning easier for our clients. Technology frees us from traditional business boundaries and allows us to foster new kinds of customer relationships and learning opportunities. Providing digital operational services – and transferring the related skills to clients – is one of our core focus areas in 2018. Being simultaneous and in-the-cloud, the digital services we offer are transverse, accessible and seamless. We strongly believe in not only creating solutions to solve our clients’ water challenges, but also equipping them with the necessary know-how to be self-sufficient, 24/7. 9 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT OUR ACTIVITIES IN 2017 ’Clean River Sazava’ in the Czech Republic is a traditional nonlearning paradigm based on real-world applications. DHI commercial activity based on volunteering. Dozens of sponsors Singapore fully supports this initiative by renewing our – from small donors to larger companies – contribute to the partnership with STEM Inc to provide learning opportunities for annual cleanup. For years, DHI CZ has been supporting the waste students to acquire knowledge and skills on STEM. collection campaign from Sazava river by donating and participating in the event as litter collectors. In April, almost 800 volunteers collected more than 16 tonnes of litter from the river in three days. Earth Observation (EO) for Sustainable Development is a European Space Agency (ESA) initiative headed by DHI GRAS, which aims to achieve better uptake of satellite-based environmental information in the International Financing Institutions’ regional and global programs. It follows a systematic, user-driven approach in order to meet longer-term, strategic geospatial information needs. The main goal of the capacity building efforts will be to ensure the development of the required human, technical and institutional capacity to empower stakeholders with the ability to utilise the developed services in an independent and sustainable manner. This will require a significant effort dedicated to enhancing the long‘The internship allowed me to better understand the term formation of operators, technicians and scientists, as well workplace culture, environment and expectations. By as decision makers with the capabilities to make use of EOinteracting with DHI staff and attending weekly meebased information services for integrated water resource tings, we were inspired by the DHI staff’s passion in the field of eco-sustainability.’ Student from Singapore management. There are also plans to strengthen partnership development under the EO4SD initiative, to give local stakeholders access to knowledge and skills, and provide the DHI and our partners ERN International and the Asian Institute of opportunity to increase networking and funding for all parties. Technology are pleased to have completed India’s first statewide assessment of risk arising from earthquakes, floods, flash floods, STEM education in Singapore is a curriculum based on the idea landslides and industrial hazards in Uttarakhand in northern of educating students in four specific disciplines – Science, India. Through visits to local communities and targeted social Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics. Instead of the surveys, we learned about their approach to risk management at conventional approach to teaching these four disciplines a community level, and this has complemented the findings separately, STEM education integrates them into a cohesive from workshops with other stakeholders. 10 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT It’s not just about business at DHI. We strive to impact communities positively by supporting knowledge transfer and contributing our resources to environmental initiatives and charities. OUR FOCUS IN 2018 An important principle for us has been the employment of local We believe that the most meaningful engagement with staff and the effective transfer of knowledge to the local team. communities derives from passionate and engaged staff who Eight members of our core team are Indian nationals with a seize opportunities to give when they can. In this regard, DHI strong or permanent connection to the state of Uttarakhand. will support our staff in community engagement and encourage They have worked tirelessly to ensure that our work on the them to participate in activities where they can make a positive ground has been effective and appropriate. contribution using DHI’s capacities. Depending on the circumstances, this contribution may be in the form of sponsorships, time allocated for staff to support activities, cash donations, access to DHI facilities or otherwise. As a part of our social responsibility to contribute to the integration of refugees into the Danish labour market, an environmental inspector from Eritrea joined us as a trainee in November/December. The trainee position is part of a project initiated by the Association of Danish Engineers, which aims to enhance the skills of refugees with engineering backgrounds and help them penetrate the Danish labour market. 11 UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Our activities support the goals to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all to change In two projects, the UNEP-DHI Centre assisted the Governments of Ghana and Myanmar to improve the resiliency of crops to drought through strengthened early warning. The objective of this technical assistance is to facilitate transfer and capacity building for climate change adaptation focusing on dry season management and planning. The expected outputs will potentially be one of the key tools for accomplishing the goals related to climate change adaptation for the agriculture and water sector in Ghana and Myanmar. Target 3.9: Reduce the number of illnesses from polluted and contaminated water Sewage outfalls, storm water overflows, plant releases, agricultural production effluents—water bodies in urban areas are subjected to many polluted discharges. When these water bodies are also used for recreational purposes, the safety of the population may be at risk. DHI NZ developed an integrated Bathing Water Forecast System to inform audiences about the impacts of contaminant overflows in and around the Auckland harbour. With this system, information and warnings about water quality are now easily accessible across multiple media platforms. This aids to manage and protect the marine environment in and around New Zealand’s largest city. 12 Target 7.2: Increase the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix The 2013 Dutch Energy Agreement initiated the country’s goal to increase its offshore wind capacity from 1,000 MW to 4,500 MW by 2023. The Government decided on three offshore wind farm zones for the deployment of the new offshore wind power: Borssele, Hollandse Kust (zuid) and Hollandse Kust (noord). To provide developers with high quality and certified metocean data, DHI delivered a digital database encompassing 38 years of metocean data. This sophisticated database will serve as a basis for the design, operation and maintenance of future offshore wind farms in the Netherlands. Target 9.4: Retroﬁt industries with increased resource eﬃciency In Teplice, Czech Republic, DHI helped reduce water leakage in the distribution network by 43% within six months. The local water and sewage company realised they were facing a huge challenge with high levels of water leakage. By deploying a DHI solution that helps to improve the reliability of their water supply, the company is able to greatly reduce costs while providing better customer experience at the same time. A major refining and petrochemical production plant needed ways to improve their cooling system capacity and energy efficiency. DHI examined the possibilities of efficiency improvement by implementing our Industrial Cooling Water Solution. The study we carried out as part of the solution revealed substantial energy-saving potential, especially in cold and moderate climates. Applying just one of the identified options in the studied system would potentially provide 11% of energy savings annually. 13 Target 11.5: Reduce losses caused by water-related disasters The Huaihe River is a 1,100 km long river in China with a drainage area of 174,000 km². Located in the transitional climate zone, the Huaihe River Basin has been frequently hit by massive floods and devastating flood disasters. Flood control and management are of vital importance for the river’s social and economic development. DHI created an integrated flood forecasting and control system to help authorities reduce flood risks and minimise losses. The system includes a flood disaster assessment functionality, which could predict areas prone to flooding, the population affected and even economic loss. The existing flood map – both static and dynamic – is built into the system to query and display the flood area and inundation loss under given hydrological conditions. Target 12.2: Achieve sustainable management and eﬃcient use of natural resources Jinan, the capital of China's Shandong Province, is facing the challenge of protecting its water springs and maintaining water supply. Also known as the ‘Spring City’, it is a vital concern for Jinan to meet the growing demands for water and restore its water springs. In collaboration with the Water Resources Research Institute of Shandong Province, DHI is working to determine the relationship between recharge and discharge of spring water in Jinan. Our team analysed the relationship between surface water and groundwater, as well as the dynamic groundwater behaviour in the spring area. We used our MIKE SHE model to calculate the recharge of surface water to groundwater under different precipitation conditions, and the three-dimensional dynamic groundwater model FEFLOW to analyse the relationship between spring flow and aquifer recharge. With the results, we could propose protection measures and optimisation plans for the city’s water springs. This project is an example of technical support we provided for the sustainable utilisation of groundwater resources and serves as a solid foundation for the development of a ‘sustainable water culture’ in the city of Jinan. Target 12.4: Achieve environmentally-sound management of chemicals DHI is part of the partnership ‘Chemicals in Circulation’ that helps Danish enterprises reduce the use of chemicals of concern in their products. Sustainable and environmentally-friendly production is becoming a key competitive factor worldwide. The reduction of substances of concern will support Danish companies’ tradition of delivering quality products produced with respect for the environment and human health. Moreover, it is expected that manufacturing companies will save costs by recycling and reusing materials. Through the partnership, Danish companies can apply for funding of innovative development activities aimed at reducing chemicals that are hazardous to humans and the environment. Target 13.1: Strengthening resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters As a coastal megacity, Bangkok faces increased climate-related risks such as rising sea levels and an increased frequency of extreme weather events. Costs of infrastructure and the economic loss from major flooding events today already run into the billions of dollars, with poor urban populations being hit hardest. For Bangkok to address future climate-related risks, sound urban environmental management is crucial. Groundwater pumping, dumping of solid waste into city canals and waterways, clogged drainage systems, and deforestation in the upper watershed all contribute to urban flooding. Better management of these urban environmental issues will help manage future climate-related impacts. Together with Bangkok Metropolitan Administration (BMA), DHI has implemented a demonstration system for early flood warning for a 30 km² area in central Bangkok. The activity was supported by CTCN. Activities included: • Mapping existing drainage • Building hydraulic drainage models for flood scenario analysis • Validation of monitoring system design including configuration of web-based information system • Sharing approaches with other flood-prone cities in Thailand and knowledge transfer to BMA DHI’s services provide an overview for flood risk areas, supporting authorities and citizens of the city. This identification will also serve as a priority tool when upgrading the drainage capacity towards a more sustainable city-environment. 14 Target 15.8: Protect and prevent the extinction of threatened species DHI Brunei was involved in a ‘Private Public Partnership’ event last year. As the key environmental consultant to our client, Hengyi Industries Sdn Bhd, we led the pitcher plant relocation program with a number of other collaborators, including those from the NGO and government sector. Two species of pitcher plants – Nepenthes gracilis and Nepenthes rafflesiana – were relocated to the Berakas Forest Reserve. These species are protected under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) and on the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) Red List of Threatened Species. Target 17.9 Enhance international support to capacity-building to implement the SDGs Through UNEP-DHI, and with the African Ministers’ Council on Water (AMCOW) as the main beneficiary, DHI developed a web-based monitoring and evaluation system, reviewing how well African countries are doing in implementing their policies and reaching their targets for the water sector – including all the water-related SDGs. DHI developed indicators, established the IT-system in AMCOW’s server and built capacity for National Focal Points in African countries to report progress through the system. This will help countries document progress and prioritise areas that need investments and resources. 15 Our company’s key values, mission and vision, clearly supports our CSR initiatives. ASPIRATIONS We have developed a company strategy which clearly supports our CSR initiatives. We will continue our efforts to advance our progress within our four CSR focus areas: Improving the environment, responsible business practices, sharing of knowledge and technology, and community engagement. Being a global company, we see a significant potential in contributing to the sustainable development and social responsibility. We will fully support the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals. The majority of the goals and targets involve water-related issues which are at the core of DHI’s quest and activities. 17 16 DHI THE EXPERT IN WATER ENVIRONMENTS DHI are the first people you should call when you have a tough challenge to solve in a water environment – be it a river, a reservoir, an ocean, a coastline, within a city or a factory. Our knowledge of water environments is second-to-none. It represents more than 50 years of dedicated research and real-life experience from more than 140 countries. We strive to make this knowledge globally accessible to clients and partners by channelling it through our local teams and unique software. Our world is water. So whether you need to save water, share it fairly, improve its quality, quantify its impact or manage its flow, we can help. Our knowledge, combined with our team's expertise and the power of our technology, holds the key to unlocking the right solution. © DHI picture credit © istockphoto.com, shutterstock.com and DHI DHI OFFICES WORLDWIDE Australia Denmark (head office) Malaysia Slovak Republic Austria France New Zealand Spain Brazil Germany Norway Sweden Brunei Hungary Peru United Kingdom Canada India Poland USA China Indonesia Romania Vietnam Czech Republic Italy Singapore For more information visit: www.dhigroup.com
