Aramex 1 Aramex Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 G102-1 2 Aramex Annual Report 2017 Contents 03 About Aramex 06 About Sustainability and This Report 09 Letter from the CEO 11 Our Services 16 Key Non-Financial Goals 19 Governance 28 Our People 37 Our Customers 41 Sustainability 43 Community Engagement 44 Youth Education and Empowerment 46 Entrepreneurship 47 Our Environmental Commitment 48 Sustainability Support, Advocacy and Partnerships 49 Emergency Relief 50 Stakeholder Engagement 74 Compliance 78 Associations and Certifications 81 Reporting Process 85 Disclosures on Management Approaches 88 GRI Content Index 102 UNGC/SDG Index 104 Appendices 111 Independent Assurance Statement 115 Our Performance 3 Aramex Annual Report 2017 01 About Aramex 4 Aramex Annual Report 2017 02 About Aramex About Aramex Since its foundation in 1982, Aramex has Our breadth of services, including International grown to become a global leader in the logistics and Domestic Express Delivery, Freight-forwarding, and transportation industry, recognized for its Logistics and Supply Chain Management, customized and innovative services for businesses e-Commerce, and Record Management extend and consumers. Listed on the Dubai Financial our considerable reach. We remain committed Market (DFM) and headquartered in the UAE, our to further enhancing our global operations and location bridges the path between East and West, pursuing more opportunities for future business enabling our reach to more customers with the growth and advancement. provision of effective logistics solutions worldwide. Our unique asset-light business model and commitment to innovation underpin every strategic decision we make. This has proved highly successful, allowing us to adapt swiftly to challenging market conditions, execute last mile delivery solutions, develop new products and services, and respond quickly to the continual changes in customer preferences. We currently have business operations in over 604 cities across 73 countries worldwide and employ over 17,170 professionals. Factoring in the 40 alliances we have with leading international express and logistics providers, as part of the Global Distribution Alliance (GDA), our network expands to more than 12,000 offices and 66,000 employees across 240 countries. 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, 102-7 5 Aramex Annual Report 2017 02 About Aramex We live in an era where technology transforms Main areas of operation and influences our daily lives more than ever before; as a result, technological innovation is critical to our success. By acquiring or partnering with domestic-focused logistics companies that have strong local networks, we are strategically leveraging technology for better and more efficient last-mile delivery solutions. This approach has significant benefits, and that’s why we consider ourselves a technology-driven enterprise, selling transportation and logistics solutions without owning heavy assets. We also believe that investing in technology in the field of e-Commerce is key to the movement of goods and services efficiently whilst maintaining our market-leading Significant areas of operation position. In order to grow a truly sustainable business it is crucial that we utilize our core competencies to enhance our positive impact as active citizens in the communities in which we operate. Our “Delivering Good” platform is active in over 140 educational, social and environmental projects worldwide, and we have partnered with many international and local organizations dedicated to similar causes. We are proud of the partnerships we have with the communities in which we operate, as well as the contributions to Sustainability coverage their sustainable economic development. To that end, we are actively developing a culture where innovation can thrive. With continuous investment in our people, technology, infrastructure, and the implementation of innovative solutions, we satisfy our customers evolving needs and deliver the maximum value to our stakeholders along with maintaining partnerships with local communities. Algeria China Ghana KSA Mauritius Qatar Tanzania Australia Comoros Great Britain Kurdistan Mayotte Réunion Thailand Azerbaijan Cyprus Hong Kong Kuwait Monaco Seychelles Tunisia Bahrain Czech Republic India Lebanon Morocco Singapore Turkey Bangladesh Egypt Indonesia Libya Nepal Slovakia UAE Bermuda Eritrea Iran Liechtenstein Netherlands South Africa Uganda Botswana Ethiopia Iraq Madagascar New Zealand Sri Lanka UK Bulgaria France Ireland Malaysia Nigeria Sudan Ukraine Cambodia Georgia Jordan Maldives Oman Switzerland USA Canada Germany Kenya Malta Palestine Syria Vietnam 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-45, 102-5, 102-6, 102-7 6 Aramex Annual Report 2017 02 About Sustainability And This Report 7 Aramex Annual Report 2017 02 About Sustainability and This Report About Sustainability and This Report We are pleased to share with you our 8th Integrated Report and 12th Sustainability Report. Evident since our founding, we have continued to lead our sector and the region in sustainability through constantly improving, innovating, and strategizing Now more than ever, our approach. Our core values have always been the we are seeing the world’s leading engine of our sustainability, driving us to invest companies adopt sustainable in, and empower our people, enhance customer experience and encourage innovation and practices and restricting their entrepreneurship, and always opt for socially and business to companies in compliance environmentally responsible practices with those practices. Aramex’s Our sustainability strategy has evolved over proactive approach assures that we the years by adopting emerging best practices are always ahead of international norms in sustainability and by creating new ones. Our and leading the way towards better holistic approach to sustainability is crucial to our business model, integrated into our sustainability outcomes. operations, and guided by our communities and core competencies while remaining aligned with a global sustainable development agenda. Our investments in, and commitment to sustainability help ensure sustainability for our company, our communities, and the planet in the future. This year is the second year in which we are reporting according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. We continue to be pioneers in the transition to these Standards, which we hope will enable us to continue enhancing our sustainability efforts in a more effective, stakeholder-focused and comprehensive manner. In addition to continuing our GRI Standards reporting, we conducted a Total Impact Assessment to measure the total monetary value of all of our impacts, economically, socially and environmentally, and became the first multinational in the MENA region to conduct an expansive externally validated Human Rights Audit of our operations and suppliers. In addition to this, Aramex continues to further support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals with a particular emphasis on UNSDGs 4, 8, 13, and 17. 102-12, 102-46, 102-49, 102-54, 102-50, 412-1, 414-1, 419-1 8 Aramex Annual Report 2017 02 About Sustainability and This Report How We Create Value Our People Our Finances Our Community Our Environment 82 AED 1,464,100,000 Stakeholder 18,572,869 Nationalities Share Capital engagement sessions Liters of fuel 17,170 17.4% 97% 51,446,142 Employees Return on Equity (ROE) Sustainability coverage Kw electricity certified Inputs 17% training center Increase in recycling Business and Operations Generating electricity 4,880 Shipments through our solar farm per employee Values in Amman, Jordan 20% 12,449,000 AED AED 4,404 million 60,000+ Direct Reduced electricity per shipment Employee benefits and Salaries Total Assets beneficiaries *compared to 2012 baseline 64% AED 4,721 million 350+ stakeholders 26% of total employees received Total Revenues attended engagement sessions Reduced fuel per compliance Training Shipment 201-1 ,203-2, 302-1, 302-4 9 Aramex Annual Report 2017 03 Letter from our CEO Letter from our CEO Dear Valued Shareholders, In the 24 years I have been with Aramex, I have never seen technology be as disruptive to business operating models as it has been in the last few years; change is happening at an unprecedented pace, and yet we continue to grow as a company. We ended 2017 with some very strong numbers: a near double-digit growth in our revenue to AED 4,721 million and solid expansion in our bottom line to reach AED 435.4 million. We have achieved such growth because our foresight helped us anticipate change, our innovative culture helped We ended us come up with more creative solutions, and 2017 with some our adaptability helped us to capture rising very strong opportunities and to overcome emerging obstacles numbers: a near across all verticals of the logistics and supply achieved by expanding our capacity, simplifying double-digit growth chain management industry. complex operational processes by upgrading our in our revenue to technology tools, and upskilling our people. It AED 4,721 million International & Domestic Express will also reflect positively on our financials as it and solid expansion Delivering growth will ultimately reduce costs, support margins and in our bottom In 2017, our International Express business grew expand our bottom line. line to reach by an impressive 19% to AED 2,007 million on AED 435.4 the back of the strong growth in cross-border Freight Forwarding, Logistics & Supply Chain million e-commerce. Our Domestic Express business Management – More opportunities to come witnessed a 4% expansion from 2016 to AED 1,022 Our Freight Forwarding business saw a 2% million, thanks in large part to our operations in increase in top-line growth to AED 1,157 million. Africa and Asia-Pacific – which are both promising The expansion was owed to the growth in the oil core markets. and gas business in the GCC, coupled with robust performance in Africa and Asia. Our Logistics E-commerce has been the driver of growth in and Supply Chain Management operations also our Express business for the last few years, performed well. Excluding the impact of currency and we continue to treat this segment as highconversion, particularly from the Egyptian Pound, growth because the outlook is so promising. We this business line would have grown by 6%. believe the exponential growth in regional and international e-commerce volumes will spill into We believe there is significant room to successfully 2018 – and beyond – encouraging us to maintain expand our market share in the B2B segment in the our focus on servicing this sector. coming years. We plan on investing in additional resources and technologies in 2018 to expand our Having said that, as the e-commerce landscape offerings to existing customers and to acquire evolves and e-retailers’ demands from delivery new ones across all continents and all industries. providers changes, so too must the level of service As we build up those capabilities, we will benefit we offer them. This is why in 2018, we want to from cost savings – by eliminating the need to improve our last-mile delivery to achieve a high outsource to a third party – and our acceleration level of service excellence straight through to the doorstep of the package recipient. This will be 102-10, 102-14, 102-15, 102-48, 201-1, 201-2, 203-2, 415-1 10 Aramex Annual Report 2017 03 Letter from our CEO into this business line will reflect positively on our commitment to Universal Human Rights, we top-line by broadening our revenue mix. initiated the region’s first Human and Labor Rights Audit at the corporate and operational levels, Partnerships, alliance and franchising – Focusing applying the highest levels of due diligence by on service excellence local and international axioms. While our core markets the GCC, wider Middle East, Africa and Asia-Pacific will continue to Our people, our pride command the majority of our operating capital, I have had the privilege to work with some of the capital expenditure, and manpower, we are best people across all functions of the company, also focusing on improving our services to and I consider Aramex employees my family. I want other markets, primarily by forging strategic to thank them for their diligent work, innovative partnerships with the best companies in the mind and strong work ethic – collectively they industry. have allowed us to meet our targets. Moving forward, we will reward talent, upskill employees In 2018, we will also actively evaluate and across all functions, and harness a performanceconsider acquisition opportunities that will enable driven culture. I believe that although we are a us to further expand our footprint, improve our technology-driven company, we are also a humanAs part of our capabilities, and enhance our portfolio of product built service provider – and it is mastering this “Delivering lines. Moreover, our geographical expansion in unique blended approach that will ensure we Good” platform, Africa and Asia is proceeding according to plan, deliver service excellence. 2017 saw primarily driven by acquisitions and partnerships tremendous with qualified and competent franchisees. Positioning for the future, today progress in The company has been undergoing a business Sustainability Sustainability – Delivering good for future transformation for the last twelve months. But initiatives. generations today, we are accelerating our transformation, and Aramex continues to be an active corporate citizen we will see changes being reflected both in terms and a leading United Nations Global Compact of our operations and our financial performance. partner. As part of our “Delivering Good” platform, 2017 saw tremendous progress in sustainability The overarching goal of this transformation initiatives. Through our solar projects in Jordan is to achieve and continually surpass a high and the UAE, the introduction of all-electric, level of service excellence. At the heart of emissions-free vehicles, and the LEED certification this transformation is a company-wide digital of our warehouses, we have continued to reduce transformation that will enable us to simplify our Greenhouse Gases (GHG) per shipment from processes across all products and service our 2012 baseline by 31%. In 2018, we plan to offerings. It also includes enhancing our noncontinue investing in clean technologies across operational processes. This will allow us to become our operations and infrastructure, as well as better at what we do, faster at how we do it, and reduce our waste output and expand our recycling more profitable in the long run. initiatives. We will also publish our first-ever “Total Impact Assessment” to measure the total value With the support of our shareholders, I firmly we contributed to our communities through our believe that Aramex will be leaner, stronger, and is operations, partnerships, and initiatives. on a journey to deliver the best experience to all of its stakeholders. Over the past year, we continued to develop effective partnerships with communities, Sincerely, social entrepreneurs, governments, NGOs, and corporations worldwide. Our strategy remains Bashar Obeid in line with the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, focusing on increasing economic growth, access to quality education and fair employment, and taking steps to mitigate climate change and its impacts globally. We also continue to adhere to the United Nations Global Compact by communicating our progress annually. Furthermore, in line with our goal of responsible corporate governance and to live up to our 102-10, 102-12, 102-48, 201-1, 201-2, 412-1 11 Aramex Annual Report 2017 04 Our Services 12 Aramex Annual Report 2017 04 Our Services Our Services International Domestic Express Services Express Services As a global leader in the global logistics and Our Domestic Express service provides nationwide transportation industry, Aramex provides door-to-door delivery of urgent packages, with international door-to-door shipping solutions options of same-day or next-business-day for time-sensitive documents and packages to deliveries, cash-on-delivery as well as package customers across all business sectors. We offer collection and return services. a range of International Express Services to suit clients’ needs in terms of cost and speed, Throughout 2017, we continued to enhance the automatic delivery notifications, proof-of-delivery, technology and navigation tools used by our real-time online tracking updates, as well as a couriers, shifting from handheld scanners to variety of import, export, and customs clearance smartphones powered by new software compatible services. with Android and iOS. Aramex continues to focus on operational As part of our strategy to manage capacity efficiencies through process automation. In through a variable business model, we partnered addition to the recent five Sortation systems up with a number of delivery startups and various installed in the UK, India, and Singapore, 2017 also individuals worldwide to optimize our last-mile saw new implementations in Dubai’s domestic delivery solutions. In 2017, 40% of our global lastoperations and in Dubai international hub. In 2018, mile deliveries were crowdsourced to our delivery we will continue to have initiatives in Kingdom partners. We have also leveraged our investment of Saudi Arabia and Hong Kong to upgrade our in the global addressing system, “what3words” to operations. reach more customers in off-the-grid locations. As we continued to expand our Express network We continue to improve the address capturing across the globe, this year we welcomed new experience for our customers, using both desktop franchisees in Liberia, Gabon, Benin, Mali, Namibia, and mobile mapping tools integrated with global Kazakhstan, and Democratic Republic of the map providers such as “Here” and “what3words”. Congo (DRC or Congo Kinshasa). We also signed Using these interfaces, in addition to the agreements with a number of franchisees, and we “MyAddress” platform launched in 2015, Aramex expect them to be operational in the first quarter customers are able to pinpoint their exact location of 2018. These are Republic of the Congo (Congo – and select a delivery/pickup time when they place Brazzaville), Ivory Coast, Mozambique, and Malawi. their service request. E-Commerce business remains a major strategic Moreover, we have launched our (AI)-enabled focus for Aramex; we will continue to enhance our Chatbot on Facebook Messenger. Named “Aramex delivery and customer service capacities as well Bot”, this feature enables personalized, scalable as our network-serviced destinations across the conversations with customers about shipmentglobe. Our network capacities are continuously related queries and different service offerings. It adjusted to cater for the growth of our e-Commerce provides users with a convenient way to easily find business and we are currently testing innovative the nearest Aramex location, track shipments and new technologies to leverage capacity through a share preferred delivery location. It also enables variable business model. customers in the UAE to schedule a delivery for personalized shipments and e-Commerce parcels. The Chatbot service will soon be available to all Aramex customers across the Middle East. 102-2, 102-10, 203-1 13 Aramex Annual Report 2017 04 Our Services Integrated Freight Logistics, Forwarding Warehousing And Supply Chain Aramex offers all kinds of shipping modes, be Management it Air, Land, Ocean, Rail or any combination. Our services range from port-to-port to full door-todoor solutions for all types of cargo. This is backed by an in-house brokerage service in almost all our Our end-to-end logistics solutions ensure the locations worldwide, and a live tracking system. efficient transfer, storage, and distribution of products, and information throughout the supply In addition to our traditional commodities chain from the moment our customer’s inventory handled, Aramex has developed and launched leaves their suppliers or factories to the point the below verticals and solutions: at which it reaches retailers or end-users. Our logistics centers are strategically located in key • Critical Cargo: Healthcare and Pharma, Aircraft on areas across the GCC, Middle East, North Africa, Ground (AOG) and On-Board Courier (OBC) services. South & West Africa, Western Europe and Asia. Our logistics centers are powered by cutting-edge • Project Cargo: The official launch of our project technology ensuring world-class security and cargo division has had major successes in Break constant real-time visibility. Bulk movement, Project Logistics, and Heavy Lift shipment. Additionally we have been able to offer In 2017, we continued to expand our network of innovative Project Cargo Handling solutions to warehouses with a new logistics facility in Algeria completely manage several high-value project to accommodate the needs of our customers in the cargoes, ensuring timely delivery of our clients’ country, ensuring efficiencies and quality facilities valuable goods with extremely high services at and services. Our logistics operations in Libya minimum competitive costs. and Iran were also launched in 2017, including warehousing and delivery services with the first • Chartering: The launch of a virtual chartering customers on-board in both countries. team and has been able to secure tens of charters across the globe. We also continued to expand our service offering and served industry segments. Building on our • Rail: The introduction of a rail service from China healthcare solutions, we launched hospital to Europe with two stops for Aramex, one in the logistics management services in Saudi Arabia Netherlands and one in Ireland to cover the full EU. this year, which include supply chain services compliant with the specific industry regulations On the technological front, Aramex has launched and best practices. its “unique” Freight Quotation System that enables its salespeople to quote freight globally within Technology has always been a key enabler in minutes. delivering service excellence; we have launched the latest version of our warehouse management In addition, we have started our INTTRA integration system in our Dubai facility, benefiting from the system that would allow us to reduce shipment advanced features on technical and business documentation processes and enhance tracking levels. This upgrade will be planned for other capabilities. logistics centers in 2018. 102-2, 102-10, 203-1, 414-1, 414-2 14 Aramex Annual Report 2017 04 Our Services Healthcare Information Solutions Management Solutions (Infofort) Aramex Healthcare Solutions are tailored to the needs of pharmaceuticals, laboratories, hospitals, InfoFort, a wholly owned Aramex subsidiary, is research centers, and other health institutions. the leading Data and Information Management Solutions provider in the Middle East and Africa. The solutions offer a wide range of logistics and InfoFort helps its clients, from SMEs to Fortune 500 transportation services that are compliant with companies, to secure, manage, digitize, automate, industry and global standards; including preserved and extract value out of their data. Gartner temperature control, storage and handling, as well recognizes InfoFort as a “Cool Vendor” in its “Cool as the training of the employees managing the Vendors in Emerging Markets, 2016” report. service. InfoFort provides a complete transformative Through Healthcare Solutions, Aramex maintains solution that allows customers to move from the quality of the content during transit from the paper to digital content management; structure moment our customer’s inventory leaves the origin their information; capture, process and validate site, to the point at which it reaches the end data; automate customized workflows; and deploy destination site or end-user. electronic and digital signatures using smart and secure mobile technologies for easier accessibility, In 2017, Aramex implemented several initiatives to compliance, and business continuity. drive the growth of these specialized solutions: InfoFort has continued its digital transformation 1. Developed global healthcare SOPs compliant strategy and added more vertical and industry with international requirements and regulations. specific solutions such as, insurance claims 2. Created a control healthcare tower to service its management, VAT Compliance, accounts payable, global customers and monitor compliance with the and others. In addition to further developing its SOP. Business Intelligence, Analytics and Visualization 3. Introduced live temperature monitoring and solutions that enable customers to connect, tracking services. interact with and analyze data, these solutions 4. Offered a wide range of temperature-controlled allow end users to make critical business decisions packaging. by automatically identifying relationships through 5. Identified global healthcare focused partners intuitive dashboards and reports. that are also compliant with global healthcare regulation to ensure end-to-end service fulfillment InfoFort’s mission is to lead the innovation in to customers. digital transformation solutions that enable 6. Launched two new services, Aramex Envoy and organizations in emerging markets to automate, Hospital Logistics Management in the Middle East. digitize, and modernize. This is driven by a higher 7. Collaborated with the Arab Innovation Network purpose to enable and contribute to better Annual Conference (AIN) in launching a competition information governance and economic progress to develop a special type of packaging for our and growth through unlocking the value and market. The competition was successful, and are potential of data. currently studying the possibility of manufacturing the presented solution. The various services offered under Aramex Healthcare meet the requirements for the following business segments: Diagnostics, Pharmaceuticals, Clinical Trials and Temperature Controlled Warehousing. 102-2, 102-10, 203-1, 419-1 15 Aramex Annual Report 2017 04 Our Services Shop & Ship Shop & Ship (S&S) is a leading international online shipping solution that was created by Aramex in 2000 designed to make global online shopping more convenient and accessible to consumers from all over the world. Once registered to the service, members receive 24 physical addresses in Australia, Canada, China, Egypt, France, Georgia, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Lebanon, Malaysia, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Thailand, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, UK, and USA. Shop & Ship then delivers global online shopping efficiently and hassle-free. The service is currently available in over 80 cities. Shop & Ship continued its global expansion in 2017 by launching multiple shipping origins and pay shipping destinations to further cement the brand’s position fees per as a ‘global shopping’ enabler. It expanded its 100 grams presence into major points of origin such as only Australia, Georgia, Indonesia, Egypt, Jordan, and Lebanon. Moreover, the service was also made available in several new destinations. Shop & Ship announced a new annual membership plan, FLEX, in 2017. FLEX is the new flexible means to shop and ship from any of the 24 S&S origins around the world. Members now get the flexibility to pay shipping fees per 100 grams only plus loads of amazing benefits and great value for money. In terms of sponsorship, Shop & Shop collaborated once again with “Red Bull Car Park Drift”, providing unparalleled support to the organizer and all drifters. Starting from and ending in Kuwait, the competition was held across several countries in the MENA region, passing through Kuwait, Egypt, Lebanon, Mauritius, Bahrain, Tunisia, Jordan, Oman, Morocco, Qatar, and UAE. 102-2, 102-10, 203-1 16 Aramex Annual Report 2017 05 Key NonFinancial Goals 17 Aramex Annual Report 2017 05 Key Non-Financial Goals Key NonFinancial Goals Our Our People Customers Human Resources Management System Deliveries • Expand the adoption of our HRMS in the rest of • Optimize services to ensure timely deliveries the network • Expand Human Resources Shared Services (HRSS) Technology across more countries in the network • Continue investment in service delivery technology Code of Conduct Training Service Excellence • Ethical business and compliance training across network • Expand customer service resources • Upgrade our current customer service policies Implement Online Education Practices and procedures • Expand and improve the on-line learning • Upgrade our contact center audititng system management system at Aramex • Conduct customer service training for all frontline employers Human and Labor Rights • Expand the Human and Labor Rights Audit to other Customer Engagement stations • Upgrade our social media engagement and reporting Health and Safety Program to support customers in sustainability Training • Design and implement a program to support our • Continue the delivery of job specific health and customers in their sustainability practices/reporting safety along with e-learning development and enhancment for safety Technology • Continue investment in service delivery technology Polices and Procedures • Update emergency evacuation plans and conduct Supply Chain emergency drills • Update Health, Safety, and Security related Support local business policies and manuals • Increase startup and SME support and continue to source from local suppliers and SMEs across Performance our network • Reduce accidents per shipment by 10% • Reduce lost time frequency rate by 10% Ethical procurement and sustainable supply chain • Reduce lost time injuries per Million Shipment by 10% • Continue updating and strengthening our supplier • Introduce the monthly health and safety management and pre-qaulification processes reporting system based on shipments • Expand Human and Labor Rights, Environmental • Increase level of safety awareness and compliance Compliance, as well as general compliance with by introducing a number of safety campaigns international and local laws and regulations • Re-implementat annual Security Risk assessments • Conduct a Human and Labor Rights audit and grade facilities according to assessment scoring of 3 suppliers 102-15, 102-31 18 Aramex Annual Report 2017 05 Key Non-Financial Goals Sustainability Our Community Beneficiaries • Partner with international and national initiatives to increase number of beneficiaries by 5% compared to 2017 target Entrepreneurship • Increase the number of startups and SMEs supported by 5% Our Environment Internal Awareness • Expand the delivery of the environment awareness training program to 20% of our operations by 2020 Materials • Expand waste management and recycling systems across stations Performance • Conduct carbon footprint analysis with a third party Corporate Activism Engagement • Conduct 4 sessions of stakeholder dialogue Reach • Expand corporate activism into emerging markets where we have expanded Education and Empowerment • Increase the number of beneficiaries by 5% 102-12, 102-31 19 Aramex Annual Report 2017 06 Governance 419-1 20 Aramex Annual Report 2017 06 Governance Governance Our Governance ensures that we have a Aramex’s nine-member board of directors strives transparent and effective operational and to cement the company’s position as a leader business structure. This structure ensures that in corporate governance by implementing and responsibilities and rights of those within Aramex upholding its Charter and Corporate Governance are communicated, maintained and controlled. Guidelines. Four of the Board members (44%), This allows for smooth and transparent corporate including its Chairman, are independent nonoperations, ensuring accountability and keeping executive directors, five members are nonstakeholder’s rights intact. independent non-executive directors. The current Aramex Board of Directors consists of the following members: Ms. Christine Mr. Abdullah Holgate M. Mazrui Vice Chairman Chairman and Director Representing Australia Post Transaction Services Pty Ltd Mr. Fadi Mr. Mohamed Ghandour Alabbar Founder and Director Director Mr. Hussein Mr. Ahmed Hachem Al Badi Director Director Mr. Mohamed Mr. Ayed Al Suwaidi Al Jeaid Director Director Mr. Ramez Shehadi Director 102-18, 102-22, 102-23, 405-1 21 Aramex Annual Report 2017 06 Governance Composition of the highest governance body NationalMember Position Independence non-execs Gender Age Tenure Other Commitments ity Chairman (2 Company boards) Director Mr. Abdullah M. NonSince In(2 Company boards) Chairman Independent Male 65 Emirati Mazrui Executive ception Director (1 Council board) Director (1 Initiative board) Ms. Christine Chairman Holgate, Vice (1 Council board) Representing Chairman NonNonDirector Australia Post Female 54 2017 British and Independent Executive (1 Company board) Transaction Director CEO Services Pty (1 Company) Ltd Chairman Mr. Mohamed NonNon(3 Company boards) Director Male 61 2017 Emirati Alabbar Independent Executive Director (2 Company boards) Director Founder Mr. Fadi NonNon(2 Company boards) and Male 58 2005 Jordanian Ghandour Independent Executive Director and CEO Director (1 Company) Mr. Hussein NonNonDirector Director Male 48 2011 Canadian Hachem Independent Executive (1 Company board) Chairman Mr. Ahmed NonSince In(1 Company board) Director Independent Male 61 Emirati Al-Badi Executive ception Director (2 Company boards) Mr. Ayed Al NonNonSince InDirector Male 61 Saudi None Jeaid Independent Executive ception Mr. Mohamed NonDirector Independent Male 35 2016 Emirati None Al Suwaidi Executive Mr. Ramez NonDirector Independent Male 46 2017 Canadian None Shehadi Executive 102-18, 102-19, 102-22, 102-23, 405-1 22 Aramex Annual Report 2017 06 Governance Our Board selection process involves nominations • The position of Chairman of the Board of by shareholders and other Board members, Directors and the Company’s Chief Executive and strictly adheres to the Board’s Charter and Officer may not be held by the same person. Corporate Governance Guidelines. The process also ensures that all candidates are highly-qualified • The Board is responsible for reviewing the individuals who possess the necessary knowledge requisite skills and characteristics of new Board and expertise of material matters pertinent to members, as well as the composition of the Board the company and its operations. In the event that as a whole. This assessment will include members’ potential conflicts of interest arise, they are selfqualification, as well as consideration of diversity, declared by the members of the Board, who are then age, skills, and experience in the context of the excused from related discussions. The Chairman needs of the Board. and members are also entitled to identify potential conflicts of interest involving other members. Below is a description of the desirable characteristics that the Board should evaluate Aramex governance guidelines were structured when considering candidates for nomination in accordance with The Chairman of Authority’s as Directors. The Board will review such Board of Directors’ Resolution No. (7 R.M) of 2016 characteristics at least annually and perform any concerning the Standards of Institutional Discipline appropriate changes thereto. and Governance of Public Shareholding Companies to assist the Board and its committees in the exercise Personal Characteristics of their responsibilities. Our structure includes the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, the Audit • Integrity and Accountability: High ethical Committee and Strategy Committee. standards, integrity and strength of character in his or her personal and professional dealings, and a willingness to act on and be accountable for his or Board of Directors her decisions. Selection Process • Informed Judgment: Demonstrate intelligence, wisdom and thoughtfulness in decision-making. Demonstrate a willingness to thoroughly discuss Board of Directors issues, ask questions, express reservations and voice dissent. • The General Assembly should elect members of the Board of Directors by secret ballot. The • Financial Literacy: Ability to read and understand majority of the members of the Board of Directors balance sheets, income and cash flow statements. must be UAE nationals or, if approved by the Ability to understand financial ratios and other Securities and Commodities Authority, holders of indices for evaluating Company performance. a Gulf Corporation Council nationality, and must not be convicted of a crime of honor unless the • Mature Confidence: Assertive, responsible and competent authorities have pardoned him/her. supportive in dealing with others. Respect for others, openness to others’ opinions and the • The Board of Directors elects from amongst its willingness to listen. members a Chairman and a Vice Chairman who will act on behalf of the Chairman in his absence. The • High Standards: History of achievements that Chairman must be a UAE national. reflect high standards for himself or herself and others. • At least one third of the Directors shall be Independent Directors, while the majority of Directors shall be Non-Executive Directors who shall have experience and technical skills to the best interest of the company. • In all cases, elected Non-Executive Directors shall be able to dedicate enough time and attention to the Board their directorship of the Board of Directors must not conflict with any of their other interests. 102-5, 102-10, 102-18, 102-19, 102-22, 102-23, 102-26, 102-27, 102-28, 102-31, 102-32, 102-33, 405-1 23 Aramex Annual Report 2017 06 Governance Core Competencies • Awareness and Ongoing Education: Possess, or be willing to develop, a broad knowledge • Accounting and Finance: Experience in financial of both critical issues affecting the company accounting and corporate finance, especially with (including industry–, technology– and market– respect to trends in debt and equity markets. specific information), and the Director’s role Familiarity with internal financial controls. and responsibilities (including the general legal principles that guide Board members). • Business Judgment: Record of making good business decisions and evidence that duties as • Other Commitments: In light of other existing a Director will be discharged in good faith and commitments, ability to perform adequately as a in a manner that is in the best interests of the Director, including preparation for and attendance company. at Board meetings and annual meetings of the shareholders, and a willingness to do so. • Management: Experience in corporate management. Understanding of management Team and Company Considerations trends in general and in the areas in which the company conducts its business. • Balancing the Board: Contribute talent, skills and experience that the Board needs as a team to • Crisis Response: Ability and time to perform supplement existing resources and provide talent during periods of both short-term and prolonged for future needs. crises. • Diversity: Contribute to the Board in a way that • Industry/Technology: Unique experience and can enhance perspective and experience through skills in an area in which the company conducts its diversity in gender, ethnic background, geographic business including science, manufacturing and origin, and professional experience (public, private, technology relevant to the company. and non-profit sectors). Nomination of a candidate should not be based solely on these factors. • International Markets: Experience of global markets, international issues and foreign business Board Committees practices. • The Board has established the following standing • Leadership: Understand and possess the skills committees: the Strategy Committee, the Audit to motivate highperforming, talented managers Committee and the Nomination and Remuneration and demonstrate a history of so doing. Committee. The Board may, from time to time, establish additional committees as necessary or • Strategy and Vision: Skills and capacity to appropriate. provide strategic insight and direction by encouraging innovation, conceptualizing key • Committee members are appointed by the trends, evaluating strategic decisions and Board. Consideration should be given to rotating challenging the company to sharpen its vision. committee members periodically, although this is not mandatory. Commitment to the Company • Each committee has its own charter; these • Time and Effort: Willing to commit the time and charters set forth the purposes, goals and energy necessary to satisfy the requirements of responsibilities of the committees as well as Board and Board Committee membership. Expected committee structure, operations and reporting to to attend and participate in all Board meetings and the Board. Board Committee meetings of which they are a member. Encouraged to attend all annual meetings • Committees are formed of not less than three of shareholders. A willingness to rigorously prepare Non-Executive Directors, at least two of which are prior to each meeting and actively participate in Independent Directors, including one as Committee the meeting. Willingness to make himself or herself Chairman. The Chairman of the Board of Directors available to management upon request to provide may not be a member of these committees. advice and counsel. 102-5, 102-10, 102-18, 102-19, 102-22 ,102-23, 102-26 , 102-28, 102-31, 102-32, 102-33, 405-1 24 Aramex Annual Report 2017 06 Governance In order to avoid conflict of interest Securities and Commodities Authority (SCA). The within the Board Committee assists the Board in fulfilling their supervisory responsibilities for the independence • Director tasks shall include ensuring of Board Members and in monitoring the integrity that priority is given to the company’s and of human resources processes at Aramex. The shareholders’ interests in cases of conflict of Committee also monitors policies relating to interest. remunerations, benefits, incentives and bonus salaries to the board members and employees • Any Board member having an interest in and ensures that remunerations and privileges conflict with that of the company, in respect granted to the executive management are rational of certain transactions presented to the and proportionate with the performance of the Board for consideration and approval, shall Company. Additionally, the Committee determines have to report it to the Board. Such report the required core competencies at executive must be documented in the meeting minutes, management level and the corresponding selection whereby the Director concerned is excluded criteria. from participating in voting on the decision in question and their exclusion is to be explicitly documented in the meeting minutes. • In all cases, elected Non-Executive Directors shall be able to dedicate enough time and attention to the Board their directorship of the Board of Directors must not conflict with any of their other interests. • Directors must notify the Chairman or the Board Secretary in a timely fashion before accepting an invitation to serve on the Board of another company. This prior notice is to Board meets at least allow discussion with the Chairman and / or the four times a year Board Secretary to review whether such other service will interfere with the Director’s service on the company’s Board, or create an actual or apparent conflict of interest for the Director. • Any matters related to conflict of interest and / or related party are documented and reported in the Annual Corporate Governance Report which is published on the company’s website. This report is also reviewed by SCA (Securities and Commodities Authority of Dubai Financial Market) and published on their website. The Board meets at least four times a year in accordance with the Corporate Governance Code of the Securities and Commodities Authority (SCA) and the Commercial Companies Law, and shareholders are entitled to raise issues with the Board during the Annual General Meeting. Three standing committees – the Audit Committee, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Strategy Committee – have their own charters that stipulate their responsibilities and tasks. The Nomination and Remuneration Committee meets at least once a year. This is in compliance with the corporate governance code of the 102-5, 102-18, 102-19, 102-24, 102-25, 102-26, 102-28, 102-31, 102-32, 102-33, 405-1 25 Aramex Annual Report 2017 06 Governance The Board of Directors will: sustainability initiatives or targets prior to their implementation, in accordance with the Board’s • Review, evaluate and approve, on a regular code of conduct. basis, long-term plans for the company Furthermore, Aramex continues to engage with • Review, evaluate and approve the company’s top management and the Board of Directors on budget and forecasts. our sustainability strategy and related activities. Senior management members, along with the • Review, evaluate and approve major resource Chief Sustainability Officer and dedicated allocations and capital investments in sustainability team, continue to plan and manage accordance with the company’s Delegation of partnerships with the public and private sectors Authority Matrix. and the community in order to expand and improve Aramex’s sustainability activities, impact and • Review the financial and operating results of reach. Moreover, active stakeholder engagement the company. through consultations and ongoing meetings ensures that our activities are in line with our • Director tasks shall include: to participate stakeholders’ needs. in the meetings of the board of directors and to provide independent opinion on strategic The Board sets the strategy for risk management matters, policy, performance, accountability, and due diligence procedures related to economic, resources, basic appointments and activity environmental and social impacts. These criteria. strategies are then delegated to the team for implementation. Through periodic updates from • The company shall work on implementing an the CSO, internal audit and compliance team, environmental and social policy to benefit the Board reviews the sustainability strategy local communities. and recommends amendments or changes where needed. As part of Aramex’s sustainability strategy, and in keeping with our commitment to being Moreover, Aramex Executive management reviews a responsible corporate citizen, our CEO, Mr. and approves the annual sustainability report. Bashar Obeid, regularly briefs the Board on the Since 2013, we have initiated the structuring of company’s strategic stakeholder approach, as a risk management function with major focus on well as its sustainability initiatives and results, compliance risk; in addition, the company is able to and reports on how these elements relate to rely on risk assessments prepared by the internal overall corporate performance. Aramex strives to audit function. continuously pursue sustainability at a corporate level, and implements internal policies related to the environment, responsible procurement, and whistle-blowing. Strategic sustainability-related decisions are discussed at Board meetings, and Board approval is required for all major Environmental and social policy Review financial and operating results Review, evaluate and approve Participate in the meetings of the board of Directors 102-5, 102-10, 102-18, 102-19, 102-24, 102-26, 102-28, 102-31, 102-32, 102-33, 405-1 26 Aramex Annual Report 2017 06 Governance Precautionary Principle directors. For the year ending in December 31, 2017, the company’s shareholders approved the Controls are defined and built into a process, Board’s recommendation that directors would product or system from the outset, and are receive 4,410,000 AED in total. In order to designed to ensure that risk mitigation is carried automatically succeed in placing an item on the out effectively. Board’s agenda, a shareholder must possess a holding of at least 10% of the company’s shares. Most controls are designed to prevent the risk event actually occurring. Alternatively, controls Aramex is listed on the Dubai Financial Market may be designed to identify and highlight that a (DFM), and complies with the Securities and risk event has occurred, or to help limit the severity Commodities Authority’s (SCA) Corporate of its impact. Governance Regulations. Furthermore, building on our commitment to transparency, we have During a risk assessment, the effectiveness of produced a governance report in compliance with individual controls and groups of existing controls the SCA, which is available upon request. is evaluated. This helps form the assessment of the likelihood of a risk event occurring as well as As a member of the transportation and logistics its impact(s), should it occur. community, Aramex complies with all necessary regulations related to the industry. These include Where action is deemed necessary (i.e. to avoid, stipulations set out by local and international reduce or transfer/share the risk), an appropriate regulators covering the handling of hazardous action plan is established. material, and the accuracy of labeling and information regarding our services. This action plan documents the assignment of specific actions to individuals, with agreed target dates for completion. Action plan progress is monitored centrally and We strive to the status of pending and completed actions is ensure that the impact reported regularly to senior management. of our services on all stakeholders is consistently Completion of an action should lead to a reassessment of a risk (although, in the case of the positive, and that any negative introduction of new controls, it may be necessary impact we may have is reduced to allow a period of time for sufficient evidence to an absolute minimum to be compiled on the effectiveness of those new for example, we are working controls). tirelessly to reduce our carbon footprint. In line with the Account Ability AA1000 principle of inclusivity, shareholders and employees are encouraged to provide input via the whistle blowing mechanism offered through the company’s We incorporated ethical business training into our intranet. Our whistle-blowing policy, implemented induction program for the first time in 2011, and to emphasize Aramex’s commitment to have continued to provide further training to every transparency, ensures discrepancies are reported employee in the company. We view our training and dealt with promptly to ensure ethical business regime as an ongoing, continuous process, and practices and to protect employees. While the intend to increase the frequency of our programs Board does not generally have direct contact for existing employees. with employees, it remains fully appraised of their opinions and concerns through the feedback During 2017, Aramex did not face processes offered by the Aramex system. any anti-competition or anti-trust Each year the company’s shareholders receive legal actions. the Board’s recommendation regarding the remuneration to be paid to the company’s 102-5, 102-11, 102-18, 102-19, 102-24, 102-25, 102-26, 102-28, 102-30, 102-31, 102-32, 102-33, 102-35, 102-36, 206-1, 405-1, 419-1 27 Aramex Annual Report 2017 06 Governance The internal audit function devises a three-year • The internal audit is an independent, objective internal audit plan to cover the network as a whole assurance and consulting activity designed to add based on a risk assessment that is approved by the value and improve Aramex’s operations. It helps Audit Committee. The audits range from financial Aramex to accomplish its objectives by bringing a to operational, information technology, physical systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and security and other areas that prove to have improve the effectiveness of risk management, identified inherent risk. Although not responsible control and governance processes. for the detection of fraud, the internal audit function is sensitive towards lack of segregation • The scope of internal auditing encompasses, but of duties and other fraud indicators through the is not limited to, the examination and evaluation aforementioned assurance engagements. of the adequacy and effectiveness of Aramex’s governance, risk management and internal controls Aramex policy dictates that the company shall not process, as well as the quality of performance in accept any funds from governments or political carrying out assigned responsibilities to achieve parties, and no such funds were received during Aramex’s stated goals and objectives. 2017; neither did the company lend its support to any political party or movement. • The internal audit function continuously follows up with management with regards to the • The internal audit function is responsible for implementation of the agreedupon action plans reporting critical concerns to the Audit Committee to resolve the findings, issues and concerns of the of the Board through quarterly reporting. In 2017, internal audit. all critical and major issues were reported to the Audit Committee, and were adequately covered • The internal audit function reports on a quarterly by management action plans for their prompt and basis on the status of management’s action plan effective resolution. implementation. • The Audit Committee of the Board will report the activities and findings of the internal audit function to the Board of Directors. The internal audit function sets out a three-year internal audit plan to cover the network as a whole based on a risk assessment that is approved by the Audit Committee. 102-5 , 102-18, 102-19, 102-26, 102-28, 102-30, 413-1, 415-1 28 Aramex Annual Report 2017 07 Our People 29 Aramex Annual Report 2017 07 Our People Our People Empowering People HR Activities in 2017 Our New Goal and Performance Management system went live globally in December 2017 giving The year 2017 was bursting with successful our managers and employees the necessary tools milestones for HR relating to the implementation to develop goals instantly with recommendations of new SAP SuccessFactors & SAP Payroll systems. from the Goal Library of more than 500 SMART (Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Realistic, and In addition to this, we established our in-house HR Timely) objectives. Coupled with the implementaShared Services Center. Moreover, we engaged HR tion of the Continuous Performance Management, personnel across the network in establishing 2018 managers are given tools to follow up on their Workforce planning activity. teams’ objectives, address changes and challenges in real time instead of waiting until the end of year HR Systems appraisal. The latest HR direction is moving beyond automatWe successfully implemented the unified Payroll ing processes, reducing costs, and complying with in United Arab Emirates while rolling it across building value-based relationships with every memthe network starting from January 2018 for KSA ber of the workforce at all levels of the business. and Jordan, which will simplify and increase HR operation efficiency while leveraging on Hardware Our aim is to empower every manager and leader efficiency with better visibility on global at all levels to manage his or her human resources employees view. within the best practice of the industry and operating culture. We are seeing HR not as a “system Years of Service of records” but as the core where the organization 1-5 comes together to transform how we at Aramex Years manage our business through our people to achieve 6 10 Years our goals and objectives in a successful manner. 49.8% In May 2017 we had all countries live on Employee Central (part of SAP Success Factor module) giving Aramex the opportunity to manage its HR admin19.5% istration locally while supporting the business Less than globally with localized compliance. 1 year 11 15 16.8% Years 9% In October 2017, we also went live with a global recruitment and applicant tracking system across the network, giving us accessibility and visibility 0.5% 1% on talents all over the globe. 25+ Years 21-25 Years Top Management Male Female 87% 13% 102-8, 201-3, 401-1, 404-3 30 Aramex Annual Report 2017 07 Our People Workforce Planning This new interactive learning platform enables learners to manage their own learning, and develop The Global HR team liaised with all HR personnel themselves in a self-driven pursuit. In addition, across the network on setting a Workforce Plan the LMS facilitates the role of the manager to for 2018 that includes strategic guidance and request and recommend development for their organizational operational plan to be capable of team members, and provides a friendly and papersupporting Aramex’s 2018 vision of growth through free platform for our learning teams to record and capitalizing on the diversity of a global workforce. manage learning in their stations. This activity also determined what combinations Leadership & Management of skill sets and knowledge are required to achieve Training Menu our objectives. The Global Learning Team has also designed 20 Human Resources Shared Services brand new Management Courses as well as a series (HRSS) of other development programs for non-managers. Our courses are mapped to an international level. Delivering services through integrated, multifunctional teams co-located in service Furthermore, we delivered courses to the lines. Each service line carries out transactional Leadership teams in the Customer Service and processes, covering all the steps associated with a Contact Centers among others courses conducted particular type of HR service in a streamlined and in the regions. timely manner. Leadership Development with The PRO, Payroll & HR Helpdesk have been Singularity University superseded by the following service lines covering Onboarding, Separation, benefits, entitlements, In July 2017, we had 31 members of the Aramex allowances and government relations: Pay & Senior Leadership Team who completed an ExpoBenefits, HR Administration, Onboarding & nential Leadership Program with the Singularity Separation and Government Relations. University in Silicon Valley, California, US. The program, which focused on futuristic businesses HRSS now entirely covers the UAE and KSA and exponential technologies, took place on NASA and there is a plan to expand services to other premises and aimed at helping our leaders in fosCountries in 2018. tering the corporate innovation journey. Learning & Development Aramex Orientation Re-Brand In 2017, Aramex adopted a visionary forward thinkThe new Aramex Orientation Program has been ing and technologically driven approach towards designed with an approach of focusing more on learning. With the organization’s strategic direction role-specific training. This structured onboarding towards the promotion and adoption of technology, program is designed to help employees understand Aramex has invested heavily in creating up-to date company’s purpose, mission and values through a blended learning solutions for all its employees. smooth transition into the Aramex workplace. The program also uses a blended learning methodology, Female training accounted which makes it easier and less time consuming for for 65% of all training hours our training teams to facilitate. in Aramex. The new content and structure of this onboarding Learning Management System program is scheduled for delivery in January 2018. In its mission to move learning from a traditional Gender approach to a more blended just-in-time learning mindset, Aramex implemented “My Learning”, which is the an internal comprehensive Learning Male Female 83% 17% Management System accommodated to host LYNDA online modules, classroom training, quizzes, webinars, articles, and learning videos. 404-1, 404-2 31 Aramex Annual Report 2017 07 Our People E-Learning As a result of this event, the Learning Community across the network has become more engaged We are pleased to report that the usage of and proactive in sharing their learning journey and E-Learning has increased considerably and can adopting best practices from each other. A series report that in 2017 our LYNDA platform has had: of training and development activities have been scheduled to take us forward in 2018. Total active users: 490 Total Hours viewed: 1,208 Learning Hours Learning Team Ethos Videos Viewed: 19,978 Certificate of completion: 511 courses The Learning Team is committed to encouraging and fostering a collaborative pull approach towards These numbers indicate a high user adoption rate learning, with the primary focus of meeting and a great return on investment. We will continue customer needs. to encourage the use of our online platforms to support our employees for a seamless learning Our initiatives aim to continue facilitating journey. knowledge sharing, improving employee engagement and creating a culture of learning. Learning Summit & Train the Trainer With this new approach for learning and Aramex hosted a Global Learning Summit and Train development, Aramex is nurturing the learning the Trainer with all trainers across the network in culture by empowering managers to deliver August 2017. The aim of this event was to re-align training and by giving all stakeholders the all learning teams across the globe on standards tools required to take their businesses forward. of learning and our priorities moving forward. The Our continuous investment in the latest event included a 3-day Train the Trainer of the digital technology platforms demonstrate our Success Factors Learning Management System, commitment to upskill our employees and build on and was extremely beneficial in terms of exchange their capabilities. and peer learning. E-learning Learning Summit & train the trainer Learning Team Ethos 102-8, 202-2, 401-1, 405-1 32 Aramex Annual Report 2017 07 Our People Age Expats vs Locals Age Group above 64 Expat Local 0.3% 42% Age Group 58% 51 64 Age Group below 21 0.9% Age Group 41 50 Top Management Local vs Expats 16% 38% Expat Local 52% 48% 39% Nationality Age Group 21 30 India 20% Egypt 15% Age Group 31 40 Jordan 10% South Africa 8% Pakistan 8% Other 40% Regions Europe & North America 5% Far East & India 10% GCC & Levant 56% Africa 29% 102-8, 202-2, 401-1, 405-1 33 Aramex Annual Report 2017 07 Our People The Aramex Innovation Center Occupational Health and Safety (RedLab): Aramex believes that providing a healthy working RedLab continues to provide a platform, resources environment and encouraging our employees to and support for innovation within Aramex. Since keep themselves healthy throughout their careers its launch in 2014, with the aim of leveraging is not only a duty but also a value for the company. our collective resources to bring innovative ideas to life, the RedLab team has received an We are highly committed to continuously abundant amount of ideas from employees, with a reviewing the risk analysis for all our activities significant amount explored and tested. and processes, understanding that a complete knowledge of activity risks is the most important Alongside the Intrapreneurship program, we way to keep our people safe. Most of these have expanded the scope of work to include other initiatives are designed to increase awareness, a streams including: proactive and positive attitude, and a behavioral change to achieve a safer work environment. Research and development to explore emerging technologies that are expected to have an impact Throughout the year, our efforts focused on on the logistics industry such as Block Chain and promoting awareness on health and the prevention 3D printing and defining potential applications and of illnesses. There were no reported cases of opportunities. occupational illness affecting employees working in our facilities in 2017. Open Innovation: In addition to fostering internal innovation, we launched an open innovation During the year we continued to develop our competition to exploit the external knowledge of corporate health programs by conducting external University students, alongside hosting the winning medical screening of employees by approved students from Egypt in an internship program to medical providers within the ME region. This work on developing their solution for the business made good progress towards our long-term health innovation challenge. improvements goals. Innovation Centres: Aramex Innovation centers are part of REDLAB strategy to build collaborative environment and spaces in key technology hubs and business areas. We are working on establishing the first Aramex innovation center in Amman, which is expected to launch in 2018. Intrapreneurship program Research Innovation Centres and development Open Innovation 102-30, 403-1 34 Aramex Annual Report 2017 07 Our People In 2017, we worked on strengthening and launching distance, weather conditions, route condition, vehicle a number of initiatives, and are proud to see condition, means of communication, driver alertness, improvements in our performance indicators. and importantly the number of hours slept within the last 24 hours. If the evaluation of the trip is at minimal We have established a monthly communications risk, the Journey Manager can approve the trip and if results at high risk, the Operation Manager has to package to reinforce the safety messages using approve the trip by adding appropriate measures different media platforms, including posters and required to bring the trip level to acceptable risk. cartoons to continue to raise awareness throughout the company. • Pre-trip briefing: The Journey Manager has to hold a pre-trip briefing with drivers discussing the cargo, point • Site Specific Induction Program: Aramex is of loading / unloading, selection of route, potential committed to ensuring that all staff and contractors driving hazards, setting estimated time of arrival by receive adequate information, instruction, training, considering break time, and speed limit and transit and supervision to enable them to work with minimum checkpoints. These briefings are documented with the risk to their own or other people’s health and safety. point of discussion held with the drivers. A person must have a site-specific induction before starting any kind of work at Aramex. It is important • Post-trip analyses: Upon completion of each Oil to make ensure that people are aware of the specific and Gas sector journey, the GPS team will extract a procedures and rules for the workplace. drivers HSE report for that specific trip and the HSE representative will analyze the trip considering the • Behavioral Based Safety Program: Behavioral journey’s risk factors such as over speeding, unobservation is a tool used to improve safety authorized stops, adherence to break schedules etc., performance and enhance employee engagement. A and will develop a plan to improve driver behavior. Behavior Based Safety program is intended to enable company employees to record safety observations, • Permit-to-work System: All non-routine work and high most importantly, halting work that is unsafe. risk work activities such as mechanical lifting, working The observation report card can also be used for at height carried out by Aramex staff and all works reporting Near Miss, Hazard ID, and Health, safety and carried out by contractors are subject to obtain a work Environmental events. permit system by providing the method statement of the specific tasks. HSE representatives evaluate the • HSE Recognition program: Based on the observations risks involved in each task and if the risk are controlled reported using the Observation Report Card / and acceptable the permits to carry out the task is Suggestions, staff are recognized based on the approved. This will ensure that all tasks carried out by suggestions and critical observations reported which an Aramex facility is safely handled. could result in incidents. This program aims to promote HSE culture within the company. • HSE Alerts & Circulars: HSE department circulates HSE alerts and circulars based on any incidents reported • Health screening: Employee health screening is regardless of how minor it is. These incidents are used to describe a range of checks and tests that help investigated and the corrective actions and preventive identify risks to health and improve wellbeing among measures are circulated among the staff to ensure such staff. They have the potential to benefit both employees incidents are prevented from recurrence. and the organizations they work for. They offer lasting benefits to employees. • Workplace air quality and noise monitoring: To comply with local regulations, workplace air quality • Journey Management: A Journey Management Plan is and noise measurements are monitored in order to typically a set process that is followed for planning and avoid workplace occupational diseases. undertaking road transport journeys in compliance with HSE requirements, with the goal of arriving safely. At Aramex, the trucks used for oil and gas sector have to comply with Journey Management standard. Scheduled journeys are planned carefully to avoid night driving and those times of day when falling asleep is most likely. This program will also ensure compliance to local legal restrictions on driving time and distances. • Journey authorization for ONG Trucks: All trucks utilized for Oil and Gas sector and land transportation have to go through an appropriate journey authorization form evaluating the level of risk by considering the 102-8, 102-30, 403-1 35 Aramex Annual Report 2017 07 Our People First Aid All significant incidents without lost time, accidents with lost time and relevant near A trained first aider can save lives. To ensure misses are investigated. The level and extent that first aid can be administered in the case of the investigation reflect the seriousness or of a medical emergency, 5% of our employees potential impact of the event. Suitable processes are qualified first aiders who hold a nationally and criteria (e.g., risk/potential consequences, recognized certification in first aid. learning potential) are put in place to ensure that investigations are carried out adequately. All near-miss incidents could have led to someone being injured. It is our aim to investigate every Despite overall satisfactory results in 2017, there single one of these incidents and ensure that is always room for improvement. Our goal in 2018 preventive initiatives are put in place to prevent is to avoid any type of incident. With enhanced recurrence. In 2017, our hazard/ observation standards and even more commitment, we strive reporting was noticeably weak, with this we aim to continuously improve the high safety level of to promote awareness and encourage active our performance. We are working hard to promote participation in hazard/ observation reporting an active culture of safety, whereby employees programs in 2018. The majority of first aid are encouraged to take personal responsibility for incidents reported were due to the mishandling of their actions. tools by the contractors working for us. We understand that many injury and illness cases without lost time have the potential to lead to lost time. Identifying and managing the circumstances in which these incidents occur ultimately reduces the overall risk of having a serious accident, lost time injuries, illnesses, or even fatalities. We will continue to actively engage our employees on accident prevention training and workshops and will relentlessly pursue continuous improvement. Continuing management commitment and a rigorous application of safety systems and procedures, combined with ongoing training, have led to a reduction in injury and illness. Our goal in 2018 is to avoid any type of incident. With enhanced standards and even more commitment, we strive to continuously improve the high safety level of our performance. 102-8 36 Aramex Annual Report 2017 07 Our People Health and Safety Statistics Total Number of fatalities including non occupational related 2 Total Number of lost time injuries 83 Total Number of days lost 1,003 Total number of incidents resulted in minor or no injuries 846 Total number of incidents resulted in injuries 137 Total number of incidents 983 Total Number of shipments 70,492,926 Total Number of employees 14,446 Total number of working days 3,857,082 Total number of man hours worked 30,856,656 Total number of vehicle related incidents resulted in minor or no injuries 623 Total Number of vehicle related incidents resulted in injuries 55 Total Number of vehicle related incidents resulted in Lost time injuries 45 Total number of vehicle related incidents 678 Total number of days lost due to vehicle incidents 683 Total number of Warehouse & Office related incidents resulted in minor or no injuries 223 Total Number of Warehouse & Office related incidents resulted in injuries 82 Total Number of Warehouse & Office related incidents resulted in Lost time injuries 38 Ttoal number of Warehouse & Office related incidents 305 Total number of days lost due to Warehouse & Office related incidents 320 Health and Safety Indicators Aramex experienced 2.69 LTIs for every 1,000,000 hours worked Lost time Injury Frequency rate (LTIFR) 2.69 over the past year Lost time Injury Incident rate (LTIIR) 0.57 Aramex experienced 0.57 LTI's per hundred employees Severity Rate (SR) 12.08 On an average each LTI resulted in 12 days off work For every 100 employees, 0.54 employees has been involved in Lost time injury Rate (LTIR) 0.54 LTI Aramex experienced 9.69 vehicle related Lost days per million Vehicle related Lost days rate (LDR) 9.69 shipments Warehouse & Office related Lost days Aramex experienced 4.54 Warehouse & Office related lost days 4.54 rate (LDR) per million shipments Lost days rate (LDR) 14.23 Aramex experienced 14.23 lost days per million shipments Accidents per million shipments 13.94 Aramex experienced 13.94 accidents per million shipments 102-8, 403-2, 403-3 37 Aramex Annual Report 2017 08 Our Customers 38 Aramex Annual Report 2017 08 Our Customers Our Customers We view our customers At Aramex, our policies, regulations, and training are designed to ensure that our employees as partners and actively act ethically and maintain professionalism, ensuring confidentiality and privacy of all related work to continue delivering communications and information while responding high-quality services and to client needs. innovative products. We are diligent in ensuring that our customers have trust in our services and brand, and therefore, We are committed to upholding our customerwe employ information security measures, centric culture in all our operations and along with a comprehensive Code of Conduct to transactions. We continually invest in streamlining safeguard our customers’ privacy and information. our processes, feedback channels, and service Our strict adherence to these policies guaranteed response to any customer concerns, aiming to go that we did not receive any complaints in 2017 beyond the expectations of quality of service. related to protection of our customers’ private information. Engaging our customers: In order to improve our services, guarantee customer satisfaction and understand our customer’s needs, customer feedback is gathered through different channels, including: • Customer Management Teams, Business Development Teams as well as Management • Websites (aramex.com/ShopandShip.com) • Contact Centers • Customer Relationship Management system • Retail Outlets • Social Media Channels 418-1, 419-1 39 Aramex Annual Report 2017 08 Our Customers Customer Applications Utilizing technology for faster, easier and accurate processing has long been a cornerstone of our innovation culture and solutions offered to our customers. We provide smart IT solutions that allow for integration between customer systems and our operations. These include: ClickToShip aramex.com A free desktop application that enables customers 2017 witnessed a complete revamp of aramex. to manage their shipping needs offline. For a com. The revamped website comes with a variety regular Aramex customer, ClickToShip automates of new features that enhance the overall customer shipment preparation, pick-up requests, experience. Here are some highlights: calculating shipping rates, shipment tracking, and managing shipping addresses. ClickToShip helps • The site has been designed to be responsive; customers handle and manage bulk shipping. offering an optimal viewing experience, with To make ClickToShip more accessible and usereasier reading and navigation with a minimum friendly to our customers worldwide, we have of resizing, panning, and scrolling. These upgraded the application this year to recognize features are available across a wide range three new languages: Chinese, Russian and of devices, from mobile phones to desktop Georgian. Additional languages and enhancements computer monitors. will follow in 2018. • aramex.com is built on a new Content Management System (Sitefinity) that makes Sales App managing our website a more positive, empowering and usable experience. • New and improved features introduced include: In our ever growing pursuit to strengthen the My Dashboard, Rate Calculator, Ship (one page relationship between our sales teams and our for all shipping modules), Find Office (map customers, we continue to develop solutions that view/direction using GPS) and many more. can maximize the time that our teams spend closer to the customer, thus making their daily activities • We have also developed an online help tool more efficient, effective and customer-centric. that provides detailed information about any For that purpose, we have worked this year on feature on the website. (aramex.com Help developing a new mobile application for our sales System) force called “REACH SFA”. The main objective of this application is to enhance the existing sales We have also added more content to aramex.com experience by providing our sales teams with a that is visible in our Customs Information Center. tool that extends their reach to all customers and We continue to add and update needed information assists them in conducting their jobs in the field in and actively engage with concerned internal teams a timely and efficient manner. in each country to maintain our relationship with customs authorities worldwide. This comes as part of our continual efforts to ensure compliance Integration Tools across our operations and supply chain. We continue to support our customers by providing In technical language, Aramex offers Electronic an option, via aramex.com, to contact a local Data Interchange (EDI) and Application customs expert who can further offer support and Programming Interface (API) tools to integrate a guidance on matters regarding customs clearance customer’s site with Aramex’s online InfoAXS site regulations. giving them a seamless workflow process. These tools work in the background and in real time and process input information and produce an output. 102-2 40 Aramex Annual Report 2017 08 Our Customers Retail Outlets Points of Sale (POS) Our queue system upgrade, which was piloted We continue to deploy automated point of sale in the UAE in 2015, has proven to be a great units in retail outlets to speed up customer mechanism to manage customer flow in our retail transactions and ensure smooth computerized outlets. In addition to measures related to serving integration with our systems. This has resulted and waiting times, adherence to service levels, the in reduced serving times for our customers and new system has enabled smoother interactions enabled our customer service teams to focus and the reduction of overall time spent by on customer experience thus delivering a better customers in our outlets. service. An additional measure has been developed to ensure a seamless cycle between the customer In 2018, Aramex will further invest in and expand service and accounting teams and streamlines its retail outlets as part of its efforts to meet the some internal functions. increased demand of its e-commerce business along with the provision of more options that are POS is currently deployed in major locations in the convenient for consumers to collect their parcels. Levant, GCC, and North Africa, and is considered an essential tool in our retail outlets. In 2018, we The system is swiftly integrated with key locations have plans to extend POS deployment to additional in our KSA, Oman, Kuwait, and Jordan operations, outlets and ensure full coverage of retail outlets. and continues to be pivotal in the renovation of our retail outlets’ concept. It uses on-time and specific updates to locate shipments more efficiently and support the delivery process. Real-time alerts and remote online monitoring tools enable our retail outlets and operation managers Years working with Aramex 2 Years to tune in to the latest updates and keep track of % of customers customer serving and waiting times, including travel 13.9% between locations. It also supports a bird’s eye view of management and other teams to unravel pain points, focus on resolving problems, and Years working with Aramex provide concurrent actionable insights, rather than 1 Year historical data. More locations are planned in 2018. % of customers 21.2% Customer Retention We are proactive in our recruitment of new customers while ensuring the retention of our existing customer base. 42.4% 21.2% Years working with Aramex 5 Years ++ % of customers 42.4% 13.9% Years working with Aramex 4 Years % of customers 11.7% 10.9% 11.7% Years working with Aramex 3 Years % of customers 10.9% 102-2 41 Aramex Annual Report 2017 09 Sustainability 42 Aramex Annual Report 2017 09 Sustainability Sustainability The Aramex approach to sustainability is As a part of our strategy of leading in underpinned by a stakeholder-driven and sustainability, we keep our focus on being evidence-based strategy that is responsive to the investors and partners in the community rather needs of all stakeholders and is proactive in its than a mere philanthropic entity. This strategy continual improvement. Through our stakeholder allows us to engage directly and meaningfully engagements, adoption of best practices, and while leveraging our financial, business, and leadership in sustainability, we critically evaluate operational capacities to maximize our impacts our economic, social, and environmental impacts. in the community. We view our programs and We identify initiatives that enhance our positive activities as active exchanges with society, impacts in the community while minimizing the guided by effective communication, strategic negative impacts. Sustainability is an integral part partnerships and employee involvement. of Aramex and is a key component that drives the decisions we make. An integral part of our mission to positively influence the wellbeing of the international community is our commitment to Sustainability the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. From is an integral part local to corporate levels we align our strategy with the of Aramex and is a Sustainable Development Goals in policy and in practice. key component that drives the decisions We demonstrate this in our recruitment and employment we make. model, our investment in promising entrepreneurs and local communities, youth education and empowerment programs, high impact environmental initiatives, and inclusive engagement with all of our stakeholders. 102-12, 102-21, 102-29, 102-31 ,102-43 43 Aramex Annual Report 2017 09 Sustainability In 2017, we continued our focus on our three Aramex it Forward pillars of sustainability: In 2017 we continued our Aramex it Forward initiative, incubated and Launched by RedLab in 1. Youth Education and Empowerment 2016, to support the shipping needs of 8 NGO and 2. Supporting Entrepreneurs civil society organizations with socially beneficial 3. Commitment to Environment and missions that specialize in disaster relief, youth Climate Change and community empowerment, education, and environment. The initiative’s scheme used social media to encourage organizations to apply monthly to win a free shipment and each winner In 2017, we increased would then be part of the committee to select our number of student the subsequent month’s winner. The initiative connects individuals and organizations who beneficiaries by 15% and share the goals of sustainability and community provide a 97% overall empowerment. sustainability coverage of our operations. We completed a 1.2MW How Aramex it Forward works Solar Farm in Amman and have initiated a fleet upgrade to all EV vehicles to make 1 Jordan operations 100% The initiative allows you to 2 ship items for any one of the renewable and emissions following socially responsible The initiative begins on the free in the near future. causes which include 1st of every month and ends on the 10th We have also started constructions of the Disaster Education Environment Community 3 first phase of what will Relief & Youth Empowerment be a 3.2 MW Solar Empowerment You can participate through Twitter or Facebook Farm in Dubai. 4 # Your entry must include: 5 tweet/ post about the Community Engagement shipment content, origin, destination, social Shortlisted entries will be cause and the hashtags The communities in which we operate are integral contacted and requested #AramexitForward and to fill out an application #Entry stakeholders for Aramex and their needs and interests are the cornerstone of our community WINNER engagement. In our outreach, we continue to 6 support youth, entrepreneurs, and environmental initiatives within our global sustainability strategy. The winner will be We believe that the investments we make in our 7 annouced at the end of the month communities in time, financial support, and human Every Month's winner resources produce a shared value that multiplies will select the following many times over and helps accelerate community month's winner, as part development. of Paying it Forward In 2017, we had over 60,000 community beneficiaries 102-12, 102-21, 413-1 44 Aramex Annual Report 2017 09 Sustainability Youth Education and Empowerment Sustainable Development Goal 4 Highlights from Ruwwad: Our Flagship Youth Education Ensure inclusive and and Empowerment Program equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning In 2017 Ruwwad enabled 178 youth in Jordan, opportunities for all. 69 in Palestine, 158 in Egypt and 115 in Lebanon to access university and college education, in exchange for more than 81,000 community service hours across the region. One of the greatest drivers of positive In Jordan, the youth operated safe spaces in six social change is an empowered and community centers to enhance the education educated youth. Education and and development of 3043 children and 533 empowerment act as catalysts that adolescents. Ruwwad Jabal Al Natheef launched a break cycles of poverty and stagnation. huge school dropout campaign in partnership with Education and empowerment advocate ILO to bring 150 students back to schools. sustainable development, prosperity, and innovation. As the youth continue Ruwwad also launched the Harvest campaign to comprise a significant portion of the which aims to educate 500 parents in East population in our areas of operations, Amman/Al Nathif area on better parenting we strongly emphasize Youth Education and child safety practices, for the purpose of and Empowerment as one of our three protecting children from all forms of violence and Pillars of Sustainability. To achieve our abuse. Following Ruwwad’s Day 2017 which took goal of having an empowered and place in Al Beidha, the little Bedouin village in the educated youth, we partner with a variety South of Jordan, Ruwwad launched in partnership of local and international organizations with the youth a tourism initiative called “Mayyel and institutions on initiatives that support Al Beidha”, and introduced the Bedouin cultural our vision, especially in underserved heritage as part of the child program in Shams al communities. In addition to these Beidha library. In Tafileh, the youth launched 15 partnerships, we provide direct support initiatives in the areas of tourism in marginalized for youth education and empowerment areas, arts for children and adolescents, voluntary through financial scholarships, training, work and best utilization of resources. Jordan and mentorship. We recognize that in a celebrated its graduation of 25th of November. world of ever increasing and rapidly With the graduation of 50 youth scholars, and accelerating complexity, youth in our 26 champion volunteers receiving certificates of communities need the support today to appreciation, the grassroots leaders from East thrive in the economy, society, and Amman Jabal Al Natheef, Al Beidha and Tafileh environment of tomorrow. presented the accomplishments of each center. Education In 2017, we reached 2,162 student beneficiaries through our programs. 102-12 45 Aramex Annual Report 2017 09 Sustainability In Egypt, 3547 individuals participated in Ruwwad villages and cities started taking place, and youth activities, of which 359 youth in the scholarships scholars started initiatives lead by them, such as fund and youth activities, in addition to 2133 child Ramadan initiative. The 69 youth scholars in the in the different programs under the child program. five villages (Budrus, Shiqba, Neilin, Qibya and Deir 755 participated in the community support Qiddis) worked with 1500 child in Ruwwad centers program, in addition to 300 external volunteers and through outreach to schools. Aramex team delivered the business skills training where 40 youth benefitted. 1150 academic In Lebanon, 2017 was a year of partnerships support sessions took place, and 439 arts sessions Ruwwad reinforced its relations with partners, were conducted. Ruwwad Egypt also worked in namely French Embassy, Citigroup, Microsoft, five public schools in the neighborhoods, which ICRC, Oxfam, INJAZ, Care International, Do Trust helped reaching out to more than 1500 child in Organization, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the these schools. 100 individuals benefitted from 240 Ministry of Education. Ruwwad’s partnership with literacy sessions, and 11 community-led initiatives the French Embassy through the PISCCA program where launched with the participation of more allowed Ruwwad to incorporate ICT skills and than 270 individual from the neighborhood, and English and French languages into the process of 30 women were trained on handicraft. In 2017, the applying for scholarships. big celebration of the five years of work in Ruwwad Egypt took place in Ruwwad’s Day. Moreover, The women of Atayeb Tarablos kitchen began Ruwwad Egypt established a theatre, and more to make a return on the initial investment, with than five workshops and theatre shows for Al its profits now supporting the scholarship fund, Ezbeh residents. supplementing the scholarship fund with another source of fund. In Palestine, Ruwwad worked on developing the cultural enrichment component, through better The 115 youth scholars supported Ruwwad organizing the weekly meetings, and arranging for operations throughout the year, working with and a series of activities that aim to enhance selfreaching out to almost 800 children. 20 Youth learning and dialogue skills. In 2017, Ruwwad team scholars also with background in business served started holding the meetings bi-monthly in each as junior consultants for 15 microbusinesses village, and one meeting was held for all scholars supported by Ruwwad’s Micro-Equity Venture Fund. from villages. Moreover, field visits to different Regional Numbers: Palestine Lebanon Egypt Jordan Total Number of scholarship recipients 175 229 265 1,109 1,778 since establishment New Scholars accepted in 2017 20 33 64 33 Youth Scholars throughout 2017 69 115 158 178 Enrichment Dardashat sessions 2017 88 40 38 70 Number of youth graduates since 60 60 167 735 establishment Graduated 2017 10 17 39 50 Child beneficiaries 1,500 778 2,133 3,043 7,454 (outreach & repeats) Number of community program 1,006 Help Desk 0 697 755 beneficiaries 2017 771 Jeeran Station Number of Women Benefited 0 184 401 193 from Ruwwad Programs 102-12 46 Aramex Annual Report 2017 09 Sustainability Entrepreneurship mentors, and logistics prize money to trailblazing startups from emerging markets. Aramex also minted a new partnership with Thomson Reuter’s Accelerate SME platform, which fosters a community of startups and SMEs who through the platform gain access to the discounted rates on products and services that are normally only reserved for organizations operating at economies Sustainable of scale. Development Goal 8 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. Entrepreneurship Powerhouse Aramex Egypt complimented its explosive business growth in the last few years with an equally impressive impact in the dynamic Egyptian Since our founding, one of the keys to the startup ecosystem. Aramex Egypt took a leading success of Aramex has been the adoption of role in organizing, funding, and implementing the entrepreneurship as a strategy, mindset, and Startup Weekend and TechneSummit events in a constantly evolving practice. We recognize Egypt. The events attracted hundreds of innovative that under the right conditions, an economic startups and young people, including a significant ecosystem that supports entrepreneurship is percentage of women, who gained new skills, not only a driver of business, but also a powerful support, empowerment, and ideas to bring force for socio-economic development. It is with back to their communities. this reason; we retain Entrepreneurship as one of our three Pillars of Sustainability to unleash the transformative potential of the entrepreneurs innovating in the communities where we operate to ensure that Aramex creates a path of shared success and prosperity along with our community stakeholders. Aramex Startup Support Program Startup Support Program Our flagship Entrepreneurship initiative is our Sustainability Integration Startup Support Program, formerly the SME Program. The Startup Support Programs focuses on helping dynamic entrepreneurial organizations by providing access to competitive rates, mentorship, and sustainability integration support. This program helps entrepreneurial organizations accelerate their growth and operate sustainably as they expand and mature. We implement this Partnerships program directly as well as through strategic and Networking partnerships. 2,862 Number of Startups and SMEs reached in 2017 Mentorship In 2017, Aramex expanded its partnership with Seedstars World to host high impact startup competitions in eight different countries in five geographical regions reaching 200 startups. Aramex provided judges for competitions, startup 102-12, 203-2, 413-1 47 Aramex Annual Report 2017 09 Sustainability Our Environmental Commitment Based on our investments in solar, EV vehicles, LEED certification, and clean smart technology, we have been able surpass our original targets for the reduction of GHG emissions Amman for 2020 and have set Year Solar system 2016 as our new benchmark saved Aramex Sustainable for further reductions in 355.3tCo2 emissions, fuel consumption, during Development Goal 13 and electricity per shipment. 2017 Sox and NOx emissions will also Take urgent action use Year 2016 as a baseline reference. to combat climate and its impacts. Year 2016 2017 Emissions (tCO2e) Scope 1 49,264 50,005 Intro Scope 2 30,241 33,671 A clean, vibrant, and productive ecosystem and Scope 3 534,477 579,371 environment are essential not only to business, but to the overall health of the planet itself. Aramex Freight 387,230 369,244 takes its role very seriously in environmental Express 122,645 185,167 stewardship. For Aramex, 2017 saw the Commuting 23,777 24,062 implementation of groundbreaking innovation and investment in renewable energy technology and Business Travel 825 898 environmentally friendly practices. Total Emissions 613,982 663,047 Diff between Awareness Infrastructure Operations Reporting Year 2016 2017 2016 and 2017 Solar Farms KgCo2/ In 2017, we completed construction and activated 10.2 9.4 -8% Shipment our 1.2MW solar array at Amman Station, providing Electrcity/ enough renewable electricity for all operations in 0.78 0.73 -6% Shipment Jordan. In addition, construction began on Dubai’s Fuel/ 0.30 0.26 -13% 3.2 MW installation, which is set to be completed Shipment in 2018. These investments will greatly reduce our Electrcity 46,625,615 51,446,142 negative environmental impact, particularly on Fuel 18,198,325 18,572,869 scope 1 and 2 emissions. Total Nox and Sox 24,855 25,171 1% Electric Vehicles in Ton As part of our integrated approach to sustainability, Total we recognize how one investment in environmentally 613,982 663,047 Emissions friendly technology when properly implemented can have an immense effect on subsequent investments that generate more value while further reducing negative effects. In the case of our 1.2 Megawatt solar array in Amman, we seized the opportunity presented by excess power generation to upgrade our fleet of courier vehicles to full electric. This means that not only is our Amman Station self-sufficient in clean power generation, but our electric vehicles boast both zero emissions when operating and zero emissions when charging. 102-9, 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, 302-4, 302-5, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 305-7 48 Aramex Annual Report 2017 09 Sustainability Sustainability Support, Advocacy, Aramex continues to cultivate meaningful and Partnerships partnerships in sustainability with private, public, and civil society institutions from the grassroots to the international level. We work collaboratively across a wide spectrum of actors and sectors, because that is what it takes to tackle the challenges and capitalize on the opportunities involved in sustainability and sustainable development in today’s world. The breadth and Sustainable depth of these partnerships allow us to maximize Development Goal 17 our impacts, effectively leverage our resources, and share knowledge to collectively develop best Strengthen the means of practices in sustainability. implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development. In 2017, we directly implemented or partnered on over 100 projects and programs in 97% of our countries of operation to reach over 60,000 beneficiaries. Tackling issues that are global in scope such as cliGlobal mate change, international Partnership human and labor rights, and supporting reporting and accountability at highest level Strengthening coordination across borders and connectRegional ing local networks on unique Partnerships regional challenges and opportunities, especially in emerging markets Partnering on and implementing initiatives that directly impact community Local beneficiaries and stakeholdPartnerships ers and discovering best practices from carefully tracked activities 102-12 49 Aramex Annual Report 2017 09 Sustainability Emergency Relief In the face of a string of natural disasters in India and Sri Lanka this year, Aramex’s teams leapt into action, lending a humanitarian hand in a time of When disaster strikes, Aramex crisis. In exemplary form, our teams leveraged their is committed to leveraging its financial, organizational, and logistical capacity to marshal aid to over 13,000 beneficiaries in need of broad array of resources and emergency assistance. Colombo station prepared capabilities to provide support and delivered 2000 parcels after flooding events in Sri Lanka, providing aid to approximately 10,000 and relief to communities in people. In addition, when a flood catastrophe emergencies. Whether the struck in West Bengal, India Aramex’s local team similarly took decisive action without hesitation in causes are natural or man-made, the delivery of hundreds of kilograms of food, fresh Aramex uses its global network water, and basic medicine to over 3,000 people across several communities. to ship, store, and distribute critical aid to those facing disasters and emergencies across the world. Logistical Financial capacity capacity Hundreds of kilograms of Organizational 2,000 food, fresh water, and capacity parcels basic medicine 13,000 10,000 3,000 Beneficiaries People in Sri Lanka Across several communities in West Bengal 102-12, 413-1 50 Aramex Annual Report 2017 10 Stakeholder Engagement 51 Aramex Annual Report 2017 10 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement Background • Gather detailed feedback and insights from various stakeholders on Aramex’s performance; • Gather insights about perceptions of the Stakeholder engagement is a central impact and quality of Aramex’s current component of international best sustainability practices; • Produce concrete and actionable practices with regards to sustainable recommendations on how to redirect, business as determined by the institutionalize, upgrade, better communicate, internationally recognized Global and professionalize current practices; and • Conduct the groundwork for concrete Reporting Initiative (GRI). Aramex partnerships with external stakeholders around contracted Ahead of the Curve (ATC) to Aramex’s sustainability efforts. conduct two stakeholder consultations The consultations were in the form of roundtables (one in Egypt and one in Dubai) on its attended by Aramex stakeholders including sustainability performance. This is the clients, employees, suppliers, as well as fourth such consultation process Aramex representatives of government, civil society, and has performed, demonstrating NGOs. Furthermore, for Egypt, consultation results were enriched by in-person individual interviews its commitment to maintaining and with one governmental entity, two civil society improving its sustainability practices. organizations, and a key corporate client. The objectives of the consultation were to: 102-8, 102-9, 102-12, 102-21, 102-29, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 52 Aramex Annual Report 2017 10 Stakeholder Engagement Consultations Sessions were on the The below table provides the consultation dates following topics: and number of attendees: • Participant General Awareness and Aramex Stakeholder Consultation Perceptions of Aramex’s Sustainability Efforts: Participants were asked to share words Location Date Number of Attendees they associate with Aramex’s sustainability practices and any knowledge they have about November 21, Egypt, Cairo 40 2017 Aramex’s responsible business efforts. • Aramex’s Sustainability Approach: Dubai, UAE November 27, 28 Aramex’s Egypt General Manager Samer 2017 Mansour, Aramex’s Country Manager Bashar Kikoloff and Aramex’s Chief Sustainability Officer Raji Hattar presented a comprehensive overview of the company’s sustainability Consultation Findings efforts and opened the floor for questions. The consultation’s facilitators had an open • General Awareness and Perceptions discussion with the group about their feedback There was a general consensus that Aramex on the approach and recommendations for the puts people first, provides a very good work way forward. environment, adapts to market trends and changes and is always pushing boundaries to achieve • Working Group Discussions: growth and success. In order to set the stage for Discussions gathered feedback and generated the discussion on Aramex’s’ sustainability role, recommendations for enhancing Aramex’s the facilitator provided a broader definition of sustainability performance. Groups were sustainability and the relevant ways it could be divided into mixed stakeholders. The facilitators related to Aramex. presented participants with a set of guiding questions to discuss openly, and invited them • Awareness of Aramex’s Sustainability Efforts to share their previous knowledge of Aramex As only a few stakeholders had a comprehensive and recommend measures to improve its and up-to-date understanding of Aramex’s sustainability practices. sustainability efforts and sustainability approach, they were all highly impressed by • Closed-Door Employee Discussions: Aramex’s sustainability footprint after Egypt’s Facilitators had an open discussion with General Manager, Samer Mansour and the Chief employee participants about their levels of Sustainability Officer; Raji Hattar presented some satisfaction and recommendations for the way of their sustainability practices. forward. Discussions were held in the absence of Aramex’s senior management to ensure • Egypt and Dubai Employee Engagement openness. A discussion among Aramex employees in both Egypt and Dubai was conducted with the The flow of sessions allowed for an initial absence of senior management to ensure ease evaluation of participants’ prior knowledge of of expression and freedom to freely discuss their Aramex’s sustainability activities, followed by a concerns and thoughts about the company, as well presentation of the group’s approach, activities, as their development within it. The majority of and relationship to national and international employees in both countries had positive feelings targets including the UN SDGs. Attendees were towards the company and expressed pride to be split into mixed stakeholder working groups part of a recognized and global organization such managed by a facilitator to encourage open as Aramex, with its friendly environment, and welldiscussion, elicit stakeholder feedback, and known brand and culture. identify recommendations for future strategies and actions. 102-8, 102-9, 102-12, 102-21, 102-29, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 53 Aramex Annual Report 2017 10 Stakeholder Engagement However, employees in Egypt raised several While concerns raised in Dubai arranged by concerns such as: importance were: • A budget should be provided at the start of • Pay due to Dubai’s very expensive cost of every year divided into capex and opex; living as a result of inflation and VAT taxes that will be implemented starting 2018; • Remuneration adjustments were made due to the devaluation however not in proportion • Employees do not know how they will move to the devaluation and lower than other forward and grow within the organization organizations in the market; (career track); and • Further benefits other than financial should • Need for upgrading tools used within the be provided, e.g. schooling, insurance/medical operations to increase efficiency. packages to include family; • The belief that a loose approach is taken Common Concerns between Egypt and Dubai: when enforcing disciplinary actions, which can lead to corruption; • Great anxiety due to the recent changes, where no communication or transparency took • Need more intensive trainings regarding place; freight. • Job description and/or promotional paths • Lack of flexibility, employees believe that are unclear; Aramex’s long-term employees do not accept change, which hinders keeping up with market • Remuneration concerns; trends. • The need for more interaction with other • The need and importance of positive attitudes countries, they are treated as a local and not from senior management; international company. Global connectivity between countries needs to exist. • Despite their trust in Aramex and its systems, employees stated that they would like to be included in the thought processes and have their opinions to be heard. Main Stakeholder Recommendations Open Employee Discussions Customers and Suppliers Civil Society, Govt and NGO Aramex should increase efforts in raising awareness of its Aramex should scale efforts with sustainability practices; including educational, employment and by labeling all Aramex’s packages environmental interventions with its sustainable efforts or by sponsoring more schools, Aramex should introduce new services monetizing these efforts to scholarships and capacity building for bulk and waste logistics; have display greater impact. Also, for entrepreneurs. In addition to higher compliance with IATA; and awareness should be increased raising awareness internally and provide customers with new innovative regarding internal human rights externally to the organization; logistics ideas. and labor practices. And finally, and increase the frequency of road and driving safety should be stakeholder consultations and other assessed and encouraged in local similar activities communities, to promote road safety Aramex should put more efforts into sharing its sustainability paradigm Aramex should increase its Aramex should provide more programs and milestones systematically, for projects in rural areas, where it supporting the elderly (providing example, it should share its efforts can help with issues like water and specialized services). Suppliers and in every sales meeting and point of electricity problems, to help build clients should be involved as partners sale, social media, brand packaging, loyalty between residents and in any social initiatives courier uniforms and electronic Aramex publications 102-8, 102-9, 102-12, 102-21, 102-29, 102-37, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 54 Aramex Annual Report 2017 10 Stakeholder Engagement Main Stakeholder Recommendations Open Employee Discussions Customers and Suppliers Civil Society, Govt and NGO Stakeholders suggested to have a 24/7 call center with less waiting time, immediate notification of Intense training on applying shipment status and a one stop A unified vision has to be created. sustainability principles in the shop facility for handling customers, In addition, annual or semi-annual workplace should be provided to storage, etc. In addition, Aramex videos by the CEO explaining employees in addition to conducting should present its environmental the targets and achievements more stakeholder workshops to impact on packages, in contracts can be distributed for everyone’s innovate solutions for operational and text messages; and should knowledge. issues. include hiring those with special needs; providing logistics solutions for food waste management; and entrepreneurship support for Expats. Enforce sustainability into Aramex’s IT systems should be upgraded, culture by including sustainability constructed in a user friendly manner Aramex should keep track of its acts in day-today operations, having to provide automatic notifications R&D. It should always be aware recycling bins all over the premises on package status, for Aramex to of the sustainability drivers in for everyone to use, introducing carprovide more competitive rates the market and adhere to them pooling, reviving the red lab as it was regarding air freight, and should have and upgrade their initiatives very useful and encouraged sharing an environmental assessment for big accordingly. which lead to the creation of some clients. of Aramex’s products. Invite stakeholders to AramexMore frequent follow ups regarding related events where its confidential, legal, and bank sustainability efforts are displayed, documents are needed. A stakeholder Aramex should find a balanced in addition to visiting universities mentioned that there was no follow business model to push cost-driven and discussing the efforts for the up regarding his credit card delivery customers to more sustainable whole university’s awareness, not which caused inconvenience due to it options. only the students who received returning to the bank and needing to scholarships from Aramex. go through the whole process again. Open Employee Discussions Civil Society, Govt and NGO Customers and Suppliers 102-8, 102-9, 102-12, 102-21, 102-29, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 55 Aramex Annual Report 2017 10 Stakeholder Engagement Individual Interviews in Egypt For Dubai, adjustments in remuneration need to be made while taking into account Dubai’s Interviews were held with representatives from high cost of living, inflation and VAT taxes to be Ruwwad, UNICEF, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, implemented in 2018. Overall, the lack of complete and Ezz Steel. Interviews began with a brief transparency and clarity causes anxiousness, so introduction to sustainability, Aramex’s current a clear framework for all aspects within Aramex footprint, and its sustainability strategy; followed should be clearly provided. by reflection on stakeholder relationships with Aramex, their most significant concerns, and how Though senior management has successfully concerns are addressed. There was an emphasis implemented an open door policy for that Aramex’s work, initiatives, programs and communicating employee concerns, this paradigm efforts are impactful, and interviewees stressed on needs to be mainstreamed into the corporate communicating that to Aramex. Employees believe culture at all levels. Aramex should institute a that Aramex does not fully grasp the magnitude liaison between employees and management to of its programs, the effect they have on people’s facilitate communicating suggestions for better lives, the change they offer, and the future they institutional efficiency. build. There was a consensus between all four interviewees about how useful the stakeholder consultation was, and they expressed that it should be repeated as often as possible. Overall, the lack of complete transparency and ATC’s Key Recommendations clarity causes anxiousness, so a clear framework for all Ahead of The Curve is recommending that Aramex aspects within Aramex implement the following: should be clearly provided. • Raising Awareness: Aramex should ensure that its sustainability efforts are communicated to the company’s stakeholders, surrounding environment, and all potential segments it can cater to; it should also be announced to other corporate players to inspire them to walk in Aramex’s footsteps. Aramex should explore partnerships due to its wide-ranging scope of initiatives. The more Aramex communicates its programs and ideas, the more The opportunities can be presented to partners and more Aramex the more sustainability efforts can be developed. communicates its There needs to be a strong PR arm specifically for programs and ideas, “Delivering Good”. the more opportunities can be presented to • Employee Management: Aramex employees partners and the more displayed a positive attitude to being part of sustainability efforts the organization, however, concerns regarding can be developed. compensation, job descriptions, and transparency were raised. More clarity is needed to articulate a revised division of labor between job functions and the scope of work for each job in order to reduce uncertainty about responsibilities and remuneration; comprehensive training and capacity building should be offered based on developed career paths. A roadmap needs to be provided due to the lack of clarity moving forward. More feedback and engagement sessions should be conducted, during which employees can express their concerns. 102-8, 102-9, 102-12, 102-21, 102-29, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 56 Aramex Annual Report 2017 10 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Matrix Material SecMaterialAspect Boundary Notes on Materiality Notes Aspects tion ity DMA DMA Economic 1 Economic Performance “Our direct economic value “Within our entire generated is an important Direct economic operations and outside the performance indicator 201 1 value generated Material organization as it relates to for our operations and our and distributed our shareholders, suppliers stakeholders as it signifies and other stakeholders” our economic sustainability and potential for growth” “Climate change poses ubiquitous risks and threats, especially given our type of industry – transportation, which is responsible for 14% of global emissions. Therefore, “Financial “Within our entire we must be forward-looking implications and operations and outside the in our strategies related other risks and organization as it is related to climate change risks 201 2 opportunities for Material to our stakeholders, the and mitigation – this is the organization’s governments and policies particularly important activities due to of the countries in which in terms of the financial climate change” we operate” implications of climate change. It is also important for our stakeholders to know what approach we are taking in relation to climate change and its implications on our operations and surroundings” Coverage of the “Direct impact on our organization’s 201 3 Material Within our entire operations business and stakeholders, defined benefit especially employees” plan obligations “Aramex has a strict policy “Within our entire against receiving or giving operations and outside the Financial any government assistance. organization as it is related assistance It is important for our 201 4 Material to our stakeholders, the received from stakeholders to ensure governments and policies government that our company is not of the countries in which affiliated with any political we operate” or governmental system” 102-29, 102-31, 102-47, 103-1, 201-4, 202-1, 203-1, 203-2, 204-1 57 Aramex Annual Report 2017 10 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Matrix Material Materiality Aspect Boundary Notes on Materiality Notes Aspects Market Presence “At Aramex, employee morale, satisfaction and retention is very important, since employ“Ratios of Within our entire ees are an integral part of our standard entry operations and outside success and the quality of our level wage the organization services. We aim to offer comby gender as it is related to petitive wages to our employees 202 1 compared to local Material our stakeholders, for our entry level employees, minimum wage particularly employees, these are equal and often in at significant the governments and excess of the local minimum locations of policies of the countries wage. Our wages are important operation” in which we operate. to our employees as well as other stakeholders as they are indicative of our impact on the community.” “We aim to employ members of the local communities in which we operate, as it is “Aramex Proportion important to us that we have employs of senior a healthy percentage of senior 48% local management management hired from the and 52% hired from the Within our entire 202 2 Material local community, due to their expat senior local community operations understanding of the local management at significant marketMoreover, it is important in our global locations of for our stakeholders because it corporate operation indicates our investment in the operations.” capacity of the communities in which we operate.” Indirect Economic Impacts Development and impact of “Since we are a light asset infrastructure based company, we do not have 203 1 Immaterial investment significant investments related and services to infrastructure” supported Significant Within our entire “Impacts our stakeholders and indirect economic operations and outside helps in the development of the 203 2 impacts, including Material as it is related to the communities in our areas of the extent of communities in which we operations” impacts work Procurement “Impacts our stakeholders and helps in the development Proportion of Within our entire of the communities in which spending on operations and outside, we are operating through our local suppliers as it is related to 204 1 Material supply chain. The majority of our at significant our suppliers in the spending is on local suppliers – locations of countries in which we in fact, on average, 85% of our operation operate spending was on local suppliers in 2017” 102-29, 102-31, 102-47, 103-1, 203-1, 204-1 58 Aramex Annual Report 2017 10 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Matrix Material Aspect Materiality Notes on Materiality Notes Aspects Boundary Environmental Aspects Materials “In our operations, our degradable pouches are used “Within our entire for 99% of our shipments, operations and making up a large proportion outside as it is related of the materials we use. Other to the suppliers of materials include envelopes, Materials used by our materials and labels, AWBs, canvas and bag 301 1 Material weight or volume the companies and tags. The amount of materials municipalities that we use in our operations provide us with waste is important, due to the management and environmental impacts of recycling services” these materials – especially since they are mainly made of plastics or paper.” “Within our entire “Given that most of the operations and materials we use in our outside as it is related operations are sourced from Percentage of to the suppliers of plastics (non renewable) materials used our materials and and paper, both have 301 2 Material that are recycled the companies and environmental impacts – it input materials municipalities that is important that we work provide us with waste to recycle these materials management and in order to reduce our recycling services” environmental impacts.” Energy “Our total energy “Our energy consumption is consumption important to our operations inside the since it has a direct impact on organization is Kw Energy our environmental and carbon Within our entire 51,446,142 and consumption footprint. Therefore we are 302 1 Material operations, except our 18,572,869 liters within the keen to monitor and manage franchisees of fuel (1 liter = organization energy consumption in order 38.7 mega joules – to reduce our operational cost HHV Diesel 1 liter = and minimize our negative 34.8 mega joules – environmental impact” HHV Gasoline)” “Given that we rely on third party suppliers, “Given that we rely on third information party suppliers, information regarding the regarding the energy energyconsumed consumed outside our outside our Energy organization is unavailable. organization consumption 302 2 Immaterial However, using the GHG is unavailable. outside of the protocol, we account for the However, using the organization impact of the energy use GHG protocol, we outside our organization account for the through our scope 3 impact of the emissions” energy use outside our organization through our scope 3 emissions” 102-29, 102-31, 102-47, 103-1, 302-1, 302-2 59 Aramex Annual Report 2017 10 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Matrix Material Aspect Materiality Notes on Materiality Notes Aspects Boundary Energy “This is an important measure of our energy footprint, since the energy intensity per Within our entire shipment is a strong indicator of how this operations, exfootprint relates to the context and growth 302 3 Energy intensity Material cept our franchiof our operations. Energy intensity gives our sees stakeholders a better understanding of how our energy consumption is related to our operations.” Within our entire Reduction The amount of reductions in our energy operations, ex302 4 of energy Material consumption is an important measure of our cept our franchiconsumption environmental and efficiency initiatives. sees Reductions in energy Because we report on our overall energy and 302 5 requirements of Immaterial emissions trends and consumption products and services Water Within our entire “Our use of water is restricted to municipal Total water operations, use. However, given that water is important 303 1 withdrawal Material except our and exceedingly scarce, we make sure to by sources franchisees measure our consumption” Water sources “Because our water consumption is strictly significantly 303 2 Immaterial for municipal use and we withdraw and affected by discharge water through municipal system” withdrawal of water Within our entire operations, except our franchisees, outside as it is Percentage and Our use of water is restricted to municipal related to the total volume of use. However, given that water is important 303 3 Immaterial municipalities water recycled and and exceedingly scarce, we make sure to reand companies re-used use and recycle our water wherever possible. that provide us with services related to water re-use and recycling. 102-29, 102-31, 102-47, 103-1, 302-3, 302-4, 302-5, 303-1, 303-2, 303-3 60 Aramex Annual Report 2017 10 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Matrix Material Aspect Materiality Notes on Materiality Notes Aspects Boundary Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, Not applicable, since managed in, or adjacent we ensure that we do 304 1 to, protected areas Immaterial not lease or own land and areas of high adjacent to protected or biodiversity value high biodiversity areas outside protected areas Description of “We are a service significant impacts of oriented company. activities, products and Therefore, we do not services on biodiversity 304 2 Immaterial manufacture products in protected areas – the pouches we use and areas of high for our services are biodiversity value degradable” outside protected areas We were not involved in Habitats protected 304 3 Immaterial any habitat protection or or restored restoration activities Total number of IUCN Red List species and Not applicable, since national conservation we ensure that our list species with 304 4 Immaterial operations are not in habitats in areas areas with protected or affected by operations, endangered species by level of extinction risk Emissions Within Direct Greenhouse Gas our entire Due to environmental Our Carbon footprint 305 1 (GHG) emissions Material operations, impacts baseline year is 2012 (Scope 1) except our franchisees Within our entire Energy indirect operations Due to environmental Our Carbon footprint 305 2 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Material (100% impacts baseline year is 2012 emissions (Scope 2) financially controlled) Inside our operations as “Our number of employees it is related to grew by 1.5%. Therefore, our our businesscommuting footprint grew Other indirect related travel. Due to environmental by the same. We calculate 305 3 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Material Outside our impacts our commuting footprint emissions (Scope 3) operations as using a bi-annual employee it is related to survey, produced as per the our suppliers, GHG protocol” our employees commuting 102-29, 102-31, 102-47, 103-1, 304-1, 304-2, 304-3, 304-4, 305-3 61 Aramex Annual Report 2017 10 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Matrix Material Aspect Materiality Notes on Materiality Notes Aspects Boundary Emissions “Within our entire operations, Direct Greenhouse except our fran305 4 Gas (GHG) emissions Material chisees, outside Due to environmental impacts intensity as it is related to our scope 3 emissions” Within our entire Reduction of operations, 305 5 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Material Due to environmental impacts except our emissions franchisees Emissions of ozone305 6 depleting substances Immaterial We do not emit any ODS (ODS) “NOx and SOx have negative environmental and health “We only report our impacts. Given that they are NOx and SOx as a by-product of the burning other emissions of fossil fuels, it is important are negligible. Our Within our entire NOx, SOx and other to measure and report on total NOx and SOx operations, 305 7 significant air Material the amount our operations emissions for 2017 except our emissions produce. We use the GHG were 25171 tons franchisees protocol tools to measure our measured using the NOx and SOx. Our efforts to GHG protocol and reduce our GHG emissions are Climate Registry also aimed at reducing our tools.” NOx and SOx emissions” Effluents and Waste “Because our water consumption is strictly Total water discharge for municipal use and we 306 1 by quality and Immaterial withdraw and discharge destination water through municipal system” “Within our entire operations and outside as it is related to the suppliers of our Total weight of waste materials and the 306 2 by type and disposal Material companies and Due to environmental impacts method municipalities that provide us with waste management and recycling services” 102-29, 102-31, 102-47, 103-1, 305-6, 305-7, 306-1 62 Aramex Annual Report 2017 10 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Matrix Material Aspect Materiality Notes on Materiality Notes Aspects Boundary Effluents and Waste We haven’t encountered any Total number and significant spillage during 306 3 volume of significant Material 2017 except some minor spills spillages weighing no more than 5 kg. Weigh of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous We have strict policies under the terms of against the handling or 306 4 Immaterial the Basal Convention transportation of hazardous Annex I, II, III, and or toxic waste VIII and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally “Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water bodies and All of our water is discharged 306 5 related habitats Immaterial through municipal sewage significantly affected systems by the organization’s discharges of water and run-off” Products and Services Percentage of We do not sell any product products sold and their the pouches which make 301 3 packaging materials Immaterial up 99% of our packaging that are reclaimed by material are degradable category Compliance “Monetary value of We didn’t receive significant fines & any monetary fines total number of nonThis is important to our Within our or sanctions for 307 1 monetary sanctions for Material operations and to our entire operations noncompliance with non-compliance with stakeholders environmental laws environmental laws and and regulations regulations” 102-29, 102-31, 102-47, 103-1, 301-3, 306-3, 306-4, 306-5, 307-1 63 Aramex Annual Report 2017 10 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Matrix Material Aspect Materiality Notes on Materiality Notes Aspects Boundary “Transport Supplier Environmental Assessment” Percentage of new Outside our This is important to our suppliers that were operations as it 308 1 Material operations and to our screened using is related to our stakeholders environmental criteria supply chain Significant actual and Outside our potential negative This is important to our operations as it 307 2 environmental impacts Material operations and to our is related to our in the supply chain and stakeholders supply chain actions taken Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances Within and about environmental This is important to our outside our impacts filed, operations and to our 103 2 Material operations as it addressed and resolved stakeholders. We received no is related to our through formal grievances in 2017. supply chain grievance mechanisms “Social Labor Practices and Decent work Employment” Total number and rates Within our We are rolling out our of new employee hires entire “Direct impact on our ERP system – once 401 1 and employee turnover Material operations, business and stakeholders, it is in place we will by age group, gender except especially employees” be able to report on and region franchisees turnover Benefits provided to fulltime employees that are not provided Throughout 2017, we did 401 2 to temporary or partImmaterial not have any parttime time employees, by employees. significant locations of operations “Employee retention is important to us because we aim to provide a comfortable and unique Return to work and Within our entire working environment for our retention rates after operations, employees, investing in them 401 3 Material parental leave, by except and their capacity. Moreover, gender franchisees in Aramex we seek to provide flexibility for our female employees to encourage their return to work after maternity leave.” 102-29, 102-31, 102-47, 103-1, 103-2, 401-1, 401-2, 401-3 64 Aramex Annual Report 2017 10 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Matrix Material Aspect Materiality Notes on Materiality Notes Aspects Boundary Labor/Management Relations “While we do not prevent them, we currently do not have any Minimum notice collective bargaining periods regarding Within our entire “Direct impact on our agreements. operational changes, operations, 402 1 Material business and stakeholders, Moreover, whenever including those except especially employees” we have any specified in collective franchisees operational changes, agreements we meet with related stakeholders to set a plan for the roll-out of these changes” Occupational Health and Safety “The high level of representation of our employees in formal health “Percentage of total and safety committees is workforce represented important as it allows for in formal joint Within our entire better decision making management-worker operations, in incident prevention 403 1 health and safety Material except mechanisms. We seek to committees that help franchisees have a safe and healthy monitor and advise on environment for our occupational health employees. This is important and safety programs” for our stakeholders and the sustainability of our operations.” Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational “We abide by OSHAS Within our entire diseases, lost days, “Direct impact on our 18001 policies and operations, 403 2 absenteeism and total Material business and stakeholders, regulations except except number of work-related especially employees” when local laws franchisees fatalities, by region and stipulate otherwise” by gender In our operations, we employ strict health and safety Workers with high measures – our employees do incidence or high risk 403 3 Immaterial not handle any hazardous or of diseases related to toxic substances and are not their occupation exposed to any disease risk factors while on the job. Health and safety “We currently do not have any topics covered in formal agreements with trade 403 4 Immaterial formal agreements unions. Therefore, this is not with trade unions applicable” 102-29, 102-31, 102-47, 103-1, 402-1, 403-3, 403-4 65 Aramex Annual Report 2017 10 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Matrix Material Aspect Materiality Notes on Materiality Notes Aspects Boundary Training and Education “Employee training is extremely important for our operations – we are actively engaging our employees and Average hours of Within our entire building their capacity, in training per year per operations, order to improve our business 404 1 employee – by gender Material except processes and quality of and by employee franchisees services. Moreover, investing category in our employees’ capacity promotes employee retention and more productive working environments” “Employee training is extremely important for our operations – we are actively Programs for skills engaging our employees and management and building their capacity, in lifelong learning that Within our entire order to improve our business support the continued operations, processes and quality of 404 2 Material employability of except services. Moreover, investing employees and assist franchisees in our employees’ capacity them in managing career promotes employee retention endings and more productive working environments. Our employees gain valuable skills that can aid them in a career change.” Due to the data migration and upgrade, some Percentage of HR performance employees receiving Within our entire review records “Direct impact on our regular performance operations, are unavailable, 404 3 Material business and stakeholders, and career development except but 100% of especially employees” reviews, by gender and franchisees employees will have by employee category enhanced records of performance reviews in 2018 Diversity and Equal Opportunity “Aramex is a global operation. Diversity is vital to the Composition of success of our operations governance bodies and and ensures that the breakdown of employees Within our entire different regions in which per employee category operations, 405 1 Material we operate are represented according to gender, age except in our workforce Diversity is group, minority group franchisees an important aspect of our membership and other sustainability and integration indicators of diversity into the communities in which we work.” Ratio of basic salary and Within our entire remuneration of women “Direct impact on our operations, 405 2 to men by employee Material business and stakeholders, except category, by significant especially employees” franchisees locations of operation 102-29, 102-31, 102-47, 103-1, 404-3 66 Aramex Annual Report 2017 10 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Matrix Material Aspect Materiality Notes on Materiality Notes Aspects Boundary Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices “Labor rights are important to us – we strive to ensure that all of our employees and Percentage of new Outside our workforce have their rights as suppliers that were operations as it per national and international 414 1 Material screened using labor is related to our laws and regulations. To that practices criteria supply chain end, we began screening our suppliers so that we could align our supply chain to our principles and standards” Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms “We make an effort to ensure that we protect the labor rights of all of our workforce. Therefore, we Number of grievances Within and ensure that we have a clear about labor practices outside our labor rights policy, along with 103 1 filed, addressed and Material operations as it a whistleblowing system resolved through formal is related to our to report any concerns grievance mechanisms supply chain or grievances – whether related to our operations or those of our suppliers, in order to remedy any issues immediately” Human Rights Investment “Human rights are vital to us and we strive to uphold human rights principles in all our operations. Therefore, Total number & we evaluate our suppliers’ percentage of compliance with international significant investment Outside our laws and conventions related agreements and operations as it 412 1 Material to human rights to ensure contracts that include is related to our there are no violations in our human rights clauses or supply chain supply chain. Human rights that underwent human violations can impact our rights screening operations and stakeholders negatively, which is why we track and prevent any violations” 102-29, 102-31, 102-47, 103-1, 414-1, 412-1, 414-2 67 Aramex Annual Report 2017 10 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Matrix Material Aspect Materiality Notes on Materiality Notes Aspects Boundary Human Rights Investment In order to ensure human rights are upheld, we make Average hours of sure that we communicate Within our training per year per their importance to our operations, 412 1 employee – by gender Material employees and how they except and by employee relate to our code of conduct. franchisees category We make sure that we keep our employees informed in order to avoid any violations Non-discrimination We aim to provide a comfortable working environment for our Total number Within our employees. Therefore, we of incidents of operations, ensure that our stakeholders 406 1 Material discrimination and except are aware of the channels corrective actions taken franchisees available to report any discrimination cases in order that we may be able to investigate and remedy them. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining “It is important for our stakeholders that Aramex does not employ any policies Operations and that prevent our employees suppliers identified or suppliers from having in which the right Within and the right to join collective to exercise freedom outside our bargaining agreements, as of association and 407 1 Material operations as it we maintain the freedom for collective bargaining is related to our our suppliers and employees may be violated or at supply chain to join them in countries significant risk, along that allow for this. Formal with measures taken to agreements and collective support these rights bargaining can protect employees and safeguard their rights” Child Labor “Operations and suppliers identified as having significant Within and risk for incidents of outside our Direct impact on our business 408 1 child labor, along Material operations as it and stakeholders with measures taken is related to our to contribute to the supply chain effective abolition of child labor” 102-29, 102-31, 102-47, 103-1, 406-1, 407-1 68 Aramex Annual Report 2017 10 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Matrix Material Aspect Materiality Notes on Materiality Notes Aspects Boundary Forced or Compulsory Labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk Within and for incidents of forced outside our or compulsory labor, Direct impact on our business 409 1 Material operations as it along with measures and stakeholders is related to our taken to contribute supply chain to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Security Practices “In order to ensure that they are upheld, we make sure that we communicate with our employees on the importance of human rights and how they Percentage of security relate to our code of conduct. Within and personnel trained in We make sure to keep our outside our the organization’s employees informed in order 410 1 Material operations as it human rights policies to avoid any violations. This is related to our or procedures that are includes our security staff, as supply chain relevant to operations they are an important aspect of our operations, are constantly on-site and therefore have a high potential to prevent and report any violations” Indigenous Rights We do not own or lease land Total number of in areas with indigenous incidents of violations populations or that have 411 1 involving rights of Immaterial indigenous rights – therefore indigenous peoples and this is not applicable to our actions taken operations Assessment “Human rights are vital to us. We strive to uphold human rights in all of our operations and therefore assess our operations’ compliance Total number and with international laws and percentage of conventions related to human operations that have Within our 412 1 Material rights to ensure there are no been subject to human operations violations in our supply chain rights reviews or operations. Human rights impact assessments violations can impact our operations and stakeholders negatively – this is why it is important for us to keep track of them and prevent them” 102-29, 102-31, 102-47, 103-1, 410-1, 411-1, 412-1 69 Aramex Annual Report 2017 10 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Matrix Material Aspect Materiality Notes on Materiality Notes Aspects Boundary Supplier Human Rights Assessment Within and Percentage of new outside our Direct impact on our suppliers that were 414 1 Material operations as it business, stakeholders and screened using human is related to our supply chain rights criteria supply chain Significant actual and Within and potential negative outside our Direct impact on our 414 2 human rights impacts Material operations as it business, stakeholders and in the supply chain and is related to our supply chain actions taken supply chain Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms Given that we place high Number of grievances value on human rights, we Within and about human rights ensure that our stakeholders outside our impacts filed, addressed are aware of the channels 103 1 Material operations as it and resolved through available to report any is related to our formal grievance discrimination cases in order supply chain mechanisms for us to investigate and remedy them Society Local Communities “Inside and outside our operations in the countries where “Aramex strives to have a we are able to positive impact in all areas have projects on Percentage of in which we operate, as we the ground. The Our community operations with believe it is vital to engage percentage is beneficiaries exclude implemented with local communities and calculated from children, students, 413 1 local community Material empower them. Our social operations that startups and interns engagement, impact and sustainability initiatives have projects (whic are account for assessment and impact the communities’ on the ground separatel development programs well-being and enhances in relation to our relationships with our all operations stakeholders” where we are able to have sustainability projects.” “Given the nature of our operations, we do not operate any factories or manufacturing facilities that Operations with pose health risks, nor do we significant actual or mine or extract resources, 413 2 potential negative Immaterial ensuring that our operations impacts on local do not pose any negative communities social impacts and have mechanisms in place to report any issues or concerns.” 102-29, 102-31, 102-47, 103-1, 413-2 70 Aramex Annual Report 2017 10 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Matrix Material Aspect Materiality Notes on Materiality Notes Aspects Boundary Anti-Corruption “Corruption can have significant legal and financial implications, as Total number and well as a negative impact percentage of on our stakeholders and operations assessed Within our entire on the areas in which 205 1 for risks related to Material operations we operate. This is why corruption and the Aramex’s compliance and significant risks internal audit functions identified are dedicated to the reduction of risks related to corruption” Corruption can have significant legal and financial implications, as well as a negative impact on our stakeholders and on the areas in which we operate. This is why Aramex’s compliance and Communications and internal audit functions training on antiWithin our entire are dedicated to the 205 2 Material corruption policies and operations reduction of risks related to procedures corruption and to ensuring that our employees are trained and aware of our code of conduct and anticorruption policies. We also have a whistleblowing policy and mechanism in place to report any incidents. “Due to the importance of keeping our operations corruptionfree we have Confirmed incidents of Within our entire formal channels to report 205 3 corruption and actions Material operations any cases, along with a taken comprehensive procedure to investigate and take action against perpetrators” Public Policy “As we do not affiliate ourselves with any political Total value of political or contributions by Within our entire governmental system, 415 1 Material country and recipient/ operations we have a strict policy beneficiary against giving political contributions to governments” 102-29, 102-31, 102-47, 103-1, 205-2, 205-3, 415-1 71 Aramex Annual Report 2017 10 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Matrix Material Aspect Materiality Notes on Materiality Notes Aspects Boundary Anti-competitive Behavior “In 2017, we did Total number of not have any legal actions for legal actions for anti-competitive Within our entire Direct impact on our anti-competitive 206 1 Material behavior, anti-trust and operations business and stakeholders behavior, antimonopoly practices and trust or monopoly their outcomes practices filed against us” Compliance “In 2017, we didn’t receive any fines Monetary value of or non-monetary significant fines and sanctions for total number of nonWithin our entire Direct impact on our non-compliance 419 1 Material monetary sanctions for operations business and stakeholders with laws and non-compliance with regulations, since laws and regulations we did not face any issues of noncompliance” Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society “It is in line with our values and sustainability to ensure that our supply chain does not carry negative Percentage of new Outside our social impacts. Therefore, suppliers that were operations as it is we began evaluating our 414 1 Material screened using criteria related to our supply suppliers on matters related for impacts on society chain to our code of conduct, which include social issues such as human, labor and child rights” Significant, actual and Outside our potential negative operations as it is Direct impact on our 414 2 impacts on society in Material related to our supply business and stakeholders the supply chain and chain actions taken Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society Number of grievances about impacts on Within and outside society filed, addressed our operations as it is Direct impact on our 103 1 Material and resolved through related to our supply business and stakeholders formal grievance chain mechanisms 102-29, 102-31, 102-47, 103-1, 206-1, 414-1, 419-1 72 Aramex Annual Report 2017 10 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Matrix Material Materiality Aspect Boundary Notes on Materiality Notes Aspects Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety Percentage of significant product We do not produce any and service categories for which products or services that 416 1 Immaterial health and safety impacts are require health and safety assessed for improvement impact assessment “Total number of incidents of non compliance with regulations and We do not produce any voluntary codes concerning the products or services that 416 2 health and safety impacts of Immaterial require health and safety products and services during impact assessment their life cycle, by type of outcomes” Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for We do not produce any product and service information 417 1 Immaterial products or services that and labeling. Percentage of require specific labeling significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations We do not produce any and voluntary codes concerning 417 2 Immaterial products or services that product and service information require specific labeling and labeling, by type of outcomes “Total number of incidents of “Outside our non compliance with regulations organization as and voluntary codes concerning it is related to Direct impact on our 417 3 marketing communications, Material international and business and stakeholders including advertising, promotion national laws and and sponsorship, by type of regulations” outcomes” 102-29, 102-31, 102-47, 103-1, 416-1, 416-2, 417-1, 417-2 73 Aramex Annual Report 2017 10 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Matrix Material Aspect Materiality Notes on Materiality Notes Aspects Boundary Product and Service Labeling “Customer satisfaction is important to Aramex. Therefore, measuring customer satisfaction Within our entire through these surveys allows Approach to stakeholder operations and outside us to know more about 417 4 engagement Key topics Material as it is related to our our services and identify and concerns raised customers any gaps or needs for improvement. In this way, we are able to maintain positive long term relationships with our customers” Marketing Communications Within our entire We have strict policies operations and outside against the sale or Sale of banned or as it relates to the transportation of banned or 102 2 Material disputed products international and disputed product and we have national laws and controls to ensure shipment regulations contents “Outside our organization Incidents of as it is related to non-compliance Direct impact on our business 417 3 Material international and concerning marketing and stakeholders national laws and communications regulations” Customer Privacy Total number of “In 2017 substantiated complaints Within our organization Directly impacts our we did not 418 1 regarding breaches of Material and outside as it is customers and our business have any customer privacy and related to our customers cases” losses of customer data Compliance “Monetary value of Within our organization significant fines for and outside as it is non-compliance with related to our customers Direct impact on our business 419 1 laws and regulations Material and international and and stakeholders concerning the provision national laws and and use of products and regulations services” 102-2, 102-29, 102-31, 102-47, 103-1, 417-4, 418-1 74 Aramex Annual Report 2017 11 Compliance 75 Aramex Annual Report 2017 11 Compliance Compliance Aramex’s Compliance Program strives to ensure • Incorporation of compliance into day-to-day that Aramex maintains a culture of respect, operations in every aspect of the business honesty and integrity. Management involvement (i.e. culture, people, communication, policies, and support influence the program’s core objective procedures, governance and strategy). Safe, of ensuring that each employee is able to recognize equitable, secure, fair and healthy working and avoid situations that might compromise conditions. Aramex’s integrity. The Program has the support of • We currently have the following compliance leadership, demonstrated by a reporting structure policies: that provides Aramex’s Compliance Function direct Trade compliance. access to senior leadership and the Board. The Improper gifts, entertainment and payments. Program provides the support and tools necessary Legal Licensing. to fulfill expectations that every staff member Human and labor rights. acts with honesty and integrity while performing Conflict of interest. their work. Anti-competition and anti-trust. Confidentiality. Aramex’s code of conduct sets forth our endeavor Charitable donations and sponsorships. to build an organizational culture that guides Anti-Money laundering. our actions and decision-making in a way that is Due Diligence. rooted in equality and ethics, and what promotes Non-discrimination and equal opportunity. a dignified life for all people. Aramex’s code of Political contributions and involvement. conduct is the platform that paves the path towards operating globally and interacting with our employees, agents, suppliers, customers, and all our stakeholders, resulting in: • Accountable, transparent, respectful, fair, and professional business practices. • Reliability and integrity of financial and operational information. • Safeguarding of assets. • Compliance with laws, regulations, policies, procedures, and contracts. • Healthy and sustainable growth of business. Aramex’s Compliance Program strives to ensure that Aramex maintains a culture of respect, honesty and integrity. 102-16, 102-17, 102-20, 102-29, 102-33 , 102-34, 103-2, 205-1, 205-2, 412-2 76 Aramex Annual Report 2017 11 Compliance These corporate compliance policies are intended We are committed to upholding human rights in to strengthen our corporate culture with up to all our locations. As a part of this commitment, date practices with regards to applicable laws and we initiated a human and labor rights audit to regulations. assess human and labor rights at the corporate level as well as at the station level in Amman and Where policies, procedures and internal controls Dubai. The audit was carried out in coordination do not offer clear guidance for a particular course with and validated by a third party. Human and of action, employees and leaders are expected to labor rights policies were checked for alignment honor the spirit of the code, or seek advice. with international norms, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International The code of conduct and related policies are easily Labor Organization (ILO), as well as with local labor accessible internally and externally. Moreover, and laws in the countries of operation. In addition to in an effort to ensure a better understanding and the policy review, several employee stakeholders implementation of Aramex’s code of conduct, we were interviewed or participated in surveys to continued classroom and online training efforts confirm that practices were aligned with human reaching 75% of the total headcount as of and labor rights policy. Potentially high-risk December 31, 2017. stakeholders and areas were identified and a mitigation plan was proposed. The human and Compliance training summary labor rights audit will expand to the supply chain in 2018. Class Total Online Only Total Room % Headcount Training trained Aramex’s security team has received code Training of conduct training, including an entire comprehensive section highlighting human 17,170 8,775 3,688 12,463 73% and labor rights. While we do not offer training to suppliers and/or customers, we are in the processes of adding human rights clauses along We have demonstrated our genuine beliefs in our with other code of conduct related clauses to our code of conduct by complying with international contracts, and in the form of a questionnaire to and national regulations and standards, which suppliers and subcontractors. This includes any include (but are not limited to): third party security providers. Suppliers will also be selected for auditing. The World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI), which was launched in 2004 with the aim of consolidating industry efforts to fight corruption. UK bribery act. U.S foreign corruption practice act (FCPA). We are committed Accountability principles standards AA1000. to upholding human International Labor Organization (ILO). UN Declaration on Human Rights. rights in all our locations. Environmental standards. As a part of this commitment, Other applicable international and local laws we initiated a human and labor rights audit to assess human Our compliance program continues to refine its infrastructure, address active compliance issues, and labor rights at the update, and create new policies to minimize risk. corporate level as well as at This is an enthusing time for the Program, as the station level in Amman existing management systems are increasingly and Dubai. utilizing the Program as a resource. We will continue to enhance the Program and spread awareness while concentrating on active assessment and the monitoring of compliance risks. Our code of conduct and policies are located at https://www.aramex.com/docs/default-source/latest-docs/gov_1051_-_(b)_aramex_code_of_conduct.pdf 102-16, 102-17, 205-2, 410-1, 412-1, 412-2 77 Aramex Annual Report 2017 11 Compliance In 2017, we have maintained and Whistle-blowing Policy enhanced the evaluation processes of Aramex’s whistle-blowing policy provides guidelines our suppliers’ compliance-related issues to Board Members, employees, customers and including human and labor rights, antistakeholders to report any cases of possible fraud, corruption and anti-bribery, as well as irregularities and grievances related to our code social and environmental criteria. Our of conduct and the social and environmental due diligence process ensures that our performance at Aramex. We encourage our third parties follow local and international employees and stakeholders to use the whistleblowing system and provide sufficient training laws and regulations. Our process is on incident reporting. For external concerns and managed internally utilizing our code of complaints, we have a dedicated communication conduct and questionnaire and externally channel in a form of an email for the general public for complicated cases by a reputable to report any issue. These grievances are dealt provider. In 2018 we will introduce a due with in the same manner as internal ones. diligence process by a reputable provider for all our vendors along with our in-house An independent committee deals with cases that are reported on the Aramex whistle-blowing screening process. system immediately. The investigation process involves an internal committee to reach the As per our knowledge, there have been no cases of ultimate decision. After the investigation is human rights, child labor or compulsory and forced complete, the HR representative discusses the labor violations within our supply chain. In addition, results of the investigation with the complainant in 2017, we did not have any human rights, forced and the accused. In the case of dissatisfaction by or child labor grievances or concerns related to any party, the party has the right to appeal within our operations. Furthermore, we are not aware of 10 working days from the date of investigation any concerns of human rights, forced or child labor completion. The appeal will be forwarded to the violations related to our suppliers and did not Regional HR Manager and/Regional Area Manager. receive any through our formal grievance channels, These are several corrective measures that are nor did we identify or receive any complaints of undertaken depending on the case, ranging, but negative social impacts due to our operations or in not limited to: verbal warning, suspension without our supply chain. We did not identify any issues of pay, requirement to take a business ethics training significant negative impacts on the environment and any other related training deemed necessary, beyond the emissions that result from the use of loss of employment or civil and criminal liability or airlines, sea lines, and road freight to transport local legal action. our shipments and provide services to our clients. We account for these impacts along our supply chain through our calculation of our scope 3-carbon footprint as we are actively working to reduce our We encourage our employees and emissions and environmental impacts, read more stakeholders to use the about our environmental commitments on page 46. whistle-blowing system and provide sufficient Trade Compliance Initiatives training on incident reporting. We are committed to continually strengthening In 2017, our control on exports throughout the network. we successfully We have procured a reliable Persons Screening installed a team to physically solution in 2016, which is a critical solution to review all shipments safeguard our company, customers, and suppliers into embargoed from dealing with restricted parties. In 2017, we countries. successfully installed a team to physically review all shipments into embargoed countries. Our trade compliance program is capable to adapt to the ever-changing risks in global markets and have allowed us to support and protect our customers’ interests. 102-17, 102-29, 102-30, 102-33, 102-34, 102-56, 103-2, 307-1, 308-1, 308-2, 408-1, 409-1, 412-3, 414-1, 414-2 78 Aramex Annual Report 2017 12 Associations and Certifications 79 Aramex Annual Report 2017 12 Associations and Certifications Associations and Certifications We belong to a wide array of industry forums, NGOs and foundations. These range from membership of international bodies such as the World Economic Forum (WEF), through to being IATA-approved freight agents, and as a founding member of the Express Global Distribution Alliance (GDA). Memberships We are IATA-approved agents with individual CODE/CASS numbers in Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Canada, China, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Egypt, Ethiopia, France, Germany, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Jordan, Kuwait, International Air Transport Association Lebanon, Libya, Malta, Mauritius, Morocco, Nepal, (IATA) Netherlands, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Shanghai, Singapore, Slovakia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Switzerland, Syria, Turkey, UAE, UK, USA and Vietnam. Some main stations are individual members, while the remaining stations are in the process of becoming IATA-approved. The International Air Cargo Member Association (TIACA) Freight Fédération Internationale des Associations de Transitaires et Assimilés/International Federation Founder of Freight Forwarders Associations (FIATA) World Freight Alliance (WFA) President Freight Forwarding Syndicate Member Fenex Member Logistics and Supply Chain and Logistics Group Member Ground Operations 102-13 80 Aramex Annual Report 2017 12 Associations and Certifications Memberships Global Distribution Alliance (GDA) Founder Express Express Delivery and Logistic Member Association Business BSI Registered Improvement and Member (British Standards Institute) Efficiency Transported Assets Protection Member Association (TAPA) – Jordan Transportation Security Association Aramex is an indirect air carrier (TSA) – USA Security Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) – USA / Customs Aramex NYC is a member Dept. Department for Transport (DfT) – UK TwoWay and Priority are listed agents Arab Forum for Environment and Environment Member Development (AFED) Member KAMCO: Brokerage – USA ABANA: Association of Arab Banks for Others Member North America MCAA: Messenger Courier Association Member of America Certifications ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems (21 locations) OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems (21 locations) ISO 9001 Quality Management Systems (30 locations) Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design we have 6 Location already certified and 2 under process 27001 Information Security GDP audit (good distribution practices) SEDEX TISSE customer service The International Standard for Service Excellence (7 locations) 102-13 81 Aramex Annual Report 2017 13 Reporting Process 82 Aramex Annual Report 2017 13 Reporting Process Reporting Process 01 Our Operations and Impact This is our 8th integrated report and 12th sustainability report. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive 02 option. Stakeholder Engagement and Feedback Our reporting process displays a robust and focused coverage of the various aspects of our operations and management techniques providing us 03 Sustainability with a tool to measure and monitor Context our operations: We believe that considering the above aspects results in successfully determining our priority and Determining our material issues as well as boundaries to ensure that we address them effectively and provide a priority issues wealth of information concerning our activities, compliance, and any significant economic, When determining our priority issues environmental, and social impacts that are we undertake a comprehensive approach material to our operations and overall impact. considering three main aspects: 102-21, 102-29, 012-43, 102-46, 102-47, 102-54, 103-1 83 Aramex Annual Report 2017 13 Reporting Process With these three dimensions in mind, we assessed the boundaries of each material aspect by mapping our operations and where each aspect and its impacts occur. Aspect boundaries are either within Material and or outside our organization or relevant for both. priority issues are For aspects whose boundaries occur those that have within our operations, this includes all entities, except our franchisees. Aspect significant impact on boundaries, whether within or outside our operations as well of our operations occur across all geographical locations. as issues or aspects that are impacted by Ensuring Quality in our Sustainability Reporting our activities. We utilize the GRI Reporting Principles for Defining Quality, which include: Balance: We have achieved balance by reporting Materiality and evaluating our performance based on material issues and future targets, presenting both our We have identified all of our key stakeholders positive performance, as well as focus areas that inclusively and continue to engage with them require improvement and re-evaluation. effectively. This is achieved through diverse, tailored tools and requests for feedback on our • Comparability: We have provided year-onmateriality, sustainability, and reporting. The year data and followed GRI Indicator Protocols feedback received is carefully mapped in relation wherever appropriate. to our operations and industry. This process is fundamental to our holistic approach, ensuring • Accuracy: We aim to achieve maximum that no stakeholder is neglected when considering accuracy in our data, and always clearly our impact and, most importantly, identifying identify where estimations or limitations in our material issues and how to best address them. published figures exist. For more details on our stakeholder engagement activities, please refer to the stakeholder • Timeliness: We are now committed to engagement section, page 50. reporting our sustainability performance on an annual basis. These material aspects examine factors that are critical to our success and sustainability, including • Clarity: Throughout the report, we clearly not only our corporate culture and existing systems illustrate our sustainability performance and within the company, but also the potential of our related projects. This year we measured against core competencies to contribute to sustainable the targets established by previous reports. development. • Reliability: This report has undergone thirdWe have also examined global trends party assurance, according to the parameters towards sustainability alongside the expressed in the assurance statement. regional and local contexts in which we operate. In doing so, we can identify the different priorities and communicate how we have attempted to address these issues from multiple perspectives. 102-21, 102-29, 012-43, 102-46, 102-47, 102-49, 103-1 84 Aramex Annual Report 2017 13 Reporting Process Measuring and Managing Our Green Given this business model, we rely on estimates House Gas (GHG) Emissions: and data provided by suppliers for our scope three emissions, which account for emissions that take This is our seventh year reporting annually on our place outside our company as a direct result of GHG emissions. Details of our GHG emissions can our operations. We are often limited by the data be found on page 46. In calculating our carbon provided by our suppliers, but work diligently footprint, we have adhered to the principles towards ensuring accuracy and completeness of contained in the Green House Gas (GHG) Protocol all data collected. At present, our fuel consumption accounting tool, which was developed by World calculations (from which emissions are derived) Business Council for Sustainability Development include only fuel used for our owned and leased (WBCSD) and World Resources Institute (WRI). We vehicles. utilize an operational control approach to measure our emissions, with 2016 being our base year for all Data Measurement Techniques: Unless otherwise purposes of comparison and goal setting. stated, indicators provide global coverage, subject to the reporting boundaries and limitations Reporting boundaries: Unless otherwise indicated, outlined above. We strive to provide accurate and the data in this report covers all of our operations comprehensive data and therefore have different in all regions. The only exceptions being our controls, data collection, and management franchise operations--while the financial data systems in place. However, despite our efforts, the presented includes our proceeds from franchises, precision of different indicators may vary. Data it does not include human resource data from measurement necessarily involves some level of franchisees. estimation. Wherever estimations have been made, we have provided an explanation, including the Limitations: Being a light-asset company, Aramex level of accuracy and approach to data collection utilizes the services of transportation providers, used to produce the relevant indicator. such as airlines, sea lines, and vehicle leasing companies. Furthermore, we rely on local subcontractors for the pickup and delivery of express packages in certain markets – most notably India. For more on our supply chain, refer to page 13. In calculating our carbon footprint, we have adhered to the principles contained in the Green House Gas (GHG) Protocol accounting tool, which was developed by World Business Council for Sustainability Development (WBCSD) and World Resources Institute (WRI). 102-46, 102-47, 102-49, 102-50, 102-52, 103-1 85 Aramex Annual Report 2017 14 Disclosures on Management Approaches 86 Aramex Annual Report 2017 14 Disclosures on Management Approaches Disclosures on Management Approaches The responsibility of ensuring positive economic, Officer manages sustainability programs, which social, and environmental outcomes is mandated set out to reduce negative and increase positive from the level of the individual employee up impacts on environmental, external economic, through the Board of Directors, with a scope and external social areas linked to Aramex. These ranging from internal operations out through the programs are centered around three Pillars: external areas of influence in our value chain worldwide. 1. Environment 2. Youth Education and Empowerment Economic matters are handled by our Chief 3. Entrepreneurship Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Vice President of Legal Affairs, To ensure that our impacts on communities are and Chief Risk and Compliance Officer in an ethical positive, we budget 1% of pre-tax profit each year for and sustainable manner which includes compliance sustainability projects across our network. These with major national and international norms and projects include the Startup Support Program, legislation such as the World Economic Forum’s which supports innovative startups and helps Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI), UK accelerate development in their communities. Bribery Act, US Foreign Corruption Practice Act We also form partnerships with NGOs and other (FCPA), International Labor Organization (ILO), UN socially driven organizations in sustainability and Declaration on Human Rights, and others. community projects and partnerships to assist in the development of our communities and meeting More information on financial targets and our their needs. These partnerships are always outlook for 2018 can be found in the CEO letter apolitical and areligious. on page 9, while information on grievance mechanisms such as our whistleblowing system For more on sustainability including goals and can be found on page 76. targets please refer to page 41. Social, environmental, and external economic matters are equally as important to Aramex as our To ensure internal profitability. Internal social impacts on that our impacts the workforce are managed by the Chief Human on communities are Resources Officer (CHRO) guided by our Code of positive, we budget 1% Conduct and HR policies that govern areas such as of pre-tax profit each equal remuneration for women and men, protecting year for sustainabilidiversity, compulsory labor, and allowing the right Social, environmental, ty projects across our of collective bargaining. and external network. economic matters Respect for human and labor rights is also achieved are equally as imby meeting or exceeding all local and international portant to Aramex standards and norms, and verifying this through a as our internal human and labor rights audit with external auditors profitability. to ensure both policy and practice are aligned. With oversight from the Sustainability Committee of the Board of Directors, the Chief Sustainability 102-20, 102-46, 103-1 87 Aramex Annual Report 2017 14 Disclosures on Management Approaches Our robust environmental initiatives include action We encourage our employees and to reduce Green House Gas (GHG) emissions, stakeholders to use the whistleblowing energy use, packaging materials and waste, as well as Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design system and provide sufficient training for (LEED certification) and ISO 1400 environmental them to report any incidents that they management systems at our facilities. This encounter. is guided by the Aramex Environmental Policy and Socially Responsible Procurement Policy. In For external concerns and complaints, we have addition to this, we are expanding our use and a dedicated email address to which the general generation of renewable energy such as solar public can report any issues, which will then be to power operations and charge our expanding dealt with by the same mechanism as internal fleet of emissions-free electric vehicles. We are complaints. observers of the Paris Climate Change Agreement Certification and given that we met our goal of Cases that are reported by Aramex’s cutting our carbon emissions per shipment by 20% whistleblowing system are dealt with immediately by 2020, we are committing to an additional 20% by an independent committee that investigates decrease of carbon emissions each case through to a conclusion. Once the from our own operations. investigation is complete, the HR representative will discuss the results of the investigation with For more information on our environmental the complainant and any other concerned parties. projects, refer to our environmental commitments Should any parties be dissatisfied, they have the on page 46. right to appeal within ten working days from the date of the investigation being completed. All environmental, economic, and social concerns can be addressed through our whistleblowing This appeal will be forwarded to the Regional HR system, which is outlined below. Manager and Regional Area Manager. Depending on the case, there are a number of corrective Whistleblowing Policy actions that may be undertaken. These range from but are not limited to, oral warning, suspension Aramex’s whistleblowing policy provides guidelines without pay, and the requirement to undertake to Board Members, employees, customers, and business ethics training or any other related other stakeholders to report any cases of possible training deemed necessary, loss of employment, fraud, irregularities or grievances related to our civil and criminal liability or local legal action. code of conduct or the economic, social, and environmental performance of Aramex. Measurement and Evaluation of Management Approaches We measure our performance and effectiveness in managing economic, social, and environmental aspects and impacts through a number of mechanisms, including; • Stakeholder engagement surveys and consultations • Internal and external audits • Internal evaluation mechanisms and KPIs • Budgets and project timelines • Specialized committees on different aspects, for example: grievance committee, HSE committee, special project committees. • Annual reports and internal reporting mechanisms • Whistleblowing system • External Evaluation 103-2, 103-3, 102-21, 102-29, 102-32, 102-33, 102-42, 102-43, 102-46, 102-56 88 Aramex Annual Report 2017 15 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index External Disclosure Title Page number / notes Omissions Assurance GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organization 1 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 4,5,12,13,14,15 102-3 Location of headquarters 4,5 102-4 Location of operations 5 102-5 Ownership and legal form 21,22,23 102-6 Markets served 5 102-7 Scale of the organization 4,5 Information on employees and other 102-8 29-36,51-55,104-109 workers GRI 102: General 102-9 Supply chain 47,51-55, 104 Disclosures 2016 Significant changes to the organization 102-10 9-15,22,23,25 and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 26 102-12 External initiatives 18,42-55 102-13 Membership associations 79,80 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 9,10 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 9,17,112 Values, principles, standards, and norms of 102-16 75,76 behavior Mechanisms for advice and concerns 102-17 75,76,77 about ethics 102-55 89 Aramex Annual Report 2017 15 GRI Content Index External Disclosure Title Page number / notes Omissions Assurance GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures 102-18 Governance Structure 21-27 102-19 Delegating authority 21-27 Executive-level responsibility for 102-20 75,86 economic, environmental, and social topics Consulting stakeholders on economic, 102-21 42-43,51-55,82-83,87 environmental, and social topics Composition of the highest governance 102-22 20-23 body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 21 Nominating and selecting the highest 102-24 24-26 governance body 102-25 Conflicts of interest 24,26 Role of highest governance body in setting 102-26 22-26 purpose, values, and strategy Collective knowledge of highest 102-27 22 governance body GRI 102: General Evaluating the highest governance body's 102-28 22 Disclosures performance 2016 Identifying and managing economic, 102-29 41,51-73 environmental, and social impacts Effectiveness of risk management 102-30 26-27,33-34 processes Review of economic, environmental, and 102-31 17-18,22-26,42,56-73 social topics Highest governance body's role in 102-32 22-26 sustainability reporting 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 22-26,75,77,87 Nature and total number of critical 102-34 75,77 concerns 102-35 Remuneration policies 26 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 26 102-37 Stakeholders' involvement in remuneration 26 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 26 102-55 90 Aramex Annual Report 2017 15 GRI Content Index External Disclosure Title Page number / notes Omissions Assurance GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures Percentage increase in annual total 102-39 26 compensation ratio 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 53-55 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 64,67 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 53-55 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 53-55 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 53-55 Entities included in the consolidated 102-45 5,117 financial statements Defining report content and topic 102-46 7,56,82-87 Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 56-73 102-48 Restatements of information 9,10 GRI 102: General 102-49 Changes in reporting 7 Disclosures 2016 102-50 Reporting period 7,84 102-51 Date of most recent report 2016 102-52 Reporting cycle 83 Raji Hattar Chief Sustainability and Contact point for questions regarding the 102-53 Compliance Officer report Raji.Hattar@aramex. com Claims of reporting in accordance with the 102-54 82 GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 88-96 102-56 External assurance 112-115 102-55 91 Aramex Annual Report 2017 15 GRI Content Index External Disclosure Title Page number / notes Omissions Assurance Material topics GRI 200 Economic Standard Series Economic Performance Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 8-15, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: Management The management approach and its 103-2 8-15, 86, 87 Approach components 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 8-15, 86, 87 Direct economic value generated and 201-1 8-10,117,125 distributed GRI 201: Financial implications and other risks and 201-2 9,10 opportunities due to climate change Economic Performance Defined defined benefit plan obligations 2016 201-3 29 and other retirement plans Financial assistance received from 201-4 56 government Market Presence Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 29-30, 53-55 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 29-30, 53-55 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 29-30, 53-55 Ratios of standard entry level wage by GRI 202: 202-1 100-101,56 Yes gender compared to local minimum wage Market Presence 2016 Proportion of senior management hired 202-2 32 Yes from the local community Indirect Economic Impacts Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 75-77, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: Management The management approach and its 103-2 75-77, 86, 87 Approach components 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 75-77, 86, 87 Infrastructure investments and services GRI 203: 203-1 12-15,56-57 supported Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 8,9,46,57 102-55 92 Aramex Annual Report 2017 15 GRI Content Index External Disclosure Title Page number / notes Omissions Assurance Material topics GRI 200 Economic Standard Series Procurement Practices Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 75-77, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 75-77, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 75-77, 86, 87 GRI 204: Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 55,56 Practices 2016 Anti-corruption Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 75-77, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 75-77, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 75-77, 86, 87 Operations assessed for risks related to 205-1 75 corruption GRI 205: Communication and training on antiAnti-corruption 205-2 corruption policies and procedures 70,75,76 2016 Confirmed incidents of corruption and 205-3 70 actions taken Anti-competitive Behavior Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 75-77, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 75-77, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 75-77, 86, 87 Anti-competitive Legal actions for anti-competitive, anti206-1 26,71 Behavior 2016 trust, and monopoly practices 102-55 93 Aramex Annual Report 2017 15 GRI Content Index External Disclosure Title Page number / notes Omissions Assurance Material topics GRI 300: Evironmental Standard Series Materials Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 58, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 58, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 58, 86, 87 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 105 GRI 301: Materials 2016 Percentage of materials used that are 301-2 105 recycled input materials Energy Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 42, 47, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 42, 47, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 42, 47, 86, 87 Energy consumption within the 302-1 8,47,58 Yes organization Energy consumption outside of the 302-2 47,58 organization GRI 302: 302-3 Energy Intensity 47,59 Energy 2016 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 47-59 Reductions in energy requirements of 302-5 47,59 products and services Water Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 59, 75-77, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 59, 75-77, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 59, 75-77, 86, 87 303-1 Total water withdrawal by sources 59 GRI 303: Water sources significantly affected by 303-2 59 Water 2016 withdrawal of water 303-3 Water recycled and re-used 59 102-55 94 Aramex Annual Report 2017 15 GRI Content Index External Disclosure Title Page number / notes Omissions Assurance Material topics GRI 300: Evironmental Standard Series Biodiversity Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 60, 75-77, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 60, 75-77, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 60, 75-77, 86, 87 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and 304-1 60 areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Significant impacts of activities, products, GRI 304: 304-2 60 and services on biodiversity Biodiversity 2016 304-3 Habits protected or restored 60 Number of IUCN Red List species in 304-4 60 operational areas Emissions Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 42, 47, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 42, 47, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 42, 47, 86, 87 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 47 Yes 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 47 Yes 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 47 Yes GRI 305: 305-4 Direct GHG emssions intensity 47 Emissions 2016 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 47 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 305-6 61 (ODS) Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), 305-7 47 Yes and other significant air emissions 102-55 95 Aramex Annual Report 2017 15 GRI Content Index External Disclosure Title Page number / notes Omissions Assurance Material topics GRI 300: Evironmental Standard Series Effluents and Waste Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 61, 62, 75-77, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 61, 62, 75-77, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 61, 62, 75-77, 86, 87 Total water discharge by qulaity and 306-1 61 destination Total weight of waste by type and disposal 306-2 61 method GRI 306: Effluents and 306-3 Significant spills 62 Waste 2016 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 62 Water bodies affected by water discharges 306-5 62 and/or runoff Environmental Compliance Explanation of the material topic and its 42, 47, 61, 62, 75-77, 103-1 Boundary 86, 87 GRI 103: The management approach and its 42, 47, 61, 62, 75-77, Management 103-2 components 86, 87 Approach 2016 42, 47, 61, 62, 75-77, 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 86, 87 GRI 307: Environmental Non-compliance with environmental laws 307-1 62,77 Compliance and regulations 2016 Supplier Environmental Assessement Explanation of the material topic and its 42, 47, 61, 62, 75-77, 103-1 Boundary 86, 87 GRI 103: The management approach and its 42, 47, 61, 62, 75-77, Management 103-2 components 86, 87 Approach 2016 42, 47, 61, 62, 75-77, 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 86, 87 New suppliers that were screened using GRI 308: Supplier 308-1 77 environmental criteria Environmental Assessment 2016 Negative environmental impacts in the 308-2 77 supply chain and actions taken 102-55 96 Aramex Annual Report 2017 15 GRI Content Index External Disclosure Title Page number / notes Omissions Assurance Social Topics Employment Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 29, 30, 75-77, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 29, 30, 75-77, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 29, 30, 75-77, 86, 87 New employee hires and employee 401-1 29,31,32,63,104 turnover GRI 401: Benefits provided to full-time employees Employment 401-2 that are not provided to temporary or part63 2016 time employees 401-3 Parental leave 63 Labor/ Management Relations Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 56-73 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 64, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 64, 86, 87 GRI 402: Labor/ Minimum notice periods regarding Management 402-1 operational changes 64 Relations 2016 Occupational Health and Safety Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 64, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 64, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 64, 86, 87 Workers representation in formal joint 403-1 management-worker health and safety 33,34 Yes committees Types of injury and rates of injury, GRI 403: 403-2 occupational diseases, lost days, and 36 Occupational absenteeism, and number of work-related Health and Safety fatalities 2016 Workers with high incidence or risk 403-3 36,64 diseases related to their occuptation Health and Safety topics in formal 403-4 64 agreements with unions 102-55 97 Aramex Annual Report 2017 15 GRI Content Index External Disclosure Title Page number / notes Omissions Assurance Social Topics Training and Education Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 30, 31, 65, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 30, 31, 65, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30, 31, 65, 86, 87 Average hours of training per year per 404-1 30,109 employee GRI 404: Programs for upgrading skills and Training and 404-2 30 transition assistance programs Education 2016 Percentage of employees receiving regular 404-3 performance and career development 65 reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 30, 31, 65, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 30, 31, 65, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30, 31, 65, 86, 87 GRI 405: Diversity of governance bodies and 405-1 2,24,25,26,31,32 employees Diversity and Equal Opportunity Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 2016 405-2 106-108 women to men Nondiscrimination Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 67, 75-77, 86, 87 GRI 406: NonIncidents of discrimination and corrective discrimination 406-1 actions taken 67 2016 102-55 98 Aramex Annual Report 2017 15 GRI Content Index External Disclosure Title Page number / notes Omissions Assurance Social Topics Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 67, 75-77, 86, 87 GRI 407: Freedom of Operations and suppliers in which the right Association 407-1 to freedom of association and collective 67 and Collective bargaining may be at risk Bargaining 2016 Child Labor Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 67, 75-77, 86, 87 GRI 408: Operations and suppliers at significant risk 408-1 77 Child Labor 2016 for incidents of child labor Forced or Compulsory Labor Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 67, 75-77, 86, 87 GRI 409: Forced or Operations and suppliers at significant risk 409-1 77 Compulsory for incidents of forced or compulsory labor Labor 2016 Security Practices Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 67, 75-77, 86, 87 GRI 410: Security Security personnel trained in human rights 410-1 68,76 Practices 2016 policies or procedures 102-55 99 Aramex Annual Report 2017 15 GRI Content Index External Disclosure Title Page number / notes Omissions Assurance Social Topics Rights of Indigenous Peoples Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 67, 75-77, 86, 87 GRI 411: Rights of Incidents of violations involving rights of 411-1 68 Indigenous indigenous peoples Peoples 2016 Human Rights Assessment Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Operations that have been subject 412-1 to human rights reviews or impact 7,10,66,68,76 assessments GRI 412: Employee training on human rights policies 412-2 75,76 Human Rights or procedures Assessment 2016 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights 412-3 77 clauses or that underwent human rights screening Local Communities Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Operations with local community GRI 413: 413-1 engagement, impact assessments, and 43,46,49 Yes Local development programs Communities Operations with significant actual and 2016 413-2 potential negative impacts on local 69 communities 102-55 100 Aramex Annual Report 2017 15 GRI Content Index External Disclosure Title Page number / notes Omissions Assurance Social Topics Supplier Social Assessment Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 67, 75-77, 86, 87 New suppliers that were screened using GRI 414: 414-1 7,13,66,71,77 social criteria Supplier Social Assessment 2016 Negative social impacts in the supply 414-2 13,66,77 chain and actions taken Public Policy Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 67, 75-77, 86, 87 GRI 415: Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions 9,27,70 2016 Customer Health and Safety Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Assessment of the health and safety 416-1 72 GRI 416: impacts of product and service categories Customer Health Incidents of non-compliance concerning and Safety 2016 416-2 the health and safety impacts of products 72 and services 102-55 101 Aramex Annual Report 2017 15 GRI Content Index External Disclosure Title Page number / notes Omissions Assurance Social Topics Marketing and Labeling Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Requirements for product and service 417-1 72 information and labeling GRI 417: Incidents of non-compliance concerning Marketing and 417-2 product and service information and 72 Labeling 2016 labeling Incidents of non-compliance concerning 417-3 72 marketing communications Customer Privacy Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 67, 75-77, 86, 87 GRI 418: Substantiated compaints concerning Customer Privacy 418-1 breaches of customer privacy and losses 2016 of customer data Socio Economic Compliance Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Boundary GRI 103: The management approach and its Management 103-2 components 67, 75-77, 86, 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 67, 75-77, 86, 87 GRI 419: Assessment of the health and safety 416-1 72 impacts of product and service categories Socio Economic Compliance Non compliance with laws and regulation 2016 419-1 7,14,19,26,38,71 in the social and economic area 102-55 102 Aramex Annual Report 2017 16 UNGC and SDG Index UNGC and SDG Index United Nations Global Compact Principles United Section Human Rights Our People, Sustainability, Compliance, Disclosures on Principle 1 Management Approaches Our People, Sustainability, Compliance, Disclosures on Principle 2 Management Approaches Labor Standards Principle 3 Our People, Sustainability, Compliance Principle 4 Our People, Sustainability, Compliance Principle 5 Our People, Sustainability, Compliance Principle 6 Our People, Compliance Environment Sustainability, Our Environmental Commitment, Disclosures on Principle 7 Management Approaches Sustainability, Our Environmental Commitment, Disclosures on Principle 8 Management Approaches Sustainability, Our Environmental Commitment, Disclosures on Principle 9 Management Approaches Anti Corruption Principle 10 Compliance, Disclosures on Management Approaches 103 Aramex Annual Report 2017 16 UNGC and SDG Index Sustainable Development Goals Goal Section “SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL 4 Youth Education and Empowerment Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all.” “SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL 8 Our People, Entrepreneurship Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all” “SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL 13 Our Environmental Commitment Take urgent action to combat climate change and it’s impacts” “SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL 17 Sustainability Partnerships, Support, Advocacy Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development” 104 Aramex Annual Report 2017 17 Appendices Appendices Breakdown Of New Hires By Region Breakdown Of New Hires By Region Levant Africa Accounting and Finance 4.93% Administration 1.72% Indian 16% BIE 0.51% sub6% 29% Contact Center 12.43% continent CRM & Marketing 0.39% Customer Management Teams 10.13% 32% 9% Customer Service 3.99% Europe & North Facilities 8% America GCC HR 3.24% Far East IT 1.37% Management 0.94% Operations 53.91% New Hire per Gender Legal 0.20% Shopping Services 5.32% Consumer Services & Solutions 0.04% Male Female 75% 25% Internal Audit 0.08% Risk & Compliance 0.04% Sustainability 0.04% New Hire per Age Direct vs Indirect Employees 2017 Age Group above 64 Indirect 2,724 14,446 Direct 0.3% “We are continually growing. Age Group 51 64 Age Group In 2017 our workforce increased by below 21 0.9% 1.2% to reach 14446* employees Age Group representing 82 nationalities” 41 50 * Excludes indirect employees 16% 38% Age Group 21 30 39% Age Group 31 40 102-8, 102-9, 401-1 105 Aramex Annual Report 2017 17 Appendices Ratios Of Local Minimum Wage By Gender Compared To Standard Entry Level Wage Aramex Country Local Minimum Wage Entry Wage Jordan Male 1 : 1.26 female 1 : 1.58 United Arab Emirates (AED) No minimum wage specified by N/A law Egypt Male 1 : 4 female 1 : 4 India Male 1 : 1.6 2.5 Depending on region female 1 : 1.6 2.5 Depending on region South Africa No minimum wage specified by N/A law Ireland (INR) Male 1 : 1.7 female 1 : 1.8 Netherlands (EURO) Male 1 : 1.06 female 2.3 : 1.06 102-8, 102-38, 202-1 106 Aramex Annual Report 2017 17 Appendices Ratios Of Local Minimum Wage By Gender Compared To Standard Entry Level Wage Aramex Country Local Minimum Wage Entry Wage Bahrain (BHD) No minimum wage specified by N/A law Hong Kong (HKD) Male 1 : 2.02 female 2.3 : 2.3 Oman Male 1 : 1.23 Min Wage 325 OR for locals female 1 : 1.23 Ratios Of Standard Entry Level Wage By Gender At Significant Locations Of Operation Country Ratio (Female To Male Wage) Jordan (Jod) Entry Level Female 1.25 Male 1 5-Years’ Experience Female 566.09 (Jod) 1.03 1 Male 551.94 (Jod) 1 1 102-8, 102-38, 202-1, 405-2 107 Aramex Annual Report 2017 17 Appendices Ratios Of Standard Entry Level Wage By Gender At Significant Locations Of Operation Country Ratio (Female To Male Wage) United Arab Emirates (Aed) Entry Level Female 1 Male 1 5-Years’ Experience Female 566.09 (Jod) 1.03 1.17 Male 551.94 (Jod) 1 1 South Africa (Zar) Entry Level Female 1 Male 1 5-Years’ Experience Female 566.09 (Jod) 1.03 Male 551.94 (Jod) 1 Netherlands (Euro) Entry Level Female 1 Male 1 5-Years’ Experience Female 566.09 (Jod) 1.03 1.25 Male 551.94 (Jod) 1 1 102-8, 102-38, 405-2 108 Aramex Annual Report 2017 17 Appendices Ratios Of Standard Entry Level Wage By Gender At Significant Locations Of Operation Country Ratio (Female To Male Wage) Bahrain (BHD) Entry Level Female 1 Male 1.2 5-Years’ Experience Female 566.09 (Jod) 1.03 1.14 Male 551.94 (Jod) 1 1 Hong Kong (HKD) Entry Level Female 1.14 Male 1 5-Years’ Experience Female 566.09 (Jod) 1.03 1 Male 551.94 (Jod) 1 1 Oman OMR Entry Level Female 1 Male 1 102-8, 102-38, 405-2 109 Aramex Annual Report 2017 17 Appendices Employee Training Total training hours Average # Headcount Category & Gender from training of Training Hours 2017 records in 2017 in 2017 Males (Non-Ground Courier) 8,860 87,240 9.84 Hrs. / Male 4.61 Hrs. / Ground Ground Couriers 3,200 14,756 Courier All Males (Including Ground Couriers) 12,060 101,946 8.45 Hrs. / Male Females (All Categories) 2,215 32,416 14.70 Hrs. / Female Average Training Hours per employee 14,275 134,363 9.45 Hrs. / Employee Material Use Material Unit AWB 6656 Envelope 9428 Flyers 17326 Labels 5459 Stickers 10234 Tape 2652 Bag Seals 3985 Box 43873 Bag 2831 BIO 2253 Data Loggers 19 BAG Tag 68 Branded gel packs for BioCare Box 40 102-8, 404-1, 301-1 110 Aramex Annual Report 2017 17 Appendices Material Use Waste Recycled Paper (Reams) 47925 Plastic (KG) 14688 Aluminum (KG) 9200 Cardboard (KG) 8200 Packaging (KG) 9480 Envelopes (KG) 9448 Electronics (KG) 0 Wood (KG) 200 Plastic Wrap (KG) 3200 Plastic film 5 Red Plastic Bags 1000 Wooden Pallets 4000 301-1 111 Aramex Annual Report 2017 18 Independent Assurance Statement Independent Assurance Statement 112 Aramex Annual Report 2017 18 Independent Assurance Statement 102-56 113 Aramex Annual Report 2017 18 Independent Assurance Statement 102-56 114 Aramex Annual Report 2017 18 Independent Assurance Statement 102-56 115 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries Consolidated Financial Statements 31 December 2017 116 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 102-10, 102-14, 102-15, 102-45, 201-1 117 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 102-56 118 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 102-56 119 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 102-56 120 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 102-56 121 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 102-56 122 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 102-56 123 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 102-56 124 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 201-1 125 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries Consolidated Income Statement For the year ended 31 December 2017 2017 2016 Continuing operations Notes AED’000 AED’000 Rendering of services 25 4,721,387 4,343,158 Cost of services 26 (2,165,682) (1,911,165) Gross profit 2,555,705 2,431,993 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 9, 10 (4,473) (1,363) Selling and marketing expenses (208,212) (204,237) Administrative expenses 27 (973,085) (940,317) Operating expenses 28 (823,058) (826,412) Gain on bargain purchase 3 41,568 Other income, net 29 6,618 20,217 Operating profit 553,495 521,449 Finance income 7,937 11,485 Finance expense (24,700) (27,211) Profit before tax from continuing operations 536,732 505,723 Income tax expense 12 (81,351) (60,926) Profit for the year from continuing operations 455,381 444,797 Discontinued operations Profit after tax for the year from discontinued operations 8 7,377 Profit for the year 455,381 452,174 126 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries Consolidated Income Statement For the year ended 31 December 2017 (continued) 2017 2016 Continuing operations Notes AED’000 AED’000 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent Profit for the year from continuing operations 435,399 419,218 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 7,377 435,399 426,595 Non–controlling interests Profit for the year from continuing operations 19,982 25,579 455,381 452,174 Earnings per share attributable to the equity holders of the Parent: Basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing 31 AED 0.297 AED 0.286 operations Basic and diluted earnings per share from discontinued AED 0.000 AED 0.005 operations The attached notes from 1 to 37 form part of these consolidated financial statements 127 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries Consolidated Statement Of Other Comprehensive Income For the year ended 31 December 2017 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 Profit for the year 455,381 452,174 Other comprehensive income, net of tax Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 46,980 (97,939) Other comprehensive income (loss) for the year, net of tax 46,980 (97,939) Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 502,361 354,235 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent 483,114 331,789 Non-controlling interests 19,247 22,446 502,361 354,235 The attached notes from 1 to 37 form part of these consolidated financial statements 128 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries Consolidated Statement Of Changes In Equity For the year ended 31 December 2017 Attributable to equity holders of the Parent Reserve Foreign arising from Non-conStatutory currency acquisition Retained Share capital trolling Total For the year ended 31 December 2017 AED’ 000 reserve translation of nonearnings Total AED’000 interests AED’000 AED’000 reserve controlling AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 interests AED’000 At 1 January 2017 1,464,100 227,198 (350,627) (33,037) 957,783 2,265,417 9,085 2,274,502 Profit for the year 435,399 435,399 19,982 455,381 Other comprehensive income for the year 47,715 47,715 (735) 46,980 Total comprehensive income for the year 47,715 435,399 483,114 19,247 502,361 Directors fees paid (note 18) (3,630) (3,630) (3,630) Dividends of subsidiaries (12,188) (12,188) Non-controlling interests 1,646 1,646 Acquisition of non-controlling interests (note 3) (10,547) (10,547) 1,174 (9,373) Dividends paid to shareholders (note 18) (234,256) (234,256) (234,256) Transfer to statutory reserve 41,983 (41,983) At 31 December 2017 1,464,100 269,181 (302,912) (43,584) 1,113,313 2,500,098 18,964 2,519,062 The attached notes from 1 to 37 form part of these consolidated financial statements 129 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries Consolidated Statement Of Changes In Equity For the year ended 31 December 2017 Reserve Foreign arising from Non-conStatutory currency acquisition Retained Share capital trolling Total For the year ended 31 December 2016 reserve translation of nonearnings Total AED’000 AED’ 000 interests AED’000 AED’000 reserve controlling AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 interests AED’000 At 1 January 2016 1,464,100 195,663 (255,821) (28,119) 785,708 2,161,531 38,264 2,199,795 Profit for the year 426,595 426,595 25,579 452,174 Other comprehensive income for the year (94,806) (94,806) (3,133) (97,939) Total comprehensive income for the year (94,806) 426,595 331,789 22,446 354,235 Directors fees paid (note 18) (3,370) (3,370) (3,370) Dividends of subsidiaries (52,462) (52,462) Non-controlling interests (note 3) (4,918) (4,918) (27,686) (32,604) Increase of capital of a subsidiary 826 826 Acquisition of non-controlling interests (note 3) 27,697 27,697 Dividends paid to shareholders (note 18) (219,615) (219,615) (219,615) Transfer to statutory reserve 31,535 (31,535) At 31 December 2016 1,464,100 227,198 (350,627) (33,037) 957,783 2,265,417 9,085 2,274,502 The attached notes from 1 to 37 form part of these consolidated financial statements 130 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries Consolidated Statement Of Cash Flows For the year ended 31 December 2017 2017 2016 Operating Activities Notes AED’000 AED’000 Profit before tax from continuing operations 536,732 505,723 Profit before tax from discontinued operations 8 5,771 Profit before tax 536,732 511,494 Adjustment for: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 4 104,228 99,170 Amortisation of other intangible assets 6 4,681 5,152 Impairment of goodwill 5 1,844 Provision for employees’ end of service benefits 20 24,970 23,043 Provision for doubtful accounts, net 13 9,497 10,424 Net finance expense 16,763 15,726 Employees’ benefit plan expense 24 24,030 47,627 Reversal of employees’ benefit plan expense 24 (27,950) Share of results of joint ventures and associates 4,473 1,363 Loss (gain) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 788 (3,852) Write-off of property, plant and equipment 427 Gain on disposal of the discontinued operations 8 (3,353) Gain on bargain purchase 3 (41,568) The attached notes from 1 to 37 form part of these consolidated financial statements 131 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries Consolidated Statement Of Cash Flows For the year ended 31 December 2017 (continued) 2017 2016 Working capital adjustments: Notes AED’000 AED’000 Accounts receivable (201,975) (17,783) Accounts payable 48,250 36,933 Other current assets (37,420) (15,376) Other current liabilities 135,218 29,664 Cash from operations 644,556 698,664 Employees’ end of service benefits paid 20 (23,209) (12,822) Employees’ benefit plan paid 24 (41,193) (36,464) Income tax paid 12 (71,958) (36,562) Net cash flows from operating activities 508,196 612,816 2017 2016 Investing Activities Notes AED’000 AED’000 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 4 (169,102) (161,072) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 5,242 18,580 Available for sale financial assets (15,700) (26,066) Interest received 7,937 11,485 Proceeds from sale of a subsidiary, net of cash 8 118,804 Other non-current assets 1,244 (2,268) Acquisition of non-controlling interests 3 (9,373) (32,604) Margin deposits (1,241) 6,602 Investments in joint ventures and associates (3,736) (137,410) Dividends received from associates 998 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 3 (289,094) Net cash flows used in investing activities (183,731) (493,043) The attached notes from 1 to 37 form part of these consolidated financial statements 132 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance Aramex PJSC and its subsidiaries Consolidated Statement Of Cash Flows For the year ended 31 December 2017 (Continued) 2017 2016 Financing Activities Notes AED’000 AED’000 Interest paid (24,700) (27,211) Proceeds from loans and borrowings 23,624 338,354 Repayment of loans and borrowings (83,696) (106,594) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (12,188) (52,462) Non-controlling interests 1,646 826 Directors’ fees paid (3,630) (3,370) Dividends paid to shareholders (234,256) (219,615) Net cash flows used in financing activities (333,200) (70,072) Net (Decrease) Increase In Cash And Cash Equivalents (8,735) 49,701 Net foreign exchange difference (6,302) (72,473) Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 15 639,474 662,246 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 december 15 624,437 639,474 The attached notes from 1 to 37 form part of these consolidated financial statements 133 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance Aramex Pjsc And Its Subsidiaries Notes To The Consolidated Financial Statements At 31 December 2017 1. Corporate Information values are rounded to the nearest thousand (AED “000”), except when otherwise indicated. Aramex PJSC (the “Parent Company”) was established as a Public Joint Stock Company on 15 The consolidated financial statements have been February 2005 and is registered in the Emirate of prepared under a historical cost basis, except for Dubai, United Arab Emirates under the UAE Federal employees’ benefit plan and available for sale Law No 2 of 2015. The consolidated financial financial assets that have been measured at fair statements of the Company as at 31 December value. 2017 comprise the Parent Company and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the “Group” 2.2 Basis of consolidation and individually as “Group entities”). The consolidated financial statements comprise The Parent Company was listed on the Dubai of the financial statements of the Company and Financial Market on 9 July 2005. its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2017. Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, The Principal activities of the Group are to invest to variable returns from its involvement with the in the freight, express, logistics and supply chain investee and has the ability to affect those returns management businesses through acquiring and through its power over the investee. Specifically, owning controlling interests in companies in the the Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Middle East and other parts of the world. Group has: The Parent Company’s registered office is, Business • Power over the investee (i.e., existing rights that Center Towers, 2302A, Media City (TECOM), Sheikh give it the current ability to direct the relevant Zayed Road, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. activities of the investee) • Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its The consolidated financial statements were involvement with the investee authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on • The ability to use its power over the investee to 1 March 2018. affect its returns Generally, there is a presumption that a majority 2. Basis of preparation and of voting rights result in control. To support this significant accounting policies presumption and when the Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an 2.1 Basis of preparation investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and The consolidated financial statements of the circumstances in assessing whether it has power Group have been prepared in accordance with over an investee, including: International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting • The contractual arrangement with the other vote Standards Board (IASB), and applicable holders of the investee requirements of UAE Federal Law No. 2 of 2015. • Rights arising from other contractual arrangements The consolidated financial statements are • The Group’s voting rights and potential voting presented in UAE Dirhams (AED), being the rights functional currency of the Parent Company. Financial information is presented in AED and all 134 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 2. Basis of preparation and from financing activities, including both changes significant accounting policies arising from cash flows and non-cash changes (continued) (such as foreign exchange gains or losses). However, the adoption of these standards have no 2.2 Basis of consolidation (continued) major impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statement. The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes: Recognition that there are changes to one or more of the three of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses elements of control. Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the The amendments clarify that an entity needs subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses to consider whether tax law restricts the control of the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, income sources of taxable profits against which it may and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed make deductions on the reversal of deductible of during the year are included in the consolidated temporary difference related to unrealised losses. financial statements from the date the Group gains Furthermore, the amendments provide guidance control until the date the Group ceases to control on how an entity should determine future taxable the subsidiary. profits and explain the circumstances in which taxable profit may include the recovery of some Profit or loss and each component of other assets for more than their carrying amount. comprehensive income (OCI) are attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the Group and to The adoption of these amendments have no the non-controlling interests, even if this results impact on the Group’s consolidated financial in the non-controlling interests having a deficit statements. balance. When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring Annual Improvements Cycle 2014-2016 their accounting policies into line with the Group’s accounting policies. All intra-group assets and Amendments to IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows in Other Entities: Clarification of the scope of relating to transactions between members of the disclosure requirements in IFRS 12 Group are eliminated in full on consolidation. The amendments clarify that the disclosure A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, requirements in IFRS 12, other than those in without a loss of control, is accounted for as an paragraphs Bl0-B16, apply to an entity's interest equity transaction. in a subsidiary, a joint venture or an associate If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, (or a portion of its interest in a joint venture or it derecognises the related assets (including an associate) that is classified (or included in a goodwill), liabilities, non-controlling interest and disposal group that is classified) as held for sale. other components of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss. Any 2.4 Standards issued but not yet effective investment retained is recognised at fair value. The standards and interpretations that are 2.3 Changes in accounting policies and issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of disclosures issuance of the Group's financial statements are disclosed below. The Group intends to adopt The accounting policies adopted are consistent these standards, if applicable, when they become with those of the previous year, except for the effective. following amendment standards effective as of 1 January 2017. IFRS 9 Financial lnstruments The nature and the impact of each amendment is In July 2014, the IASB issued the final version described below: of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments that replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows: Measurement and all previous versions of IFRS Disclosure Initiative 9. IFRS 9 brings together all three aspects of the The amendments require entities to provide accounting for financial instruments project: disclosure of changes in their liabilities arising 135 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 2. Basis of preparation and receivables, either on a 12-month or lifetime significant accounting policies basis. The Group will apply the simplified approach (continued) and record lifetime expected losses on all trade receivables. 2.4 Standards issued but not yet effective (continued) Other adjustments In addition to the adjustments described above, classification and measurement, impairment and on adoption of IFRS 9, other items of the primary hedge accounting. IFRS 9 is effective for annual financial statements such as deferred taxes, periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, investments in the associate and joint venture, with early application permitted. Except for hedge will be adjusted as necessary. The exchange accounting, retrospective application is required differences on translation of foreign operations but providing comparative information is not will also be adjusted. compulsory. The Group has assessed that there is no significant The Group plans to adopt the new standard on impact on its balance sheet or equity on applying the required effective date and will not restate the requirements of IFRS 9. comparative information. During 2017, the Group has performed a detailed impact assessment of all IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers three aspects of IFRS 9. This assessment is based on currently available information and may be IFRS 15 was issued in May 2014, and amended in subject to changes arising from further reasonable April 2016, and establishes a five-step model to and supportable information being made available account for revenue arising from contracts with to the Group in 2018 when the Group will adopt customers. Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognised at IFRS 9. Overall, the Group has assessed that an amount that reflects the consideration to which there is no significant impact on its statement of an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for financial position and equity . transferring goods or services to a customer. Classification and measurement The new revenue standard will supersede all The Group does not expect a significant impact on current revenue recognition requirements under its balance sheet or equity on applying the classiIFRS. Either a full retrospective application or a fication and measurement requirements of IFRS 9. modified retrospective application is required for It expects to continue measuring at fair value all annual periods beginning on or after 1 January financial assets currently held at fair value. 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The Group plans to adopt the new standard on the required The equity shares in non-listed companies are effective date using the full retrospective method. intended to be held for the foreseeable future. No During 2017, the Group performed a preliminary impairment losses were recognised in profit or loss assessment of IFRS 15, which was continued with during prior periods for these investments. The a more detailed analysis completed in 2018. Group will apply the option to present fair value changes in OCI, and, therefore the application of In preparing to adopt IFRS 15, the Group is IFRS 9 will not have a significant impact. considering the following: Loans as well as trade receivables are held to Variable consideration collect contractual cash flows and are expected Currently, the Group recognises revenue measured to give rise to cash flows representing solely at the fair value of the consideration received or payments of principal and interest. The Group receivable. If revenue cannot be reliably measured, analysed the contractual cash flow characteristics the Group defers revenue recognition until the of those instruments and concluded that they uncertainty is resolved. Such provisions give rise meet the criteria for amortised cost measurement to variable consideration under IFRS 15, and will be under IFRS 9. Therefore, reclassification for these required to be estimated at contract inception and instruments is not required. updated thereafter. Impairment IFRS 9 requires the Group to record expected credit losses on all of its debt securities, loans and trade 136 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 2. Basis of preparation and to an associate or joint venture. The amendments significant accounting policies clarify that the gain or loss resulting from the (continued) sale or contribution of assets that constitute a business, as defined in IFRS 3, between an investor 2.4 Standards issued but not yet effective and its associate or joint venture, is recognised (continued) in full. Any gain or loss resulting from the sale or contribution of assets that do not constitute a IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers business, however, is recognised only to the extent (continued) of unrelated investors' interests in the associate or joint venture. The IASB has deferred the effective Rendering of services date of these amendments indefinitely, but an The Group concluded that the services are entity that early adopts the amendments must satisfied over time given that the customer apply them prospectively. The Group will apply simultaneously receives and consumes the these amendments when they become effective. benefits provided by the Group. Consequently, under IFRS 15 the Group would continue to IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Sharerecognise revenue for these service contracts/ based Payment Transactions Amendments to service components of bundled contracts over time IFRS 2 The IASB issued amendments to IFRS 2 rather than at a point of time. Share-based Payment that address three main areas: the effects of vesting conditions on the Advances received from customers measurement of a cash-settled share-based Generally, the Group receives only short-term payment transaction; the classification of a shareadvances from its customers. They are presented based payment transaction with net settlement as part of trade and other payables. features for withholding tax obligations; and accounting where a modification to the terms and Other adjustments conditions of a share-based payment transaction In addition to the major adjustments described changes its classification from cash settled to above, on adoption of IFRS 15, other items of the equity settled. primary financial statements such as deferred taxes, profit or loss after tax for the year from Entities may apply the amendments prospectively discontinued operations, investments in associate and are effective for annual periods beginning on and joint venture, as well as share of profit of an or after 1 January 2018, with early application associate and a joint venture, will be affected and permitted. adjusted as necessary. Furthermore, exchange differences on translation of foreign operations IFRS 16 Leases would also be adjusted. IFRS 16 was issued in January 2016 and it replaces IAS 17 Leases , IFRIC 4 Determining whether an The recognition and measurement requirements Arrangement contains a Lease, SIC-15 Operating in IFRS 15 are also applicable for recognition and Leases-Incentives and SIC-27 Evaluating the measurement of any gains or losses on disposal Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal of non-financial assets (such as items of property Form of a Lease. IFRS 16 sets out the principles and equipment and intangible assets),when that for the recognition, measurement, presentation disposal is not in the ordinary course of business. and disclosure of leases and requires lessees to However, on transition, the effect of these changes account for all leases under a single on-balance is not expected to be material for the Group. sheet model similar to the accounting for finance leases under IAS 17. The standard includes two The group has assessed that there is no significant recognition exemptions for lessees leases of impact on its balance sheet or equity on applying 'low-value' assets (e.g., personal computers) and the requirements of IFRS 15. short-term leases (i.e., leases with a lease term of 12 months or less). At the commencement date of Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28: Sale or a lease, a lessee will recognise a liability to make Contribution of Assets between an Investor and lease payments (i.e., the lease liability) and an Its Associate or Joint Venture asset representing the right to use the underlying The amendments address the conflict between asset during the lease term (i.e.,the right-of-use IFRS 10 and IAS 28 in dealing with the loss of asset). control of a subsidiary that is sold or contributed 137 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 2. Basis of preparation and A few scope exceptions will apply. The overall significant accounting policies objective of IFRS 17 is to provide an accounting (continued) model for insurance contracts that is more useful and consistent for insurers. In contrast to the 2.4 Standards issued but not yet effective requirements in IFRS 4, which are largely based (continued) on grandfathering previous local accounting policies. IFRS 17 provides a comprehensive model IFRS 16 Leases (continued) for insurance contracts, covering all relevant Lessees will be required to separately recognise accounting aspects. The core of IFRS 17 is the the interest expense on the lease liability and general model, supplemented by: the depreciation expense on the right-of-use A specific adaptation for contracts with direct asset. Lessees will be also required to remeasure participation features (the variable fee approach). the lease liability upon the occurrence of certain A simplified approach (the premium allocation events (e.g., a change in the lease term, a change approach) mainly for short-duration contracts. in future lease payments resulting from a change in an index or rate used to determine those IFRS 17 is effective for reporting periods beginning payments). on or after 1 January 2021 with comparative figures required. Early application is permitted, The lessee will generally recognise the amount provided the entity also applies IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 of the remeasurement of the lease liability as an on or before the date it first applies IFRS 17. This adjustment to the right-of-use asset. standard is not applicable to the Group. Lessor accounting under IFRS 16 is substantially Transfers of Investment Property Amendments unchanged from today's accounting under IAS 17. to IAS 40 Lessors will continue to classify all leases using The amendments clarify when an entity should the same classification principle as in IAS 17 and transfer property, including property under distinguish between two types of leases: operating construction or development into, or out of and finance leases. investment property. The amendments state that a change in use occurs when the property meets, IFRS 16 also requires lessees and lessors to make or ceases to meet the definition of investment more extensive disclosures than under IAS 17. property and there is evidence of the change in IFRS 16 is effective for annual periods beginning use. A mere change in management's intentions on or after 1 January 2019. Early application is for the use of a property does not provide evidence permitted, but not before an entity applies IFRS of a change in use. Entities should apply the 15. A lessee can choose to apply the standard amendments prospectively to changes in use using either a full retrospective or a modified that occur on or after the beginning of the annual retrospective approach. The standard's transition reporting period in which the entity first applies provisions permit certain reliefs. the amendments. An entity should reassess the classification of property held at that date and, In 2018, the Group will continue to assess the if applicable, reclassify property to reflect the potential effect of IFRS 16 on its consolidated conditions that exist at that date. Retrospective financial statements. application in accordance with IAS 8 is only IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts permitted if it is possible without the use of In May 2017, the IASB issued IFRS 17 Insurance hindsight. Effective for annual periods beginning Contracts (IFRS 17), a comprehensive new on or after 1 January 2018. Early application of the accounting standard for insurance contracts amendments is permitted and must be disclosed. covering recognition and measurement. presentation and disclosure. Once effective, IFRS This standard is not applicable on the Group. 17 will replace IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts (IFRS 4) that was issued in 2005. IFRS 17 applies to all Annual Improvements 2014 2016 Cycle (Issued In types of insurance contracts (i.e. life, non-life, December 2016) direct insurance and re-insurance), regardless of These improvements include: the type of entities that issue them, as well as to certain guarantees and financial instruments with discretionary participation features. 138 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 2. Basis of preparation and to IFRS 4 to address issues arising from the significant accounting policies different effective dates of IFRS 9 and the (continued) upcoming new insurance contracts standard (IFRS 17). The amendments introduce two alternative 2.4 Standards issued but not yet effective options for entities issuing contracts within the (continued) scope of IFRS 4, a temporary exemption from implementing IFRS 9 to annual periods beginning IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International before 1 January 2021 at latest and an overlay Financial Reporting Standards Deletion of shortapproach that allows an entity applying IFRS 9 term exemptions for first-time adopters to reclassify between profit or loss and other Short-term exemptions in paragraphs E3-E7 of IFRS comprehensive income an amount that results in 1 were deleted because they have now served their the profit or loss at the end of the reporting period intended purpose. The amendment is effective for the designated financial assets being the from 1 January 2018. This amendment is not same as if an entity had applied IAS 39 to these applicable to the Group. designated financial assets. IFRIC Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Transactions and Advance Consideration Ventures Clarification that measuring The interpretation clarifies that in determining the investees at fair value through profit or loss is an spot exchange rate to use on initial recognition of investment-by-investment choice the related asset, expense or income (or part of The amendments clarify that: it) on the derecognition of a non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability relating to advance An entity that is a venture capital organisation, consideration, the date of the transaction is the or other qualifying entity, may elect, at initial date on which an entity initially recognises the recognition on an investment-by-investment basis, nonmonetary asset or non-monetary liability to measure its investments in associates and joint arising from the advance consideration. Entities ventures at fair value through profit or loss. may apply the amendments on a fully retrospective or prospective basis. The new interpretation will be If an entity, that is not itself an investment entity, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 has an interest in an associate or joint venture January 2018. Early application of interpretation is that is an investment entity, the entity may, when permitted and must be disclosed. applying the equity method, elect to retain the fair value measurement applied by that investment IFRIC Interpretation 23 Uncertainty over Income entity associate or joint venture to the investment Treatments entity associate's or joint venture's interests in The Interpretation addresses the accounting subsidiaries. This election is made separately for for income taxes when tax treatments involve each investment entity associate or joint venture, uncertainty that affects the application of IAS 12 at the later of the date on which: and does not apply to taxes or levies outside the scope of IAS 12, nor does it specifically include (a) the investment entity associate or joint venture requirements relating to interest and penalties is initially recognised; associated with uncertain tax treatments. The (b) the associate or joint venture becomes an Interpretation specifically addresses the following: investment entity; and (c) the investment entity associate or joint venture • Whether an entity considers uncertain tax first becomes a parent. treatments separately • The assumptions an entity makes about the The amendments should be applied retrospectively examination of tax treatments by taxation and are effective from 1 January 2018, with earlier authorities application permitted. If an entity applies those • How an entity determines taxable profit (tax amendments for an earlier period, it must disclose loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax that fact. These amendments are not applicable to credits and tax rates the Group. • How an entity considers changes in facts and circumstances Amendments to IFRS 4 Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts In September 2016, the IASB issued amendments 139 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 2. Basis of preparation and financial year, are described in note 37. The significant accounting policies Group based its assumptions and estimates on (continued) parameters available when the consolidated financial statements were prepared. Existing 2.4 Standards issued but not yet effective circumstances and assumptions about future (continued) developments, however, may change due to market changes or circumstances arising beyond the IFRIC Interpretation 23 Uncertainty over Income control of the Group. Such changes are reflected in Treatments (continued) the assumptions when they occur. An entity must determine whether to consider 2.6 Summary of significant accounting policies each uncertain tax treatment separately or together with one or more other uncertain tax Property, plant and equipment treatments. The approach that better predicts the Construction in progress, property, plant and resolution of the uncertainty should be followed. equipment is stated at cost, net of accumulated The interpretation is effective for annual reporting depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, but if any. Such cost includes the cost of replacing certain transition reliefs are available. The Group part of the property, plant and equipment and will apply interpretation from its effective date. borrowing costs for long-term construction projects if the recognition criteria are met. When Since the Group operates in a complex significant parts of property, plant and equipment multinational tax environment, applying the are required to be replaced at intervals, the Interpretation may affect its consolidated Group depreciates them separately based on financial statements and the required disclosures. their specific useful lives. Likewise, when a major In addition, the Group may need to establish inspection is performed, its cost is recognised in processes and procedures to obtain information the carrying amount of the plant and equipment that is necessary to apply the Interpretation on a as a replacement if the recognition criteria are timely basis. satisfied. All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in the profit or loss as incurred. 2.5 Significant accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions Except for capital work in progress, depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the The preparation of the Group’s consolidated estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions Leasehold improvements over 4-7 years that affect the reported amounts of revenues, Buildings over 8-50 years expenses, assets and liabilities, and the Furniture and fixtures over 5-10 years accompanying disclosures, and the disclosure Warehousing racks over 15 years of contingent liabilities. Uncertainty about Office equipment over 3-7 years these assumptions and estimates could result in Computers over 3-5 years outcomes that require a material adjustment to the Vehicles over 4-5 years carrying amount of the asset or liability affected in future periods. Land is not depreciated Other disclosures relating to the Group’s exposure The carrying values of property, plant and to risks and uncertainties include: equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the • Capital management Note 35 carrying value may not be recoverable. If any such • Financial risk management and policies Note 35 indication exists and where the carrying values • Sensitivity analyses and disclosures Note 35 exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable The key assumptions concerning the future and amount, being the higher of their fair value less other key sources of estimation uncertainty at costs to sell and their value in use. the reporting date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next 140 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 2. Basis of preparation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and significant accounting policies Measurement, is measured at fair value with (continued) changes in fair value recognised in the statement of profit or loss. 2.6 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration Property, plant and equipment (continued) transferred and the amount recognised for nonAn item of property, plant and equipment and any controlling interests, and any previous interest significant part initially recognised is derecognised held, over the net identifiable assets acquired upon disposal or when no future economic and liabilities assumed. If the fair value of the benefits are expected from its use or disposal. net assets acquired is in excess of the aggregate Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the consideration transferred, the Group re-assesses asset (calculated as the difference between the whether it has correctly identified all of the net disposal proceeds and carrying amount of assets acquired and all of the liabilities assumed the asset) is included in the consolidated income and reviews the procedures used to measure the statement when the asset is derecognised. amounts to be recognised at the acquisition date. If the reassessment still results in an excess of The residual values, useful lives and methods of the fair value of net assets acquired over the depreciation of property, plant and equipment are aggregate consideration transferred, then the gain reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted is recognised in profit or loss. prospectively, if appropriate. After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at Business combinations and goodwill cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Business combinations are accounted for using the For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is acquired in a business combination is, from the measured as the aggregate of the consideration acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s transferred measured at acquisition date fair value, cash-generating units that are expected to benefit and the amount of any non-controlling interests from the combination, irrespective of whether in the acquiree. For each business combination, other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are the Group elects whether to measure the nonassigned to those units. controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s Where goodwill has been allocated to a cashidentifiable net assets. Acquisition-related generating unit and part of the operation within costs are expensed as incurred and included in that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated administrative expenses. with the disposed operation is included in the carrying amount of the operation when When the Group acquires a business, it assesses determining the gain or loss on disposal. Goodwill the financial assets and liabilities assumed for disposed in these circumstances is measured appropriate classification and designation in based on the relative values of the disposed accordance with the contractual terms, economic operation and the portion of the cash-generating circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the unit retained. acquisition date. This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the Fair value measurement acquiree. The Group measures financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date. Fair value relatIf the business combination is achieved in stages, ed disclosures for financial instruments and that any previously held equity interest is remeasured are measured at fair value or where fair values are at its acquisition date fair value and any resulting disclosed, are summarised in the following notes: gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss. • Disclosures for valuation methods, significant Any contingent consideration to be transferred estimates and assumptions Note 36 by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at • Quantitative disclosures of fair value the acquisition date. Contingent consideration measurement hierarchy Note 36 classified as an asset or liability that is a financial instrument and within the scope of 141 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 2. Basis of preparation and lowest level input that is significant to the fair significant accounting policies value measurement is unobservable (continued) For assets and liabilities that are recognised in 2.6 Summary of significant accounting policies the financial statements on a recurring basis, the (continued) Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing Fair value measurement (continued) categorisation (based on the lowest level input Fair value is the price that would be received to sell that is significant to the fair value measurement an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly as a whole) at the end of each reporting period. transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group based on the presumption that the transaction to has determined classes of assets and liabilities on sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of either: the asset or liability and the level of the fair value • In the principal market for the asset or liability hierarchy as explained above. Or • In the absence of a principal market, in the most Other intangible assets advantageous market for the asset or liability Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. The The principal or the most advantageous market cost of intangible assets acquired in a business must be accessible by the Group. combination is their fair value at the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, intangible The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured assets are carried at cost less any accumulated using the assumptions that market participants amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. would use when pricing the asset or liability assuming that market participants act in their The useful lives of these intangible assets are economic best interest. assessed as either finite or indefinite. A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised takes into account a market participant's ability to over the useful economic life and assessed for generate economic benefits by using the asset in impairment whenever there is an indication its highest and best use or by selling it to another that the intangible asset may be impaired. The market participant that would use the asset in its amortisation period and the amortisation method highest and best use. for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of each reporting The Group uses valuation techniques that are period. Changes in the expected useful life or appropriate in the circumstances and for which the expected pattern of consumption of future sufficient data are available to measure fair value, economic benefits embodied in the asset are maximising the use of relevant observable inputs considered to modify the amortisation period and minimising the use of unobservable inputs. or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates. The All assets and liabilities for which fair value is amortisation expense on intangible assets with measured or disclosed in the financial statements finite lives is recognised in the consolidated are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, income statement in the expense category that described as follows, based on the lowest is consistent with the function of the intangible level input that is significant to the fair value assets. measurement as a whole: Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised • Level 1 Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in over their economic lives which are between 7 to active markets for identical assets or liabilities 15 years. • Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable • Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the 142 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 2. Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies The statement of profit or loss reflects the (continued) Group’s share of the results of operations of the associate or joint venture. Any change in OCI of 2.6 Summary of significant accounting policies those investees is presented as part of the Group’s (continued) OCI. In addition, when there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are or joint venture, the Group recognises its share of not amortised, but are tested for impairment any changes, when applicable, in the statement annually, either individually or at the cashof changes in equity. Unrealised gains and losses generating unit level. The assessment of indefinite resulting from transactions between the Group and life is reviewed annually to determine whether the the associate or joint venture are eliminated to indefinite life continues to be supportable. If not, the extent of the interest in the associate or joint the change in useful life from indefinite to finite is venture. made on a prospective basis. The aggregate of the Group’s share of profit or Gains or losses arising from de-recognition of an loss of an associate and a joint venture is shown intangible asset are measured as the difference on the face of the statement of profit or loss between the net disposal proceeds and the and represents profit or loss after tax and noncarrying amount of the asset and are recognized controlling interests in the subsidiaries of the in the consolidated income statement when the associate or joint venture. asset is derecognized. The financial statements of the associate or joint Investments in associates and joint ventures venture are prepared for the same reporting period An associate is an entity over which the Group has as the Group. When necessary, adjustments are significant influence. Significant influence is the made to bring the accounting policies in line with power to participate in the financial and operating those of the Group. policy decisions of the investee, but is not control or joint control over those policies. After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise an A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement impairment loss on its investment in its associate whereby the parties that have joint control of the or joint venture. At each reporting date, the Group arrangement have rights to the net assets of the determines whether there is objective evidence joint venture. Joint control is the contractually that the investment in the associate or joint agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which venture is impaired. If there is such evidence, the exists only when decisions about the relevant Group calculates the amount of impairment as the activities require unanimous consent of the parties difference between the recoverable amount of the sharing control. associate or joint venture and its carrying value, and then recognises the loss as ‘Share of profit of The considerations made in determining an associates and joint ventures in the statement significant influence or joint control are similar of profit or loss. to those necessary to determine control over subsidiaries. Upon loss of significant influence over the The Group’s investments in its associates and associate or joint control over the joint venture, joint ventures are accounted for using the equity the Group measures and recognises any retained method. investment at its fair value. Any difference between the carrying amount of the associate or Under the equity method, the investment in an joint venture upon loss of significant influence associate or a joint venture is initially recognised or joint control and the fair value of the retained at cost. The carrying amount of the investment is investment and proceeds from disposal is adjusted to recognise changes in the Group’s share recognised in profit or loss. of net assets of the associate or joint venture since the acquisition date. Goodwill relating to the associate or joint venture is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not tested for impairment separately. 143 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 2. Basis of preparation and are prepared separately for each of the Group’s significant accounting policies CGUs to which the individual assets are allocated. (continued) These budgets and forecast calculations generally cover a period of five years. A long term growth 2.6 Summary of significant accounting policies rate is calculated and applied to project future (continued) cash flows after the fifth year. Prepaid agency fees Impairment losses of continuing operations, Amounts paid in advance to agents to purchase are recognised in the consolidated income or alter their agency rights are accounted for statement in expense categories consistent with as prepayments. As these amounts are paid in the function of the impaired asset, except for lieu of annual payments they are expensed to properties previously revalued with the revaluation consolidated income statement over the period taken to other comprehensive income. For such equivalent to the number of years of agency fees properties, the impairment is recognised in other paid in advance. comprehensive income up to the amount of any previous revaluation. Impairment of non-financial assets For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment Further disclosures relating to impairment of nonis made at each reporting date to determine financial assets are also provided in the following notes: whether there is an indication that previously recognised impairment losses no longer exist • Disclosures for significant assumptions Note 37 or have decreased. If such indication exists, the • Goodwill Note 5 Group estimates the asset’s or CGU’s recoverable • Other intangible assets Note 6 amount. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in The Group assesses, at each reporting date, the assumptions used to determine the asset’s whether there is an indication that an asset may recoverable amount since the last impairment be impaired. If any indication exists, or when loss was recognised. The reversal is limited so annual impairment testing for an asset is required, that the carrying amount of the asset does not the Group estimates the asset’s recoverable exceed its recoverable amount, nor exceed the amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the carrying amount that would have been determined, higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s (CGU) net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been fair value less costs of disposal and its value in recognised for the asset in prior years. Such use. The recoverable amount is determined for reversal is recognised in the consolidated income an individual asset, unless the asset does not statement unless the asset is carried at a revalued generate cash inflows that are largely independent amount, in which case, the reversal is treated as a of those from other assets or groups of assets. revaluation increase. When the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is Goodwill is tested for impairment annually as at 31 considered impaired and is written down to its December and when circumstances indicate that recoverable amount. the carrying value may be impaired. In assessing value in use, the estimated future Impairment is determined for goodwill by cash flows are discounted to their present value assessing the recoverable amount of each CGU (or using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current group of CGUs) to which the goodwill relates. When market assessments of the time value of money the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its and the risks specific to the asset. In determining carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised. fair value less costs of disposal, recent market Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be transactions are taken into account. If no such reversed in future periods. transactions can be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used. These calculations are Cash and short-term deposits corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share Cash and short-term deposits in the consolidated prices for publicly traded companies or other statement of financial position comprise cash at available fair value indicators. banks and on hand and short-term deposits with a maturity of three months or less which are subject The Group bases its impairment calculation on to an insignificant risk of changes in value. detailed budgets and forecast calculations, which 144 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 2. Basis of preparation and transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair significant accounting policies value in a foreign currency are translated using the (continued) exchange rates at the date when the fair value is determined. The gain or loss arising on translation 2.6 Summary of significant accounting policies of non-monetary items measured at fair value is (continued) treated in line with the recognition of gain or loss on the change in fair value of the item For the purpose of the consolidated statement (i.e. translation differences on items whose of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist fair value gain or loss is recognized in other of cash on hand, bank balances, and short-term comprehensive income or profit or loss are also deposits as defined above, net of outstanding bank recognized in other comprehensive income or overdrafts as they are considered an integral part profit or loss, respectively). of the Group’s cash management, and cash margin. Group companies Accounts receivable On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of Accounts receivable are stated at original invoice foreign operations are translated into AED’s, at the amount less an allowance for any uncollectible rate of exchange prevailing at the reporting date amounts. An estimate for doubtful debts is made and their statement of profit or loss are translated when collection of the full amount is no longer at exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the probable. Bad debts are written off when there is transactions. The exchange differences arising no possibility of recovery. on translation for consolidation are recognised in other comprehensive income. On disposal Foreign currencies of a foreign operation, the component of other The Group’s consolidated financial statements comprehensive income relating to that particular are presented in AED, which is also the Parent foreign operation is recognised in profit or loss. Company’s functional currency. For each entity, the Group determines the functional currency and Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign items included in the financial statements of each operation and any fair value adjustments to the entity are measured using that functional currency. carrying amounts of assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition are treated as assets and Transactions and balances liabilities of the foreign operation and translated Transactions in foreign currencies are initially at the spot rate of exchange at the reporting date. recorded by the Group’s entities at their respective functional currency spot rates at the date of the Loans and borrowings and other financial transaction first qualify for recognition. liabilities All financial liabilities are recognized initially at Transactions and balances (continued) fair value, and in the case of loans and borrowings Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in and payables, net of directly attributable foreign currencies are translated at the functional transaction costs. currency spot rate of exchange at the reporting date. After initial recognition, interest bearing loans Differences arising on settlement or translation and borrowings are subsequently measured at of monetary items are recognised in profit or loss amortised cost using the effective interest rate with the exception of monetary items that are (EIR) method. Gains and losses are recognised in designated as part of the hedge of the Group’s profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised net investment in a foreign operation. These are as well as through EIR amortisation process. recognised in other comprehensive income until the net investment is disposed, at which time, the Amortised cost is calculated by taking into cumulative amount is reclassified to profit or loss. account any discount or premium on acquisition Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange and fees or costs that are an integral part of the differences on those monetary items are also EIR. The EIR amortisation is included in finance recorded in other comprehensive income. costs in the consolidated income statement. Other financial liabilities including deferred Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of consideration on acquisition of subsidiaries are historical cost in a foreign currency are translated measured at amortised cost. using exchange rates as at the dates of the initial 145 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 2. Basis of preparation and Group receive remuneration in the form of sharesignificant accounting policies based payments, whereby employees are granted (continued) share appreciation rights, which are settled in cash (cash-settled transactions). 2.6 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) Cash-settled transactions The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured A financial liability is derecognised when the initially at fair value at the grant date using a obligation under the liability is discharged or binomial model, further details of which are given cancelled, or expires. When an existing financial in Note 24. This fair value is expensed over the liability is replaced by another from the same period until the vesting date with recognition of a lender on substantially different terms, or the corresponding liability. The liability is remeasured terms of an existing liability are substantially to fair value at each reporting date up to, and modified, such an exchange or modification including the settlement date, with changes in fair is treated as the derecognition of the original value recognised in employee benefits expense liability and the recognition of a new liability. The (note 24). difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognized in the consolidated income statement. Available for sale financial assets Accounts payable and accruals Available for sale financial assets include equity Liabilities are recognised for amounts to be paid in investments and debt securities. Equity investthe future for goods or services received, whether ments classified as AFS are those that are neither billed by the supplier or not. classified as held for trading nor designated at fair value through profit or loss. Debt securities in this Provisions category are those that are intended to be held for Provisions are recognised when the Group has an indefinite period of time and that may be sold a present obligation (legal or constructive) as in response to needs for liquidity or in response to a result of a past event, it is probable that an changes in market conditions. outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a After initial measurement, available for sale reliable estimate can be made of the amount of financial assets are subsequently measured at fair the obligation. When the Group expects some or value with unrealised gains or losses recognised in all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example, other comprehensive income and credited to the under an insurance contract, the reimbursement available for sale reserve until the investment is is recognised as a separate asset, but only derecognised, at which time, the cumulative gain when the reimbursement is virtually certain. or loss is recognised in other operating income, The expense relating to a provision is presented or the investment is determined to be impaired, in the statement of profit or loss net of any when the cumulative loss is reclassified from reimbursement. the available for sale reserve to the statement of profit or loss in finance costs. Interest earned If the effect of the time value of money is material, whilst holding available for sale financial assets is provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax reported as interest income using the EIR method. rate that reflects, when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, The Group evaluates whether the ability and the increase in the provision due to the passage of intention to sell its available for sale financial time is recognised as a finance cost. assets in the near term is still appropriate. When, in rare circumstances, the Group is unable to trade Employees’ end of service benefits these financial assets due to inactive markets, The provision for employees’ end of service the Group may elect to reclassify these financial benefits, disclosed as a long-term liability, is assets if management has the ability and intention calculated in accordance with IAS19 for Group’s to hold the assets for the foreseeable future or entities where their respective labour laws require until maturity. providing indemnity payments upon termination of relationship with their employees. Social security Payments made to the social security institutions Share-based payments in connection with government pension plans Employees (including senior executives) of the 146 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 2. Basis of preparation and Shop ‘n’ ship services revenue significant accounting policies Shop ‘n’ ship services revenue is recognised upon (continued) the receipt of the merchandise by the customers. 2.6 Summary of significant accounting policies Revenue from logistics and document storage (continued) services Revenue from logistics and document storage Social security (Continued) services is recognised when the services are applicable in certain jurisdictions are dealt with as rendered. payments to defined contribution plans, where the Group’s obligations under the plans are equivalent Interest income to those arising in a defined contribution Interest income is recorded using the effective retirement benefit plan. The Group pays interest rate (EIR), which is the rate that exactly contributions to the social security institutions discounts the estimated future cash payments or on a mandatory basis. The Group has no further receipts through the expected life of the financial payment obligations once the contributions have instrument or a shorter period, where appropriate, been paid. The contributions are recognised as an to the net carrying amount of the financial asset employee benefit expense in the period to which or liability. Interest income is included in finance the employees’ service relates. income in the consolidated income statement. Revenue recognition Borrowing costs Revenue represents the value of services rendered Borrowing costs directly attributable to the to customers and is stated net of discounts and acquisition, construction or production of an asset sales taxes or similar levies. that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is capitalised as part of the cost of the asset. All probable that the economic benefits will flow other borrowing costs are expensed in the period to the Group and the revenue can be reliably they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest measured, regardless of when the payment is being and other costs that an entity incurs in connection made. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the with the borrowing of funds. consideration received or receivable, taking into account contractually defined terms of payment Taxes and excluding taxes or duty or discounts. Current income tax The Group assesses its revenue arrangements The Group provides for income taxes in against specific criteria to determine if it is acting accordance with IAS 12. As the Parent Company is as principal or agent. The Group has concluded incorporated in the UAE, profits from operations that it is acting as a principal in all of its revenue of the Parent Company are not subject to taxation. arrangements since it is the primary obligor in all However, certain subsidiaries of the Parent the revenue arrangements, has pricing latitude and Company are based in taxable jurisdictions and are is exposed to credit risks. therefore liable to tax. Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises of current and deferred The specific recognition criteria described below tax on the profits of these subsidiaries. Current must also be met before revenue is recognised. income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or Express revenue paid to the taxation authorities. The tax rates and Express revenue is recognised upon receipt tax laws used to compute the amount are those of shipment from the customer as the sales that are enacted or substantively enacted, at process is considered complete and the risks are the reporting date in countries where the Group transferred to the customer. operates and generates taxable income. Freight forwarding revenue Management periodically evaluates position taken Freight forwarding revenue is recognised upon the in the tax returns with respect to situation in delivery of freight to the destination or to the air which applicable tax regulations are subject to carrier. interpretation and establishes provision where appropriate. 147 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 2. Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is (continued) reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that 2.6 Summary of significant accounting policies sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow (continued) all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are re-assessed Deferred tax at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future Deferred tax is provided using the liability method taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to on temporary differences between the tax bases of be recovered. assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes at the reporting date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, taxable temporary differences, except: based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting • When the deferred tax liability arises from date. the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside liability in a transaction that is not a business profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss. combination and, at the time of the transaction, Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable the underlying transaction either in OCI or directly profit or loss in equity. • In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are associates and interests in joint ventures, when offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off the timing of the reversal of the temporary current tax assets against current tax liabilities differences can be controlled and it is probable and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable that the temporary differences will not reverse in entity and the same taxation authority. the foreseeable future. Tax benefits acquired as part of a business Deferred tax assets are recognised for all combination, but not satisfying the criteria for deductible temporary differences, the carry separate recognition at that date, are recognised forward of unused tax credits and any unused tax subsequently if new information about facts and losses. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the circumstances change. The adjustment is either extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be treated as a reduction in goodwill (as long as it available against which the deductible temporary does not exceed goodwill) if it was incurred during differences, and the carry forward of unused tax the measurement period or recognised in profit or credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, loss. except: Sales tax • When the deferred tax asset relating to the Expenses and assets are recognised net of the deductible temporary difference arises from the amount of sales tax, except: initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, • When the sales tax incurred on a purchase of at the time of the transaction, affects neither the assets or services is not recoverable from the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss taxation authority, in which case, the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the • In respect of deductible temporary differences asset or as part of the expense item, as applicable associated with investments in subsidiaries, • When receivables and payables are stated with associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred the amount of sales tax included tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit payable to, the taxation authority is included as will be available against which the temporary part of receivables or payables in the statement of differences can be utilised financial position. 148 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 2. Basis of preparation and other financial reorganisation and observable data significant accounting policies indicating that there is a measurable decrease in (continued) the estimated future cash flows, such as changes in arrears or economic conditions that correlate 2.6 Summary of significant accounting policies with defaults. (continued) Leases Current versus non-current classification The determination of whether an arrangement is The Group presents assets and liabilities in (or contains) a lease is based on the substance of statement of financial position based on current/ the arrangement at the inception of the lease. The non-current classification. An asset as current arrangement is, or contains, a lease if fulfilment of when it is: the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset (or assets) and the arrangement conveys • Expected to be realised or intended to sold or a right to use the asset or assets, even if that right consumed in normal operating cycle is not explicitly specified in an arrangement. • Held primarily for the purpose of trading • Expected to be realised within twelve months Group as a lessee after the reporting period Or A lease is classified at the inception date as a • Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from finance lease or an operating lease. A lease that being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at transfers substantially all the risks and rewards least twelve months after the reporting period incidental to ownership to the Group is classified as a finance lease. All other assets are classified as non-current. A liability is current when: Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the inception date fair value of • It is expected to be settled in normal operating the leased property or, if lower, at the present value cycle of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments • It is held primarily for the purpose of trading are apportioned between finance charges and • It is due to be settled within twelve months after reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a the reporting period Or constant rate of interest on the remaining balance • There is no unconditional right to defer the of the liability. Finance charges are recognised in settlement of the liability for at least twelve finance costs in the statement of profit or loss. months after the reporting period. A leased asset is depreciated over the useful life Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as of the asset. However, if there is no reasonable non-current assets and liabilities. certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by Impairment and uncollectability of financial the end of the lease term, the asset is depreciated assets over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the Further disclosures relating to impairment of financial asset and the lease term. assets are also provided in the following notes: An operating lease is a lease other than a finance • Disclosures for significant assumptions Note 37 lease. Operating lease payments are recognised as • Trade receivables Note 13 an operating expense in the statement of profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The Group assesses, at each reporting date, whether there is objective evidence that a financial Cash dividend asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. An The Company recognises a liability to make cash impairment exists if one or more events that has or non-cash distributions to equity holders of occurred since the initial recognition of the asset the parent when the distribution is authorised (an incurred ‘loss event’), has an impact on the and the distribution is no longer at the discretion estimated future cash flows of the financial asset of the Company. As per the corporate laws, a or the group of financial assets that can be reliably distribution is authorised when it is approved estimated. Evidence of impairment may include by the shareholders. A corresponding amount is indications that the debtors or a group of debtors is recognised directly in equity. experiencing significant financial difficulty, default or delinquency in interest or principal payments, the probability that they will enter bankruptcy or 149 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 2. Basis of preparation and A disposal group qualifies as discontinued significant accounting policies operation if it is a component of an entity that (continued) either has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale, and: 2.6 Summary of significant accounting policies • Represents a separate major line of business or (continued) geographical area of operations Earnings per share • Is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of The Group presents basic earnings per share (EPS) a separate major line of business or geographical data for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS is calculated area of operations Or by dividing the profit or loss attributable to • Is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view ordinary shareholders of the Company by the to resale weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period. The weighted average number of Discontinued operations are excluded from the ordinary shares outstanding during the period and results of continuing operations and are presented for all periods presented is adjusted for the issue as a single amount as profit or loss after tax from of bonus shares. discontinued operations in the statement of profit or loss. Offsetting of financial instruments Additional disclosures are provided in Note 8. All Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset other notes to the financial statements include and the net amount is reported in the consolidated amounts for continuing operations, unless statement of financial position if there is a otherwise mentioned. currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to 3. Business combination and acquisition settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and of Non–controlling interests settle the liabilities simultaneously. Acquisitions of Non-Controlling Interests 2017 Discontinued operations The Group classifies non-current assets and 1. Acquisition of additional interest in Aramex disposal groups as held for distribution to equity International for Services Co. Ltd. Sudan holders of the parent if their carrying amounts In February 2017, the Group acquired an additional will be recovered principally through a distribution 20% interest of the voting shares of Aramex rather than through continuing use. Such nonInternational for Services Co. Ltd. – located in current assets and disposal groups classified as Sudan, increasing its ownership interest to 100%. held for distribution are measured at the lower Cash consideration of AED 4,333 thousand was paid of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to the non-controlling shareholders. The carrying to sell or to distribute. Costs to distribute are value of the net assets of Aramex International the incremental costs directly attributable to for Services Co. Ltd. at the acquisition date was the distribution, excluding the finance costs and AED 3,041 thousand, and the carrying value of the income tax expense. additional interest acquired was AED 608 thousand. The criteria for held for distribution classification The difference of AED 3,725 thousand between the is regarded as met only when the distribution is consideration paid and the carrying value of the highly probable and the asset or disposal group additional interest acquired has been recognized is available for immediate distribution in its within equity as a reserve arising from acquisition present condition. Actions required to complete of non-controlling interests. the distribution should indicate that it is unlikely Following is a schedule of additional interest acquired that significant changes to the distribution will in Aramex International for Services Co. Ltd. Sudan: be made or that the decision to distribute will be withdrawn. Management must be committed to the Financing Activities AED ’000 distribution expected within one year from the date of the classification. Cash consideration paid to non4,333 controlling shareholders Property, plant and equipment and intangible Less: Carrying value of the additional 608 assets are not depreciated or amortised once interest in Aramex International Ltd. classified as held for distribution. Difference recognized as a reserve Assets and liabilities classified as held for from acquisition of non-controlling 3,725 interest distribution are presented separately as current items in the statement of financial position. 150 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 3. Business combination and within equity as a reserve arising from acquisition acquisition of Non–controlling of non-controlling interests. interests (continued) Following is a schedule of additional interest Acquisitions of Non-Controlling Interests acquired in Aramex Tanzania Ltd – Tanzania: 2017 (continued) Financing Activities AED ’000 2. Acquisition of additional interest in CBKSoft Yazlm – Turkey Waiver of debt to acquire additional 1,658 non-controlling interests In September 2017, the Group acquired an Less: Carrying value of the additional additional 13% interest of the voting shares of (674) interest in Aramex Tanzania Ltd. CBKSoft Yazlm, increasing its ownership interest to 64%. Cash consideration of AED 5,040 thousand Difference recognized as a reserve from acquisition of non-controlling 2,332 was paid to the non-controlling shareholders. The interests carrying value of the net assets of CBKSoft Yazlm at the acquisition date was AED 4,235 thousand, Business combination and the carrying value of the additional interest 2016 acquired was AED 550 thousand. The difference of AED 4,490 thousand between the consideration 1. Acquisition of Fastway Limited (New Zealand) paid and the carrying value of the additional interest acquired has been recognized within In February 2016, the Group acquired 100% of equity as a reserve arising from acquisition of nonthe voting shares of Fastway Limited, an unlisted controlling interests. company based in New Zealand and specializing in domestic business. Following is a schedule of additional interest acquired in Aramex CBKSoft Yazlm – Turkey: Assets acquired and liabilities assumed Financing Activities AED ’000 The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Fastway Limited, as at the date of Cash consideration paid to non5,040 acquisition were: controlling shareholders Less: Carrying value of the additional 550 Fair value interest in CBKSoft Yazlm Carrying recognised Assets value Difference recognized as a reserve on cquisition AED'000 from acquisition of non-controlling 4,490 AED’000 interest Property, plant 22,056 22,056 and equipment 3. Acquisition of additional interest in Aramex Tanzania Ltd. – Tanzania Trade and other 32,458 32,458 receivables In August 2017, the Group acquired an additional Bank balances 18% interest of the voting shares of Aramex 31,395 31,395 and cash Tanzania Ltd., increasing its ownership interest Deferred tax and other to 83%. Upon mutual agreement, no cash 9,489 9,489 non-current assets consideration was paid, instead, the amount due from the shareholder of AED 1,658 thousand was Intangible assets 178,091 waived against the additional shares acquired. The carrying value of the net assets of Aramex 273,489 95,398 Tanzania Ltd. at the acquisition date was at a negative balance of AED 3,747 thousand, and the carrying value of the additional interest acquired was at a negative balance of AED 674 thousand. The difference of AED 2,332 thousand between the consideration given and the carrying value of the additional interest acquired has been recognized 151 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 3. Business combination and 2. Acquisition of Aramex Mashreq for Logistics acquisition of Non–controlling Services SAE (Egypt) interests (continued) The Group has 75% interest in Aramex Mashreq for Business combination Logistics Services SAE (Egypt). Until 31 December 2016 (continued) 2015, the approvals for all major operational decisions for the Company were required by the 1. Acquisition of Fastway Limited (New Zealand) Group and its partners jointly until such time (continued) that the partners exercise their option to buy an additional share of 25%, prior to the expiry date Assets acquired and liabilities assumed of 31 December 2015. Since the Partner’s option (continued) to buy additional shares in the Company elapsed, Aramex PJSC obtained control without transferring Fair value consideration. Therefore, the transaction has Carrying recognised been accounted for as a business combination in Liabilities value on cquisition AED'000 accordance with IFRS 3 effective 1 January 2016. AED’000 During 2016, the valuation was completed since Trade and other the Group sought an independent valuation for (75,959) (75,959) payables the land and buildings. Since the fair value of the consideration transferred was less than the fair Deferred tax liability (1,911) value of net assets acquired, the Group recognized a bargain purchase gain of AED 41,568 thousand. (77,870) (75,959) The fair values of the identifiable assets and Total identifiable net 195,619 19,439 liabilities for Aramex Mashreq for Logistics Services assets SAE, as at the date of acquisition were: Goodwill arising on Fair value 126,457 Carrying acquisition recognised Assets value on cquisition Purchase considerAED'000 322,076 AED’000 ation transferred Property, plant 127,728 72,304 and equipment Carrying Trade and other Analysis of cash flow 13,761 13,761 value receivables on acquisition: AED'000 Bank balances 1,587 1,587 and cash Net cash acquired with the 31,395 subsidiary 143,076 87,652 Cash paid (322,076) Net cash outflow (included in cash Liabilities flows used in investing activities (290,681) in the statement of cash flows) Trade and other (5,384) (5,384) payables During 2017, the valuation was completed and there were no changes on the fair value on the net Deferred tax liability (1,558) (1,558) assets recognized. Term loan (25,347) (25,347) Prior year figures were restated in accordance with IAS 8. Deferred tax liability and goodwill have been (32,289) (32,289) increased by an amount of AED 55,059 thousand and no other balances were affected. Figures prior Total identifiable net to 1 January 2016 have not been changed and, 110,787 55,363 assets at fair value accordingly, a third statement of financial position as of 31 December 2017 has not been presented (note 5). 152 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 3. Business combination and Acquisition of Non-Controlling Interests acquisition of Non–controlling 2016 interests (continued) Aramex Kenya Ltd Business combination In April 2016, the Group acquired an additional 2016 (continued) 30% interest of the voting shares of Aramex Kenya Limited, increasing its ownership interest to 2. Acquisition of Aramex Mashreq for Logistics 100%. Cash consideration of AED 2,203 thousand Services SAE (Egypt) (continued) was paid to the non-controlling shareholders. The carrying value of the net assets of Aramex Less: non-controlling Kenya Ltd at the acquisition date was AED 3,159 (27,697) interest thousand, and the carrying value of the additional Fair value of net interest acquired was AED 948 thousand. The 83,090 assets acquired difference of AED 1,255 thousand between the consideration paid and the carrying value of the additional interest acquired has been recognised Carrying within equity as a reserve arising from acquisition Analysis of cash flow value of non-controlling interests. on acquisition: AED'000 Following is a schedule of additional interest Net cash acquired with the 1,587 acquired in Aramex Kenya Ltd: subsidiary Cash paid AED'000 Net cash inflow (included in cash Cash consideration paid to non2,203 flows used in investing activities in 1,587 controlling shareholders the statement of cash flows Less : Carrying value of the additional 948 interest in Aramex Kenya Ltd In October 2016, the Group acquired the remaining Difference recognized as a reserve from 1,255 25% interest of the voting shares of Aramex acquisition of non-controlling interests Mashreq for logistics services, increasing its ownership interest to 100%. Cash consideration of AED 25,809 thousand was paid to the noncontrolling shareholders. The carrying value of the net assets of Aramex Mashreq for logistics services at the acquisition date was AED 50,041 thousand, and the carrying value of the additional interest acquired was AED 26,325 thousand. The difference of AED (516) thousand between the consideration paid and the carrying value of the additional interest acquired has been recognised within equity as a reserve arising from acquisition of noncontrolling interests. AED'000 Cash consideration paid to non25,809 controlling shareholders Less : Carrying value of the additional interest in Aramex Mashreq 26,325 for Logistic Services SAE (Egypt) Difference recognized as a reserve from (516) acquisition of non-controlling interest 153 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 3. Business combination and Following is a schedule of additional interest acquisition of Non–controlling acquired in Infofort Ghana Ltd: interests (continued) AED'000 2016 (continued) Cash consideration paid to nonAramex Ghana Ltd 552 controlling shareholders In October 2016, the Group acquired an additional 12.5% interest of the voting shares of Aramex Ghana Less: Carrying value of the additional (23) interest in Infofort Ghana Ltd Limited, increasing its ownership interest to 87.5%. Cash consideration of AED 4,040 thousand was paid Difference recognized as a reserve from 575 to the non-controlling shareholders. The carrying acquisition of non-controlling interests value of the net assets of Aramex Ghana Ltd at the acquisition date was AED 3,491 thousand, and the carrying value of the additional interest acquired was AED 436 thousand. The difference of AED 3,604 thousand between the consideration paid and the carrying value of the additional interest acquired has been recognised within equity as a reserve arising from acquisition of non-controlling interests. Following is a schedule of additional interest acquired in Aramex Ghana Ltd: AED'000 Cash consideration paid to non4,040 controlling shareholders Less : Carrying value of the additional 436 interest in Aramex Ghana Ltd Difference recognized as a reserve from 3,604 acquisition of non-controlling interests Infofort Ghana Ltd In June 2016, the Group acquired an additional 25% interest of the voting shares of Infofort Ghana Ltd, increasing its ownership interest to 100%. Cash consideration of AED 552 thousand was paid to the non-controlling shareholders. The carrying value of the net assets of Infofort Ghana Limited at the acquisition date was a negative balance of AED 93 thousand, and the carrying value of the additional interest acquired was a negative balance of AED 23 thousand. The difference of AED 575 thousand between the consideration paid and the carrying value of the additional interest acquired has been recognised within equity as a reserve arising from acquisition of non-controlling interests. 154 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 4. Property, plant and equipment Leasehold Furniture Warehousing Office Capital work Land Buildings Computers Vehicles Total 2017 AED’000 improvements AED’000 and fixtures racks equipment AED’000 AED’000 in progress AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 Cost: At 1 January 2017 74,759 89,980 517,544 40,119 74,270 154,067 171,276 131,878 36,514 1,290,407 Additions 9,801 20,280 9,691 5,485 7,708 25,930 47,362 20,246 22,599 169,102 Transfers 2,012 8,111 (10,123) Reclassification (53) 53 Disposals (11,807) (3,082) (421) (5,806) (8,130) (26,581) (427) (56,254) Exchange differences 3,244 2,005 7,076 624 1,033 3,099 3,991 1,764 22,836 At 31 December 2017 87,804 100,458 534,311 43,093 82,590 179,355 222,610 127,307 48,563 1,426,091 Depreciation: At 1 January 2017 52,763 72,235 22,349 26,861 85,662 107,398 82,867 450,135 Charge for the year 10,069 17,665 4,373 5,239 17,410 24,065 25,407 104,228 Disposals (9,064) (2,374) (309) (4,406) (7,908) (25,736) (49,797) Exchange differences 1,282 1,361 519 514 1,927 2,289 2,000 9,892 At 31 December 2017 55,050 91,261 24,867 32,305 100,593 125,844 84,538 514,458 Net carrying amount: At 31 December 2017 87,804 45,408 443,050 18,226 50,285 78,762 96,766 42,769 48,563 911,633 Property, plant and equipment include vehicles with a net book value of AED 18.26 million (2016: AED 25.01 million) have been obtained under finance leases (note 19). 155 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 4. Property, plant and equipment (continued) Leasehold Furniture Warehousing Office Capital work Land Buildings Computers Vehicles Total 2016 AED’000 improvements AED’000 and fixtures racks equipment AED’000 AED’000 in progress AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 Cost: At 1 January 2016 40,340 80,488 301,397 35,494 67,590 121,103 144,582 120,174 171,641 1,082,809 Acquisitions of 39,623 2,567 86,379 4,089 9,931 23,856 10,712 13,826 190,983 subsidiaries Additions 925 11,007 46,027 5,177 2,514 24,145 29,228 28,778 13,271 161,072 Transfers 1,697 717 131,254 4,619 2,966 7,145 (148,398) Reclassification 748 3 (1) (963) 1 212 Disposals (1,367) (14,073) (2,199) (476) (4,981) (9,277) (19,451) (51,824) Discontinued operation (209) (28) (1,290) (2,219) (3,746) Exchange differences (7,826) (3,971) (33,440) (2,417) (9,907) (10,769) (8,896) (11,661) (88,887) At 31 December 2016 74,759 89,980 517,544 40,119 74,270 154,067 171,276 131,878 36,514 1,290,407 Depreciation: At 1 January 2016 46,294 56,707 18,909 23,463 67,324 93,422 73,539 379,658 Acquisitions of 1,369 9,928 2,387 1,259 12,589 8,310 5,357 41,199 subsidiaries Charge for the year 9,118 15,420 4,018 4,987 15,567 21,973 28,087 99,170 Disposals (1,131) (4,644) (1,511) (243) (4,283) (9,277) (17,626) (38,715) Discontinued operation (35) (15) (952) (1,125) (2,127) Exchange differences (2,852) (5,176) (1,439) (2,605) (4,583) (5,905) (6,490) (29,050) At 31 December 2016 52,763 72,235 22,349 26,861 85,662 107,398 82,867 450,135 Net carrying amount: At 31 December 2016 74,759 37,217 445,309 17,770 47,409 68,405 63,878 49,011 36,514 840,272 Property, plant and equipment include vehicles with a net book value of AED 18.26 million (2016: AED 25.01 million) have been obtained under finance leases (note 19). 156 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 5. Goodwill 2016 AED ’000 2017 AED ’000 (Restated) At 1 January 1,139,063 1,038,079 Deferred tax liability recognized* 55,059 Acquisition of subsidiaries 126,457 Impairment of goodwill** (1,844) Discontinued operations (78,417) Exchange differences 26,869 (2,115) At 31 December 2017 1,164,088 1,139,063 * Prior year figures were restated in accordance with IAS 8 (Note 3). Deferred tax liability and goodwill have been increased by an amount of AED 55,059 thousand and no other balances were affected. Figures prior to 1 January 2016 have not been changed and, accordingly, a third statement of financial position as of 31 December 2017 has not been presented. ** During 2017, management performed an impairment test for goodwill in accordance with IAS 36, accordingly, an impairment of AED 1,844 was recognised in the Domestic Shipping CGU. The Group performed its annual impairment test on 31 December 2016 and 2017. The Group considers the relationship between its market capitalization and its book value among other factors, when reviewing for indicators of impairment. As at 31 December 2017, the market capitalization of the Group was above the book value of its equity. The recoverable amounts of the cash generating units have been determined based on a value in use calculation using cash flow projections from financial budgets approved by senior management covering a five year period. The goodwill was allocated to the following groups of cash generating units: 2016 AED ’000 2017 AED ’000 (Restated) Express shipping 277,127 270,337 Freight forwarding 172,452 168,227 Domestic shipping 506,491 493,466 Logistics 76,915 75,030 Documents storage 121,916 122,816 Publication and distribution 9,187 9,187 1,164,088 1,139,063 Key assumptions used in value-in-use calculations and sensitivity to changes in assumptions The calculation of the value-in-use is most sensitive to the following assumptions: Transaction volumes – these are based on budgeted performance of individual cash generating units. Discount rates – Discount rates represent the current market assessment of the risks specific to each cash generating unit, taking into consideration the time value of money and individual risks of the underlying assets that have not been incorporated in the cash flow estimates. 157 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 5. Goodwill (continued) Key assumptions used in value-in-use calculations and sensitivity to changes in assumptions (continued) Growth rate estimates – Growth rate used of 3.8% (2016: 3.7%) is based on actual operating results and future expected performance. Sensitivity to changes in assumptions Management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the unit to materially exceed its recoverable amount. 6. Other intangible assets Intangible assets with definite life: Customer lists and Franchises other intangible with indefinite Total assets with useful life* definite useful life 2017 2016 Cost: AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 AED’000 At 1 January 67,459 186,776 254,235 71,892 Acquisition of subsidiaries 178,091 Discontinued operations (7,911) Exchange differences 4,377 4,377 12,163 At 31 December 67,459 191,153 258,612 254,235 Amortization and impairment: At 1 January (27,677) (27,677) (22,525) Amortization (4,681) (4,681) (5,152) At 31 December (32,358) (32,358) (27,677) Net book value: At 31 December 35,101 191,153 226,254 226,558 * Intangible assets acquired through a business combination are mainly franchises. These assets have indefinite useful lives and are tested for impairment annually. Key assumptions used in value-in-use calculations and sensitivity to changes in assumptions The calculation of the value-in-use is most sensitive to the following assumptions: Transaction volumes – these are based on budgeted performance of individual cash generating units. Discount rates – Discount rates represent the current market assessment of the risks specific to each cash generating unit, taking into consideration the time value of money and individual risks of the underlying assets that have not been incorporated in the cash flow estimates. The discount rate calculation is based on the specific circumstances of the Group and its operating segments and is derived from its weighted average cost of capital (WACC) for the industry of 9.3% (2016: 11%). The WACC takes into account both debt and equity. The cost of equity is derived from the expected return on investment by the Group’s investors. The cost of debt is based on the interest-bearing borrowings the Group is obliged to service. Segment-specific risk is incorporated by applying individual beta factors. The beta factors are evaluated annually based on publicly available market data. Adjustments to the discount rate are made to factor in the specific amount and timing of the future tax flows in order to reflect a pre-tax discount rate. 158 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 6. Other intangible assets (continued) Growth rate estimates – Growth rate used of 2.5% (2016: 2.5%) is based on actual operating results and future expected performance. Sensitivity to changes in assumptions Management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the unit to materially exceed its recoverable amount. 7. Material partly – owned subsidiaries The Group has one subsidiary in the Middle East with material non-controlling interests. Financial information of the subsidiary that have material non-controlling interests are provided below: Proportion of equity interest held by non-controlling interests: 2017 % 2016 % 50% 50% 2017 AED’000 2016 AED’000 Accumulated balances of material non-controlling interest: 8,769 4,119 Profit allocated to material non-controlling interest: 15,565 23,143 The summarised financial information of this subsidiary are provided below. This information is based on amounts before intra-group eliminations. Summarised income statements for 2017 and 2016: 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 Revenue 625,702 651,257 Cost of sales (307,200) (307,975) Administrative, selling and operating expenses (273,938) (282,944) Other expenses (12,164) (9,655) Profit before tax 32,400 50,683 Income tax (1,269) (4,398) Profit for the year 31,131 46,285 Total comprehensive income 31,131 46,285 Attributable to non-controlling interests 15,565 23,143 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 15,565 23,143 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 5,033 49,724 159 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 7. Material partly – owned subsidiaries (continued) Summarised statements of financial position as at 31 December 2017 and 2016: 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 Cash and bank balances 87,671 90,502 Property, plant and equipment 46,427 53,859 Other current assets 168,928 149,919 Noncurrent assets 153 512 Trade and other payable (current) (222,389) (219,729) Interest-bearing loans and borrowing and deferred tax (17,987) (24,451) Liabilities (non-current) (45,264) (42,373) Total Equity 17,539 8,239 Attributable to: Equity holders of parent 8,769 4,119 Non-controlling interests 8,769 4,119 Summarised cash flow information for the year ended 31 December: 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 Operating 25,073 134,370 Investing (6,074) (8,307) Financing (21,829) (95,886) Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (2,830) 30,177 160 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 8. Discontinued operation 2016 Disposal of Mail Call Couriers PTY Limited (Australia) During 2016, the Group disposed off 100% of its interest in Mail Call Couriers PTY Limited. The Mail Call Couriers PTY Limited segment is no longer presented in the segment note. The results of Mail Call Couriers PTY Limited for the period are presented below: 2016 AED’000 Rendering of services 53,293 Cost of services (31,542) Gross profit 21,751 Less: Overheads (16,758) Operating profit 4,993 Add: Other income, net 778 Profit before tax 5,771 Income tax expense (1,747) Profit after tax for the period 4,024 Profit on disposal of the discontinued operations 3,353 Total Profit for the period from the discontinued operation 7,377 The major classes of assets and liabilities of Mail Call Couriers PTY Limited as at 31 August 2016 are as follows: 2016 Assets AED’000 Property, plant and equipment 1,619 Trade receivables 8,409 Other current assets 1,152 Other non current assets 919 Cash at banks 4,007 Total Assets 16,106 161 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 8. Discontinued operation (continued) 2016(continued) Disposal of Mail Call Couriers PTY Limited (Australia) (continued) 2016 Liabilities AED’000 Trade payables 195 Other current liabilities 3,518 Other non-current liabilities 681 Total Liabilities 4,394 Net assets directly associated with disposal group 11,712 Cash flow on sale AED ‘000 Consideration received 122,811 Cash included as cash and cash equivalents at 31 August 2016 in the statement (4,007) of cash flows Net cash flow 118,804 The net cash flows incurred by Mail Call Couriers PTY Limited are as follows: AED ‘000 Operating (1,178) Investing (428) Net cash outflows (1,606) Profit on sales was recognized as follows: AED ‘000 Consideration received 122,811 Net assets directly associated with disposal Group (11,712) Goodwill (78,417) Intangible assets (7,911) Foreign currency translation reserve associated with disposal (21,418) Profit on sale 3,353 Goodwill and intangible assets amounting to AED 78,417 thousand and AED 7,911 thousand, respectively, resulting from the initial acquisition were disposed off. 162 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 9. Investments in joint ventures The details of the investments in joint ventures are as follows: Ownership Country of Nature Book value percentage incorporation of activity 2017 2016 2017 % 2016 % AED’000 AED’000 Express, freight and Aramex Sinotrans Co. LTD 50% 50% China 5,563 4,147 logistics services Express, freight and Aramex Global Solutions* 60% 60% Singapore 125,982 119,464 Domestic services Others 2,854 1,710 134,399 125,321 * The approval for all major operational decisions for the Company were required by the Group and its partners jointly. The joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method in the consolidated financial statements. Summarized financial information of the joint ventures, based on their IFRS financial statements, are set out below: 2017 Aramex Aramex Others Total Sinotrans Co. Global Solutions AED’000 AED’000 LTD AED’000 AED’000 Non-current assets 1,454 177,554 43,193 222,201 Current assets* 29,122 99,680 19,889 148,691 Non-current liabilities (47,556) (47,556) Current liabilities** (19,449) (67,264) (12,672) (99,385) Equity 11,127 209,970 2,854 223,951 Proportion of the Group’s 50% 60% ownership Carrying amount of the 5,563 125,982 2,854 134,399 investment * The current assets of Aramex Global Solutions include cash at banks amounted to AED 33.8 million, accounts receivable amounted to AED 63.8 million and other current assets amounted to AED 2.1 million. ** The current liabilities of Aramex Global Solutions include, accruals amounted to AED 25.5 million, trade payables amounted to AED 35.1 million, and other current liabilities amounted to AED 6.6 million. 163 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 9. Investments in joint ventures (continued) The details of the investments in joint ventures are as follows: 2016 Aramex Aramex Others Total Sinotrans Co. Global Solutions AED’000 AED’000 LTD AED’000 AED’000 Non-current assets 1,035 164,539 47,127 212,701 Current assets* 24,368 74,463 16,566 115,397 Non-current liabilities (18) (48,987) (49,005) Current liabilities** (17,109) (39,876) (11,286) (68,271) Equity 8,294 199,108 3,420 210,822 Proportion of the Group’s 50% 60% ownership Carrying amount of the 4,147 119,464 1,710 125,321 investment * The current assets of Aramex Global Solutions include cash at banks amounted to AED 26.6 million, accounts receivable amounted to AED 44.7 million and other current assets amounted to AED 3.1 million. ** The current liabilities of Aramex Global Solutions include, accruals amounted to AED 9.7 million, trade payables amounted to AED 29.3 million, and other current liabilities amounted to AED 0.9 million. Summarized statement of profit or loss of the joint ventures: 2017 Aramex Aramex Others Total Sinotrans Co. Global Solutions AED’000 AED’000 LTD AED’000 AED’000 Revenue 88,938 265,789 18,355 373,082 Cost of sale (66,978) (248,175) (5,921) (321,074) Administrative expenses (19,729) (19,393) (16,454) (55,576) Profit (loss) before tax 2,231 (1,779) (4,020) (3,568) Income tax expense (3,521) (121) (3,642) Profit (loss) for the year 2,231 (5,300) (4,141) (7,210) Group’s share of profit (loss) 1,116 (3,180) (2,450) (4,514) for the year 164 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 9. Investments in joint ventures (continued) Summarized statement of profit or loss of the joint ventures: (Continued) 2016 Aramex Aramex Others Total Sinotrans Co. Global Solutions AED’000 AED’000 LTD AED’000 AED’000 Revenue 88,660 68,874 15,627 173,161 Cost of sale (69,366) (66,092) (5,377) (140,835) Administrative expenses (16,937) (3,515) (15,409) (35,861) Profit (loss) before tax 2,357 (733) (5,159) (3,535) Income tax expense (197) (65) (262) Profit (loss) for the year 2,357 (930) (5,224) (3,797) Group’s share of profit (loss) 1,179 (558) (2,613) (1,992) for the year The joint ventures had no contingent liabilities or capital commitments as at 31 December 2017 and 2016 10. Investments in associates The details of the investments in associates were as follows: Ownership Country of Nature Book value percentage incorporation of activity 2017 2016 2017 % 2016 % AED’000 AED’000 Canterbury Courier Domestic 25% 25% New Zealand 367 Operations Ltd services Linehaul Express Domestic 26.4% 26.4% Australia 235 197 Australia Pty Ltd services Express WS One Investment LLC 25% 25% UAE 9,044 9,588 services Logistics and Aramex Thailand Ltd 49% 49% Thailand 443 316 transportation 9,722 10,468 165 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 10. Investments in associates The associates are accounted for using the equity method in the consolidated financial statements. The following table illustrates the summarized financial information of the Group’s investments in associates: 2017 Canterbury Linehaul WS One Aramex Courier Express Investment Total Thailand Operations Ltd Australia PTY LLC AED’000 Ltd AED’000 AED’000 Ltd AED’000 AED’000 Non-current assets 58 43,801 289 44,148 Current assets 5,847 5,720 8,621 1,508 21,696 Non-current liabilities (1) (1) Current liabilities (5,847) (4,890) (16,244) (892) (27,873) Equity 888 36,178 904 37,970 Proportion of the Group’s 25% 26.4% 25% 49% ownership Group’s share 235 9,044 443 9,722 Carrying amount of the 235 9,044 443 9,722 investment 2016 Canterbury Linehaul WS One Aramex Courier Express Investment Total Thailand Operations Ltd Australia PTY LLC AED’000 Ltd AED’000 AED’000 Ltd AED’000 AED’000 Non-current assets 2,984 1,824 315 5,123 Current assets 4,331 4,833 44,120 666 53,950 Non-current liabilities (888) (27) (915) Current liabilities (4,959) (4,088) (7,592) (310) (16,949) Equity 1,468 745 38,352 644 41,209 Proportion of the Group’s 25% 26.4% 25% 49% ownership Group’s share 367 197 9,588 316 10,468 Carrying amount of the 367 197 9,588 316 10,468 investment 166 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 10. Investments in associates (Continued) 2017 Canterbury Linehaul WS One Aramex Courier Express Investment Total Thailand Operations Ltd Australia PTY LLC AED’000 Ltd AED’000 AED’000 Ltd AED’000 AED’000 Revenue 27,367 42,789 4,656 74,812 Cost of sale (26,916) (27,691) (2,442) (57,049) Administrative expenses (603) (373) (13,280) (2,795) (17,051) (Loss) profit before tax (603) 78 1,818 (581) 712 Income tax expense (Loss) profit for the year (603) 78 1,818 (581) 712 Group’s share of (loss) (150) 21 454 (284) 41 profit for the year 2016 Canterbury Linehaul WS One Aramex Courier Express Investment Total Thailand Operations Ltd Australia PTY LLC AED’000 Ltd AED’000 AED’000 Ltd AED’000 AED’000 Revenue 15,134 21,720 53,340 3,143 93,337 Cost of sale (11,120) (21,362) (38,754) (1,619) (72,855) Administrative expenses (2,750) (565) (11,829) (1,862) (17,006) Profit (loss) before tax 1,264 (207) 2,757 (338) 3,476 Income tax expense (222) (400) (622) Profit (loss) for the year 1,042 (207) 2,357 (338) 2,854 Group’s share of profit 260 (54) 589 (166) 629 (loss) for the year The associates had no contingent liabilities or capital commitments as at 31 December 2017 and 2016. 167 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 11. Available for sale financial assets Ownership Country of Nature Book value percentage incorporation of activity 2017 2016 Unquoted financial assets 2017 % 2016 % AED’000 AED’000 Local Udaan Logisure Private Ltd 5.88 5.88 India 1,844 1,844 delivery Lost British luggage Return Hound Ltd 20 20 Virgin 1,102 1,102 retrieval Islands business Food Shippify Inc 10.70 10.70 USA 1,102 1,102 delivery B2B Grab a Grub Services Pvt Ltd 24.53 16.35 India logistics 11,155 7,395 provider Global What 3 Words Ltd 3.29 3.29 UK addressing 10,804 10,950 systems British Online book Jamalon Inc. 8.49 8.49 Virgin 3,673 3,673 retail Islands British Online Cash Basha 20 Virgin shopping 551 Islands platform Drone Flirtey Tech Pty Ltd. 1 USA 78 Technology Courier service Tu Share Pty Ltd 4.21 Australia provider to 1,457 small businesses Mawarid Technology Technology 1.56 UAE 10,000 LLC Solutions 41,766 26,066 Unquoted investments are not traded in an active market and are stated at cost less accumulated impairment as their fair values cannot be reliably determined due to the unpredictable nature of future cash flows. The Group assessed the impairment of these investments .The Group management believes that fair values of such investments are not materially different from their carrying amounts, and no such impairment exists. 168 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 12. Income tax The major components of income tax expense for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 are: 2017 2016 Consolidated income statement AED’000 AED’000 Current income tax expense 81,616 60,583 Deferred tax (3,532) 819 Foreign exchange 3,267 (476) Income tax expense reported in the consolidated income 81,351 60,926 statement Deferred tax relates to the following: 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 Provision for doubtful accounts 2,187 1,813 Depreciation (6,617) (6,681) Employees’ end of service benefits 2,656 2,339 Net operating losses carried forward 3,272 40 Capital allowance 392 Franchises with indefinite useful life (56,110) (56,110) Others 4,323 4,386 (50,289) (53,821) 2017 2016 Recognised as follows: AED’000 AED’000 As deferred tax assets 3,267 3,282 As deferred tax liabilities (53,556) (57,103) (50,289) (53,821) 169 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 12. Income tax (Continued) Reconciliation of deferred tax liability, net: 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 As of 1 January (53,821) 2,057 Tax income (expense) during the year recognised on Income 265 (343) Statement Deferred taxes acquired in business combination (55,059) Foreign exchange 3,267 (476) As of 31 December (50,289) (53,821) Reconciliation between accounting profit and taxable profit: 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 Accounting profit before income tax 536,732 505,723 Non-deductible expenses 49,927 44,163 Taxable profit 586,659 549,886 Income tax expense reported in the consolidated income 81,351 60,926 statement Effective income tax rate 15.16% 12.05% Movements on income tax provision were as follows: 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 At 1 January 44,929 36,756 Income tax expense for the year 81,616 60,583 Income tax paid (71,958) (36,562) Foreign exchange 4,247 (15,848) At 31 December 58,834 44,929 In some countries, the tax returns for certain years have not yet been reviewed by the tax authorities. In certain tax jurisdictions, the Group has provided for its tax exposures based on the current interpretation and enforcement of the tax legislation in the jurisdiction. However, the Group’s management is satisfied that adequate provisions have been made for potential tax contingencies. Aramex PJSC is registered in the United Arab Emirates of where there is no corporate taxation. Income tax appearing in the consolidated statement of financial position represents the income tax provision of Group’s subsidiaries as of 31 December. 170 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 13. Accounts receivable 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 Trade receivables 997,429 800,596 Less: allowance for doubtful accounts (63,263) (58,908) 934,166 741,688 Geographic concentration of trade receivables as of 2017 2016 31 December is as follows: % % Middle East and Africa 59 66 Europe 10 10 North America 4 4 Asia and others 27 20 As at 31 December 2017, trade receivables at nominal value of AED 63,263 thousand (2016: AED 58,908 thousand) were impaired. Movements on allowance for impairment of receivables were as follows: 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 At 1 January 58,908 57,180 Charge for the year 9,497 10,424 Unused amounts reversed (1,384) Acquisition of subsidiaries 654 Amounts written-off (3,758) (9,350) At 31 December 63,263 58,908 As at 31 December, the ageing analysis of trade receivables was as follows: Past due but not impaired Total 0-60 days 61-90 days 91-180 days 181-365 days More than 1 year AED ’000 AED ’000 AED ’000 AED ’000 AED ’000 AED ’000 2017 934,166 798,260 87,905 34,345 13,656 2016 741,688 581,194 126,920 21,956 11,618 Unimpaired receivables are expected, on the basis of past experience, to be fully recoverable. See Note 35 on credit risk of trade receivables, which explains how the Group manages and measures credit quality of trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired. 171 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 14. Other current assets 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 Prepaid expenses 71,222 62,387 Advances and other receivables 178,320 149,735 249,542 212,122 15. Cash and cash equivalents 2017 2016 Cash and cash equivalents comprise of the following: AED’000 AED’000 Cash and short term deposits 727,649 701,296 Less: cash margin (5,610) (4,369) Less: bank overdrafts (note 22) (97,602) (57,453) 624,437 639,474 Included in cash and short term deposits are amounts totalling AED 454,429 thousand (31 December 2016: AED 409,302 thousand) of cash held at foreign banks abroad and amounts totaling approximately AED 89,588 thousand (2016: AED 69,779 thousand) of cash on delivery collected by the Group on behalf of customers , the same balance was recorded as trade payable and other current liabilities at the consolidated statement of financial position. 16. Share capital 2017 2016 Cash and cash equivalents comprise of the following: AED’000 AED’000 Authorised, issued and paid up 1,464,100 1,464,100 1,464,100,000 ordinary shares of AED 1 each (2016: 1,464,100,000 ordinary shares of AED 1 each) 17. Reserves Statutory reserve In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association and the UAE Federal Law No. (2) of 2015, 10% of the net profit for each year is required to be transferred to a statutory reserve. Such transfers may be ceased when the statutory reserve equals half of the paid up share capital of the applicable entities. This reserve is non distributable except in certain circumstances. The consolidated statutory reserve reflects transfers made post-acquisition for subsidiary companies together with transfers made by the parent company. It does not, however, reflect the additional transfers to the consolidated statutory reserves which would be made if the retained post-acquisition profits of the subsidiaries were distributed to the Parent Company. 172 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 17. Reserves (Continued) Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries. Reserve arising from acquisition of non-controlling interests The reserve represents the difference between the consideration paid to acquire non-controlling interests and the carrying amount of those interests at the date of acquisition. 18. Retained earnings Dividends The General Assembly approved in its meeting held on 21 March 2017 a cash dividend for 2016 of 16% of the Company’s share capital. The General Assembly approved in its meeting held on 24 April 2016 a cash dividend for 2015 of 15% of the Company’s share capital. Directors’ fees paid Directors’ fees of AED 3.63 million representing remuneration for attending meetings and compensation for professional services rendered by the Directors for the year 2016 were paid in 2017 (2016: AED 3.37 million representing remuneration for attending meetings and compensation for professional services rendered by the Directors for the year 2015 were paid in 2016). 19. Loans and borrowings 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 Non-current Term loan (a) 285,063 349,431 Notes payable 1,497 Finance lease obligations (b) 6,771 12,331 293,331 361,762 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 Current Term loan (a) 205,616 196,532 Notes payable 2,199 480 Finance lease obligations (b) 12,425 14,869 220,240 211,881 173 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 19. Loans and borrowings (Continued) (a) Term Loans HSBC loan (1) During 2016, the Group entered into a 5 year term loan agreement with HSBC Bank Australia for a total amount of AED 108 million (AUD 39.6 million) bearing annual interest rate of AUD (BBSY) plus a margin of 1.5%. The term loan is repayable in 20 consecutive quarterly instalments; the first instalment was due on 30 June 2016. The purpose of this facility is to finance new acquisitions. HSBC loan (2) During 2016, the Group entered into a 5 year term loan agreement with HSBC Bank New Zealand for a total amount of AED 115 million (NZD 44.2 million) bearing annual interest rate of NZD (BKBM) plus a margin of 1.5%. The term loan is repayable in 20 consecutive quarterly instalments; the first instalment was due on 30 June 2016. The purpose of this facility is to finance new acquisitions. There were several financial covenants attached to the interest-bearing loans and borrowings. There have been no breaches of the financial covenants of any interest-bearing loans and borrowings throughout 2017. Others Term loans also include a number of loans obtained by Group’s subsidiaries with a balance of AED 267 million to finance their operating activities. Those loans carry interest at commercial rates, are repayable in regular installments and are subject to covenants consistent with the Group’s borrowing policies. The principal instalments payable after 2017 for all loans as of 31 December 2017 are as follows: Year AED’000 2018 205,616 2019 77,582 2020 47,009 2021 thereafter 160,472 490,679 (b) Finance lease obligation Future minimum annual payments under all non-cancellable finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: Present value of Future minimum lease Interest 2017 minimum lease payments AED’000 AED’000 payments AED’000 Within one year 13,467 1,042 12,425 After one year but not more 7,101 330 6,771 than five years Total 20,568 1,372 19,196 174 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 19. Loans and borrowings (Continued) (b) Finance lease obligation (Continued) Present value of Future minimum lease Interest 2016 minimum lease payments AED’000 AED’000 payments AED’000 Within one year 16,378 1,509 14,869 After one year but not more 12,967 636 12,331 than five years Total 29,345 2,145 27,200 Finance lease obligations have maturities till 2021. Interest rate on finance lease obligations ranges between 2.2% 8% (2016: 2.2% 8%). 20. Employees’ end of service benefits Movements on provision for employees’ end of service benefits were as follows: 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 Provision as at 1 January 138,797 129,544 Provided during the year 24,970 23,043 Paid during the year (23,209) (12,822) Exchange differences (5) (968) Provision as at 31 December 140,553 138,797 Actuarial gains and losses Present value of the defined benefit obligations 140,553 138,797 21. Accounts payable Trade payables mainly include payables to third party suppliers against invoices received from them for line haul, freight services, handling and delivery charges. 22. Bank overdrafts The Group maintains overdrafts and lines of credit with various banks. Aramex Tunisia has outstanding overdrafts from Citi Bank of AED 743 thousand as at 31 December 2017 (2016: AED 456 thousand) and with Arab Bank of AED 514 thousand as at 31 December 2017 (2016: Nil). Aramex Algeria SARL has outstanding overdrafts from Citi Bank of AED 6,452 thousand as at 31 December 2017 (2016: AED 1,908 thousand). Aramex International LLC has outstanding overdrafts from HSBC of AED 62,434 thousand as at 31 December 2017 (2016: AED 55,089 thousand). Aramex Special Logistics has outstanding overdraft from Citi Bank of AED 27,459 thousands as at 31 December 2017 (2016: Nil) 175 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 23. Other current liabilities 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 Accrued expenses 428,099 364,788 Deferred revenue 53,412 52,508 Sales tax and other taxes 29,065 28,247 Income tax provision (note 12) 58,834 44,929 Customers’ deposits 19,398 5,746 Social security taxes payable 6,998 6,462 Claims 57,703 33,333 Others 115,790 84,163 769,299 620,176 24. Employees’ benefit liability In February 2014, a total of 37,000,000 phantom shares were granted to senior executives under a long term incentive plan. The exercise price of the options of AED 3 was equal to the market price of Aramex shares on the date of grant. The fair value at grant date was estimated using the binomial pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The contracted life of each option granted is six years. The awards will be settled in cash. In 2015, the plan was modified but the number of phantom shares subject to the plan remained the same. The new plan has non-market vesting conditions and variable exercise prices depending on the Group’s performance. According to the modified plan, the value of exercise price will be based on achieved certain performance targets for the Group over the remaining three year period of the plan contractual life. The Group expects that the earnings target will be achieved for the remaining life of the plan and hence each option will have an exercise price of zero. During 2017, a number of employees exercised their share rights which were paid in cash. The following tables list the inputs to the models used for the plan for the year ended 31 December 2017: 2017 Dividend yield (%) 0 Risk–free interest rate (%) 2.4 Expected life (years) 6 Share price (AED) 4.3 176 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 24. Employees’ benefit liability (Continued) 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 At 1 January 74,988 63,825 Employees benefit plan expense for the year 24,030 47,627 Reversal of employees’ benefit plan expense (27,950) Paid during the year (41,193) (36,464) At 31 December 29,875 74,988 25. Revenue 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 International express 2,007,009 1,687,115 Freight forwarding 1,156,789 1,130,717 Domestic express 1,022,217 981,258 Logistics 260,331 264,624 Publications and distribution 9,878 9,958 Others* 265,163 269,486 4,721,387 4,343,158 * Represents revenues from other special services which the Group renders, including airline ticketing and travel, visa services and revenues from document retention business. All related costs are reflected in cost of services. 26. Cost of services 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 International express 687,749 529,201 Freight forwarding 843,030 810,213 Domestic express 520,167 462,067 Logistics 66,419 65,399 Publications and distribution 5,226 5,730 Others 43,091 38,555 2,165,682 1,911,165 177 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 27. Administrative expenses 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 Salaries and benefits 446,701 459,990 Rent 106,689 82,544 Depreciation 62,156 59,700 Communication expenses 42,899 43,408 Repairs and maintenance 43,049 31,289 Allowance for impairment of receivables 8,113 10,424 Printing and stationary 7,141 7,956 Entertainment 9,799 9,352 Vehicle running expenses 5,407 4,905 Insurance and security 27,243 27,999 Government fees and taxes 40,871 37,392 Corporate social responsibility* 3,669 5,466 Sponsorship 183 194 Utilities 20,134 13,852 Travel expenses 26,694 20,478 Professional fees 38,431 41,150 Others 83,906 84,218 973,085 940,317 * These amounts are paid to accredited well-known institutions that management has reviewed individually and it is comfortable that they comply with international ethical regulations. 178 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 28. Operating expenses 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 Salaries and benefits 541,263 539,159 Vehicle running and maintenance 90,685 88,109 Supplies 27,591 28,514 Communication expenses 7,374 7,339 Depreciation 42,072 39,470 Rent 59,811 67,694 Others 54,262 56,127 823,058 826,412 29. Other income, net 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 Exchange (loss) gain (219) 13,412 (Loss) gain on sale of property, plant and equipment (788) 3,852 Miscellaneous income 7,625 2,953 6,618 20,217 30. Related party transactions Certain related parties (directors, officers of the Group and companies which they control or over which they exert significant influence) were suppliers of the Company and its subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business. Such transactions were made on substantially the same terms as with unrelated parties. Transactions with related parties included in the consolidated income statement are as follows: Companies controlled by the directors 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 Rent expense 3,495 3,495 179 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 30. Related party transactions (Continued) Key management compensation Compensation of the key management personnel, including executive officers, comprises the following: 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 Salaries and other short term benefits 35,946 8,886 Board renumeration 3,630 3,370 End of service benefits 196 193 39,772 12,449 Directors fees paid were disclosed in note 18 Employees’ benefit plan Senior executive of the Group were granted phantom shares as detailed in Note 24. Significant subsidiaries of the Group include: Aramex Fastway Holdings PTY Ltd. Aramex Jordan Ltd. Aramex India Private Limited, India Aramex International Egypt for Air and Local services (S.A.E), Egypt Aramex Bahrain S.P.C Aramex Emirates LLC, UAE Aramex Ireland Limited Aramex Nederland B.V. Aramex South Africa PTY Ltd. Aramex Hong Kong Limited All of the above subsidiaries are 100% owned by the Parent Company. The Group has granted to a related party a call option to acquire 100% interest in a subsidiary. Based on reviewing the relevant factors and circumstances, management has judged that the option is considered to be non-substantive in accordance with IFRS 10. Certain subsidiaries of the Group are controlled through shareholder agreements and accordingly consolidated in these consolidated financial statements. The following table provides the total amount of transactions that have been entered into with related parties for the relevant financial year. The outstanding balances as at 31 December 2017 and 2016, are included in notes 13 and 21: 180 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 30. Related party transactions (Continued) Key management compensation Compensation of the key management personnel, including executive officers, comprises the following: Amounts owed Amounts owed Sales to Cost from by related to related related parties related parties parties* parties** AED’000 AED’000 AED ’000 AED ’000 Associates: 2017 506 947 529 2016 331 542 84 2 Joint ventures in which the parent is a venturer: 2017 2,614 26,510 2,824 11,966 2016 1,725 30,225 2,819 8,757 Companies controlled by directors and shareholders: 2017 87,073 15,576 9,271 2016 75,526 5,833 680 * These amounts are classified as trade receivables. ** These amounts are classified as trade payables. 31. Earnings per share 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Profit attributable to shareholders of the Parent (AED’000) 435,399 419,218 Profit for the year from continuing operations 7,377 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 435,399 426,595 Weighted average number of shares during the year (shares) 1,464 million 1,464 million Basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing 0.297 0.286 operations (AED) Basic and diluted earnings per share from discontinued 0.000 0.005 operations (AED) 181 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 32. Operating leases Group as lessee The Group leases land, office space, warehouses and transportation equipments under various operating leases, some of which are renewable annually. Rent expense related to these leases amounted to AED 207.79 million for the year ended 31 December 2017 (2016: AED 189.82 million). The Group believes that most operating leases will be renewed at comparable rates to the expiring leases. Future minimum rental payables under non-cancellable operating lease as at 31 December are as follows: 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 Within one year 182,149 153,190 After one year but not more than five years 603,925 511,079 More than five years 7,379 12,817 793,453 677,086 33. Segmental information For management purposes, the Group is organised into five operating segments: International express: includes delivery of small packages across the globe to both, retail and wholesale customers. Freight forwarding: includes forwarding of loose or consolidated freight through air, land and ocean transport, warehousing, customer clearance and break bulk services. Domestic express: includes express delivery of small parcels and pick up and deliver shipments within the country. Logistics: includes warehousing and its management distribution, supply chain management, inventory management as well as other value added services. Other operations: includes catalogue shipping services, document storage, airline ticketing and travel, visa services, and publication and distribution. Management monitors the operating results of the operating segments separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss. Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. The following table presents revenue and profit information regarding the Group’s operating segments for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016, respectively. 182 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 33. Segmental information (continued) International Freight Domestic express Logistics Others Elimination Total express forwarding AED ’000 AED ’000 AED ’000 AED ’000 AED ’000 AED ’000 AED ’000 Year ended 31 December 2017 Revenue Third party 2,007,009 1,156,789 1,022,217 260,331 275,041 4,721,387 Inter-segment 801,522 221,087 2,199 7,445 20,469 (1,052,722) Total revenues 2,808,531 1,377,876 1,024,416 267,776 295,510 (1,052,722) 4,721,387 Gross profit 1,319,261 313,759 502,050 193,911 226,724 2,555,705 Year ended 31 December 2017 Revenue Third party 1,687,115 1,130,717 981,258 264,624 279,444 4,343,158 Inter-segment 712,218 222,997 3,589 5,615 16,551 (960,970) Total revenues 2,399,333 1,353,714 984,847 270,239 295,995 (960,970) 4,343,158 Gross profit 1,157,914 320,503 519,191 199,225 235,160 2,431,993 Transactions between stations are priced at agreed upon rates. All material intra group transactions have been eliminated on consolidation. The Group does not segregate assets and liabilities by business segments and, accordingly, such information is not presented. 183 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 33. Segmental information (continued) Geographical segments The business segments are managed on a worldwide basis, but operate in four principal geographical areas, Middle East and Africa, Europe, North America, Asia and others. In presenting information on the geographical segments, segment revenue is based on the geographical location of customers. Segments assets are based on the location of the assets. Revenues, assets and liabilities by geographical segment are as follows: 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 Revenues Middle East and Africa 2,836,592 2,797,963 Europe 574,753 563,904 North America 134,888 117,993 Asia and others 1,175,154 863,298 4,721,387 4,343,158 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 Assets Middle East and Africa 2,973,296 2,752,965 Europe 409,227 385,532 North America 65,200 48,868 Asia and others 956,403 841,655 4,404,126 4,029,020 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 Noncurrent assets* Middle East and Africa 873,743 797,457 Europe 68,610 63,782 North America 2,535 3,959 Asia and others 378,886 363,487 1,323,774 1,228,685 184 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 33. Segmental information (continued) Geographical segments (continued) 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 Liabilities Middle East and Africa 1,237,517 1,172,115 Europe 98,702 81,484 North America 19,375 17,382 Asia and others 529,470 483,537 1,885,064 1,754,518 * Non-current assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment, other intangible assets, available for sale financial assets and investments in joint ventures and associates. Goodwill is allocated to business segments (note 5). 34. Commitments and contingencies Guarantees 2017 2016 AED’000 AED’000 Letters of guarantee 110,797 100,414 Capital commitments As at 31 December 2017, the Group has capital commitments of AED 47 million (2016: AED 37.4 million) towards purchase/construction of property, plant and equipment. Legal claims contingency The Group is a defendant in a number of lawsuits amounting to AED 36,576 thousand representing legal actions and claims related to its ordinary course of business (2016: AED 17,377 thousand). The management and their legal advisors believe that the provision recorded of AED 13,168 thousand as of 31 December 2017 is sufficient to meet the obligations that may arise from the lawsuits (2016: AED 6,090 thousand). 35. Risk management Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its interest bearing assets and liabilities (bank deposits, bank overdrafts, notes payable and term loans). The sensitivity of the consolidated income statement is the effect of the assumed changes in interest rates on the Group’s profit for one year, based on the floating rate financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31 December. 185 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 35. Risk management (continued) The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the consolidated income statement to reasonably possible changes in interest rates, with all other variables held constant. Increase/ Effect on profit (decrease) in for the year basis points AED ’000 2017 Variable rate instruments +100 (4,933) Variable rate instruments -100 4,933 2016 Variable rate instruments +100 (5,487) Variable rate instruments -100 5,487 Credit risk This is the risk that a counter party will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract leading to a financial loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables) and from its financing activities including deposits with banks and financial institutions. The Group manages credit risk with its customers by establishing credit limits for customers' balances and also disconnects the service for customers exceeding certain limits for a certain period of time. Also, the diversity of the Group’s customer base (residential, corporate, government agencies) limits the credit risk. The Group also has a credit department that continuously monitors the credit status of the Group’s customers. The Group also deposits its cash balances with a number of major high rated financial institutions and has a policy of limiting its balances deposited with each institution. Trade and other receivables The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. The demographics of the Group’s customer base, including the default risk of the industry and country, in which customers operate, has less of an influence on credit risk. The Group earns its revenues from a large number of customers spread across different geographical segments. However, geographically 59% percent of the Group’s trade receivables are based in Middle East and Africa. Management has established a credit policy under which new customers are analysed individually for creditworthiness before the Group’s standard payment and delivery terms and conditions are offered. Purchase limits are established for customers, who represent the maximum open amount without requiring approval from senior Group management; these limits are reviewed regularly. A significant portion of the Group’s customers have been transacting with the Group for a number of years, and losses have occurred infrequently. In monitoring customer credit risk, customers are grouped according to their credit characteristics, including whether they are an individual or legal entity, whether they are an agent, wholesaler, retailer or end-user customer, geographic location, industry, aging profile, maturity and existence of previous financial difficulties. 186 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 35. Risk management (continued) Credit risk (continued) The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables. The main components of this allowance are a specific loss component that relates to individually significant exposures, and a collective loss component established for groups of similar assets in respect of losses that have been incurred but not yet identified. The collective loss allowance is determined based on historical data of payment statistics for similar financial assets. At 31 December 2017 the Group had 5 customers (2016: 5 customers) that accounted for approximately 34% (2016: 23%) of all the receivables outstanding. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation. The Group currently has sufficient cash on demand to meet expected operational expenses, including the servicing of financial obligations. Excessive risk concentration Concentrations arise when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar business activities, or activities in the same geographical region, or have economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions. Concentrations indicate the relative sensitivity of the Group’s performance to developments affecting a particular industry. In order to avoid excessive concentrations of risk, the Group’s policies and procedures include specific guidelines to focus on the maintenance of a diversified portfolio. Identified concentrations of credit risks are controlled and managed accordingly. The table below summarises the maturities of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 December, based on contractual undiscounted payments: Year ended 31 December 2017 Less than 3 to 12 1-2 year 2-5 years Total 3 months months AED ’000 AED ’000 AED ’000 AED ’000 AED ’000 Term loans 39,673 179,035 86,963 216,038 521,709 Notes payable 682 1,791 1,539 26 4,038 Finance lease obligations 3,949 9,518 5,867 1,234 20,568 Bank overdraft 98,014 98,014 Trade and other payables 935,361 2,915 938,276 1,077,679 193,259 94,369 217,298 1,582,605 187 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 35. Risk management (continued) Excessive risk concentration (continued) Year ended 31 December 2016 Less than 3 to 12 1-2 year 2-5 years Total 3 months months AED ’000 AED ’000 AED ’000 AED ’000 AED ’000 Term loans 24,608 182,887 84,533 291,309 583,337 Notes payable 56 495 551 Finance lease obligations 4,475 11,833 9,488 3,549 29,345 Bank overdraft 57,578 57,578 Trade and other payables 755,967 755,967 842,684 195,215 94,021 294,858 1,426,778 Currency risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Group is exposed to currency risk mainly on purchases and sales that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of the Group entities, primarily the United States Dollar (USD), Euro (EUR), Egyptian Pound (EGP), Sterling (GBP), South African Rand (ZAR), Turkish Lira (TRY) and the Indian Rupee (INR). The currencies in which these transactions are primarily denominated are Euro, USD, ZAR, TRY and GBP. The Parent Company’s and a number of other Group entities’ functional currencies are either the USD or currencies that are pegged to the USD. As a significant portion of the Group’s transactions are denominated in USD, this reduces currency risk. The Group also has currency exposures on intra group transactions in the case of Group entities where the functional currency is not the USD or a currency that is not pegged to the USD. Intra Group transactions are primarily denominated in USD. Significant portion of the Group’s trade payables and all of its foreign currency receivables, denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective Group entities, are subject to risks associated with currency exchange fluctuation. The Group reduces some of this currency exposure by maintaining some of its bank balances in foreign currencies in which some of its trade payables are denominated. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the AED exchange rate, with all other variables held constant, of the Group’s profit before tax (due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities). 188 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 35. Risk management (continued) Currency risk (continued) Changes in Effect on profit currency rate before tax to AED % AED ’000 2017 EUR +10 723 INR +10 310 GBP +10 (3,748) EGP +10 (76) TRY +10 570 ZAR +10 (12) Changes in Effect on profit currency rate before tax to AED % AED ’000 2016 EUR +10 1,738 INR +10 (340) GBP +10 (4,017) EGP +10 112 TRY +10 190 ZAR +10 (142) The effect of decreases in exchange rates are expected to be equal and opposite to the effects of the increases shown. Capital management The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in business conditions. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016. Capital comprises share capital, statutory reserve, reserve arising from acquisition of non-controlling interests and retained earnings, and is measured at AED 2,803,010 thousand as at 31 December 2017 (2016: AED 2,616,044 thousand). The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business. The Board of Directors monitors the return on capital, which the Group defines as net operating income divided by total shareholders’ equity, excluding non-controlling interests. The Board of Directors also monitors the level of dividends to shareholders. 189 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 35. Risk management (continued) Capital management (continued) The Board seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position. In the medium to long term, the Group believes that having a debt to equity ratio of up to 50% would still enable the Group to achieve its objective of maintaining a strong capital base. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements other than the statutory requirements in the jurisdictions where the Group entities are incorporated. 36. Fair values of financial instruments Financial instruments comprise financial assets and financial liabilities. Financial assets consist of cash and bank balances, receivables, available for sale financial assets and other current assets. Financial liabilities consist of loans and borrowings, bank overdrafts, trade payables and other current liabilities. The fair values of financial instruments are not materially different from their carrying values. Available for sale investments (note 11) at carried at cost due to the lack of availability of information to assess fair values. The Group intent to carry those for strategic purposes until an appropriate valuation methodology could be determined or until an appropriate exist is found. 37. Key sources of estimation uncertainty Impairment of accounts receivable An estimate of the collectible amount of trade accounts receivable is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable. For individually significant amounts, this estimation is performed on an individual basis. Amounts which are not individually significant, but which are past due, are assessed collectively and a provision applied according to the length of time past due, based on historical recovery rates. At the statement of financial position date, gross trade accounts receivable were AED 997,429 thousand (2016: AED 800,596 thousand) and the provision for doubtful debts was AED 63,263 thousand (2016: AED 58,908 thousand). Any difference between the amounts actually collected in future periods and the amounts expected to be collected will be recognised in the consolidated income statement. Useful lives of property and equipment The Group's management determines the estimated useful lives of its property, plant and equipment for calculating depreciation. This estimate is determined after considering the expected usage of the asset or physical wear and tear. Management reviews the residual value and useful lives annually and future depreciation charge would be adjusted where the management believes the useful lives differ from previous estimates. Goodwill impairment The impairment test is based on the “value in use” calculation. These calculations have used cash flow projections based on actual operating results and future expected performance. A discount which ranges between 7.6% to 9.6% has been used in discounting the cash flows projected (refer to note 5). 190 Aramex Annual Report 2017 19 Our Performance 37. Key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued) Provision for tax The Group reviews the provision for tax on a regular basis. In determining the provision for tax, laws of particular jurisdictions (where applicable entity is registered) are taken into account. The management considers the provision for tax to be a reasonable estimate of potential tax liability after considering the applicable laws and past experience. End of service benefits In determining the appropriate discount rate, management considers the interest rates of corporate bonds in the respective currency with at least AA rating, with extrapolated maturities corresponding to the expected duration of the defined benefit obligation. The underlying bonds are further reviewed for quality, and those having excessive credit spreads are removed from the population of bonds on which the discount rate is based, on the basis that they do not represent high quality bonds. The mortality rate is based on publicly available mortality tables for the related countries. Future salary increases are based on expected future inflation rates for the respective country. Useful lives of intangible assets with finite lives The Group's management determines the estimated useful lives of its intangible assets with finite lives for calculating amortisation. This estimate is determined after considering the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset. Management reviews the amortisation period and amortisation method for an intangible with a finite life at least each financial year end and future amortisation charges will be adjusted where the management believes the useful lives differ from previous estimates. Identifiable assets and liabilities taken over on acquisition of subsidiaries The Group separately recognises assets and liabilities on the acquisition of a subsidiary when it is probable that the associated economic benefits will flow to the acquirer or when, in the case of liability, it is probable that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle the obligation and the fair value of the asset or liability can be measured reliably. Intangible assets and contingent liabilities are separately recognised when they meet the criteria for recognition set out in IFRS 3. Intangible assets, acquired on acquisition, mainly represent lists of customers, bound by a contract, valued on the basis of minimum cash flows. Intangible assets with indefinite lives Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but are tested for impairment annually, either individually or at the cash-generating unit level. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life continues to be supportable. If not, the change in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis. 191 Aramex Annual Report 2017 Contact us Aramex International LLC. Business Central Towers, Tower A, 23rd Floor, Office 2302A Dubai Media City Dubai – UAE P.O. Box: 95946 Telephone: +971 600 544000 We welcome your feedback and encourage comments from our readers. Please direct any communication to: raji.hattar@aramex.com
