UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2017-2018 02 03 04 06 08 Page 1 I hereby present Bach Salicath Danmark A/S fifth commuand payroll information has been digitalized, and with a nication on progress report, reaffirming our continued leaner organisational structure, we are now even better commitment and support for the Ten Principles of the UN equipped to tailor our fleet to the specific customer groups Global Compact. cargo requirements. We have therefore continued our investment into more fuel-efficient trucks, that is also This Global Compact Report, along with previous, covers better equipped for the often narrow streets of the city. all of Bach Salicath Danmark A/S companies; Møbeltransport Danmark A/S, Møbeltransport Danmark National It is Bach Salicath Danmark A/S ambition to contribute to A/S, Aspire Mobility Group A/S and Reloc A/S. sustainable development while at the same time developing our business. Behaving responsibly while conducting 2017 and the beginning of 2018 have been busy for the our business and increasing growth is for us inseparable. entire organisation. We have conducted a large reWe act as an innovative, reliable, responsible and competistructuring of all our companies, making our organisation tive partner for our customers, collaborators, and society more lean and efficient. We have implemented a new HR– at large. and payroll system along with a new time management system and we have worked intensively with the new In conclusion, we look forward to continuing our support GDPR regulations. to the 10 principals of the United Nations Global Compact principals in the areas of Environment, Human Rights, LaOur business development projects and large investments bour, and Anti-Corruption. the past year also has a positive impact on our environmental effort our processes in terms of time registrations Niels Bach CEO Page 2 Bach Salicath Danmark A/S is the owner organization of This communication on progress applies to all of Bach Salithe companies Møbeltransport Danmark A/S, Møbelcath Danmark A/S companies and offices in Copenhagen, transport Danmark National A/S, Aspire Mobility Group A/S Aarhus, Odense, Hillerød, and Aalborg. and Reloc A/S. Through the report, all affiliates and brands hereunder will Our organization can be traced back to 1879 and is today be collectively referred to as Bach Salicath Danmark A/S. Denmark’s largest Moving and Relocation Company. With offices in Denmark’s four largest urban areas and affiliates The following report will describe how Bach Salicath Danin both Sweden and Spain, we can provide a wide range of mark A/S is working within the areas of human rights, enservices within moving and relocation to our customers, vironmental matters, and anti-corruption. In the report, we globally as well as locally. will present our top priorities for action and provide information on our performance in 2017 and 2018. Nationally, Møbeltransport Danmark conducts quality officeand private moves, storage of household goods and The report is organized into 3 main components, reflecting is the largest provider of logistics of fine art transport. Our the 10 principals of the UN Global Compact: Danish affiliate Reloc A/S specializes in logistic planning and carrying out office relocations and domicile change. 1. PEOPLE Reloc A/S helps customers with everything from interior 2. PLANET design drawings, IT cabling, and internal rotations. 3. PROFIT In 2018 our international department became registered Our challenges and opportunities along with our objectives as a separate legal entity named Aspire Mobility Group A/ for the future are furthermore described. S. Aspire Mobility Group annually helps more than 2.500 families and corporate employees move to new homes worldwide. We also assist the families through the whole relocation and settling-in process, including applying for visas and residence permits, finding a new home, a school for the kids or obtaining knowledge about the new residences public services, healthcare system and culture. Page 3 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 2 Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. part of risk management to avoid accidents, illnesses and Bach Salicath Danmark A/S support and respects internalost working days. tionally proclaimed human rights standards, including the International Bill of Rights and the International Labour Bach Salicath Danmark A/S also offers all employees and Organizations declaration on the fundamental principles their families affordable health care insurance, which entiand rights at work. As a large player in our industry, we tles them to the best and fastest medical treatment. acknowledge our obligation to advocate for compliance with the human rights and labour right principles We furthermore ensure good employment conditions for both moving staffs, storage handlers, and office personnel. Through our membership with Danish Industries (DI), we According to the international human rights law, employfollow collective agreements on fair and equal salaries and ees have the right to a safe workplace. As a service providemployment conditions. er, our primary resource is our employees and their knowledge and competencies. A safe, healthy and inclusive working environment is key for Bach Salicath Danmark A/S to maintain a dedicated and committed workforce that Bach Salicath Danmark A/S considers education and traincontinuously provides a high level of expertise and service ing important in upholding a safe working environment to our customer. and a key competitor factor in the service industry. No incident of involvement in human rights violations or Forecasts show that there is a decline in skilled labour that negative impacts on human rights were reported in 2017. is trained and educated in specific business areas, both now and in the future. We continuously upheld and evolve a safe working environment through first aid and fire prevention training and A large part of Bach Salicath Danmark A/S equipment along with safety equipment necessary to each employees started in the company as apprentices assignment, such as safety shoes, safety glasses, gloves and has been with us ever since, both as and work wear. We also have a work environment organimovers or in logistics and service functions zation (AMO) that regularly evaluates our employee satisin the office. It is our ambition to faction and health and safety environment as an essential keep educating and training Page 4 apprentices to accommodate future and current business challenges. Our apprentices add great value to our company in learning the specific skills and qualifications specific to our industry. For our movers, training and education as an apprentice are just as much about delivering professional service to our customers as it is about learning correct postures and lifting techniques, correct handling and use of equipment as well as safety in regards to driving moving trucks. Education and training is for all employees in Bach Salicath Danmark an ongoing matter and important to maintain in a fast-changing society. All movers, for example, attend additional seminars and courses to maintain and build on their education every fourth year. During April and May 2018, our overall education strategy put a special emphasis on raising all office employees to excel in their competencies. We held six Microsoft Excel seminar in collaboration with The Danish education institute, Niels Brock, that employees in Zealand were invited to attend. The courses were on different subjects and levels, resulting in a lift in the organization of our overall Microsoft Excel abilities. Page 5 processes, and competencies towards an improved envi7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. ronmental performance and ensures that we continue to undertake initiatives that can lead towards even greater environmental responsibility. 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Our environmental policy is targeted at areas where we as a service provider in the transportation industry, has the greatest environmental impact, e.g. the fuel efficiency of our trucks, the energy consumption of our buildings and 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. the resource usage of our processes. Through 2017 and the beginning of 2018 Bach Salicath We acknowledge our environmental responsibility and we Danmark A/S implemented a new efficient time manageactively engage in contributing to a sustainable development system and a new HR and payroll system in all our ment, by continuously improving our environmental footcompanies and departments in Denmark. print through creating sustainable and competitive solutions, beneficial for both our company, employees, cusOur new computerized systems eliminate many cumbersotomers and the society at large. me processes that used to require manpower resource, thus increasing the productivity of the overall company. Bach Salicath Danmark A/S has since 2012 maintained an effective ISO 14001 certified environmental management The new systems also have environmental benefits and system, with ownership at the executive level. Our system support our vision of a paper-free office environment. enables us to constantly monitor and control our activities, The Payroll system can send out payslips through Page 6 encrypted e-mails thereby eliminating the need for prinWithin the last year, we have substituted nine large truck ting them each month and the need for envelopes. from euro norm 3-5 trucks driving 8-9 km/L with two new Furthermore, our moving staff used to have several additieuro norm Vl trucks driving 4,5-5 km/L. Likewise, five old onal annex pages to each payslip and a weekly timesheet, vans driving 8-9 km/L has been replaced with seven euro which we have also eliminated through our new time manorm VI vans driving 10-11 km/L. nagement system. All in all, Bach Salicath Danmark A/S have optimized our payroll and time registration process Controlling and reducing each vehicle’s fuel consumption is thereby reducing our paper usage by 99%. an important environmental objective for Bach Salicath Danmark A/S. With five offices in the largest urban areas of We have also cut down on our paper usage in terms of Denmark, we can cover all national customers within relaplanning incoming assignments. Worksheets used to be tively short distances, which reduce our fuel consumption printed and assigned trough physical documentation, but and air emissions. this process has now also become an integrated part of the time management system, cutting our paper usage by Constantly striving towards high utilization of our trucks 86% annually. Some worksheets however still need to be capacity also reduces our environmental impact. Bach Saliprinted dependent on the assignment type, complexity, cath Danmark A/S fleet consists of trucks, trailers, and vans and durability. in different sizes, which on national assignments enable us to choose the vehicles with the right capacity to any of our customers’ needs and requirements. Bach Salicath Danmark A/S is aware that as a service provider in the transportation industry, our largest environmental footprint stems from our fuel consumption. Vehicle In 2015, Bach Salicath Danmark A/S started a project to emission control is, therefore, one of our primary prioriconvert all lights to LED thereby reducing our energy conties. sumption. We started by changing all outdoor light poles at the headquarter premises to LED, resulting in an 80% reDuring 2017 and 2018 Bach Salicath Danmark A/S underduction of the energy consumption. During 2016 and 2017 went a large re-structuring of our organization, making it we continued the success indoor as well, where 176 lamps more Lean and efficient. By extension here of our fleet was were converted leading to a reduction in power consumptailored to fit each company and departments specific tion of 47% or equivalent to 9.299 watts less used pr. hour. customer requirements. As a result, we have made a larger The conversion to LED also proved to have a positive effect investment into more environmentally friendly trucks with on the working environment, as the new LED bulbs have a consideration to fuel consumption, a high euro norm and greater resemblance to natural light and better-reflecting with consideration in regards to development and diffucolors. sion of environmentally friendly technologies. We have also prioritized moving vans over large trucks, increasing the fleets’ flexibility and making it easier to maneuver within the larger cities of Denmark. At the same time, the restructuring and investments in our fleet have also resulted in the need for fewer trucks to for fill the same amount of assignments. Page 7 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. As a privately owned company, Bach Salicath Danmark A/S has always taken pride in conducting our business in an economically responsible and highly ethical manner. We are accordingly enjoying a reputation for being a trustworthy, transparent and responsible business partner. We believe in responsible behavior and that we must take a clear stand against corruption in all its forms. We are obliged by legal obligations, including the UK bribery act to work against corruption and facilitation payment. Anti-corruption is an integral part of our culture and business integrity is one of our guiding values. Bach Salicath Danmark A/S applies a zero-tolerance approach to extortion and facilitation payments, corruption and bribery in all its forms. We are committed in all our business conduct to comply with UN Global Compact’s principle 10, as well as with all local and international anti-corruption and bribery laws. Bach Salicath Danmark A/S employees and national subcontractors are obliged to act in accordance with Bach Salicath Danmark A/S code of conduct, which sets forth the adaptation of good governance, transparency, and accountability into day-to-day business. International activities Bach Salicath Danmark A/S international activity is conducted through our company Aspire Mobility Group A/S. Aspire Mobility Group is member of FIDI, the largest global alliance organisation of international moving and relocation companies, where strict Quality standards, AntiCorruption and Human Right measures are compulsory and independently audited criteria for membership. Through FIDI we share knowledge and compliance standards with our international supply chain, thus providing Page 8 us with a strong network worldwide of suppliers who besiwhich place an even greater focus on anti-bribery and anti des upholding the service level and expertise we expect. -corruption. We surpassed the audit with zero remarks on the audit day there by ranking us among the top performWe believe that our sphere of influence is greater, ers in our industry worldwide. through international industry organisations, and we are therefore actively participating in FIDI. Our Director in We also screen our suppliers and vendors through Dow Aspire Mobility Group has been the President of FIDI DenJones Due diligence reviews. This allows us to monitor a mark, the national association of the FIDI organisation fuller and transparent picture to assess and determine the since 2008. risk level by cooperating with any particular vendor. Through Dow Jones Risk Assessment and Compliance proWhen collaborating with international suppliers Aspire gram, we are better equipped to protect ourselves and Mobility Group A/S primarily selects international suppliour customers against financial misconduct and reputaers on the basis of their membership of FIDI. FIDIs quality tional damage. benchmark certification FAIM requires members to have a periodic audit independently performed by Ernst and We furthermore ensured that our Code of Conduct and Young of their international moving processes and perforAnti-bribery Standard is an integral part of our corremances. spondence with all our current, as well as potential vendors. Accordingly, when we supply or receive any type of During 2017 Aspire Mobility Group A/S was audited acservice, our vendors are aware of our ethical requirecording to the new version of the FAIM standard 3.1, ments. The code of conduct and anti-bribery codex has also been incorporated into our removal contract with our clients, to ensure that they are aware of the stand we have taken towards bribery and corruption. Page 9
