FLSMIDTH MAIN CONCLUSIONS 1. January 31 December 2017 WE DISCOVER POTENTIAL – continued SUSTAINABILITY LTIFR Whistle-blower cases REPORT 2017 1.8 51 Up from 1.5 Up from 25 Female employees Tonnes of carbon 13.5% 64,267 Down from 14% 1 Interim report Q3 2017 CONTENTS FLSmidth at a glance 3 Letter from the CEO 5 Our social purpose 6 Strategy and business model 7 Our employees 9 Divisional sustainability 10 Financial implications of sustainability 11 Committed to the Sustainable Development Goals 12 Challenge: copper in Armenia 13 Engaging stakeholders 15 Governance 18 What matters 19 Safety 20 7 OUR SOCIAL PURPOSE 15 CHALLENGE: People 22 COPPER IN ARMENIA Compliance 24 Environment 26 Supply chain 28 Human rights 30 ABOUT THIS REPORT Key performance indicator summary 32 The 2017 Sustainability Report describes the non-financial performance of FLSmidth & Co. United Nations Global Compact table 34 A/S, based in Copenhagen, Denmark and supplements the 2017 Annual Report. The Sustainability Report has been published every consecutive year since 2010 and is in accordance with section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act. The scope of this report is the area under financial control of FLSmidth, with the exception of the section on supply chain. FLSmidth & Co. A/S is listed on NASDAQ OMX Copenhagen.. It is possible to access previous year’s data on our website. Please go to www.flsmidth.com/sustainability. Contact: sustainability@flsmidth.com. The reporting period is January 1st, 2017 to December 31st, 2017 This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact and supporting broader UN goals. We welcome feedback on its contents. 2 Sustainability Report 2017 FLSMIDTH AT A GLANCE FLSMIDTH AT A GLANCE Cement and minerals are vital for economic, social and technological development. Urbanisation and industrialisation drive the need for infrastructure and improved standards of living. This creates an increasing global demand for cement and minerals such as copper and gold. However, greater scarcity of resources such as energy, water and raw materials is leading to more complex and costly operations, which challenges the performance of mining and cement companies. This calls for innovation and high-end technical solutions, which is where FLSmidth has a leading position and a strong competitive edge. Together with our customers, we activate our knowledge and experience to bring better solutions to light. Through enhanced productivity, we contribute to the sustainable development of societies with the lowest possible environmental impact. Though cement and mining are distinct industries, there are considerable commonalities and synergies between the two, and we have the unique advantage of being able to leverage resources, technologies and best practices across our cement and mining businesses. 3 Sustainability Report 2017 FLSMIDTH AT A GLANCE WHAT WE DO Global organisation and footprint Both global cement majors and local or regional midsized Our unique combination of engineering, products and services With local presence in more than 50 countries, FLSmidth is a players are typical customers of FLSmidth, though the latter enables us to be a leading supplier of productivity enhancing truly global company. The geographical footprint is reflecting account for most of cement-related project sales, whereas solutions to the global cement and mining industries. We help our diversified customer base, composed primarily of global global cement majors account for a considerable share of the our customers to increase production output, decrease and regional cement and mining companies that invest in new aftermarket business in cement. operating costs and reduce environmental impact. capacity or in expanding, upgrading, maintaining and servicing existing production capacity. Being close to the customer is the key to the aftermarket. Our value proposition builds on extensive process know-how, Combining local presence with global support and expertise combined with a ‘full flow-sheet’ of premium, sustainable FLSmidth has vast experience in working with a broad range of makes it possible to deliver premium solutions where our technologies and a life-cycle service offering. We have a customers around the world. Mining customers consist of both customers need them. FLSmidth's vast number of local sales proven track record of quality and reliability. major and mid-tier miners, the latter accounting for a relatively and service offices ensures frequent customer dialogue and large amount of minerals-related project sales, whereas the speed of delivery. In parallel with recent years' efforts to major miners account for a considerable share of the optimise and streamline the global footprint, we have continued aftermarket business in mining. to open new sales and service offices around the world to cover white spots. GLOBAL CENTRES OF EXCELLENCE AND SERVICE CENTRES CLOSE TO CUSTOMERS Supercentre Project and technology centre Production Sales and services Operation and maintenance 4 Sustainability Report 2017 LETTER FROM THE CEO LETTER FROM THE CEO With rising global challenges such as climate change and water under our supervision are safe. 2017 marked a step-change in scarcity, FLSmidth is in a unique position to support customers how we manage our impacts. We established a new in the cement and mining industries to operate as responsibly sustainability governance structure where I personally oversee as possible. the sustainability performance of the risks and impacts, which are presented at the annual Board of Directors meeting. This In 2017, we took a long and hard look at the future of our shows a real commitment to our stakeholders, and encourages industry, our business and our company to define a new vision: our employees to be engaged and get results. “We drive success through sustainable productivity enhancement”. This vision will shape our business for the years Looking into 2018, we will be investing in digitalization, and we to come, and it is based on the fundamental idea that are excited about the prospects it has for productivity-driven sustainability and productivity cannot be thought of separately. growth and shared value creation, including sustainability. With We fully recognise that sustainability is good business for our big data, we will be able to monitor the performance of customers, our shareholders, our stakeholders and for us. equipment very closely, meaning that resource use, such as use of fuel and water, can be optimised in real time. It also Sustainable development is the key driver in our industry and means that equipment will have more uptime with scheduled our focus on productivity enhancement increases our preventative work, leading to decreased safety risks related to customers’ competitiveness, as well as our own. Sustainability maintenance. calls for a strong life-cycle approach across the entire value chain. By focusing on our suppliers, our business and the entire It has been 10 years since FLSmidth became a signatory to the life-cycle of our customers’ operations, we can identify even the United Nations Global Compact and our commitment to it and smallest sustainability impacts and cost savings. Our business its principles have never been stronger. We would like to take will only grow as we deliver equipment, projects and services to this opportunity to thank our people and our stakeholders for our customers that are ever more sustainable and productive. helping us get to this point in our sustainability journey, and we In a world where economies are growing and encourage everyone to think and act sustainably in their resources are becoming scarce, innovation is the Our ability to deliver sustainable productivity enhancement professional and personal lives. starts at home. Although we did improve our performance in key to helping businesses and societies achieve some aspects of our internal sustainability program, it is with Thomas Schulz, CEO sustainable growth. great regret that one of our sub-contractors in Algeria tragically lost his life this year. After four years of systematic improvements leading to improved safety performance, this year marked the first drop. The focus for 2018 is to achieve our vision of zero harm, and to not stop until all of those working 5 Sustainability Report 2017 OUR SOCIAL PURPOSE OUR SOCIAL PURPOSE However, there is a trade-off between socioeconomic FLSmidth’s social purpose is to support development and the natural resources required to fuel it. customers to be productive by extracting Cement and mining operations cause large-scale impacts to the responsibly, thereby enabling them to environment. Biodiversity is affected, carbon emission and water extraction increases, while the quality of air and water produce the materials that build can deteriorate if not dealt with in a responsible manner. sustainably societies As a supplier of equipment, projects and services to cement and mining companies, FLSmidth's social purpose is well As change in the world is accelerating, as the geopolitical defined. As the world requires infrastructure made from cement landscape becomes seemingly more complex and as markets and goods made from minerals, the goal is to reduce the face increasing levels of disruption, there is a crucial need for amount of resources required for the production process, while organisations to define their social purpose. Determining the also increasing the level of output. This is the definition of reason for being of a company, or how the collective work of all productivity and the reason our strategy is to be productivity employees contributes to society, results in an understanding provider #1. of how the company as a whole impacts the world. This can be used to identify the leverage points of the organisation to The ability to continuously optimise the flow of natural improve social and environmental conditions where they resources to society relies on the ability to innovate. By chain and human rights can have a massive impact on a local operate. researching and developing new technologies and services and global scale. This can make the industry as a whole through the lens of productivity, FLSmidth plans to unleash a improve year on year, allowing for the materials required by The world’s population growth is increasing at an astonishing new wave of productivity. Transformative innovations that society to be supplied sustainably for the long-run. rate. Many lower to middle-income countries continue to have revolutionise the way industry impacts the environment have high birth rates, while life expectancy has never been higher. the potential to deliver real shared value. With the goal of providing better conditions for their families, many people from rural areas migrate to urban areas in the The goal is to continuously develop products and methods that hope of finding a better life. As people pull themselves out of help the mining and cement industries to extract resources poverty, societies become more developed and national more responsibly. This means that the surrounding areas of income increases. All of these factors intensify the global plants, mines and quarries can flourish, that the environment is demand for infrastructure and metals, many of which are not impacted to the point that it cannot recover, that its produced by FLSmidth’s customers. surrounding communities have the means of a sustainable livelihood and that the local economy grows. Efforts made to improve safety, people skills, compliance, environment, supply 6 Sustainability Report 2017 STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL FLSmidth’s new vision of “we drive success through sustainable productivity enhancement” sets the tone for the business model, and therefore the foundation for meeting customer demands. Sustainability plays a central role in the external forces shaping the markets for minerals and cement, as well as the opportunity to support clients to address their environmental and social challenges. 7 Sustainability Report 2017 STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL STRATEGY All unified by state-of-the-art automation and control systems, performance guarantees on solutions or even complete plants. FLSmidth is a leading supplier of productivity enhancing which position FLSmidth as a market leader in analysing and To the customer, this equals a guaranteed return on solutions to the global cement and mining industries. We help understanding performance data. We sell more than just investment, and FLSmidth has an excellent track record of our customers increase output, lower operating costs and equipment, plants and services – we deliver productivity. reliability, quality and project follow-through. At the same time, reduce environmental impact. Through a life cycle approach we we have the most complete offering in our two core industries. enable our customers to lower their total cost of ownership The benefits for the customer are clear: More reliable and over the entire life of their plant. optimised operations, proactive and predictive maintenance, Our strategy is to be Productivity Provider #1 based on our and increased uptime. vision, values, people and know-how. Our key to productivity is a full flow-sheet of premium technologies, embedded in a unique combination of leading Our offering extends beyond the typical warranty on a single products, process knowhow and wide-ranging services. piece of equipment. We bundle equipment to offer Long term Short term 8 Sustainability Report 2017 OUR EMPLOYEES OUR EMPLOYEES FLSmidth is a learning organisation, and our people are our employees to the global organisation. 2016: 80%). 39% of all employees have less than 5 years’ most valuable resource. In 2017, we continued to invest experience (end of 2016: 49%), which is an indication of the extensively in people development and leadership training The number of employees amounted to 11,716 at the end transition FLSmidth has been going over the past 5 years to with a strong emphasis on selecting, attracting, developing of 2017, representing a decrease of 4% compared to last become a productivity-driven company. and retaining the right people to support value creation in year (end 2016: 12,187). The decline is primarily explained the Group. by business right-sizing and corrective actions, as mentioned 13% of FLSmidth’s permanently employed staff is female (end of above. The composition of the global workforce was more or 2016: 14%). Please see the section on people to understand The global organisation has been significantly impacted by the less unchanged at the end of 2017. more about gender and diversity. cyclical downturn and the changes in market conditions over the past five years. As a consequence of corrective actions 53% of FLSmidth’s employees were below the age of 40 at the implemented in late 2016, the number of employees was end of 2017 (end of 2016: 55%). further reduced in 2017. However, on 1 November 2017, the acquisition of parts of Sandvik Mining Systems added 187 79% of the employees have more than 2 years’ seniority (end of AGE DISTRIBUTION LENGTH OF SERVICE GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION 6% 9% 22% 19% 20% 15% 15% 52% 36% 29% 24% 24% 29% <30 years 30-39 years 40-49 years <2 years 2-4 years 5-10 years >10 years Denmark USA India Other 50-59 years >59 years 9 Sustainability Report 2017 DIVISIONAL SUSTAINABILITY DIVISIONAL SUSTAINABILITY 10 Sustainability Report 2017 FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS OF SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS OF SUSTAINABILITY Understanding the link between financial and sustainability forward, through increased profitability and decreased risk. identified key levers as growth opportunities, each having a clear performance throughout the value chain drives the business To stay at the forefront of these developments, FLSmidth has impact on sustainability: FOCUS AREA DESCRIPTION The world’s need for housing, infrastructure and minerals drive the cement and the right people within FLSmidth. By having a local presence and one face to the mining industry to produce more. Increased energy costs, water scarcity and customer, it makes doing business simple. The ability to address issues related to changing regulations adds to growing complexity in the business environment, and the environment, society or the economy relies on FLSmidth being valued as a customers’ need for sustainable solutions has never been higher. Customers face trusted business partner. That is why close customer relationships are a promoter Customers individual challenges depending on the industry and the geography, and close for sustainability. To evaluate our customer relationships, the Net Promoter score is customer relationships are required to understand and convey these challenges to used, as is the ability to deliver in full on time. Researching and developing transformational technology in the cement and mining FLSmidth spent 212 DKKm on in-house research and development at sophisticated industries can literally change the face of the planet. FLSmidth envisions a world laboratories and testing facilities in the USA, India and Denmark. where mining companies don’t need tailings dams, and where cement companies Fast commercialisation of new products and services is a top priority, and FLSmidth don’t need to rely solely on fossil fuels. Where proven, game changing is also pursuing more transformational innovations that can unleash the next wave Innovation technologies can be brought to market, sold across the world and completely of productivity. change the way cement and minerals are produced. Over the course of 2017, Customers’ purchasing habits are increasingly based on the total cost of ownership Monitoring and data analytics create an unrivalled combination that significantly over the product life-cycle. Operating costs account for approximately 75% of the improves productivity, while optimising resource usage. This leads directly to total cost of ownership for a cement or mining operation, and energy is the single maximum efficiency and profitability by reducing energy consumption and thereby largest component. Through digital monitoring and control systems being brought carbon emissions. to market, customers have the ability to optimise processes and predict Digitalization maintenance schedules. This decreases safety risks, as interactions between people and machines are limited, thereby enabling better safety performance. Through standardisation FLSmidth seeks to reduce costs and complexity without approximately 75% of Group revenue, of which 70-80% is outsourced. compromising performance. Value engineering initiatives for product development Standardising parts and developing close partnerships with key partners pave the can build on elements that improve sustainability from the beginning. Early way for closer sustainability dialogues in the future and better performance of the involvement of R&D and sales allows for simplification and alignment of product entire value chain. Standardisation specifications. The outcome is lower costs and equal or improved functionality. Smarter production is critical for FLSmidth as production costs make up By providing a full portfolio of products over the entire flow sheet, FLSmidth can help them mitigate their environmental impact while allowing for best-in-class provide customers with a summary of the risks and impacts over the full life cycle service for safety, ethical integrity and human resources from beginning to end. of operations while it is still in the design phase. This can support customers in FLSmidth’s product line management set up means that growth opportunities and achieving cost effectiveness, while supporting them to adhere to ever more sustainability enhancers within the entire life-cycle of an operation can be Grow products stringent environmental regulations over the product life-cycle. FLSmidth helps identified and acted upon. customers design an operation with the right combination of products that 11 Sustainability Report 2017 COMMITTED TO THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS COMMITTED TO THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Decoupling environmental degradation from economic growth FLSmidth is a product, project and service provider to industries FLSmidth is fully committed to advancing sustainable is a crucial element of sustainable development. FLSmidth that produce essential materials for societies to develop and production and consumption patterns internally, as well as supports this through the development of national economies function. As innovation is central to FLSmidth’s business model, goods and services procured and delivered. Focusing on both by internal operations, as well as improving the developing clean and environmentally sound technologies improving supplier performance, and delivering technologies productivity and impacts of customers and suppliers. Providing drives the company forward. Societies are built from cement and services that improve customers’ impacts is central to employment opportunities within the company is a direct and minerals, and producing them responsibly can go a long FLSmidth’s business model. This ensures the sound contribution to local and national employment. Furthermore, way towards promoting sustainable development. This means management of resources and significantly lower releases into contractor labour through suppliers without compromising mitigating CO2 and increasing manufacturing employment per air, water and soil, minimising their adverse effects on the FLSmidth values improves the sphere of influence. unit of value added. environment and human health. Furthermore, being responsible also means doing business ethically; and to stem the possibility With FLSmidth’s commitment to working with the goals that are With innovation in the products, projects and services offered of fraud or corruption. directly influenced by its business activities, they indirectly being a driver for future growth, there are also numerous other influence several other goals as well. indirect benefits: Being responsible means taking a holistic view of the environment, society and the economy: By providing sustainable innovations and By creating decent working conditions and By developing technology that helps customers technologies, FLSmidth indirectly supports the economic growth in the local communities meet their national emission regulations, work towards ensuring access to clean water in FLSmidth operates in, the company indirectly emissions such as dust which causes areas where water resources are scarce. affects the fight towards ending poverty. respiratory illnesses can be mitigated. FLSmidth also indirectly supports the When supporting the development of ending development of safe and sustainable cities and Providing energy-efficient technology to poverty through the above-mentioned communities, by providing efficient and safe customers around the world means that the activities, the company also indirectly supports equipment to prevent environmental disasters. customers do not require as much energy from the ambition to end hunger. the national grid. Through employment and the ongoing Through sustainable innovations and Placing a strong focus on doing business education and training of local workers, technologies, FLSmidth indirectly influences ethically significantly reduces the chances of FLSmidth further impacts the goal to increase the work towards mitigating climate change fraud or corruption. This can help promote the number of young people and adults who FLSmidth’s values towards customers and the possess relevant skills for employment. public sector. 12 Sustainability Report 2017 CHALLENGE: COPPER IN ARMENIA CHALLENGE: COPPER IN ARMENIA FLSmidth is staying on to help a mine in and the locals to deal with the problems alone. FLSmidth refused to Armenia faced with accusations of causing environmental and social impacts. Active involvement has a greater long-term impact on sustainability than abandoning a site and leaving the problems with the client and the local community. In 2013, FLSmidth was hired to engineer and provide equipment for a mineral processing facility for a copper mine in Lori province near Teghout in northern Armenia, partly funded by Danish institutions. The equipment supplied for the project was of the highest standard regarding environmental impacts. Local residents and non-governmental organisations raised issues about the construction and operation of the mine, mainly with regard to pollution of rivers; the felling of forests that are home to endangered species and accusations of exploitation of small farmers whose land was expropriated under allegedly questionable circumstances. In 2017, this came to a head when a Danish non-governmental organisation levied unsubstantiated accusations against the mine operator and FLSmidth. This led to public scrutiny of those involved and caused the a withdrawal of the financial guarantee, although this did not contribute to resolution of the concerns. As a supplier to the project, FLSmidth chose a rather different approach. It was well understood from the beginning that pulling out of the project meant leaving it for the customer 13 Sustainability Report 2017 CHALLENGE: COPPER IN ARMENIA do so, even though the issue under scrutiny (mine and tailings facility) were not in scope of FLSmidth. “We decided to stay in the area and attempt to make a positive This was a very complex situation, where national CUSTOMER: TEGHOUT CJSC difference by applying our expertise. We believe you can make laws and norms were not aligned with international more of an impact by being present on site, as long as there is performance standards; where the way of operating FLSmidth: delivered design, machinery and supervised trust in the relationship and the aim to solve the problems at a mine and processing plant in the country was the construction of the mine facilities, all above ground hand. We are in regular dialogue with our customer on how called into question and with confusion as to what Customer: Teghout CJSC best to assist them with their challenges and thus make a the actual individual responsibilities of each stakeholder were. We are committed to continually Finance: Denmark’s Export Credit Agency (EKF) positive difference in the area,” said Manfred Shaffer, executive raising the standards of sustainable development in provided the financial guarantee, and The Danish vice president of the minerals division. our field, and we believe that we can push the pension fund, PensionDanmark, partly provided the development in the right direction through financing with DKK 350m by extending a loan arranged ESTABLISH EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION CHANNELS dialogue,” by a French bank to a Russian bank for further on As supplier to the project, FLSmidth expects that the customer lending. will take the necessary steps to address and improve conditions surrounding the mine and processing plant. By said Manfred Shaffer, Major risks: An identified potential risk to the customer leveraging the relationship with the customer, a dialogue was executive vice president of the minerals division. is that the nearby dam, built to stem the flow of liquid immediately established by the project manager and escalated waste from the mine, might collapse should a major within the organisation. This allowed proper communication earthquake strike the area. In 2016, the World Bank channels to be established at the right levels to review options published a study on the mineral sector in Armenia, for overcoming the challenge. showing that none of the 21 tailings dams reviewed had the appropriate design or management for a Furthermore, FLSmidth engaged some of the financial parties to seismically active area. Teghout CJSC is currently identify what their concerns were, prior to their withdrawal. This reviewing the risks and solutions based on the allowed for a full understanding of the stakeholder International Commission on Large Dams standards expectations. The unsubstantiated claims were discussed and has committed itself financially to implement the directly with the non-governmental organisation and the proposed solution. journalist who levied the accusations. FLSmidth ‘s role was made clear, as well as where the legal responsibilities of each Timeline: party lie, and how FLSmidth went beyond the legal boundaries ■ 2008: Order for the mills and grinding area, with to address and support a resolution of the issues. associated plant engineering ■ 2011: FLSmidth receives order for the balance of equipment and plant engineering ■ 2014: All engineering of the plant was done in accordance to local codes and standards and put into operation ■ 2017: Financing was withdrawn 14 Sustainability Report 2017 ENGAGING STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGING STAKEHOLDERS Stakeholder engagement is of great importance to FLSmidth in order to unlock potential, be transparent, and drive sustainable productivity enhancement. In order to achieve this, key stakeholders must be engaged on a regular basis to get insight into their advice, inputs, and expectations. General stakeholder groups were identified by Group communication, marketing and sustainability. Additional stakeholder groups were added through desk reviews of industry publications, as well as through conversations and interviews with internal staff. The outcome of the exercise showed that the largest and most influential stakeholder group is internal staff, meaning that they are prioritised in terms of engagement. A central aim of the materiality assessment in 2017 was to gain an understanding of which stakeholders were being engaged where and by whom in the organisation. This resulted in an in-side-out perspective, which was summarised and centralised by Group sustainability. This allows the scope of stakeholder engagement to be broadened by initiating dialogues with more tiers of internal management, key customers, suppliers, nongovernmental organisations, academia and other central stakeholders. The goal of the extended stakeholder engagement program is to understand the stakeholders’ sustainability context and determine their expectations, which will advance the work within the sustainability agenda and help steer the sustainability program in an inclusive manner. The extended stakeholder engagement initiative is planned to be a key focus area for 2018. 15 Sustainability Report 2017 ENGAGING STAKEHOLDERS Throughout 2017, the following stakeholders were engaged A large scale engagement process with customers was areas. As one of the big Danish export organisations, FLSmidth through various channels: undertaken through a Global Image Survey. The purpose was is occasionally invited to roundtable discussions by the Danish to understand FLSmidth’s brand awareness and customer Ministry of Industry, Business and Financial Affairs to provide Customers perceptions, as well as to benchmark against peers. Topics feedback on new and current legislations and export laws. Customer engagement and satisfaction, which not only addressed with customers included how much importance they includes end customers but also agents and engineering, place on safety, energy efficiency and sustainable Universities procurement and construction management companies is high technologies, which allows FLSmidth to differentiate itself Collaboration and interaction with academia is important for on FLSmidth’s agenda. Continuous interaction and further as an enabler for customer sustainability. The process ensuring a consistent knowledge flow and innovation in the collaboration to effectively solve customers’ biggest risks and engaged 436 customers and allowed for a Net Promoter Score company. challenges is a crucial point in being a successful company. To to be calculated, showing that the FLSmidth brand perception ensure high customer satisfaction and valuable partnerships has increased over time. Having close collaboration with universities, specifically FLSmidth strives to assure that customers are fully informed engineering programs and projects, as well as doctoral studies, about the constant expansions and enhancement of products Financial institutions: helps attract top talent, acquire new knowledge and develop and offers that improve productivity in their operations and Banks and financing partners are highly important and close innovative ideas within the company. It is therefore considered provides them with a competitive edge. collaboration partners for business and projects around the a crucial investment in the future of the business. world. FLSmidth therefore strives to create valuable and Sustainability and productivity are central components of transparent partnerships that ensure compliance and ethics in University collaboration also covers guest speaking at FLSmidth’s brand. Issues such as safety, energy efficiency and the industry. universities and local university visits to FLSmidth’s super emissions are value propositions and are constantly addressed centres around the world. This provides the students with a face-to-face with customers. These often form a part of FLSmidth works alongside customers on a continuous basis to more tangible and broadened understanding of the work and customers’ criteria for supplier selection and can be both secure financing for projects around the world. Numerous the various career opportunities available at FLSmidth. qualifiers and differentiators, in turn giving FLSmidth a financial institutions require customers to adopt world class competitive advantage. standards related to the environment, society and the economy. FLSmidth also collaborates with universities to recruit fresh FLSmidth works hand-in-hand with both the customers and the graduates showing high levels of talent. Sustainability issues are also a key theme in FLSmidth’s financial institutions to ensure that projects adhere to the publications, such as the magazines Discover Mining or Cement standards required. As an example of how FLSmidth works with One of FLSmidth’s university collaborations is a project running Highlights. In 2017, Discover Mining published an issue entitled its partners, please review the case study on Teghout from 2013-2018 with the Technical University of Denmark. The “Troubled Waters”, which gave deep insights into the topic of elsewhere in this report. focus of the program is to develop fundamental tools and minimising water usage at customers’ mining sites. In the April advanced technical solutions that will lower the environmental edition of Cement Highlights, a member of the management Public sector impact, improve the overall economy, and improve energy board at one of the world’s largest cement companies (a longTransparency is a driver for everything the company does, efficiency for processing large amounts of particulate materials time customer of FLSmidth) gave his thoughts on the future of including tax, employment and business activities. FLSmidth in cement and minerals processes. the cement industry, discussing the topic of climate change at values open and collaborative dialogue with tax authorities in length. When published, the magazines are sent in hard copy to each of its countries of operation to ensure compliance to customers. national laws. FLSmidth also participates in a number of cement and mining Due to FLSmidth’s position in the global cement and minerals conferences around the world on an ongoing basis. Productivity market, the company often interacts with government officials and topics related to sustainability are discussed directly with and local authorities, both with respect to general knowledge customers as value propositions. FLSmidth employees also and expectation sharing in relation to global operations, and in present papers for innovative products and services that can assisting customers to gain their license to operate in specific have a considerable impact on improving the environment. 16 Sustainability Report 2017 ENGAGING STAKEHOLDERS Outsourcing partners: Civil society FLSmidth Donation Fund annually donates up to 400,000 DKK With more than 80% of its manufacturing outsourced, suppliers This stakeholder group consists of communities, mass to worthy causes including humanitarian work, environmental and sub-contractors play a crucial role in FLSmidth’s ability to communication, non-governmental organisations and charities, projects and education and training. One of the causes from deliver premium projects, products and services. Please review as well as trade unions and staff associations. this year’s donation went to the next generation of miners in the the section on supply chain to gain insight into how these Zacatecas region in Mexico, who now have access to the FLS partners are engaged on sustainability matters. For FLSmidth, it is essential that added value be provided to the ESSA Flotation Cell in the laboratory at the local university. local community where operations are based. This is Supplier relationships are deemed very important to FLSmidth accomplished by listening to the local expectations on e.g. FLSmidth contributes to PanIIT Alumni Reach for India to ensure the high quality of the products and success of the using local employment and paying taxes. Dialogues are a main Foundation, Rural Skill Gurukuls for the underprivileged. The company, which is why long-term partnerships with qualified driver in overcoming potential resistance and creating a good objective of this non-governmental organisation is to implement and professional suppliers are highly valued. and trustworthy relationship with local communities. and scale self-sustainable models that enhance incomes of the under-privileged. Through its unique model, the organisation Having a large pool of suppliers can result in inefficiency in There is support for internal staff to organise in staff provides training for skills development of school drop-outs economies of scale. To overcome this challenge FLSmidth is associations and trade unions in the different regions of from various rural areas, including the Naxal (far-left radical building a product-sourcing plan to identify preferred, operations. It is valuable for both the employees and FLSmidth Maoists) affected districts of India, resulting in social uplift alternative and blacklisted suppliers for future orders. to have a portal where staff at all levels can channel concerns through livelihood enhancement. It is also proposed to utilise Contracted labour is a significant part of FLSmidth’s business and disagreements to the management’s attention. Continuous their trainees at our project/manufacturing sites. Former Army model, as its workforce needs vary throughout the year interactions and dialogues create a healthy working officers head the training centres and more than 80% of depending on projects. It is important to ensure that the right environment and solve rising issues before they escalate out of candidates have been sourced from Naxal-affected areas. Nonpeople are hired, and that they believe in the values that hand. governmental organisations have been identified as a group FLSmidth builds upon. In terms of sustainability matters such as that requires additional engagement, and it is expected that this safety, FLSmidth does not distinguish between its own staff and FLSmidth’s media activities include the CEO’s quarterly live will occur in 2018. contractors. briefings on the company’s performance, and recurrent interviews with company specialists on new trends and In 2018, roundtable discussions about FLSmidth’s materiality technologies in the cement and minerals industries. topics’ risks and opportunities will be the main driver for the dialogues on how sustainability issues within the cement and FLSmidth responds to media enquiries and provide corrective minerals industries will be conducted. The primary focus is to information if necessary... Sustainable topics are also recontinuously incorporate these dialogues into the sustainability occurring themes of editorials written by FLSmidth in program, as an iterative process to adjust the course of the international industry magazines. Furthermore, FLSmidth’s program, satisfy stakeholder expectations as they develop, and social media footprint centres on the brand elements of to provide insight into how the company and its stakeholders productivity and sustainability. can become more productive. 17 Sustainability Report 2017 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE Establishing a properly functioning governance structure for the On a strategic level, decisions made in the Sustainability Board On an operational level, each policy owner assigns a policy sustainability program is key to driving results. By setting the determine how the organisation will address and advance upon implementer who is responsible for the day-to-day tone from the top, the board of directors establishes the these issues in a systematic way. This is accomplished by improvements on a more detailed level. The policy mandate for the sustainability program. Performance establishing a clear policy structure for each material topic, implementers of each material topic form the Sustainability improvement on material topics both internally and among each sponsored by a member of executive management. The Working Group, which are the focal points for the Group suppliers and other relevant parties in the value chain are individual members of executive management are accountable sustainability function. Together, the members of the decided by and propagated through the organisation through for selecting which indicators are most pertinent, setting targets Sustainability Working Group collaborate on pushing the the Sustainability Board. for them and continuously overseeing the improvement of performance on the material topics. performance in their area. In 2017, the reporting structure for sustainability improved significantly. In previous years, the annual sustainability report was the only means of communicating performance. This meant that course corrections were only possible on an annual basis. This year, the reporting cycle has been accelerated to a quarterly basis, as it is included in the Management Report that is distributed to the Board of Directors and Group Executive Management. This provides the means to see progress on the decisions taken in the Sustainability Board. At the end of the fiscal year, the Group Sustainability Manager presents progress to the Board of Directors, who then expresses feedback and suggestions for improvement. This governance structure has been implemented in 2017. Overall the new structure is expected to provide more transparency regarding how to control environmental, social and economic impacts within the organisation and its value chain. 18 Sustainability Report 2017 WHAT MATTERS WHAT MATTERS As a key driving factor, an opportunity to address global act as leverage points to push the sustainability agenda to the Going forward, the sustainability function will engage external challenges and a means of growing the business, sustainability greatest extent possible. To determine which internal stakeholders in order to understand their expectations towards has always been central to FLSmidth’s business model. By stakeholders to engage, the executive management was FLSmidth. This will be done hand-in-hand with the Sustainability changing the vision to “We drive success through through presented with the ambition of furthering sustainability Working Group, resulting in targeted communication to internal sustainable productivity enhancement” the importance to core performance. They were asked to nominate 7-10 employees staff who can use it to promote actions that address both business is emphasised and openly communicated to helping under their supervision with impact on environmental, social or internal and external impacts. customers increase productivity and overcome their economic risks and impacts. Ultimately 50 employees were challenges. For that reason, the materiality assessment is an nominated. The nominees were each interviewed and surveyed essential task in order to identify future risks and opportunities in order to determine the material aspects’ importance to core within the sustainability agenda, not only for the FLSmidth but business, as well as risks and opportunities of achieving longalso for key stakeholders. term goals. The initial materiality assessment was conducted in 2016, and A literature review of external communications of industry provided the basis for developing a more comprehensive leaders in the cement and mining market was conducted, as approach. The prioritised materiality topics help set the right well as with key suppliers, leading to a thorough understanding focus point and strategic course for the company, both in the of the impacts that have been publically discussed. In the end short and long-term. six out of the eight topics initially detected in 2016 were found to be material. Although the topics are prioritised in the In the 2017 materiality assessment FLSmidth identified the main materiality matrix, each one has a responsible policy owner and materiality topics by aligning expectations and prioritising implementer to improve performance. This includes resources for sustainability improvements across internal and empowering leaders and those with influence in the external stakeholders. The assessment was based on input organisation to drive results. from key stakeholders, who were identified as those who impact FLSmidth’s operations, or are impacted by the business Based on a thorough understanding of FLSmidth’s customers’ activities. Material topics were chosen by engaging decision most pressing issues, specialist insights and stakeholder makers and interviewing employees, as well as a literature feedback, the aim of the sustainability program is to promote review to determine the topics important to external best practices and effectively meet the customers’ needs while stakeholders. constantly pushing the sustainability standards in the cement and minerals industries. FLSmidth initiated an extended internal stakeholder engagement agenda in 2017. The goal was to engage a broad base of internal stakeholders and identify key actors who could 19 Sustainability Report 2017 SAFETY SAFETY POLICY With the introduction of a new vision for the company, “we On group level, a group reporting tool has been established awareness among all employees. drive success through sustainable productivity enhancement”, where the country organisations upload safety incidents and the health, safety and environmental policy was updated in data monthly. This reporting forms the basis for tracking the An example of this is a very high number of recorded training 2017. This was to align the safety agenda to where the safety performance on monthly, quarterly and annual level. hours per employee. In 2017, mandatory safety shares were organisation will be heading in the future, and to ensure that Specific procedures exist for reporting of fatalities and very initiated at internal meetings as well as increased focus on safety remains the core component of FLSmidth’s sustainability severe incidents. managers doing safety walks. A “Presidents Safety Award” was program. As safety is the most important material topic for the also given to the FLSmidth location Pinkenba in Brisbane, organisation, it is seen as a precondition for achieving the Rooted in the company value competence FLSmidth has a Australia, for showing exceptional good safety performance vision. It plays a central role in how services are delivered; it is a comprehensive focus on leveraging the organisational health, and best safety practices within hazard identification and risk value proposition to customers, we compete to be best-in-class safety and environmental competence and the safety management. and it contributes to the success of the organisation. The revised policy is based on the core values of competence, cooperation and responsibility. The policy covers sub-contractors, employees and all people working under FLSmidth control in achieving zero harm. RISK FLSmidth is executing service operations at mining and throughout the value chain and that an act or an omission cement sites with potential health, safety and on the part of FLSmidth can result in the risk of complicity. environmental risks stemming from as example heavy To that extent, the following risks to the company have machinery, processes, equipment and traffic. Whether the been identified through the materiality assessment site is under construction, undergoing maintenance or in the operational phase, the key industry risk has to be controlled via rigorous standard safety procedures and best practices. Other potential safety risks are our own Impacts manufacturing locations where risks from machinery, tools, mobile equipment, material handling and internal traffic etc. Reputation ● High must be controlled. Bottom line ● Low Travel security risk related to business activities in some Morale ● Medium countries requires high focus and strict travel security procedures that all employees must follow. Share price ● Low Injuries and occupational illnesses are seen as preventable and travel risks can be managed. FLSmidth also realises that failures of proper safety protocols can occur 20 Sustainability Report 2017 SAFETY RESULTS TRAINING Overall the safety performance, measured by the development The data covers FLSmidth’s own employees, as well as Safety training is a top priority for FLSmidth. This covers training of the lost time and total recordable injury rate was unsatisfying. contractors on FLSmidth’s premises. in first aid, hazards/standards and job-specific subjects etc. The After 4 years of systematic improvement in performance, the total work hours, shown in below table, spent on safe training results in 2017 show that root causes behind accidents, INJURY FREQUENCY RATES include both employees and contractors. In 2017 FLSmidth corrective action and focus must continuously be addressed. In 2017, the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) compared employees in average used 14 hours on safety training The amount of training increased significantly in 2017, which is with the previously year (2016: 1.5) ended at 1.8 above the the result of dedication towards safe working conditions and group target 2017 at 1.3. Other safety KPIs as the Total ASSESSMENT OF RESULTS the acknowledgement that competence of our employees is a Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) also indicates that No single cause can be identified for the negative development key to achieve zero harm FLSmidth in 2017 had a stagnating Health and Safety in injury rates but more safety awareness and competence in performance. No single cause can be identified for the negative the working situation could have prevented several injuries. FUTURE EXPECTATIONS development but more safety awareness and competence in Actions targeting these challenges are among other on the The key objective for FLSmidth is to achieve zero harm for all the working situation could have prevented several injuries. agenda for 2018, including contractors working for FLSmidth in people under its control. The medium term target is 1.0 in LTIFR Actions targeting these challenges are among other on the the frequency rates. by 2020. To ensure continuously improvements a LTIFR agenda for 2018. targets is set each year on Group, Division, relevant countries It is with great regret that a sub-contractor tragically lost his life and Business Units level. in Algeria this year. Avoiding these events is priority number one for FLSmidth and only zero fatalities is acceptable. Working Specific Group target for 2018 are: at height is a specific critical safety risk and have therefore 0 fatalities been in focus for several years in FLSmidth and will continue to LTIFR <1.3 be priority number one. Besides using LTIFR as main safety KPI the use of the broader TRIFR will be implemented as KPI for part of the organisation in 2018 to ensure focus on avoiding all injuries. For 2018 a personal operative safety bonus KPI will be mandatory for relevant top managers to ensure agreement LTIFR / TRIFR TRAINING HOURS between personal objectives and the FLSmidth policy on having systems and a safety culture in place that can support the zero harm ambition. 5,0 12 300.000 Several initiatives have been taken in 2017 to get back on 4,0 10 250.000 continuously improvements and further are on the way for 2018 on how we can improve safety communication to all 8 200.000 3,0 employees. 6 150.000 2,0 4 100.000 1,0 2 50.000 0,0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 LTIFR TRIFR 21 Sustainability Report 2017 PEOPLE PEOPLE POLICY POLICY IN ACTION potential talent, Flying more Flags targets those who aspire and With an enduring aim to be an employer of choice, we FLSmidth is strives to attract, engage, develop and retain the demonstrate the potential to take on senior management recognise that attracting, developing and retaining a highly right talent. Specifically, this concerns reward concepts, positions. qualified, competent and value-based workforce is of strategic policies, and governance that strengthen our market position importance. The foundation of our success is based on the by driving individual contribution to sustainable company Following the launch of the new vision in 2017, FLSmidth is ability of our talented employees to work innovatively and success. The organisation is supported through the ongoing developing our global remuneration philosophy to support the collaboratively to meet the productivity agenda of our development of our leadership; through strengthening our vision and strategy through a set of key principles that will customers, thereby sustaining our competitive advantage. With leadership pipeline; through talent management practices that guide our future way of working with reward. The focal point of appreciation for the diversity of our workforce, we encourage help ensure the right talent in the right roles with the requisite our remuneration philosophy is to drive individual contribution employees to realise their full potential and career ambitions competence and focus, ensuring overall that the organisation is to sustainable company success through rewards that are through equal access to career, learning and development fit-for-purpose. aligned to the market. By this, we strive to enable the business opportunities. We are committed to creating a safe, flexible and to focus on driving engagement and the attraction and productive work environment that allows our employees to Sustained focus on strengthening the quality and capability of retention of the right talent. The three main building blocks of engage in a challenging career while maintaining a healthy our leaders at varying organisational levels has continued, our reward philosophy are pay for performance, market work-life balance. Accordingly, we offer market aligned building on foundational concepts and further embedding them alignment and differentiation. remuneration and ethical employment conditions that support through additional leadership development programs and human rights and recognise our employees’ right to be talent management practices. Specifically, we have continued organised and bargain collectively, while supporting human to conduct three levels of our core leadership program, rights and refusing to engage in child or forced labour. Leadership Transition Training, which was first introduced in 2014. Our leaders' capability to work with these concepts and practices has been deepened through two additional RISKS: FLSmidth has committed itself to working on gender and workshops delivered in 2017. The Accountability Accelerator Two key risks for the organisation are the ability to find diversity through its policy on the matter. workshop, tailored to the unique circumstances of intact and retain the right talent, e.g. high value, high leadership teams, has strengthened our culture of performing or high potential. Each of these risks is accountability, while making the Matrix Work helps unlock the mitigated in part through internal actions in HR, potential of leaders and specialists who work in a matrix to including the addition of a global talent acquisition maximise their contribution to performance. resource. Additionally, the career framework will provide increased transparency for career opportunity Building on the success of Flying the Flag, previously while a new digital employee platform will provide conducted for top leaders, three sessions of Flying more Flags better visibility into our workforce. Refined variable pay have been delivered in 2017, and the program will continue into plans will support retention of talent through relevant 2018. Designed to strengthen our leadership pipeline with high incentives. 22 Sustainability Report 2017 PEOPLE ASSESSMENT OF RESULTS Additionally, this position will heighten focus on our gender To drive simplicity and equal pay opportunity, a group The results cover 100% of employees. diversity, a target that is monitored for composition of executive Compensation and Benefits Model has been developed, which management, the percentage of females in the workforce and outlines the pay mix between different pay elements The personal development review completion rate indicates in management. segmented by the various position levels in our job role that 90% of employees are in dialogue with their managers infrastructure. The model is used as the foundation for about their performance on assignments and competencies, Furthermore, we will release a new career framework including harmonising terms throughout the organisation while allowing and about their development and career ambition on an annual core competencies and leadership principles as part of a the necessary differentiation across positions and countries to basis. We encourage ongoing dialogue and check-ins modern digital employee platform. In combination this will secure market alignment. throughout the year. The training programs listed are focused provide greater transparency into our workforce through on strengthening the quality of our leadership and our pipeline aligned and visible talent management and reward To further ensure relevant focus on business results and and target eligible managers across divisions, countries and functionalities as well as increased access to workforce sustainable long-term decisions, we have two different variable functions. The quality of each program is evaluated, with analytics that will enable our leaders to make informed, high pay elements in the global Compensation Model, one being a feedback obtained used to strengthen the development quality decisions. Supported by the latest digitalized employee long-term incentive programme and the other, short-term experience of attendees. Impact of training is assessed through management technology these initiatives will help make incentive programmes. pre and post assessments. development and career opportunities more transparent and accessible throughout the organisation, thereby supporting the Results are reported to the Executive Vice-President of Human As the proportion of managers trained increases, the fewer attraction, development and retention of requisite talent in a Resources, who is a member of executive management and there are to train going forward. This means that the target for global context. ensures that performance is properly assessed and managed 2018 is lower, yet the coverage will be higher. FUTURE EXPECTATIONS 2018 promises to build on our capability to attract, engage, develop and retain talent through several key initiatives. With recognition for the extent to which our having the right people with the right competences in the right roles ensures our high performance and sharpens our competitive advantage, we will add a new role of head of global talent acquisition to the team. This position will further shape our global talent acquisition strategy and employer brand, ensuring we source and attract the best talent for our organisation, with dual focus on our internal workforce and the external labour market. 2018 Target 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Number of employees having undergone corporate development programs 353 541 376 702 Percentage of employees receiving performance and career development reviews 92% 90% 86% 85% Percent women total 14.5% 13.5% 14% 13% 14% 14% Percent women managers 11.5% 10.5% 10.7% 10.0% 23 Sustainability Report 2017 COMPLIANCE COMPLIANCE POLICY program. In addition, a company-wide assessment of human and 2017, approximately 95% of all white-collar employees FLSmidth has implemented various policies to ensure rights risks, including business partners, is currently being were trained in the Code of Business Conduct in-person, and compliance with key international anti-corruption legislation. conducted. training of key employees in export control procedures is onThe Code of Business Conduct is the primary policy in this area going. The training of new employees is now in focus; keeping and each employee has received a guidebook explaining the At a Group level, compliance consists of setting direction and awareness about compliance high with existing employees. For Code of Business Conduct in simplified yet accurate language. providing the business with appropriate tools. A team of 13 example, a short animation outlining single elements of the Regional Compliance Representatives, all company lawyers Code of Business Conduct is being developed, e.g. the gift Compliance in FLSmidth focuses on four core areas of trained in key compliance skills, are responsible for policy or the policy about facilitation payments. operation: anti-corruption, export control, human rights and implementation in their region of the world. In 2017 a group of competition law. Policies have been established for each topic, key Finance and HR managers were identified and trained to The major focus area is the third party due diligence processes. with the exception of human rights, which will be a separate be responsible for investigating relevant whistle-blower cases All business partners have been screened in trade sanctions for policy in 2018. Most recently, FLSmidth published a Modern in their fields of work in certain regions of the world. Training many years, and in 2015 a new due diligence programme was Day Slavery Act statement in 2017. Moreover, detailed continues to be one of the top priorities. The preferred way of launched. The programme includes a database of third parties guidelines have been introduced on other specific areas of training employees is through in-person training. Between 2015 operating with FLSmidth, focusing on those acting as interest, such as whistleblowing and conflict of interest. POLICY IN ACTION The key compliance-related activities of FLSmidth are organised roughly according to the six elements of the UK Bribery Act’s Guidance document: risk assessment; policies and RISK organisation (proportionate procedures); top-level commitment; Working in the cement and mining industries implies Impacts due diligence; communication; and training, monitoring and operating in countries with compliance-related risks. In review. particular, avoiding fraud, bribery, corruption, violation of Reputation ● High trade sanctions, and conflict of interests is high on the FLSmidth’s approach to compliance is essentially risk-based. agenda. Thus, there is constant monitoring of the business Bottom line ● Medium This means that assessments of the compliance-related risks and implementing mitigating actions to reduce such risks. faced as a company are conducted on a regular basis; adjusting Morale ● High FLSmidth realises that failures of compliance can occur focus and resources accordingly. In 2016, a company-wide throughout the value chain and that an act or an omission survey was conducted with a representative sample of Share price ● High on the part of FLSmidth can result in the risk of complicity. employees from all over the world. In 2017, the focus and To that extent, the following risks to the company have resources based on learnings from the survey adjusted the identified through the materiality assessment: 24 Sustainability Report 2017 COMPLIANCE intermediaries. Almost 100% of sales agents working with protects reporters against retaliation. The investigation is achievements have been accomplished in terms of conducting FLSmidth have gone through a rigorous due diligence guided by an internal Investigation Manual by colleagues in-person training of more than 90% of our employees and screening and approval procedure. So far, more than 400 inproperly trained in conducting internal investigation. screening more than 400 third parties. In addition, the internal depth due diligence screenings have been conducted in-house. set-up for dealing with internal investigations and whistleThis year, the focus was expanded to include select customers, The FLSmidth Board of Directors and Executive Management blower hotline allegations has been strengthened, broadening suppliers and other types of third parties as well. The screening are highly engaged in the compliance programme and have the scope of employees trained in conducting internal covers trade sanctions, corruption issues, human rights shown a high level of commitment. In 2017, their direct investigations and raising the general awareness of procedures violations, environmental issues, litigation cases, adverse involvement was expanded, as well as the level of reporting. in this regard. media, basic company registration documentation, and much Group Compliance reports on a regular basis to the Audit more. Committee, the Board of Directors and the Group CEO. FUTURE EXPECTATIONS In 2018, direct reporting will also be established to the In 2017 the whistle-blower hotline was re-launched, which is a RESULTS Executive Management team. The Group CEO continues to tool for employees to report concerns in a confidential manner. See table below. The data covers all operations. personally deliver the key message of compliance on a regular The re-launch, which involved a communications campaign and basis. a strengthening of capabilities for internal investigations, ASSESSMENT OF RESULTS resulted in an increase in the number of reports submitted, and FLSmidth has established a solid compliance set-up in terms of Due diligence screenings of customers and other business that more people chose to use the formal hotline rather than policy and organisation and has a highly committed Executive partners will be conducted more systematically to address the through emails or similar channels. The whistle-blower policy Management team and Board of Directors. Some outstanding issues uncovered in this process. 2018 Target 2017 2016 2015 2014 Total number of whistle-blower reports submitted 51 25 35 19 …of which admissible, i.e. reports that were in scope with the whistle-blower hotline program 48 23 34 19 …of which in: Africa and Middle East 10 6 12 5 Asia and Oceania 9 10 3 6 Europe and former Soviet Union 8 1 7 1 North America 6 3 4 1 South America 18 5 9 6 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption. 30 29 22 21 Total number and percentage of governance body members that the organisation's anti-corruption policies and procedures have been 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% communicated to, broken down by region Total number and percentage of employees that the organisation's anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% down by employee category and region Total number and percentage of governance body members that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by region. 9 / 100% 8 / 89% ? / 0% ? / 0% N/A Total number and percentage of in-person training for white-collar employees that have received training on anti-corruption 8,823 / 95% 8,173 / 88% 7,414 / 81% 6,922 / 75% 652 / 7% …of which managers or senior managers 1,551 1,361 1,303 1,247 172 …of which executive management team 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Number of legal actions pending or completed during the reporting period regarding anti-competitive behaviour and violations of anti-trust and 1 1 1 1 monopoly legislation in which the organisation has been identified as a participant. Numbers of in-depth due diligence screenings conducted 430 398 226 55 14 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 0 2 3 1 25 Sustainability Report 2017 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT POLICY The Health, Safety and Environment Policy is a commitment to The transparency of environmental impact reporting within the In 2017, internal reporting frequency was increased from once a minimise environmental impacts, while mitigating climate Group has increased significantly. The measurement of year to being included in the quarterly management report to change. This means not only complying with legal and other environmental impacts has been anchored in the company by the board of directors and executive management. It is also obligations, but also preventing pollution and utilising resources assigning a responsible person for the environment in each addressed in the quarterly sustainability board meetings. The in a sustainable manner. location. All locations that are within the financial control executive management member who is appointed as the boundary in the Group are responsible for reporting Chairman of Safety & Quality has now been designated as the POLICY IN ACTION environmental impacts. In 2017, three KPIs were followed on Chairman of Safety, Quality & Environment. Being able to manage environmental impacts plays a central the Group level: CO2 emissions, energy consumption and fresh role in FLSmidth’s value of Responsibility. As such, a group water use. In 2017 the data collection from the previous wide management system in Quality, Health, Safety and reporting tool was moved to a customised SharePoint Environment was implemented in 2017 in order to periodically application operated by the environmental team. The change review and improve certified quality health, safety and has given a more active awareness of the environmental data environmental performance. entered, as environmental trained people continuously evaluate the coverage and quality of the data. The strategy for environmental certification is to have a common global management process covering 25 locations in 2017. The external audits have been concluded and the results are positive; the certification body has recommended certification for environment in these locations. RISK This new approach aiming for common multisite certification Climate change risks include regulatory exposure to Impacts covering the Group will secure consistency for auditing, emission compliance schemes, carbon taxation, reputation reporting and alignment of processes. It enables improved considerations. FLSmidth realises that significant Reputation ● High environmental performance on Group level e.g. by horizontal environmental impacts occur throughout the value chain deployment of any non-conformities. There will also be benefits Bottom line ● Medium and that an act or an omission on the part of FLSmidth can resulting from the sharing of good practices across the Group. result in the risk of complicity. To that extent, the following Morale ● Medium risks to the company have identified through the materiality assessment: Share price ● High 26 Sustainability Report 2017 ENVIRONMENT RESULTS Water and energy were measured for the first time in 2017. The stakeholders related to environment related to the ISO The data presented covers 97 % of the entities with respect to These figures will be used as benchmarks for improving 14001:2015 certification have been identifies and it is expected COGS (Cost of Goods Sold). performance going forward. to improve the understanding of their needs and expectations in 2018. Emission conversion factors are derived from DEFRA 2016. ASSESSMENT OF RESULTS In 2017, the total recorded CO2 emission increased from 44,195 In the Sustainability Report from 2016, it was anticipated to Scope 1: 27,236 tonnes CO2 to 64,267 tons. This significant increase is partially due to enrol 28 entities in the multisite certification program. This was Emissions from primary fuels, refrigerants & other gases. Data the change in data collection, verification and reporting method reduced to 25 due to closure of sites. are from invoices or meter readings. used, which has improved its quality and reliability. However, there has also been an increase in scope 1 emissions. This year, FLSmidth will commit itself to reducing 10% of its carbon and Scope 2: 37,031 tonnes CO2 Operation and Maintenance sites and project locations have water footprint by 2023. Emissions from purchased electricity, heat and steam. Data are been included in the environmental KPI reporting for the first from invoices or meter readings. time. These sites will typically use fuels for electricity generation and company operated vehicles, thus mainly Scope 3: 33,268 tonnes CO2 affecting scope 1. Also for the first time refrigerants & other For 2017, this includes business air travel and coverage is 70% gases are part of the scope 1 reporting. Some sites have increased number of shifts resulting in increased emission. CO2 intensity (Scope 1 &2/Revenue): 3.57 tonnes CO2/ DKKm FUTURE EXPECTATIONS 2017 Looking at the environmental impacts from business activities in Fresh water use (m3) 241,651 a life cycle perspective, it is evident that the main impact is Energy used (MWh) 202,464 connected to the use of our products and services and from supply chain and logistics. Therefore the focus will be on getting more insight into how to include these impacts in environmental performance reporting. Transparency is paramount, and for this reason our aim is to CARBON FOOTPRINT 2017 improve the understanding of the environmental impacts from our products and services in a Life Cycle Perspective. This leads to an investigation of scope 3 Emissions as defined by greenhouse gas Protocol. This is the first step towards 28% documenting the significant improvements already done in 34% reducing the impact from products and services. A reporting system to include logistics in our quarterly CO2 reporting will be effective from Q1 2018. 38% Direct emissions from fossil fuels (Scope 1, in tons) Indirect emissions from electricity (Scope 2, in tons) Other indirect emissions (Scope 3, in tons) 27 Sustainability Report 2017 SUPPLY CHAIN SUPPLY CHAIN POLICY Approximately 100 inspectors have been trained, enabling In 2017, the programme results were included in the Group In order to build strong business ties and long-standing them to rapidly assess suppliers during visits. On average, an sustainability dashboard, which is published quarterly in the relationships, FLSmidth expects suppliers to hold an equally inspector visits one to two suppliers a week, who are deemed Management Report and sent to members of executive high regard for responsible business conduct. Crucial to this is important to FLSmidth but where risk of poor quality of the final management and the board of directors. The dashboard is also the Code of Supplier Conduct, which clarifies expectations product delivered to customers is relatively high. These a central focus on the quarterly meeting with the sustainability towards suppliers. Group Procurement is responsible for the suppliers are therefore important to FLSmidth from a board. policy, which has been in place since 2012. The main points of sustainability perspective. Assessment results are stored in a this Code of Suppliers Conduct are: central database, providing Group Procurement with an overview of the state of the supply chain and an indication of ■ Legal compliance – the supplier is expected to be in legal which suppliers are eligible for a supplier development compliance with all applicable laws in all jurisdictions in which program. they operate ■ Health & Safety– the supplier is expected to provide a safe Using a specially developed tablet app, inspectors assess and healthy working environment for all employees suppliers’ performance based on the following criteria using ■ Basic Human rights a 1-5 scale: ■ Environment – the supplier is expected to meet all applicable environmental laws, industry standards and norms ■ Safety system ■ Work-related accidents FLSmidth currently does not have a policy that covers ■ PPE increasing the amount of spend in local markets. ■ First aid ■ Temporary workers RISKS Personal ID papers Supply chain sustainability risks include losing a stable POLICY IN ACTION ■ Minimum age records position on the market due to impact of customers, loss All suppliers, defined as organisations that FLSmidth buys from, ■ Environmental policy of reputation, damaged public image, legal action and are now obliged to sign the Code of Supplier Conduct, which is ■ Environmental procedures compromising compliance, business ethics and values. aligned with the four main focus areas of the UN Global ■ It especially includes the risk that lack of due diligence Compacts. In the case of the Supplier not agreeing to the The data gathered is then transferred to an FLSmidth database would result in harm to human health when outsourcing Supplier Code of Conduct, FLSmidth does not cooperate with and suppliers are given an overall score. If non-compliance is activities, as well as increased environmental impact. this Supplier. revealed during a routine inspection, it will be noted and These risks are mitigated by centralising all on-site audit uploaded to the database for review. information in Group Strategic Procurement, who can Moreover, FLSmidth is preparing for the ISO 14001 Certification act upon the areas that require special attention. that will raise awareness to our behaviour and facilitate FLSmidth’s decision making. This will also create the possibility Risks related to supply chain complicity are taken to work with vendors in developing solutions with an seriously, with each specific material sustainability risk environmental focus, to track whether FLSmidth’s behaviour addressed in its own chapter in this report. has an impact on 3rd parties environmental impact. 28 Sustainability Report 2017 SUPPLY CHAIN Areas that present the highest social and environmental risk will RESULTS be identified. Auditors have been trained to identify and assist Suppliers Audited suppliers in continuously improvement in these critical areas. A 40 more structured approach to increase awareness in the 35 organisation and proactively use supplier feedback and assessment is planned to strengthen this function further in the 30 coming year. As a new supplier relationship management 25 program will be launched in 2018, sustainability criteria will be 20 incorporated into it. It is also expected that a supplier portal will 15 be launch, which will include the option for suppliers to self10 assess their sustainability performance. 5 0 In 2018, it is expected that the following indicators will be Jan Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec measured in Q3: New suppliers that are screened using environmental and social criteria, negative social and Great Good Acceptable Poor environmental impacts in the supply chain and the actions taken. The data covers all external suppliers. outsourced do not compromise FLSmidth’s value of responsibility. ASESSMENT OF RESULTS The percentage of spend on local suppliers is considered In Q3 2016, the procurement function underwent a large reappropriate for maintaining market competitiveness and the organisation globally, which lead to a disruption of sustainability proper functioning of the company auditing at suppliers’ sites. The new organisation has been implemented and the audits are getting back on track. So far no FUTURE EXPECTATIONS suppliers have received a score under 50%. It is very Local spend is dependent on market developments and will encouraging that the suppliers selected comply with the vary over time and there will be a continued focus on hiring minimum standards set in the Supplier Code of Conduct. locally. Therefore no supplier relationships have been terminated as a result of the program. As there are still some suppliers that The sustainable procurement program will undergo a review scored below “Good”, they will require additional development. process in 2018 to ensure the most comprehensive level of risk These suppliers have been clearly identified, and improvement mitigation is being employed. programs have been built and are being implemented. The CSR audits are seen as critical to ensure that the activities 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 57% 61% Number of suppliers screened for social and environmental 113 161 performance % suppliers screened for social and environmental performance from 6% total spend 29 Sustainability Report 2017 HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY Building on these commitments, the creation of a consolidated POLICY IN ACTION Respect for international human rights is enshrined in several human rights policy for the Group is being planned. To Human rights due diligence in FLSmidth is undertaken in FLSmidth policies including the human resources and health adequately incorporate the views and concerns of rightsaccordance with the United Nations Framework on Business and safety policies. The Supplier Code of Conduct addresses holders, this document will be based on a process of research and Human Rights and its Guiding Principles for human rights concerns as they relate to actors in the supply and internal as well as external consultation which was initiated implementation. chain and the Business Code of Conduct sets out our standards in 2017 and planned to continue in 2018. The aim is to finalise a for corporate integrity, anti-corruption and transparency. standalone human rights policy in 2018 that will take guidance Where adverse human rights violations are found, they are FLSmidth is also a member of the United Nations Global from the United Nations Guiding Principles for Business and addressed according to their irremediability, severity, scope Compact, and has been since 2008. Human Rights in terms of both the drafting and implementation and scale. Several impact assessments are planned for 2018, of this policy. which will enable greater clarity as to the business’ current and potential impacts on the enjoyment of human rights where FLSmidth operates. RISK The industries to which FLSmidth provide engineering, Impacts technology and services constitute high-risk sectors. The sites in which mining customers operate are Reputation ● High determined on the basis of available mineral reserves and may at times be situated near local communities, near Bottom line ● Low other industry which may compound their impact or in areas experiencing environmental strain or with rich Morale ● High biodiversity. This dynamic is also present in the cement industry, where plants are located near quarries and Share price ● Medium generate emissions, regardless of location. Group Compliance has in 2017 initiated a review process where risks to human rights and the environment posed by customer relationships are examined. We plan to continue to monitor these risks in 2018. 30 Sustainability Report 2017 HUMAN RIGHTS RESULTS FUTURE EXPECTATIONS The human rights due diligence planned for 2018 will also seek Initial scoping has been concluded and a baseline compliance In 2018, the expectation is to complete a human rights to establish greater clarity around implementing responsibility assessment of global human rights risks has been initiated. compliance assessment across six functional areas of the for human rights within the business. Where issues are of a business: management, human resources, workplace health cross-cutting nature (whether thematically or geographically), The target in 2018 is to develop framework for measuring and safety, suppliers and contractors, community impacts, and the current organisational structure may not always be clear on progress. security arrangements. An adapted Human Rights Compliance the roles and responsibilities within the business. The aim is to Assessment tool that has been developed by the Danish work towards achieving greater clarity on the responsibility for ASSESSMENT OF RESULTS Institute for Human Rights will be employed. This will cover the remediation of impacts in 2018. In 2017, FLSmidth expanded its approach to human rights due structure and workings of the FLSmidth group, and aims to use diligence within the organisation. assessment results to create indicators specific to the business. In 2018, it is expected that the following indicators will be These indicators will be used as a benchmark for current measured: To initiate this work, a scoping assessment of human rights performance and to monitor progress. To create necessary ■ Employee training on human rights policies or procedures impacts within the organisation was carried out, consisting of awareness internal in the company, FLSmidth is expecting to ■ Significant investment agreements and contracts that include desk based research and interviews across all business start training employees on Human Rights policies and rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening. functions and regions of operation. procedures. Internal as well as external rights-holders to the business will be In 2018, a human rights impact assessment of several key considered key stakeholders during this process and the projects will be carried out for operational sites within the process will inform the drafting of a human rights policy at the business. The specific locations chosen for review will be end of 2018. selected based on the criteria outlined. 31 Sustainability Report 2017 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR SUMMARY KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR SUMMARY Material Topic Target 2018 2017 2016 SAFETY Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) <1.3 1.8 1.5 Total Recorded Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) N/A 4.2 4 Total training hours N/A 258,036 186,715 PEOPLE Number of employees having undergone corporate development programs 353 541 376 Percent of employees receiving performance and career development reviews 92% 90% 86% Percent women total 14.5% 13.5% 14.0% Percent women managers 11.5% 10.5% 10.7% COMPLIANCE Total number of whistle-blower reports submitted N/A 51 25 …of which admissible, i.e. reports that were in scope with the whistle-blower hotline program N/A 48 23 …of which in: Africa and Middle East 10 6 Asia and Oceania 9 10 Europe and former Soviet Union 8 1 North America 6 3 South America 18 5 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption. N/A 30 29 Total number and percentage of governance body members that the organisation's anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by region 100% 1 1 Total number and percentage of employees that the organisation's anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by employee category and 100% 1 1 region Total number and percentage of governance body members that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by region. 9 / 100% 8 / 89% ? / 0% Total number and percentage of in-person training for white-collar employees that have received training on anti-corruption 8,823 / 95% 8,173 / 88% 7,414 / 81% …of which managers or senior managers 1,551 1,361 1,303 …of which executive management team 100% 100% 100% Number of legal actions pending or completed during the reporting period regarding anti-competitive behaviour and violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation in which the N/A 100% 100% organisation has been identified as a participant. Numbers of in-depth due diligence screenings conducted 430 398 226 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken N/A 0 2 32 Sustainability Report 2017 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR SUMMARY KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR SUMMARY Material Topic Target 2018 2017 2016 ENVIRONMENT Direct emissions from fossil fuels (Scope 1, in tonnes)* 26,691 27,236 11,347 Indirect emissions from electricity (Scope 2, in tonnes)* 36,290 37,031 32,848 Other indirect emissions (Scope 3, in tonnes)* N/A 33,268 N/A Carbon emissions intensity, Scope 1 & 2 / Revenue (in tonnes/DKKm)* N/A 3.57 2.43 Fresh water use (m3) 236,818 241,651 N/A Energy used (MWh) N/A 202,464 N/A SUPPLY CHAIN Proportion of spending on local suppliers N/A 57% 61% Number of suppliers screened for social and environmental performance N/A 113 161 % suppliers screened for social and environmental performance from total spend N/A 6% * Calculation methodology adjusted, see pg. 27 for details 33 Sustainability Report 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT TABLE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT TABLE Principle Page Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 22, 30 & 31 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 30 & 31 Freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 22 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 22 The effective abolition of child labour 22 The elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation 22 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8 Undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility 11, 12, 13, 14, 26, 27 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12, 13, 16 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 12, 24, 25 34 Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 1 January 31 December 2017 FLSmidth & Co. A/S Vigerslev Allé 77 DK-2500 Valby Denmark Tel.: +45 36 18 18 00 Fax: +45 36 44 11 46 corppr@ﬂsmidth.com www.ﬂsmidth.com CVR No. 58180912
