SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Contents A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO 7 00—SERGIO ROSSI IN 2017: THE MAIN HIGHLIGHTS 9 01—srREVOLUTION 10 1.1 SERGIO ROSSI AT A GLANCE 10 1.2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 18 1.3 STAKEHOLDERS AND MATERIAL ASPECTS 21 02—A CONSTANTLY INNOVATIVE DESIGN 27 2.1 sr1 29 2.2 DIGITALIZING OUR IDENTITY 34 2.3 CREATING A NEW CLIENT EXPERIENCE 39 03—PRESERVING THE VALUE OF OUR PEOPLE 42 3.1 INVESTING IN THE ARTISANS OF TOMORROW 42 3.2 PROMOTING A BETTER WORKING LIFE 50 04—IMPROVING OUR SHOEMAKING 54 4.1 EXPORTING OUR ARTISANAL MAESTRIA 54 4.2 REDUCING THE FOOTPRINT OF OUR SHOES 62 05—METHODOLOGICAL NOTE 66 5.1 GRI CONTENT INDEX 70 5 A message The world of art is not a from our CEO world of immortality but of Sustainability is a pillar in the growth strategy of Sergio Rossi. Combining business development with the need to adopt metamorphosis sustainable policies in environmental and social issues is the challenge of our future, and it is the only way to achieve important results. It is necessary to take care of our planet, Andrè Malraux to collaborate for the benefit of our employees, suppliers and customers and to safeguard our heritage for a healthy growth in the future. At Sergio Rossi significant progress has been made over the years in terms of sustainability, but we will continue to improve ourselves in order to achieve the highest environmental and social standards by becoming conscious and active players in a path of sustainable growth within the fashion industry. We have renewed our membership to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and this Report represents our second Communication on Progress in terms of sustainability performance. As such, this publication highlights our commitment towards contributing at reaching the Principles set by the UNGC . In 2017 it is inadmissible to tackle the issue of sustainability lightly. For us, our children and our future, it is essential to continue investing in research to ensure the protection of our planet. RICCARDO SCIUTTO CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 6 7 Sergio Rossi in 2017: the main highlights OUR PEOPLE OUR IN ITALY SUPPLIERS 290 EMPLOYEES OF WHICH 159 ARTISANS AND 100% OF OUR RAW MATERIAL AND COMPONENT TECHNICIANS SUPPLIERS ARE ITALIAN 33.4% OF RAW MATERIAL AND EXTERNAL 96% EMPLOYEES WITH PERMANENT CONTRACT PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES ARE LOCALLY-SOURCED ENVIRONMENT THE ARCHIVE GHG EMISSIONS (tCO2e): 1,769.7 MORE THAN 4,000 PAIRS COLLECTED IN THE ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (kWh): LAST 2 YEARS ALONE CONSIDERING OLD 3,399,480.6 – (GJ) 12,238.1 COLLECTIONS AND VINTAGE SERGIO ROSSI ENERGY CONSUMPTION (kWh): SHOES 5,221,858.33 – (GJ) 18,798.7 2,052 GJ 3,500 SQM OF 570,003.7 kWh PHOTOVOLTAIC PANELS INSTALLED 11% OF OUR OVERALL ENERGY CONSUMPTION IS MET BY SELF-PRODUCED RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY 8 9 01. srREVOLUTION 1.1 SERGIO ROSSI AT A GLANCE Sergio Rossi S.p.A. is an Italian company active in the design, Whilst showroom and managerial offices are based in Milan production, distribution and sale of leather shoes and leather [102-3], the fulcrum and the pulsing heart of our production accessories for women through its brand Sergio Rossi [102-1; activity is the San Mauro Pascoli factory [102-4], where over 102-2]. Since its creation, our brand has become a primary 140 skillful artisans have been hand-creating Sergio Rossi reference in the luxury shoemaking sector and is renowned shoes for the past 50 years. The Sergio Rossi factory is the worldwide for its artisanship and for creating iconic heart and soul of the brand, a place “where magic and reality models. In the past 50 years, the Company has fostered its come together to create handmade shoes for the women of distinctiveness by enhancing the quality of its materials, the today”. The plant, inaugurated in 2003, is equipped to sketch, craftsmanship and elegance of its products and its luxury design, develop, industrialize, and produce all types of allure, which remain the foundations of Sergio Rossi’s unique women’s luxury footwear, from flat styles to high heels. These style. In the same vein, the Sergio Rossi brand has become features enable us to oversee and implement all the shoes synonym of timeless quality and utmost sophistication and production phases in a completely autonomous fashion, over the decades our shoes have accompanied countless which is crucial when it comes to guarantee the highest female leaders and celebrities in their daily life, from quality and artisanship to our devoted customers. The San the sidewalk to the red carpet, enabling them to remain Mauro plant currently employs 219 of our 294 people (290 in effortlessly chic all day long. Italy and 4 in France) and relies on more than 12,400 square meters for production and offices, plus around 3,570 square meters for the logistic hub of finished products. 10 11 We distribute our products in 14 countries, considering directly OUR ECOMOMIC M. U. 2016 ITALY 2017 ITALY 2017 ITALY AND operated stores (DOS) and stores in franchising, divided into PERFORMANCE RETAIL NETWORK 4 main geographical markets: Europe and the Middle East (EMEA), Asia Pacific (APAC), Japan and the United States. We DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED: REVENUES € 44,315,810 42,384,026 55,979,150 own 45 retail point of sales (36 stores and 9 outlets) scattered among these 4 regions, as well as 10 franchising stores in ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED € 48,667,920 46,050,289 61,469,990 the EMEA and APAC regions. Furthermore, we sell products through our online e-commerce channel, by shipping to 82 –– OPERATING COSTS € 32,738,156 28,552,321 41,487,844 countries worldwide [102-6]. –– EMPLOYEE WAGES AND BENEFITS € 15,681,374 17,073,579 19,549,957 The last few years have been a period of profound reorganization of our corporate structure and business, –– PAYMENTS TO PROVIDERS OF CAPITAL € 70,587 214,668 214,668 a factor that has directly influenced our economic performance. In fact, our direct economic value generated, a –– PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENT € 166,803 179,600 187,400 figure comprising our annual revenues calculated as net sales plus revenues from financial investments and sales of assets, –– COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS € 11,000 30,121 30,121 minus the variation in raw material stocks, has decreased in Italy by 4.4%, from €44.32M in 2016 to €42.38M in 2017. This is ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED € -4,352,110 -3,666,263 -5,490,840 mainly related to a review in the allocation of inter-company service costs between the holding Sergio Rossi S.p.A. and the EMEA Retail Network companies, implying a null effect at a consolidated level. Indeed, by taking into account also the EMEA Retail Network in 2017 we have reached an overall economic value generated equal to €55.98M [102-7; 201-1]. Our economic value distributed has decreased by 5.4% from €48.67M in 2016 to €46.05 in 2017, mainly because of cuts in operating costs. On the other hand, employee wages and benefits have increased due to our willingness to keep strengthening our organization by hiring new talents. The same applies to community investments, which have increased in demonstration of our desire to contribute to local development. The economic value retained, calculated as the difference between the direct economic value generated and the economic value distributed, has slightly increased since 2016 (if we take into account Italy only) and actually coincides with a negative €3.67M at the closure of the 2017 financial year. DISTRIBUTION NETWORK • 45 DOS WORLDWIDE • 10 FRANCHISEES’ MONOBRAND STORES AND CORNERS • 82 COUNTRIES SERVED THROUGH E-COMMERCE 12 13 THINK HERITAGE Concerning logistics, in 2017 we completed the carve out of PLAY DIGITAL logistics control activities, which were formerly conducted by a third company, and developed a comprehensive IT monitoring infrastructure. Today, all our logistic hubs have Tokyo returned under the complete governance of the Sergio AMER Stores Regional HQ Rossi headquarter and are fully integrated with our IT system. In particular, we have harmonized all of our logistics Japanese Stores New York management software at a global scale, enabling us to better Regional HQ manage working capital, product allocation and transports. Shanghai Regional HQ Milan Evidently, we have started implementing a series of actions HQ Tokyo aimed at ameliorating our cybersecurity profile. A business Chinese Stores continuity plan has been put in place, i.e. a series of processes San Mauro Pascoli related to the prevention of potential cyber threats such Factory as data thefts and to information recovery. Indeed, as a Singapore Hong Kong Regional HQ recovery measure, we now rely on a server farm managed by a trusted third party, which provides us data storage and EMEA Stores back-up services. Hong Kong Stores Fully integrated with our corporate digitalization strategy, we have decided to channel the uniqueness of our brand heritage EMEA APAC via a new digital identity with a series of interventions, which AMER Trento Rome Datacenter Datacenter (Disaster Recovery) will be described in the next chapters. WW DOMAIN SERGIO ROSSI APAC JAPAN USA EMEA 14% 14% 7% 65 % In line with the motto introduced by our CEO, “Think heritage, EMEA EMEA APAC JAPAN AMERICA play digital”, as an effort to merge tradition and modernity, EXTRA-UE UE in 2017 we started the implementation of a brand new corporate digitalization strategy, which aims at progressively enhancing our online presence, while streamlining our SAN MAURO internal processes and reducing our environmental impact. FCA / EXW * PASCOLI FCA / EXW * Such strategy, which involves all the main business functions in a cross-departmental fashion, will contribute to discovering Hong Kong Baraki Ichikawa Hasbrouck and exploiting new synergies between them while making Heights (NJ) their functions more effective. Albeit begun in 2017, our multichannel retail digitalization strategy entails a series of actions already on track but continuing in the upcoming years and RTL HK RTL CHINA WHSA PAC RTL JP WHS JP RTL USA WHS USA WHS EMEA RTLE MEA WHS EMEA has been conceived with the aim of making it as flexible as possible, in order to dynamically respond to market and * Transport charged to the recipient stakeholder requests. In particular, the first action of the strategy has been that of WW LOGISTIC NETWORK completely internalizing the management of IT processes on a global scale. As such, we have now the full control of the entire IT hardware and software infrastructure needed to perform our activities both at a corporate and store level. This will enable us to benefit from a substantial cost reduction and to streamline our operations in a more harmonious manner. Moreover, our Finance function can now count on a new ERP software, which will allow us to manage all the worldwide financial accounting activities from a single platform. 14 15 THE TIMELINE LEADING TO OUR CORPORATE NEW DEAL Immediately after the end of World War II, the young Sergio Once completing his studies, he moves to Bologna and starts Rossi, native of the San Mauro area, starts learning how to selling his first sandals, helped by Franco and driven by his make shoes from his father, an artisan shoemaker, whom he passion for modern shapes. The Opanca sandal, which accompanies in his daily working activities. When Sergio is embodies Sergio’s disruptive creativity, is such a success that only 14, his father dies. Unabated, Sergio carries on his father’s in 1966 Sergio opens his own company, together with his job to support his mother and his younger brother, Franco. His brother, who will then become the Company’s Production young age notwithstanding, Sergio already masters a wide Director and maintain this role for his entire life. range of artisanal skills, which he then perfects by studying fashion design in Milan. 1970s 1980s-90s 2000-15 2015 17 Sergio starts joining the Milanese fashion community and The Company starts its expansion age, by opening its first In 2005 the Company is fully acquired by the Kering Group, Investindustrial indirectly acquires 100% of Sergio Rossi S.p.A. soon becomes the point of reference of the most renowned monobrand boutique in Ancona, soon followed by Turin, new owner of Gucci. While the San Mauro Pascoli factory and The acquisition sets the beginning of a new relaunch phase for fashion stylists, such as Gianni Versace, with whom he starts Florence, Rome, Brussels, New York, Los Angeles, and London. the brand philosophy are completely refurbished, a series of the brand, focusing on innovation in line with traditional codes. a collaboration by providing his shoes for catwalk shows. It is also a period of intense collaboration with some of the well-known and very talented designers join the company as In 2016, Sergio Rossi S.p.A. completed its fusion with Sergio Swiftly, Sergio Rossi becomes a renowned brand in Italy’s most iconic fashion houses at the international level, since its creative directors. Rossi Manufacturing S.r.l., involved in all the shoe production fashion capital and the public recognizes it as a synonym of Sergio Rossi produces shoes for the collections of haute activities, while the company starts a comprehensive Made in Italy excellence. couture brands like Dolce & Gabbana and Azzedine Alaïa. transformation of its brand and image. Sergio Rossi’s philosophy and values become more defined: women are a symbol of femininity and forcefulness, given their progressive emancipation and change of status. The shoe, instead, represents a continuation of the woman’s body, a vital element of her character, and heels and shapes become an emblem of taste. Following three decades of continuous economic growth, in 1999 the Gucci Group acquires the Sergio Rossi brand. 16 17 The values of the Sergio Rossi Group “We are true to our brand and committed to protect and develop it”, Riccardo Sciutto, Sergio Rossi CEO. The Group is committed to the highest ethical standards: Integrity Heart of the Group’s Code of Conduct. We act with Integrity when doing business and in our working environment. Ethical behavior, accountability and moral responsibility are necessary tools for maintaining SERGIO ROSSI PLANT consistency between one's actions and Company's principles in order to put Sergio Rossi's interest first and to contribute to the well-being of the working environment. 1.2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE STRUCTURE Respect Since December 2015, Sergio Rossi S.p.A. is 100% controlled Our governance structure is based on a Board of Directors, by Absolute Luxury Holding S.r.l., which is indirectly owned comprising seven members, which is entrusted with all Interact with people by using a fair, professional and by a fund managed by Investindustrial. Prior to that, the the powers to ensure the ordinary and extraordinary polite approach due in any respectful interaction between Company was controlled by the primary international multimanagement of the Company and a Board of Statutory individuals. brand Kering Group, which had acquired it from Mr. Sergio Auditors, comprising three standing statutory auditors and Rossi in 1999 [102-10]. two substitute statutory auditors. An independent auditing In addition, the newly-formed Sergio Rossi S.p.A. entirely controls a series of affiliates and commercial branches firm has also been appointed [102-18]. Responsibility located abroad, namely in the United States, the United The Board of Directors reflects our new ownership structure, To be accountable when doing business, to perform Kingdom, France, Japan, Hong Kong and China [102-5] [102since, following the 2015 acquisition, 6 out of 7 members satisfactorily and fulfill obligations in accordance with the 45]. formally or informally represent Investindustrial in the definition of the corporate strategy and governance. Board Company’s values. members have also distributed among themselves a set of key responsibilities in order to ensure a constant monitoring and a correct conduction of the corporate operations. In Loyalty particular, our Chairman, Mr. Morante, is in charge of the legal representation of the Company before any relevant To support the Company’s needs and to be committed to stakeholder, while our CEO, Mr. Sciutto, is responsible for serve Sergio Rossi's interests first. any decision related to economic, social and environmental aspects and sets the Company’s strategic objectives, in dialogue with the Company’s top management. 18 19 RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES MANAGEMENT OF 1.3 SUSTAINABILITY ASPECTS STAKEHOLDERS AND The Company’s top management is entrusted with all the MATERIAL ASPECTS risk management activities related to corporate operations Given the importance we devote to sustainability issues, we and the supply chain, as well as with the periodic revision of have reignited our relationships with our key stakeholders This document represents Sergio Rossi’s second sustainability The Sustainability Report will therefore represent Sergio their effectiveness. In dialogue with the CEO, the Operations and we constantly adapt our internal structure in order report. It provides a qualitative and quantitative overview of Rossi’s Communication on Progress. Function and the Human Resources Department verify on to ensure the correct management of sustainability our performance in relation to the material topics we have With regards to Human Rights, Sergio Rossi’s 2017 a continuous fashion the compliance of Sergio Rossi with matters. As highlighted in the following paragraph, the top identified, i.e. those that reflect our significant economic, Sustainability Report does not directly address the UNGC local, national and international norms and ensures the management, coordinated by the CEO, has been involved in environmental and social impacts or that substantively issues and principles, since the major part of the Company’s respect of environmental and social laws and regulations. As the definition of the Sustainability Report contents, starting influence the assessments and decisions of our stakeholders. direct activities and suppliers are located in Italy, where laws a demonstration of the effectiveness of our internal control from the identification of the most important issues related ensure the regulation of human rights. Nonetheless, Sergio system, we have committed no legal violations and have not to sustainability and the analysis of the most relevant Furthermore, it provides an account of the most relevant Rossi includes clauses on labor conditions and on the respect received any sanction or fine in the reporting period [307-1]. stakeholders’ requests. Sergio Rossi periodically revises the sustainability initiatives we have implemented, which fall of human rights in its Code of Business Conduct and the Given our commitment to fully adhere to all the legal norms materiality map of the Company, as to redefine the corporate under the domain of such topics and describes our overall protection of workers occupational health and safety is an relevant to our business, we have also started preparing for sustainability priorities and better conduct data gathering vision and approach towards sustainability. issue on which the Company is continuously committed to the adoption of an Organizational, Management and Control and monitoring activities. report on. Model pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001. Such In 2017, Sergio Rossi subscribed to the United Nation Global Following from last year’s definition of our key stakeholders, framework introduced into Italian law the administrative Sergio Rossi’s Chief Executive Officer is the person in charge Compact Initiative, a call to companies to voluntarily align in 2017 we created an inter-functional management liability of entities, companies, associations and legal persons of the decision-making and supervision of internal health, their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted working group, called “Sustainability Committee”, with for certain crimes that are committed by individuals who safety and environmental (HSE) aspects. In this respect, principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and the aim of updating our stakeholder map, which provided have acted in their best interest or for their benefit. Our goal the CEO appoints the people responsible for the correct anti-corruption, and to take actions in support of UN goals, the opportunity to share precious insights among our top is to adopt the 231 Model by the end of 2018. implementation of HSE actions and the respect of HSE including the Sustainable Development Goals. Companies managers and to map the main channels and tools through national and international norms. Additionally, the CEO participating to the Global Compact initiative are required to which we interact with our stakeholders. The main topics Following the recent changes in the property, in 2017 the coordinates the activities of the Human Resources & Facility communicate annually on progresses made in implementing and concerns raised by stakeholders have been taken into Human Resources Department, in agreement with the CEO, and the Operations Functions, which are entrusted with the the ten principles in order to inform company stakeholders account in the definition of the materiality matrix as described has published a worldwide Code of Business Conduct. This execution of HSE actions and the continuous assessment (e.g., investors, consumers, civil society, governments, etc.). at page 23 [102-40; 102-42; 102-43; 102-44]. document defines a set of core corporate values, norms and monitoring of the related environmental, economic and and principles of behavior, to which all employees of each social impacts. Furthermore, he periodically reports to the company belonging to the Sergio Rossi Group must adhere Board about the state of such activities, notifies potential without prejudice to the local law provisions. The Code of expenditure needs related to HSE aspects and formally Conduct addresses the employees’ responsibilities to the reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report. Company, to their colleagues and to their suppliers and In case the Human Resources & Facility and the Operations customers, and states the Company’s commitment on how Functions detect any critical concern related to HSE aspects, the Group does business across the world. The document they report it to the CEO. Once having carefully analyzed helps guide employees on how to conduct themselves as the matter, the CEO decides the corrective actions to be representatives of the Sergio Rossi Group, to be sure that implemented and appoints the respective people in charge. all our employees’ behaviors and decisions, both inside Moreover, the CEO coordinates the top management in the and outside the Company, are aligned towards the same analysis of the most relevant stakeholders’ requests. principles and thus protect our Company Brand. [102-16]. As of today, the Human Resources Department is entrusted We are strongly committed to create synergies with Italian with ensuring the respect of the content of the Code by all the trade associations, which support the development of corporate employees. the industry and publish sectorial studies that are key to our business. As Sergio Rossi S.p.A., we are currently As for internal auditing and control activities, these are member of several trade associations, comprising conducted by the Board of Statutory Auditors, which also Confindustria, Altagamma, Montenapoleone District and oversees and manages the collection of internal data Sammauroindustria, and we participate to their associative needed for the appropriate redaction of financial reporting meetings [102-12; 102-13] documents. 20 21 STAKEHOLDER MAPPING MATERIALITY MATRIX AND ENGAGEMENT AND TABLE STAKEHOLDER CATEGORY ENGAGEMENT TOOLS AND ACTIVITIES CREATIVITY, DESIGN AND PROTECTION OF THE CLIENT SATISFACTION ARTISANAL KNOW-HOW CLIENTS Direct dialogue through the retail force, analysis of social media, monitoring of the satisfaction on products through TRACEABILITY AND TRANSPARENCY ALONG THE ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE complaints management (see §2.2) SUPPLY CHAIN USE OF SUSTAINABLE RAW MATERIALS AND PACKAGING COMPETITORS CONTRIBUTION TO LOCAL DEVELOPMENT LEGAL COMPLIANCE EMPLOYEES Continuous dialogue with the HR department MATERIALITY ANALYSIS STARTING FRANCHISEES AND LANDLORDS Periodic meetings RELEVANCE FOR STAKEHOLDERS BUSINESS ETHICS REMUNERATION LOCAL COMMUNITIES Monitoring of main topics and concerns through the dialogue AND WELFARE FROM THE 2016 RESULT with other actors of the San Mauro District (see §3.2), media EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY monitoring and participation to trade associations REDUCTION OF GHG EMISSIONS SHAREHOLDER AND INVESTORS Formal and informal meetings, periodic management DIVERSITY AND EQUAL reports, sustainability reporting OPPORTUNITIES TALENT ATTRACTION AND RETENTION SOCIAL MEDIA USERS AND Analysis of social media trend topics, interaction though COLOR KEY INFLUENCERS Sergio Rossi social media profiles MATERIAL REDUCTION AND PREVENTION OF WASTE SUPPLIERS Continuous dialogue, periodic meetings, written PRODUCTION ASPECTS WHICH ENERGY EFFICIENCY communication regarding our quality and chemical HAVE BEEN UPDATED COMPARED TO 2016 compliance requirements (see §3.2) NON MATERIAL TESTIMONIALS Continuous dialogue, periodic meetings, interaction through Sergio Rossi social media profiles PROTECTION OF HYDRIC RESOURCES TRADE AND PRODUCTION Periodic meetings RELEVANCE FOR SERGIO ROSSI PARTNERS UNIVERSITIES AND Joint initiatives, such as the one organized with CERCAL, and OTHER EDUCATIONAL other periodic meetings As part of the process for defining the contents of the present actual and potential impact for the Company and its entire INSTITUTIONS Report, during the Sustainability Committee we updated our value chain. By doing so, we have obtained a weighted score materiality analysis, in order to map the most relevant topics for each topic, which is indicated on the x-axis within the that reflect Sergio Rossi’s economic, environmental and materiality map above. social impacts and/or may influence the decisions of the key stakeholders identified. By adopting the same approach, we have estimated the relevance of each topic for our stakeholders, by weighting In particular, we summarized the insights coming from a it depending on the different priorities and concerns of each preliminary scenario analysis aimed at providing a synthetic stakeholder category, as emerged from the preliminary overview of the main sustainability issues affecting the scenario analysis. Furthermore, we have taken into account leather goods industry. In particular, we have conducted a our top managers’ perceptions about stakeholders’ priorities, sector-specific media analysis and a benchmark analysis of as to assign a weighted score to each topic. Such scores, our peers’ sustainability reporting, as to identify a long list of representing the relevance of each topic for all our relevant the most relevant issues for comparable companies and the stakeholders, is indicated on the y-axis within the materiality most pressing priorities for our stakeholders. map above. Afterwards, during the Sustainability Committee we have The 12 dots in the map above the red curve correspond to prioritized the identified issues by asking each manager to our material topics. In particular, the topics on the top-right provide a score based on their perception, their impressions correspond to the most relevant both for the Company and and knowledge of the sector and its recent developments, for our stakeholders [102-47]. the commitment of Sergio Rossi on those topics and their 22 23 MATERIAL TOPIC WHY IS IT RELEVANT FOR US? WHERE WE TALK ABOUT IT MATERIAL TOPIC WHY IS IT RELEVANT FOR US? WHERE WE TALK ABOUT IT Client satisfaction We are committed to deliver an outstanding client experience §2.3 Creating a new client Business Ethics We firmly believe that an ethical business is a successful §1.2 – Corporate focused on the creation of solid and long-lasting emotional experience business. This is why we have decided to redefine our internal governance bonds with our customers, who represent the focus of our Code of Conducts and management of corporate values. activities and our main interlocutor. Economic performance A solid and sustainable economic performance is a necessary §1.1 – Sergio Rossi at a Remuneration and The maximization of the welfare of our employees is one §3.2 Promoting a better element to ensure our growth as well as the appropriate glance welfare of our key goals. Coherently, we have structured dedicated working life management of sustainability aspects. Therefore, we take plans, and we ensure that our facilities are constantly care of maximizing the economic value we generate, with motivating working environments. In the same vein, we the aim of benefiting both our shareholders and the local consider equal remuneration as a strategic factor that brings community. significant benefits, not only for our people but also for the whole company. Creativity, design and Creativity, design and artisanal excellence constitute §2.1 sr1 protection of the artisanal the distinctive elements that make our products elegant §2.2 Digitalizing our Reduction of GHG We are strengthening our efforts to reduce the current levels §4.2 Reducing the know-how and timeless. We consider as our duty both to foster and identity emissions of our GHG emissions, in particular for what concerns our footprint of our shoes safeguard our know-how and the uniqueness of the San §4.1 Exporting our energy consumption. Our photovoltaic plant represents a Mauro Pascoli district. artisanal maestria good example of our commitment and a best in class solution in this direction. Traceability and We acknowledge the importance of ensuring the utmost §4.1 Exporting our transparency along the transparency along our supply chain, in order to guarantee artisanal maestria Employee health and The maximization of the health and safety of our employees §3.2 Promoting a better supply chain the quality of our Made in Italy products and the respect of safety constitutes the basis of our production process. In order to working life environmental and social issues. This is why we carefully select make our plant a 100% safe working environment, we always and evaluate our suppliers, most of which have collaborated exceed the legal requirements, investing in the training and with us for a long time, in a climate of mutual trust. equipment of our people. Legal compliance We have a strong commitment in the respect of national and §4.1 Exporting our Talent attraction and We are convinced that the attraction and retention of the best §3.1 Investing in the international legal dispositions regarding eco-toxicological artisanal maestria retention talent constitute the fuel of our economic development. As artisans of tomorrow requirements for the raw materials we use in our production such, we collaborate with renowned actors located in San process, in order to guarantee the maximum safety for Mauro Pascoli to train and attract the next generation of customers and the environment. That’s why in the reporting artisans. period, we have committed no legal violations and have not received any sanction or fine, having usually exceeded mandatory norms. Contribution to local The bulk of our economic activity takes place in the San §1.1 Sergio Rossi at a development Mauro district, recognized at a global level as a shoemaking glance luxury excellence. Given the close relationships we have built §3.1 Investing in the with local actors and communities, we devote our interest to artisans of tomorrow promote their growth and welfare and we often collaborate §4.1 Exporting our for the development of mutually useful solutions. artisanal maestria Use of sustainable raw We devote the utmost attention to make sure that our raw §4.1 Exporting our materials and packaging materials and packaging are sustainably sourced, in order artisanal maestria to guarantee the quality and safety of our products and to minimize our environmental and social impacts. 24 25 02. A constantly innovative design Timeline with the most iconic models #GodivaPump The Godiva Pump is the timeless shoe every woman should own. This icon pump represents a versatile choice, the perfect balance between charming femininity and a dynamic attitude. #srBoot Over-the-knee Matrix boots as well as Virginia heel boots are a Sergio Rossi must have. Entirely hand made in the most precious materials, they are a staple adding an edge to any look. #sr1 Presented in September 2016 and first introduced in the market in Spring 2017, sr1 soon emerged as one of the latest icons for Sergio Rossi: the square toe, the metal plaque and the leather tongue make this family immediately recognizable and gave birth to a complete collection of products recalling the same stylistic codes. 26 27 2.1 sr1 Starting from 2016, Sergio Rossi has been redefining its Sergio Rossi, while the sr1 pump from FW17 collection was brand identity and positioning with the aim of rediscovering a tribute to an historic archive piece inspired to the allure its original DNA, thus enhancing its renowned craftsmanship and the boldness of the 90s’ Supermodels. Accessories also and relaunching its product authenticity. As a result, the pay tribute to our important heritage, with the emblematic ultimate outcome of the brand rebirth has been the sr1 leather tongue and its personalized silver plaque that spread collection that represents the first step of a new beginning all over the collection. for the Company and a new journey for our clients into the deepest essence of Sergio Rossi’s distinctive style. This injection of courage, boldness and light-heartedness into tradition is the new Sergio Rossi’s way of approaching In fact, the “sr” acronym represents our willingness to respect design without compromising it, thus leading to the creation and stay focused on Sergio Rossi’s most intimate nature, of a new kind of modern artisanal masterpiece. whilst the number “1” stands for this new chapter in our history. With the “sr1” collection we made a fresh start by revisiting the The products are timeless and break free from traditional most authentic aesthetics of the brand and providing to our and outdated rules – they work from day to night and suit contemporary target customer an interesting and portable all places and situations. Versatile creations that swear off footwear, diving into the legacy of the brand. trends and personalize the elegance of a woman. Through the 2017 collections, sr1 models reinterpreted The sr1 collection was aimed at responding to the tastes of some of the unique features of our mostly iconic shoes, by the redefined target customer archetype of Sergio Rossi, supplementing them with an innovative, new romantic twist, who is an entrepreneurial and active woman, instinctively linked to the introduction of modern and fresh accessories attracted by beauty and style. and shapes. The sr1 slipper, the first model introduced, recalled the daily flat shoes that marked the first success of 28 28 29 OUR RENEWED BRAND IDENTITY The refresh of the brand image, started in 2016 with the As a result, a scenic setting emerged, featuring an elegant redesign of the Sergio Rossi logo and the product packaging, sitting room as if we were in a private luxury closet with involved in 2017 also the store concept. The architect Marco seating and low tables resting on feet shaped as sr1 heels, a Costanzi conceived the structure of the new store, identifying separé decorated with Mermaid pattern and a dressing table materials, colors and shapes which could perfectly rounded shaped like the brick on the store walls. Carpets and communicate the new brand positioning and exalt the new wall interiors create a dynamic and sophisticated backdrop, product collections. Additionally, the interior designer Cristina partly inspired by the city of Milan, and present a color Celestino designed all the furniture pieces of the new store, palette that goes from nude to chalk colors, up to amaranth, taking inspiration from a cultivated and ironic femininity pine and pale green. with a contemporary allure and expressly referring to iconic shapes, which made Sergio Rossi renowned all over the Our Archive: world. a Living Heritage Since the new management arrived in 2016, a dedicated team was appointed to work on the creation of a corporate archive. In less than 2 years, we gathered more than 4,000 models, representing the history of Sergio Rossi creative genius since the foundation of the Company in the late 60s. This collection activity has been intended primarily to provide a narrative capable of enhancing the unicity and the poignant history of PARIS 11, RUE DU FAUBOURG SAINT HONORÉ our brand, by gathering all the main elements of its distinctive DNA bringing them back to life. Secondly, the archive represents a precious research resource for current and future shoe designers, who will be able to consult it and take inspiration for their creative activity. That is why, as to further increase its accessibility and to better organize and promote the memory of the brand, we have started the digitalization of the archive, which will be completed in 2018. The Digital Archive does not just provide information storage and consultation advantages, but becomes a new way of telling the story of the brand. Hence, it will funnel the creation of applications and tools specifically conceived for a greater customer involvement in the discovery of Sergio Rossi’s founding values and history. In the future, the Digital Archive will be accompanied by the creation of a dedicated physical space within the San Mauro plant, which will foster its artistic and social dimensions, potentially becoming a cultural reference point at a local level. 30 31 BRAND PROTECTION Our brand represents one of Sergio Rossi’s most valuable assets and therefore it deserves a dedicated protection and monitoring activity. Indeed, it is so precious for us to preserve our design authenticity and uniqueness that we have decided to register the models belonging to the sr1 collection. In addition, we are also committed to protect not just our models but also the entire creative elements related to our new collection: therefore, we have registered the Sergio Rossi and sr1 trademarks in all major countries, as well as the furniture designs created for our new store concept by the interior designer Cristina Celestino. In our view, in fact, intellectual property consists not only in the protection of our brand, but also in the valuation of how our corporate identity is perceived by our key stakeholders. That is why, in 2017, we conducted the first market research LIVING HERITAGE groups in France, Italy, Japan and Russia as to understand how people perceive and recognize Sergio Rossi, its key values as well as the emotional reactions of customers to competitors’ initiatives. As a result, we discovered that the Sergio Rossi’s actual and potential customers link our brand to the idea of an unmatched artisanal expertise, as well as to the assurance of high quality levels guaranteed by our Made in Italy production. CRISTINA CELESTINO PIECES OF FURNITURE 32 33 2.2 ADVERTISING CAMPAIGNS DIGITALIZING AND SPECIAL OUR IDENTITY DIGITAL PROJECTS As part of our corporate digitalization strategy, the first phase In addition, we have decided to convey our advertising sr1, the collection that marked our new beginning in 2017, has of our communication strategy has been that of channeling activities only through digital channels and concentrate our also been the first collection advertised only digitally. Both the uniqueness of our heritage via a new digital identity. To efforts in communication & PR specifically on social networks Spring Summer 2017 and Fall Winter 2017/18 campaigns do so, in February 2017 we have created a new corporate like Instagram and Facebook. This will allow us to achieve a have been shot upon a clean and precise concept, where the website rethinking both the e-shop and the editorial contents higher measurability of digital advertising performance and shoe is the only protagonist and a black and white contrast in order to put the focus on our most iconic products and the possibility of developing more focused content aimed at enhances the distinctive design elements and decorations on our artisanal heritage through dedicated sections. The addressing specific audience segments. every shoe, while paying growing attention not only to fashion renovation of the website represents the first, indispensable models but also seasonless items. The natural background step in making it a window for our customers and most As a result, we can now count over 602,000 followers on and frame color align the communication with the new brand relevant stakeholders, a platform revealing our renewed Instagram, 37% more than in 2016, 18,600 on Twitter, 303,365 identity and packaging, thus giving consistency in the overall corporate strategy and the continuous evolution of our brand. likes on our Facebook page – all numbers obtained from brand communication. As such, our corporate website becomes a mirror of our organic growth, without any paid advertising campaign or corporate “new deal” and represents a concrete example of followers acquisition. our strengthened commitment towards sustainability. In fact, by making all the main corporate contents available on this digital platform, we will minimize our paper consumption, since our catalogues and promotional materials have been printed in limited editions in SS17 and only for Japan, due to cultural preferences, in FW17/18. NEW SERGIO ROSSI WEBSITE LAUNCHED IN FEBRUARY 34 35 #srSTORIES The launch of each collection has been accompanied by dedicated digital projects titled #srStories. These projects launched both in SS and in FW represented a fresh start for our new communication strategy, aimed at delivering our new ideal woman concept through contemporary lifestyle contents. Pictures, videos and interviews to female leaders developing their business activities, following their passions and creating something concrete for their success and personal affirmation depict the natural attitude of the Sergio Rossi woman to become a lifestyle influencer in her community, thus perfectly mirroring the evolution and dynamism of our brand DNA. The Spring Summer issue of #srStories, starring the sr1 sabot style in black leather, has been fully dedicated to the way in which stylish and talented women from Milan to Tokyo to New York wear our styles by telling us about their stories of success. The second issue created for Fall Winter depicted BELLA HADID KAIA GERBER RIHANNA such special women as described through the eyes of their very special friend, their “Partner in crime”, thus describing one another’s their personality, in a game of complicity and secret storytelling which allowed us to enter into their social environment. KATY PERRY WOMEN WE LOVE COLLABORATIONS WITH STYLE ICONS In order to enlarge our audience and communicate the new brand positioning to more target customers, we implemented several collaborations between Sergio Rossi and key opinion leaders as well as celebrities worldwide. On top of this ongoing activity, we have also designed personalized collections for singers and pop stars like Katy Perry and Juju. For the former, our talented designers and skilled artisans have developed a series of boots aimed at accompanying Katy during her 2017/18 “Witness” worldwide STYLISH AND TALENTED tour. For the latter, a deeper collaboration took place, with WOMEN WEARING sr1 SHOES the creation of a dedicated capsule collection, also featuring one unique model available only in our Isetan corner in Tokyo and featured on Juju’s latest CD cover picture, mashing up the souls of our identity with Juju’s crisp image and talent. 36 37 THE ARTISANAL ORCHESTRA 2.3 CREATING Following the great success of “The Magic Kingdom” video A NEW CLIENT EXPERIENCE project, launched at the end of 2016 and dedicated to the 2016 Xmas period, we prosecuted our Xmas holiday series with another special project aimed at sustaining our sr1 holiday collection and spreading the Xmas spirit of Sergio Rossi through all our communication channels. We realized a short movie titled “The Artisanal Orchestra”, created by the Italian director Virgilio Villoresi and inspired by Sergio Rossi’s “It is crucial to always keep incomparable artisanship and Magic Kingdom factory. The movie, developed by adopting the innovative stop motion in mind the relevance of technique, intends to celebrate the art of shoemaking and the unmatched maestria of our artisans, by the tale of a magical digital in all its facets, from world in which dreamy and surreal characters breathe life into the creations of the brand. Indeed, the story is a reflection social media channels to the of the essence of our brand: a playful presentation of the extraordinary craftsmanship seen in every single product. omnichannel experience for The Artisanal Orchestra movie concept has been developed our final customer” around two special edition shoes realized exclusively for Xmas period on sr1 iconic slipper and pump shapes, and has been Riccardo Sciutto, Sergio Rossi CEO communicated through all our digital tools (website, social media and digital advertising) as well as two dedicated SPECIAL PRODUCT window displays in Milan and Paris. During 2017, the EMEA & Worldwide Retail Function carried The second aim of sr Academy is to convey and spread among out the development of “Retail Excellence”, a project aimed our retail staff our new omnichannel commercial approach, at turning the shopping occasion into a client-tailored thus reconfirming our client-centric approach. In fact, our moment and at creating an emotional and exclusive bond customers are able to buy Sergio Rossi products where it is with each client. The key starting point of the project has more convenient, using a variety of different channels, from been the implementation of the sr Academy and the Sergio physical stores to our online e-commerce platform, in line Rossi Selling Ceremony workshop week, conducted in Milan, with our overall digitalization strategy. Paris, London and Hong Kong and delivered to all store managers and staff, in order to spread harmonious habits Furthermore, we started collaborating with big international and to enhance their sales competences. fashion e-tailers, connecting shoppers to stores and brands from all around the world, and with other e-shop websites The aim of the sr Academy is twofold: the first one is that and marketplaces, in order to reach even more clients and of training and coaching the store staff all around the world offer them an even wider online experience. to create coherence between production, product, sales and communication. Starting from the Selling Ceremony, the sales In addition, in order to promote in-store digitalization, we are teams learn how to interpret client needs and how to create planning to install digital touch screens in our new concept trust as to develop or strengthen solid ties with the customer. stores, in order to provide clients with more information on Moreover, the store personnel studies how to adapt to our collections and corporate heritage. different requests and situations in a proactive manner and how to build up a commercial mindset by using their product knowledge in the most personalized way possible to create Moments of Wonder for the clients in store. To guarantee coherence also in the Regions, Japan, China and Hong Kong regional training facilitators have been identified and educated in methods of training and coaching, based on the Selling Ceremony conduct. 38 39 Finally, some stores also featured augmented reality visors, which provided visitors with a staggering experience during particular events or occasions. This solution was introduced during the launch of our Artisanal Orchestra holiday collection: a selected number of guests enjoyed a cocktail in our Montenapoleone and Hong Kong stores, watching The Artisanal Orchestra short film. Thanks to virtual reality, they felt fully immersed in the emotional atmosphere created by the movie, thus creating an unforgettable memory linked with our brand and products. In parallel, with the aim of monitoring and measuring the performance of our digitalization strategy and its effects on final clients, starting from June 2017 we have introduced a new service intended only for final customers called Client Service Management (CSM). Clients, directly from our web site, can contact Sergio Rossi for any information or assistance they might need, spanning from requests on our products to suggestions to further ameliorate their overall Sergio Rossi experience. As of 31 December 2017, we had received 406 communications from our clients, among which only 8% corresponded to complaints. This new service completes our already existing Aftersale Service specifically dedicated to our Retail and Wholesale customers, which provides total assistance for any issues going from Operational info to claims on product defects. We normally manage quality returns either by repairing the product or by reimbursing the customer; at present, the percentage of quality claims is below 1% compared to the pairs shipped. We value so much our products and customers that in certain cases we also offer a customized service related to spare part replacements (like heels or small accessories), in case In the meanwhile, we also made tablets available to the issue is related to the client’s misuse of the product. customers in all our stores, with the aim of making the shopping experience more modern and, crucially, to enable In particular, clients can rely on local Sergio Rossi boutiques the customization services. who will take care of the issue by interacting with the factory and local artisans in order to help solve the problem. Such a In fact, our customers have the opportunity to enjoy service demonstrates our willingness to offer a customized #yourownsergiorossi, a service enabling them to create and solid answer to clients’ requests, who care and wish their own sr1 model. Indeed, our San Mauro Pascoli factory to keep their pair, as well as to lengthen the life cycle of is uniquely equipped to offer our clients from all around the the product through maintenance activities, by adopting a world the chance to fully personalize their favorite pair of circular economic outlook. shoes, by selecting materials, colors, accessories, sizes and initials, and to receive it within just 5-6 weeks, independent of her physical location. Crucially, such customization features are available both online and in-store, given the presence of our tablets. We are working to constantly expand the personalization possibilities available to our customers, for instance by introducing new seasonal limited edition elements. 40 41 03. Preserving the value 2016 2017 of our people EMPLOYEES Employment contract Permanent contract 269 282 Of which women 164 178 ~~ 63% of our employees are women Of which men Of which in Italy 105 269 104 279 ~~ 37% of our employees are men Of which in the EMEA Retail Network (France) N.A. 3 Temporary contract 5 12 139% in total training hours provided, compared to 2016 Of which women Of which men 3 2 8 4 Of which in Italy 5 11 of the San Mauro Pascoli artisans/technicians Of which in the EMEA N.A. 1 70% we currently employ have worked for us for Employment type Retail Network (France) Full-time N.A. 260 more than 10 years, on average. Of which women N.A. 154 Of which men N.A. 106 3.1 Part-time N.A. 34 INVESTING IN THE ARTISANS Of which women N.A. 32 OF TOMORROW Of which men N.A. 2 OUR PEOPLE We nurture a corporate culture, based on the concept of In 2017, 95.9% of our employees counted on permanent Age cluster < 30 years 15 26 employee empowerment and growth. In our Company, in contracts and 88.4% were employed on a full-time basis. fact, we promote an inclusive environment and value the In addition, all our employees are covered by collective 30 < x < 50 178 175 contributions of all people, since we believe that every one of bargaining agreements, as required by the respective our employees can make a difference and contribute to the country laws [102-41]. A comprehensive breakdown of > 50 years 81 93 success of our brand. our employees in terms of employment contract and type, geography, gender and age is provided at page 43. Total Employees 274 294 Following the corporate relaunch started in December 2015, as of 31/12/2017 we employed 290 people in Italy and 4 The wave of new hires in Italy has been accompanied by a people in France [102-8]. The number has slightly increased corresponding increase in the turnover rate, shifting from since last year. In particular, we underline how the number 16.5% to 19.9% [401-1]. Such increase has mainly been due of employed women in Italy has grown by around 9.5% to the completion of our internal restructuring, following the year-on-year (from 167 to 183 people). Moreover, we have acquisition of our manufacturing affiliate. The restructuring almost doubled our under-30 population (from 15 to 26 activity, managed by our Human Resources & Facility function, people), while increasing the number of interns hosted in has led to the creation of new functions and specialized roles, our facilities by 4 units. These latter trends demonstrate how in order to respond in an even more effective manner to we are focusing on enhancing our attractiveness, especially market trends and client requests. by getting in touch with younger candidates for potential employment purposes. 42 43 2016 2017 2016 2017 OTHER COLLABORATORS TERMINATIONS Interns – men 0 3 Men < 30 years 0 5 Interns – women 1 2 30 < x < 50 8 5 Agency workers – men 7 4 > 50 years 8 7 Agency workers – women 0 17 Total men 16 17 Total other collaborators 8 26 Women < 30 years 3 4 Overall total 282 320 30 < x < 50 22 25 > 50 years 6 8 Total women 31 37 Total employees 47 54 New hires rate 16.5% 19.9% 2016 2017 NEW HIRES [401-1] Note: The turnover rate is calculated as number of terminations / total number of employees at 31st December of the previous year. The Men < 30 years 2 6 rate doesn’t take into account the EMEA Retail Network, since it was not included in last year’s total accounts. 30 < x < 50 16 6 > 50 years 4 0 Total men 22 12 Women < 30 years 4 10 30 < x < 50 16 26 > 50 years 2 2 Total women 22 38 Total employees 44 50 New hires rate 15.4% 18.5% 44 45 TALENT ATTRACTION TRAINING AND RETENTION PROGRAM Our inclusive way of working nurtures the creativity and Furthermore, CERCAL, besides recommending its best Sergio Rossi has specific training programs for both new employment categories highlights how all employees with innovation necessary for our Company to maintain its students for potential internships with our Company, has hires and employees with permanent contracts. permanent contracts benefit from them, with executives and competitive advantage and reputation in the global luxury recently started providing specific courses for people with blue collar accounting for an above-average coverage due market. Accordingly, we always develop new ways of disabilities and without any work experience, who will Each new hire receives a training related to the normative to the nature of their jobs. Training activities are comprised attracting and retaining the best talents available, both in then become employable after having learned traditional requirements linked to our business activities and to our of English courses, sessions related to the corporate culture terms of artisanal skills and business acumen. shoemaking techniques. corporate values and policies, which enable us to respect as well as to health and safety aspects, and our internal our legal duties. The training package comprises our Code Management by Objectives (MBO) appraisal policy. In 2017, we have further strengthened our partnership with In order to facilitate the attraction of the best talents of Business Conduct, which is aimed at spreading the CERCAL, one of the most renowned professional shoemaking available, we have also renewed our global referral knowledge of our corporate principles as well as the conduct Training programs are constantly updated according to schools in the San Mauro district. Building on the activities program, enabling employees to inform the recruiting team our employees have to maintain when exposed to potential departments’ specific needs, market requests and new put in place in 2016, we have implemented the ”Art of crafts” of potential candidates for current and future job openings. conflict of interest, bribery and corruption or gift occurrences. normative requirements. In 2017, for instance, we introduced program, an initiative aimed at connecting unemployed In case a referred person is hired and successfully completes Furthermore, the package includes our internal policies, the Store Experience activity, which we tested during the young people with local shoe manufacturers, through a a probation period of 6 months, the referring employee is representing another key part of the standard training. summer. The Store Experience involved headquarter dedicated internship program. The project, which involved 12 entitled to receive a financial reward, which is proportional employees with no prior retail knowledge, who had the participants, proved extremely successful and led us to hire to the rank of the newly-hired person. New employees are subsequently welcomed into the Sergio chance to work for 3 days in our Montenapoleone store, 4 of the participating students. Following the success of the Rossi world with a training program including the presentation focusing on a whole range of different tasks, spanning initiative, we are currently planning a second edition for 2018, In terms of retention, we are proud to confirm that around of the brand history and describing the uniqueness of our from visual merchandising to store management. Technical which will be carried along with 2 additional shoe companies 70% of our 159 technicians and artisans have remained with productive site in San Mauro. Furthermore, Sales teams abilities of our factory employees, instead, are constantly and will be extended to more students, who will have the us for over 10 years, symbolizing our capacity to retain highlyreceive additional sessions highlighting the features of the improved thanks to a continuous job rotation scheme chance to attend practical classes within our facilities. skilled workers, as shown by the graph reported below. communication and marketing activities, in line with our between different production functions and to “training on digital strategy. They learn the characteristics of our retail the job” activities, dedicated to the use of specific machinery network and clientelling activities, with a particular focus on and equipment. the main in-store activities they may be entrusted with and EMPLOYEE POPULATION the new commercial channels we have recently launched for All the aforementioned initiatives have contributed to further IN TERMS OF TOTAL specific training on product collection. strengthening not only to our corporate culture and the RETENTION YEARS synergies existing between our internal functions but also to In addition, in 2017, executives and supervisors received a professional skills. customized training program including a detailed insight of >30 4.4% the production plant with a focus on productive activities and special induction programs with department heads. 25-30 1.9% In parallel, given the attention we devote to retain our talent, 20-25 13.8% we maintain a solid training package, comprising a series of modules tailored on the peculiar needs of different employee 15-20 25.8% categories. 10-15 23.3% As a result, the number of per capita training hours provided to our employees has dramatically increased both for women 0-10 30.8% and men (from 4.5 to 9.3 and from 4.9 to 11.7, respectively), while the overall amount of training hours has increased by 139% since last year, from 1,263 to 3,018 [404-1]. Moreover, the sub-division of training activities among different 46 47 SUB-DIVISION OF TRAINING 2016 2017 PERFORMANCE HOURS PROVIDED BY GENDER HOURS / EMPLOYEE HOURS / EMPLOYEE APPRAISAL AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING 4.5 9.3 More than anything, we are firmly convinced that employee Furthermore, we have reinforced our existing commission PROVIDED TO FEMALE EMPLOYEES motivation heavily relies on the equal and fair evaluation of scheme for store employees, with the underlining willingness their performance. That is why in 2017 we published our MBO of rewarding performance by allocating benefits also at AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING 4.9 11.7 policy, intended to establish a set of shared rules regarding an individual level, instead of merely at a store level, as it PROVIDED TO MALE EMPLOYEES individual performance, target definition and appraisal previously was. In our vision, the updated scheme should criteria, as well as bonus distribution schemes. Bonuses, incentivize the improvement of individual and collective TOTAL TRAINING HOURS 1,263 3,018 in particular, are distributed based on the Company’s and performance, given that employees could receive both an individuals’ achievement of pre-determined targets, agreed individual and a pooled commission, as well as personal with their supervisors. commitment and motivation. As of today, the new commission scheme has been adopted in the EMEA and APAC regions, Each employee, in fact, sets and updates annual targets during and we plan to extend it to Japan by the end of 2018. a dedicated meeting with his/her supervisor, depending on his/her rank and seniority. Along the year, supervisors In 2017 we also launched the sr1 Awards, the first WW define a set of milestones to be achieved by their supervisees Sergio Rossi retail competition specifically targeting inand carefully monitor their progress thanks to continuous store employees and designed to highlight and reward the coaching activity. Indeed, supervisors are open to listening to best performers of the year. In particular, the winners of the supervisees’ requests and try to satisfy their requests in terms contest were: of focus areas or mobility, when appropriate. Moreover, The employee who sold the most pairs of the sr1 in 2017 we introduced a yearly meeting of all directors, the collection in our 3 main geographical areas (Europe and SUB-DIVISION OF TRAINING “Calibration of talents”, aimed at sharing feedback about the USA, APAC and Japan). For each of these areas, the winner HOURS PROVIDED BY 2016 2017 overall performance of their supervisees, highlighting best received a 4-day trip in Italy, planned during the Milan EMPLOYEE CATEGORY HOURS / EMPLOYEE HOURS / EMPLOYEE practices and model behaviors to be potentially replicated Fashion Show in February 2018, and had the opportunity to across the organization. visit our plant in San Mauro Pascoli. AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING N.A. 39.6 The Worldwide Best sr1 Store that sold the highest PROVIDED TO EXECUTIVES percentage of pairs of sr1 Collection on the total sales. The best store worldwide received a customized sr1 limited AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING N.A. 6.7 edition for each member of the store. PROVIDED TO MANAGERS AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING N.A. 4.3 PROVIDED TO WHITE COLLARS AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING N.A. 13.0 PROVIDED TO BLUE COLLARS TOTAL TRAINING HOURS N.A. 10.2 48 49 3.2 We later published an updated version of our Safety and The latest results notwithstanding, injuries and occupational PROMOTING Emergency Plan, highlighting all the procedures, roles and diseases are continuously monitored by our Facility Function, A BETTER WORKING LIFE responsibilities related to particular emergencies or risks, that manages recordkeeping activities, enabling us to such as fires, earthquakes or unexpected threats both gain a comprehensive understanding of the causes and We believe that the quality enhancement of our employees’ at a factory and at a store level. We also intensified the consequences of each accident. For instance, since last year working life is crucial in order to foster our corporate corresponding formation activities, with the aim of training we have conducted a series of amelioration actions related reputation and economic results. Indeed, we are proactively all our employees on how to properly react and ensure the to work-related stress and repetitive movements, whose managing the health, safety and welfare aspects linked to plant functioning in case of emergency. progress is under constant monitoring. The Facility Function, the life of our people, and in the past few years we have been in fact, is entrusted to issue a dedicated report on a monthly introducing a series of brand new initiatives enabling us to In 2017, we registered a total of 9 injuries, compared to 6 basis and to transmit it to an evaluation team, comprising better address these matters, with a specific focus on the San in 2016, among which 2 were commuting injuries. Such an the CEO, the Chief Operating Officer and the Production Mauro Pascoli working environment. increase is partially due to the widening of our reporting Director, in order to highlight how the safety situation of our scope, since last year’s data did not take into account the employees is evolving. We have implemented a comprehensive set of health and EMEA retail network. Furthermore, it has to be noted that the safety activities aimed at maximizing the protection we gravity of injuries has considerably reduced compared to last For what concerns employee welfare, instead, the Human guarantee to our employees, often by exceeding standard year, due to a lost day rate reduction from 0.4% to 0.1% for Resources and Facility function has built upon the work requirements. In particular, in early 2017 we put in place men. This demonstrates that the injuries occurred were of a conducted in 2016 by enriching the offer of welfareour yearly check of the correct functioning of the aspiration non-serious entity. We also managed to reduce the number related activities through a focus on the restructuring of system of powders and solvents within the San Mauro of occupational diseases experienced by our employees, compensations. factory, which led to a satisfactory result with no detection thus resulting in an occupational disease rate equal to 0, as of malfunctioning. well as our absentee rate, which has consistently reduced Secondly, we included welfare initiatives within our from 12.7% to 4.8% for men and from 13.6% to 5.9% for women digitalization strategy, by making available to our employees [403-2]. a series of software, which should facilitate some of the most frequent procedures they are involved in. Pagheweb, for instance, is a software enabling the monitoring of work attendance and highlighting every employee absence, holiday or other authorizations, facilitating the input of the corresponding documents for individual purposes. The introduction of such technology, in line with the overall 2016 2017 corporate digitalization, will make our internal crossfunctional activities leaner. MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN TOTAL NUMBER OF INJURIES 4 2 5 4 The other software we introduced last year is Workplace, INJURY RATE 24% 7.8% 11.5% 8.8% an interactive internal platform that facilitates a more transparent and direct communication of activities, events or OCCUPATIONAL DISEASE RATE 0.2% 0.2% 0.0% 0.0% campaigns, covering the entire Sergio Rossi global network. As such, Workplace is mainly devoted to spreading the energy LOST DAY RATE 0.4% 0.1% 0.1% 0.2% among the Sergio Rossi community, and it can be considered a social device with which employees may update their ABSENTEE RATE 12.7% 13.6% 4.8% 5.9% news and photographs and share them with their peers in Italy and abroad. Ultimately, the growth in the utilization of this platform may foster the development of new corporate welfare initiatives and enhance opinionand idea-sharing at all levels. Finally, regarding parental leave, compared to 2016 there has been a slight increase in the number of employees benefitting from maternity or paternity leaves (from 21 and 2 to 26 and 5, respectively), a trend in line with the increase in the number of people we employ and our willingness to offer to our people a comprehensive welfare package. Crucially, all the employees who returned from their leave in 2016 have been retained within the Company, apart from 1 case, as a signal of the importance we devote to family values and employees’ well-being [401-3]. 50 51 200 30 26 164 25 150 21 127 20 105 109 100 15 10 50 5 4 2 0 0 2016 2017 2016 2017 EMPLOYEES ENTITLED TO BENEFIT NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES RETAINED 12 MONTHS AFTER RETURNING FROM A MATERNITY LEAVE TO WORK FOLLOWING A PERIOD OF MATERNITY LEAVE EMPLOYEES ENTITLED TO BENEFIT NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES RETAINED 12 MONTHS AFTER RETURNING FROM A PATERNITY LEAVE TO WORK FOLLOWING A PERIOD OF PATERNITY LEAVE 26 26 25 25 25 21 21 20 20 15 15 15 10 10 5 5 5 5 5 2 2 1 0 0 2016 2017 2016 2017 NUMBER OF ENTITLED EMPLOYEES NUMBER OF ENTITLED EMPLOYEES WHO HAVE BENEFITED FROM A MATERNITY LEAVE WHO HAVE BENEFITED FROM A PATERNITY LEAVE OF WHICH: NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES WHO HAVE BENEFITED OF WHICH: NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES WHO HAVE BENEFITED ALSO FROM A FLEXIBLE DISTRIBUTION OF ALSO FROM A FLEXIBLE DISTRIBUTION OF THE VOLUNTARY MATERNITY LEAVE THE VOLUNTARY PATERNITY LEAVE OF WHICH: NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES WHO RETURNED OF WHICH: NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES WHO RETURNED AFTER THEIR MATERNITY LEAVE AFTER THEIR PATERNITY LEAVE 52 53 04. Improving our SELF-SUFFICIENCY ON PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT & PRODUCTION shoemaking The factory works as an efficient engine exploiting the upgrading in terms of technology and safety. In 2017, for synergies between our craftsmanship excellence and the instance, we completed the installation of an automatic rebest technology available. pressing machine and of a folding machine, which enable us to reduce the producing time of these activities while also The factory, our Magic Kingdom, is a self-sufficient cutting down the risks of injuries and occupational diseases. organization able to carry out projects from the designer’s The folding machine, in particular, helps to automate a sketch to the realization of the finished product, undergoing very complex and laborious task, which can also produce all stages of development. Together with the capability of damages to the carpal nerve if performed for a prolonged ~~ 1500 pairs daily production capacity engineering all our pairs of shoes, the factory is vertically integrated to all production stages: from Cutting to Assembling. It has a production capacity of about 1,500 pairs time. Moreover, in 2017 the Company also introduced a new a day, choosing from the range of nearly 400 models and cutting machine out of the 2 already in place, plus a new over 2,000 SKUs¹ . Today, 80% of our products are made in “positioning” machine (helping the positioning of the model San Mauro Pascoli. This figure represents a result we are patterns on leather). Such implementing measure will help of our finished products are manufactured 80% in San Mauro Pascoli particularly proud of, since it highlights the fact that we maintain an almost complete ownership over our production activity. Furthermore, as an additional value added, the us to reach higher production targets while avoiding the externalization of this activity, thus providing cost reduction benefits while increasing product quality. Actually, in 2017 centralization of shoe production in San Mauro Pascoli more than 40% of cutting activities were performed internally guarantees the excellence of the Made in Italy savoir faire. – a more than twofold increase versus the less than 20% value in 2016 thus enhancing the technical competence of our sqm dedicated to production activities, At the same time, albeit counting on decades of cumulated artisans and reducing our reliability on external parties, now 11,700 prototype department, logistic hub and know-how, we have not renounced to constant innovation: indeed, Sergio Rossi’s strategic approach can be considered similar to a startup’s, despite the Company’s long history. limited only to specific tasks and conducted by high quality and recognized suppliers. Furthermore, the cutting phase is conducted by joint teams of experienced and young artisans, warehouses Our Research & Style function, in fact, is constantly at work to develop new prototypes and shapes. Actually, the creation since it requires a deep knowledge of leather and materials in order to maintain high standard product quality while of our corporate archive has to be considered a pivotal move reducing waste. By doing so, we ensure the transmission of in this sense, aimed at providing designers with an extremely know-how from generation to generation, while spreading a wide range of past models and sketches to take inspiration sustainability mindset among our artisans. from. In the future, we believe we could further develop the image of the plant as a center of excellence, in order to In order to maximize synergies and avoid useless waste, in 4.1 attract a growing number of creative talents to constantly 2017 we conducted a series of initiatives oriented to reuse EXPORTING enrich our model array. the leftover leather coming from older collections. Partial OUR ARTISANAL MAESTRIA amounts of materials have been reused to promote limited With a constant dialogue between craftsmanship and collections and internal projects such as the creation of ARTISANAL PRODUCTION, technology, the plant is regularly updated with the most personalized gadgets (shoecases, leather agendas etc). WORLDWIDE DISTRIBUTION appropriate machinery and tools, as a guarantee of constant ¹ A STOCK KEEPING UNIT (SKU) IS AN ID STORAGE CODE FOR A PRODUCT, Since the early 20th century, in popular culture the art of renowned example of excellence by daily exploiting their skills BASED ON COMBINATIONS OF DIFFERENT PARAMETERS LIKE COLORS shoemaking has always been associated with the concept of and know-how to create unmatched masterpieces. Their AND SHAPES Made in Italy. Indeed, the capability of entwining beauty and prowess is actually accompanied and accentuated by the functionality in daily use objects is a unique feature of Italian features of the San Mauro plant. The plant features a factory artisans, who have always put their genius at the service equipped with 2 production lines and 2 warehouses, storing of their clients with the genuine ambition of creating works bottoms, leather and accessories, the prototype department of art capable of making their owners stand out from the and a logistic hub 11.700sm large, capable of dispatching all crowd. This unmatched “maestria” has been fully internalized over the world up to 5,000 pairs of shoes per day. by Sergio Rossi since its foundation. Famously, our founder used to say that “the comfort of a shoe comes from its shape. I maybe made no more than ten and they are what I cherish the most. Each shape is a part of me”, as to demonstrate his attachment to the purest act of artistic creation. Nowadays, the vision of Mr. Sergio Rossi is still intense in San Mauro Pascoli, thanks to the presence of our over 140 artisans, who make our Company an internationally 54 55 OUR PRODUCTION In 2017, the job rotation practice has been extended to all THE IMPORTANCE OF SOURCING relies on a consolidated network of raw material suppliers, PROCESS the main phases of the production process, as well as to which have been carefully evaluated in the past few years the engineering phase. Thanks to an important project It is vital for us to maximize the scrutiny over our supply chain, thanks to dedicated Quality/Cost/Effectiveness rankings and The production process is split into 4 main phases: cutting, in collaboration with CERCAL, we managed to ensure in order to ensure the respect of appropriate quality levels as which are constantly monitored. seaming, lasting and finishing. The Production Function an adequate generational turnover and to reinforce the well as to minimize social and environmental impacts related is the one entrusted with the overall management of the industrial vision in our technical team. As such, technicians, to the production of our shoes. We are proud to underline that leather and components of production process, and we rely on 4 managers who are in once specialized only in single activities, such as modeling To do so, when developing a new collection the Supply Chain a Sergio Rossi shoe are rigorously Made in Italy. Leather, in charge of coordinating and supervising the single activities or CAD drawing, have now to switch regularly from one function speaks with the Research & Style function in order fact, is the most important material of our production, not implemented by the workers active within the plant. task to the other, in order to obtain a comprehensive and to clearly establish the range of raw materials and semionly for quantity and value, but also because it defines the interconnected vision of all phases of the engineering finished components which will be needed to realize at an style of Sergio Rossi’s shoes. Therefore, we rely on Italian process. Participating from the prototyping stage to the industrial scale the models included in the new collection. In tanneries for the 100% of the leather procured. finalized model will improve employees’ technical skills and fact, the selection of new suppliers for this purpose may be a operative versatility and in the meanwhile enhance the odds lengthy and complex one, given the high quality and reliability The strong collaboration created with our external raw of creative ideas generation and the effectiveness of the standards we require from all our business partners. materials and semi-finished products providers has been production process. possible also thanks to the constant commitment to keeping Furthermore, the Supply Chain function is entrusted with and strengthening our relationships with local and historical guaranteeing a smooth and correct functioning of all the providers, while simultaneously extending our network, supplier selection, monitoring and control phase, as well as in a constant pursuit of transparent, efficient and reliable of the inbound and outbound logistics operations. To do so, partners sharing our values. On top of that, we strongly rely the function closely interacts with the Logistics and Buying on the uniqueness and force of the Forlì and Cesena district, offices, which are responsible for each specific task involved gathering around 200 small companies and 3,000 people in the selection and shipping of raw materials, accessories, working with the best shoemaking brands in the world. semi-finished and finished products. These local suppliers provide us around 33.4% of our overall PRODUCTION PHASE DESCRIPTION procurement volumes2 and, more generally, 92.5% of our The supplier research activity driven by Buying Office is procurement of raw materials, products and services comes CUTTING After having passed our first quality controls upon reception, sealed by the signing of our supply agreements, comprises from Italian suppliers, while the remaining 7.5% comes from the received leathers are cut by using the models authorized a series of ethical and environmental clauses that have to be the European area [102-9; 204-1]. Compared to last year, by the technical area. We rely on automated cutting machines, subscribed in order to enforce a commercial collaboration. we have slightly increased in relative terms the weight of hollow cutters and highly-skilled cutters, able to perform this At the same time, we also ask our suppliers to adhere to subcontractors, especially from Spain. This is mainly due to operation manually, as their high level experience enables our Restricted Substances List (RSL) (please refer to the box a specific section of SS18 collection envisaging espadrillas them to extract the best from a leather piece. Therefore, all concerning customer health and safety), containing all the styles. Since Spain is worldwide recognized for its creations prototype samples and special pairs are always cut manually. specific limitations in the use of chemical substances, which of special midsummer fashion alternative to sandals, we suppliers have to comply with before we can accept their decided to realize our sr1 espadrillas in Spain in the quest for products in our warehouses. The Buying Office, in particular, the utmost artisanal quality. SEAMING This stage is a key point in the shoemaking process: all the upper parts coming from the previous cutting phase are sewn together thanks to the prowess of expert hand-sewing 2 OUR OVERALL PROCUREMENT VOLUMES COMPRISE PURCHASE OF operators. Often, at this point also specific accessories, RAW MATERIALS (LEATHER, PLATEAUS, SOLES, INSOLES AND HEELS); such as buckles, stones or embroideries, depending on the OTHER RAW MATERIALS LIKE ANCILLARY COMPONENTS (GLUES AND characteristics of each model, are inserted. SOLVENTS) AND PACKAGING; FINISHED PRODUCTS (RELATED TO EXTERNAL PRODUCTION OF FINISHED PRODUCTS); AND SERVICES LASTING The lasting phase comprises a series of operations leading to (LIKE CUTTING AND STITCHING ACTIVITIES). CONCERNING THE the assembling of the upper and the other components, such COMPUTATION OF THE SPENDING ON LOCAL SUPPLIERS, WE HAVE as the sole and the heel. Our artisans’ precision and ability CALCULATED PERCENTAGES BASED ON THE VALUE OF THE PURCHASED to adapt their manual work depending on the specificities of PRODUCTS AND SERVICES, INSTEAD OF ON THE WEIGHT. each model add further value to the final product. FINISHING Representing the end of the production process, this phase comprises all the polishing, waxing and retouching activities. Our dedicated team is entrusted with implementing these final steps before placing the final product in its box. 56 57 EUROPE 7.5% External suppliers LOCAL SUPPLIERS 33.4% Leather LEATHER SUPPLIERS Leather warehouse Cutting Dept. Seaming Dept. ITALY 59.1% QUALITY QUALITY CHECKPOINT CHECKPOINT Lasting Dept. + Finishing Finished Product Heels, soles and other QUALITY components CHECKPOINT Component Component warehouse warehouse QUALITY QUALITY CHECKPOINT CHECKPOINT External suppliers NOTE: REFERRING TO THE CUTTING AND SEAMING PHASE WE RELY ON OUR INTERNAL PRODUCTION CAPACITY AND ON EXTERNAL SPECIALIZED SUPPLIERS, WHICH ARE CONSTANTLY MONITORED IN THE DATA ARE ASSESSED IN TERMS OF ECONOMIC VALUE OF THE TERMS OF QUALITY PURCHASED MATERIALS AND SERVICES AND COVER THE ENTIRE PROCUREMENT BUDGET RELATED TO THE PRODUCTION PROCESS. THE “LOCAL SUPPLIERS” CATEGORY COMPRISES SUPPLIERS BASED IN THE EMILIA ROMAGNA REGION OF ITALY AND IN SAN MARINO; THE “ITALY” CATEGORY COMPRISES THE MARCHE, VENETO, LOMBARDIA, CAMPANIA AND TOSCANA REGIONS; WHILE THE “EUROPE” CATEGORY COMPRISES ALBANIAN, SPANISH AND SERBIAN SUPPLIERS. Given our support to the Made in Italy concept and the high qualitative standards characterizing our products, in 2016 we have started a Quality Project, aimed at formalizing, consolidating and redesigning the procedures and operations leading to our daily shoemaking activity. In this respect, we mapped over 120 steps needed to obtain the final product, in order to align the organizations to our quality and value targets. At the same time, we have defined in a clear way the objectives, methods and instruments needed to perform periodic controls on the quality of the raw materials, components and semi-finished products we receive from our suppliers, as well as on our final products. This long-term oriented project has been implemented only thanks to the active participation of all the people who work every day with passion and attention to processes, and who represent the crucial strength of our brand. The overall amount of raw materials used for production purposes has slightly decreased from 178.2 tons in 2016 to 158.2 tons in 2017, given the specificities of the models included in the new collections, as well as our willingness to minimize unnecessary purchases, signaling our commitment for maintaining our procurement volumes under scrutiny. The weight of the packaging procured, instead, has remained stable, shifting slightly from 105.2 tons to 109.2 tons on a yearon-year basis. 58 59 TYPE OF TYPE OF QUANTITY 2016 QUANTITY 2017 FSC RAW MATERIAL RAW MATERIAL (TON) (TON) (DETAIL) Certification PRODUCTION-RELATED LEATHER 69.8 70.8 The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) is an international PLATEAUS 1.7 0.6 not for profit NGO. The FSC is a forest certification INSOLES 21.6 17.9 system recognized at international level. SOLES 59.4 49.3 HEELS 20 14.2 The certification aims to ensure a correct forest management and the traceability of related products. ANCILLARY MATERIALS GLUES 2.8 3.0 The FSC certification guarantees that the product was SOLVENTS 2.9 2.4 made using raw materials from wood correctly managed according to the principles of the 2 main standards: PACKAGING QUALITY LABELS 0.2 0.3 BOX LABELS 0.5 0.5 forest management and chain of custody. The FSC LABELS 0.2 0.2 certification programme is an independent thirdBOXES 62.7 59.8 party scheme. FSC inspections are carried out by 17 SHOPPING BAGS 3.7 10.5 independent certification bodies across the world. These TISSUE PAPER 16.2 15.3 bodies are in turn accredited by ASI (Accreditation TRANSPORT PACKAGING 21.7 22.6 Service International). One of the main activities of the FSC is the drafting of standards, which are adapted at TOTAL 283.3 267.5 local level from national initiatives. THE DATA COMPRISED WITHIN THE TABLE REFER TO THE PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED IN SAN MAURO PASCOLI. Finally, the total amount of procurement volumes in 2017 has been equal to 267.5 tons, 5.6% less than in 2016 [3011]. Moreover, we wish to point out that all our boxes and shopping bags are FSC-certified (see the box at page 61). OUR EFFORTS TO GUARANTEE CUSTOMER 3 THE REACH REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN UNION (EC 1907/2006) HEALTH AND SAFETY HAS BEEN ADOPTED TO IMPROVE THE PROTECTION OF HUMAN HEALTH AND THE ENVIRONMENT FROM THE RISKS THAT CAN BE POSED BY The health and safety of our customers is central to Sergio CHEMICALS, WHILE ENHANCING THE COMPETITIVENESS OF THE EU Rossi. Our Company, indeed, has always been committed to CHEMICALS INDUSTRY. IT ALSO PROMOTES ALTERNATIVE METHODS monitor the adequacy of the materials it uses in its production FOR THE HAZARD ASSESSMENT OF SUBSTANCES IN ORDER TO REDUCE activities, in accordance with the national and international THE NUMBER OF TESTS ON ANIMALS. legal dispositions imposing the respect of eco-toxicological requirements. These latter are intended to limit the adoption of prohibited chemical substances and to guarantee the maximum safety for customers and the environment, according to the REACH regulation3 . Therefore, Sergio Rossi has created an internal Restricted Substances List (RSL), shared with all our raw materials suppliers as an annex to the supply agreement. In addition, we have adopted an internal As a result, in 2017 we have not received any relevant Control Plan aimed at implementing chemical controls upon sanction related to the chemicals quantities contained in the reception of our raw materials. In this respect, we rely our final products, there has not been any incident of nonon accredited chemical laboratories, conducting tests on compliance with regulations or voluntary codes concerning the raw materials we receive, as to guarantee our legal health and safety impacts nor have we been found guilty of compliance [416-1]. legal infringements [416-2]. 60 61 4.2 In 2017, our total energy consumption was equal to 18,799 REDUCING THE FOOTPRINT GJ, a 12.6% increase compared to 2016. This result can be OF OUR SHOES explained by the fact that 2017 data comprise also the EMEA retail network. In Sergio Rossi, we are deeply committed to contribute to The carbon footprint has revealed that our energy the fight against climate change, as demonstrated by the consumption levels are mainly related to the San Mauro Our renewable energy consumption, coming from our adherence to the UN Global Compact and by a series of plant and attributable to three main vectors: electricity photovoltaic plant, was equivalent to 2,052 GJ [302-1]. interventions we have put in place in the last few years in consumption, natural gas purchased from the grid and the Moreover, in 2017 we sold around 183 GJ to the grid, compared order to decrease our environmental footprint. Specifically, diesel consumed by corporate vehicles. to 135 GJ in 2016. Concerning our natural gas consumption, our Facility team is in charge of identifying and implementing related to the heating of the San Mauro factory and the a series of initiatives aimed at increasing our energy efficiency Importantly, since the construction phase of the San Mauro retail stores, it has slightly increased on a year-on-year basis, in a comprehensive fashion. plant, we planned the structure of the roof in order to taking into account the consumption related to our stores. augment its exposure to the sun. Our forward-looking vision In particular, the team constantly monitors energy allowed us a few years later to install 3,500 square meters of The reduction of our energy consumption levels has been consumption levels of our facilities and operations, as well photovoltaic panels. This photovoltaic system represents an due to a number of efficiency initiatives we have put in place as the corresponding amount of GHG emissions generated. excellence in the San Mauro district, a virtuous example of in the past months. First, we have pursued the substitution of As such, in 2017 we have proceeded for the first time to the sustainable architecture and production facility given that not halogen lamps with LED models within the plant, an activity calculation of our overall corporate carbon footprint, taking so many companies, as of today, are able to produce and sell that we will continue in the upcoming months. Moreover, in into account both the performance of the San Mauro plant their own renewable energy. Around 15% of the electricity we 2017 we conducted an energy audit aimed at identifying new and our Milan office, as well as the emissions related to our consume is produced by our photovoltaic system, while the interventions to be put in place in order to further reducing business travels. For the years to come, we are committed rest is purchased from the grid. Thanks to our sustainability our overall consumption levels. The audit results suggested to keep performing such computation by further expanding effort, in 2017 alone we have generated CO2 savings equal to to substitute one of the 5 heat pumps installed within the the computation scope to logistics activities, as to monitor our the CO2 emitted by around 135 passenger cars, which travel factory with a more efficient model. This would enable us progress and to identify potential amelioration opportunities. for 10,000 km in one year. to progressively estimate the corresponding energy saving potential and to study the chance of substituting further heat pumps in the years to come, as well as to use the spare parts coming from the substituted pump for maintenance purposes. Therefore, we aim at completing such substitution in early 2018, in order to accelerate the energy consumption reduction started in the previous years. TYPE OF The total amount of GHG emission (Scope 1 + Scope 2 CONSUMPTION FUEL DATA (GJ) emissions) has increased from 1,380 ton CO2 in 2016 to 1,569 ton CO2 in 2017, i.e. a 13.7% year-on-year increase. This can be 2016 2017 explained by the inclusion of the EMEA retail network data, as well as by the augmented production activity. Scope 3 EMERGENCY GENERATOR DIESEL 2.2 4.8 emission levels have also augmented, mainly because of an increase of business travels due to the reorganization of our HEATING NATURAL GAS 2,524.6 3,248.4 sales network [305-1; 305-2; 305-3]. ELECTRICITY PURCHASED 10,994.4 12,238.1 PHOTOVOLTAIC 1,856.4 2,052.0 VEHICLES (OWNED) DIESEL 18.5 27.1 VEHICLES (LEASED) DIESEL 1,293.3 1,228.3 TOTAL CONSUMPTION 16,689.4 18,798.7 62 63 We are firmly committed to correctly manage and stock the a variable pattern from one year to the other as a part of our waste generated by our operations, often in partnership with waste production is linked with the disposal of old stocks and 2016 2017 U.M. local entities and companies. Our total waste volumes can be it is not directly linked to the regular production process. In split in 2 different categories: hazardous and non-hazardous particular, the increase in our recycling rate is linked to the waste. The former category comprises some of the glues treatment of around 200 kg of mineral oil we had cumulated we use in our production process, neon and some container in the previous years, which we decided to recycle in a single Non-renewable fuel 140.9 181.6 ton CO2 categories, while the latter comprises raw material and solution, and the disposal of approximately 20 tons of shoes consumption for heating packaging waste and can be compared to municipal waste. lasts belonging to old seasons. and cooling purposes Our total waste volumes have increased (+20.1%), from 34,600 Natural Gas 140.9 181.6 ton CO2 kg in 2016 – of which 32% recycled – to 41,566 kg in 2017 – of LPG 0.0 0.0 ton CO2 which 52% recycled [306-2]. Those numbers are affected by Fuel consumption for 0.2 0.3 ton CO2 emergency electricity WASTE TYPE TREATMENT DATA (KG) generation Diesel 0.2 0.3 ton CO2 2016 2017 Fuel consumption for 1.4 2 ton CO2 Hazardous waste Recycling 105 356 owned vehicles Landfill 775 780 Diesel 1.4 2 ton CO2 Non-hazardous waste Recycling 10,900 21,250 Fuel consumption for 95.2 90.4 ton CO2 Landfill 22,820 19,180 leased vehicles (e.g. rent vehicles) Total recycled 11,005 21,606 Diesel 95.2 90.4 ton CO2 Total waste 34,600 41,566 Refrigerant gases 45.5 19.5 ton CO2 Total Scope 1 (Direct 283.1 293.8 ton CO2 emissions) Electricity purchased 1,096.4 1,274.8 ton CO2 from the grid – Location*THE DATA COMPRISED WITHIN THE TABLE REFER ONLY TO THE based method SAN MAURO PASCOLI PRODUCTION SITE, GIVEN THAT IT HAS BEEN IMPOSSIBLE TO ESTIMATE WASTE PRODUCTION AND TREATMENT Electricity purchased 1,420.4 1,581.1 ton CO2 LEVELS FOR THE PONTACCIO OFFICE AND THE EMEA RETAIL NETWORK, from the grid – MarketSINCE LOCAL UTILITIES DO NOT DISCLOSE THESE DATA. based method Total Scope 2 (Energy 1,096.4 1,274.8 ton CO2 indirect emissions) – Location-based method Total Scope 1 and 2 – 1,379.6 1,568.6 ton CO2 Location-based method Business travel (by air) 93.2 192.7 ton CO2eq Business travel (by train) 6.6 8.4 ton CO2 Total Scope 3 (other 99.7 201.1 ton CO2eq indirect emissions) Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 – 1,479.3 1,769.7 ton CO2eq Location-based method 64 65 05. Methodological note GRI MATERIAL ASPECT BOUNDARY REPORTING LIMITATION REPORTING PRINCIPLES SCOPE OF ASPECT WITHIN OUTSIDE WITHIN OUTSIDE THE ORGANIZATION THE ORGANIZATION THE ORGANIZATION THE ORGANIZATION AND CRITERIA REPORTING This is the second Sergio Rossi Sustainability Report, which This document includes a description of initiatives, events and Economic performance Sergio Rossi S.p.A. encompasses the period from 1 January to 31 December 2017 programs happened or implemented in 2017, as well as a series calendar year [102-51; 102-52]. This document is an annual of previous events with repercussions on the 2017 calendar Procurement practices Sergio Rossi S.p.A. publication and has been prepared in accordance with year. Moreover, the Report introduces additional initiatives the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards: Core option, that will be carried out in 2018 [102-50]. When available Materials Sergio Rossi S.p.A. Suppliers Reporting scope not published in 2016 by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and applicable, the quantitative information provided refer extended to suppliers [102-54]. also to 2016, as to highlight current performance trends and evolutions. Energy Sergio Rossi S.p.A. Suppliers Reporting scope not The contents of this report reflect the materiality analysis extended to suppliers carried out according to the approach described in the For 2016 data, all the information refer just to Sergio Rossi paragraph §1.3 “Stakeholders and material aspects”, in S.p.A., while the 2017 data refer also to a series of selected Emissions Sergio Rossi S.p.A. Suppliers Reporting scope just to accordance with the GRI Standards. As a signatory to the monobrand and outlet stores from the Company’s EMEA extended to suppliers United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Initiative from 2017, Retail Network, namely the Montenapoleone store in Milan, through this sustainability report Sergio Rossi will also fulfill the Leccio, Noventa di Piave and San Mauro Pascoli outlets Effluents and waste Sergio Rossi S.p.A. Suppliers Reporting scope not its commitment to produce a Communication on Progress – a in Italy, and the Faubourg Saint-Honoré store in Paris. Any extended to suppliers public disclosure outlining its progress in implementing the 10 exception to such scope is clearly outlined within the text [102principles of the UNGC. In this sense, the UNGC principles are 45; 102-49]. Environmental Sergio Rossi S.p.A. Suppliers Reporting scope not clearly mapped versus the GRI indicators in the GRI Content compliance extended to suppliers Index. Sergio Rossi S.p.A. has its headquarters and plant in San Mauro Pascoli, via Stradone 600/602. Supplier environmental Sergio Rossi S.p.A. Suppliers Reporting scope not assessment extended to suppliers Employment Sergio Rossi S.p.A. MATERIAL QUALITY REPORTING Occupational health Sergio Rossi S.p.A. ISSUES PRINCIPLES and safety The following table highlights the linkages between Sergio Our Sustainability Report is drafted in accordance with the Training and education Sergio Rossi S.p.A. Rossi’s material issues (whose identification is described principles of balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, in detail in Chapter 1 above) and the corresponding GRI clarity and reliability, as defined by the GRI Standards. The Diversity and equal Sergio Rossi S.p.A. guidelines aspects. Moreover, the table shows the so-called document highlights both strengths and weaknesses, as well opportunity reporting “boundaries”, i.e. whether each material topic as potential areas of improvements for the Group. generates impacts both within and outside the organization. Supplier social Sergio Rossi S.p.A. Suppliers Reporting scope not The table also reports any potential reporting limitation The data collection and reporting processes are structured assessment extended to suppliers due to the current unavailability of data and information in order to ensure the comparability over the years and to pertaining to an external perimeter [102-46]. guarantee an accurate interpretation of information by the Customer health and Sergio Rossi S.p.A. Clients Reporting scope not key stakeholders interested in our performance evolution. safety extended to clients In the coming years, Sergio Rossi is committed to identify and implement specific actions aimed at gradually extending the We have been supported by the Italian EY Climate Change scope of data collection and reporting for material aspects. and Sustainability Services team in the drafting of this 2017 Sustainability Report. The current Sustainability Report is not subject to external assurance [102-56]. 66 67 REPORTING PRINCIPLES SOURCE ACTIVITY DATA EMISSION FACTOR GWP AND CRITERIA GHG Emergency generator/ Fuel consumption MATTM (Ministero Only CO2 emissions The calculation methodologies described below outline how EMISSIONS Heating and Cooling (Diesel and natural gas) dell’Ambiente e della were considered energy and environmental figures have been computed for SCOPE 1 Tutela del Territorio both 2016 and 2017. e del Mare), Tabella parametri standard ENERGY nazionali, 2016 and 2017 CONSUMPTION Owned and leased cars Fuel consumption MATTM (Ministero Only CO2 emissions The energy consumption related to the Company’s owned (diesel) dell’Ambiente e della were considered and leased vehicles have been calculated starting from Tutela del Territorio available fuel consumption data. e del Mare), Tabella The following table shows the conversion factors that have parametri standard been used: nazionali, 2016 and 2017 Leakages from airLeakages (kg) IPCC, 2013 Climate Fuel density DEFRA (Department of Environment, Food & Rural Affairs), conditioning systems of Change 2013: The Conversion factors Full set, 2016 and 2017 refrigerant gases Physical Science Basis. Contribution of Working LCV (Lower Calorific Value) MATTM (Ministero dell’Ambiente e della Tutela del Territorio Group I to the Fifth e del Mare), Tabella parametri standard nazionali, 2016 and Assessment Report of 2017 the IPCC. Cambridge University Press, p. 732 AIR GHG EMISSIONS EMISSIONS GHG Electricity purchased Electricity consumption Terna, Confronti Only CO2 emissions EMISSIONS from the national grid (kWh) Internazionali, 2015 and were considered Air emissions are calculated taking into account all pollutants Concerning environmental data, when these are not available SCOPE 2 (Location-based method) 2016 relating to industrial processes; the calculation is based conservative estimations have been used, resulting in the on detection of pollutants concentrations, multiplied by underestimation of the Group’s environmental performance. Electricity purchased Electricity consumption AIB, European Residual Only CO2 emissions estimated annual flows. Greenhouse gases emissions calculations have been carried from the national grid (kWh) Mixes 2016 were considered out based on the principles included in the GHG Protocol (Market-based method) Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions related to electric energy GHG Business travel by air Distance covered (km) DEFRA (Department CO2 equivalent, consumption have been calculated with both the locationEMISSIONS of Environment, considering the based and the market-based method. The first one reflects SCOPE 3 Food & Rural Affairs), following gases: CO2 the average emissions intensity of grids on which energy Conversion factors (GWP = 1), CH4 (GWP consumption occurs while the second reflects emissions from 2016Full set, 2016 and = 25) and N2O (GWP = electricity that the Company has chosen on purpose. 2017 298). Global Warming Potentials (GWPs) are For what concerns the amounts of GHG emissions related taken from IPCC Fourth to transportation activities, indirect emissions resulting from Assessment Report purchased goods, inbound and outbound logistics have not (AR4) been taken into account due to the lack of reliable data. Business travel by train Distance covered (km) Ferrovie dello Stato Only CO2 emissions Finally, in order to calculate the amount of ton CO2 saved Italiane, Rapporto di were considered thanks to the energy generated by our photovoltaic system, Sostenibilità 2015 and we have first converted the kWh consumption of electricity 2016 coming from the photovoltaic system into avoided CO2 emissions by using the Terna emission factor (i.e. the same CONTACTS used for electricity purchased from the grid). Afterwards, such saving has been equated to the amount of CO2 For further information about emissions generated by a “Supermini” passenger vehicle this Sustainability Report, please contact [102-53]: (as defined by the UK DEFRA conversion tables) traveling SERGIO ROSSI S.P.A. for 10,000 kilometers a year, as to obtain the corresponding VIA PONTACCIO, 13 20121, MILAN, ITALY equivalence PHONE: +39 02 7632081 EMAIL: INFO@SERGIOROSSI.COM 68 69 Appendix OMISSION In addition to the information required by the GRI Standard GRI PART OMITTED, REASON with respect to each indicator linked to our material topics, STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER / URL AND EXPLANATION we closely monitor other environmental aspects connected to our processes, in a perspective of regulation compliance. GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 GRI 102: GENERAL 102-1 NAME OF THE 10 DISCLOSURES 2016 ORGANIZATION 102-2 ACTIVITIES, 10 BRANDS, PRODUCTS, AND SERVICES WATER AIR EMISSIONS 102-3 LOCATION OF 10 HEADQUARTERS Our water consumption, which is entirely supplied by Every year we carry out an analysis on our air emissions, as municipal sources, has recently increased from 10,076 to requested by environmental authorizations in accordance 102-4 LOCATION OF 10 13,833 cubic meters, mainly due to the inclusion the Pontaccio with Legislative Decree n. 152/06. Compared to 2016, the OPERATIONS office in the calculation [303-1]. air emission levels have increased. Nevertheless, these two values are not fully comparable because the value resulting 102-5 OWNERSHIP AND 18 from the measurement is based on timely annual estimates, LEGAL FORM not on average annual estimates. In any case, in 2017 all the emissions examined in all the samplings performed were 102-6 MARKETS SERVED 12 lower than the limits indicated by law. Details are provided in the table below. 102-7 SCALE OF THE 12 NET SALES ARE NOT WATER ORGANIZATION CLEARLY REPORTED, CONSUMPTION SOURCE* 2016 2017 AS WELL AS THE TOTAL CAPITALIZATION BROKEN MUNICIPAL SUPPLY 10,076m3 13,833m3 DOWN WITH A DEBT/ EQUITY SPLIT. WE DO NOT REPORT THE TOTAL AIR NUMBER OF SHOES EMISSIONS 2016 2017 PRODUCED EVERY YEAR. VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUNDS (VOC) 0.12t 0.66t 102-8 INFORMATION ON 42 EMPLOYEES AND OTHER WORKERS *THE DATA COMPRISED WITHIN THE TABLE REFER ONLY TO THE SAN MAURO PASCOLI PRODUCTION SITE AND THE PONTACCIO OFFICE, 102-9 SUPPLY CHAIN 57 SINCE LOCAL UTILITIES DO NOT DISCLOSE THESE DATA. 102-10 SIGNIFICANT 18 CHANGES TO THE 5.1 ORGANIZATION AND ITS GRI CONTENT SUPPLY CHAIN INDEX 102-11 PRECAUTIONARY AS OF TODAY, SERGIO The table on the right indicates the correspondence between PRINCIPLE OR APPROACH ROSSI DOES NOT the information required by the GRI Standards with respect to FORMALLY ADHERE OR each indicator linked to our material topics and the contents ADAPT ITS DECISIONof this document. In particular, when some information are MAKING APPROACH missing because of the actual impossibility of measuring the IN ACCORDANCE TO related KPIs, we have inserted a detailed reference under the THE PRECAUTIONARY “Omissions” column [102-55]. APPROACH. 70 71 OMISSION OMISSION GRI PART OMITTED, REASON GRI PART OMITTED, REASON STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER / URL AND EXPLANATION STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER / URL AND EXPLANATION GRI 102: GENERAL 102-12 EXTERNAL 20 REPORTING PRACTICE DISCLOSURES 2016 INITIATIVES GRI 102: GENERAL 102-45 ENTITIES INCLUDED 18/66 102-13 MEMBERSHIP OF 20 DISCLOSURES 2016 IN THE CONSOLIDATED ASSOCIATIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGY 102-46 DEFINING REPORT 66 CONTENT AND TOPIC 102-14 STATEMENT FROM 7 BOUNDARIES SENIOR DECISIONMAKER 102-47 LIST OF MATERIAL 23/25 TOPICS ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-48 RESTATEMENTS NA 102-16 VALUES, 19 OF INFORMATION PRINCIPLES, STANDARDS, AND NORMS OF 102-49 CHANGES IN 66 BEHAVIOR REPORTING GOVERNANCE 102-50 REPORTING 66 PERIOD 102-18 GOVERNANCE 18 STRUCTURE 102-51 DATE OF MOST 66 RECENT REPORT STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-52 REPORTING CYCLE 66 102-40 LIST OF 21 102-53 CONTACT 69 STAKEHOLDER GROUPS POINT FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING THE REPORT 102-41 COLLECTIVE 42 BARGAINING 102-54 CLAIMS 66 AGREEMENTS OF REPORTING IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE 102-42 IDENTIFYING 21 GRI STANDARDS AND SELECTING STAKEHOLDERS 102-55 GRI CONTENT 70/79 INDEX 102-43 APPROACH 21 TO STAKEHOLDER 102-56 EXTERNAL 66 ENGAGEMENT ASSURANCE 102-44 KEY TOPICS AND 21 CONCERNS RAISED 72 73 OMISSION OMISSION GRI PART OMITTED, REASON GRI PART OMITTED, REASON STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER / URL AND EXPLANATION STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER / URL AND EXPLANATION MATERIAL TOPICS GRI 300 ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS SERIES GRI 200 ECONOMIC STANDARD SERIES MATERIALS GRI 103: MANAGEMENT 103-1 EXPLANATION OF 58/60 ECONOMIC APPROACH 2016 THE MATERIAL TOPIC PERFORMANCE AND ITS BOUNDARY GRI 103: MANAGEMENT 103-1 EXPLANATION OF 12/13 103-2 THE MANAGEMENT 58/60 APPROACH 2016 THE MATERIAL TOPIC APPROACH AND ITS AND ITS BOUNDARY COMPONENTS 103-2 THE MANAGEMENT 12/13 103-3 EVALUATION OF 58/60 APPROACH AND ITS THE MANAGEMENT COMPONENTS APPROACH 103-3 EVALUATION OF 12/13 GRI 301: MATERIALS 2016 301-1 MATERIALS USED BY 60 THE MANAGEMENT WEIGHT OR VOLUME APPROACH ENERGY GRI 201: ECONOMIC 201-1 DIRECT ECONOMIC 13 PERFORMANCE 2016 VALUE GENERATED AND GRI 103: MANAGEMENT 103-1 EXPLANATION OF 62/63 DISTRIBUTED APPROACH 2016 THE MATERIAL TOPIC AND ITS BOUNDARY PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 103-2 THE MANAGEMENT 62/63 APPROACH AND ITS GRI 103: MANAGEMENT 103-1 EXPLANATION OF 57/58 COMPONENTS APPROACH 2016 THE MATERIAL TOPIC AND ITS BOUNDARY 103-3 EVALUATION OF 62/63 THE MANAGEMENT 103-2 THE MANAGEMENT 57/58 APPROACH APPROACH AND ITS COMPONENTS GRI 302: ENERGY 2016 302-1 ENERGY 62 CONSUMPTION WITHIN 103-3 EVALUATION OF 57/58 THE ORGANIZATION THE MANAGEMENT APPROACH WATER GRI 204: PROCUREMENT 204-1 PROPORTION OF 58 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT 103-1 EXPLANATION OF 70 PRACTICES 2016 SPENDING ON LOCAL APPROACH 2016 THE MATERIAL TOPIC SUPPLIERS AND ITS BOUNDARY 103-2 THE MANAGEMENT 70 APPROACH AND ITS COMPONENTS 74 75 OMISSION OMISSION GRI PART OMITTED, REASON GRI PART OMITTED, REASON STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER / URL AND EXPLANATION STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER / URL AND EXPLANATION 103-3 EVALUATION OF 70 GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND 306-2 WASTE BY TYPE 65 THE MANAGEMENT WASTE 2016 AND DISPOSAL METHOD APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL GRI 303: WATER 2016 303-1 WATER 70 COMPLIANCE WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE GRI 103: MANAGEMENT 103-1 EXPLANATION OF 19 EMISSIONS APPROACH 2016 THE MATERIAL TOPIC AND ITS BOUNDARY GRI 103: MANAGEMENT 103-1 EXPLANATION OF 63/64 APPROACH 2016 THE MATERIAL TOPIC 103-2 THE MANAGEMENT 19 AND ITS BOUNDARY APPROACH AND ITS COMPONENTS 103-2 THE MANAGEMENT 63/64 APPROACH AND ITS 103-3 EVALUATION OF 19 COMPONENTS THE MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-3 EVALUATION OF 63/64 THE MANAGEMENT GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL 307-1 NON-COMPLIANCE 20 APPROACH COMPLIANCE 2016 WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS GRI 305: EMISSIONS 2016 305-1 DIRECT (SCOPE 1) 64 GHG EMISSIONS GRI 400 SOCIAL STANDARDS SERIES 305-2 ENERGY INDIRECT (SCOPE 2) GHG 64 EMPLOYMENT EMISSIONS GRI 103: MANAGEMENT 103-1 EXPLANATION OF 42/45 305-3 OTHER INDIRECT APPROACH 2016 THE MATERIAL TOPIC (SCOPE 3) GHG 64 AND ITS BOUNDARY EMISSIONS 103-2 THE MANAGEMENT 42/45 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE APPROACH AND ITS COMPONENTS GRI 103: MANAGEMENT 103-1 EXPLANATION OF APPROACH 2016 THE MATERIAL TOPIC 65 103-3 EVALUATION OF 42/45 AND ITS BOUNDARY THE MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-2 THE MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND ITS 65 GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT 401-1 NEW EMPLOYEE 44/45 COMPONENTS 2016 HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER 103-3 EVALUATION OF 65 THE MANAGEMENT 401-3 PARENTAL LEAVE 52 APPROACH 76 77 OMISSION OMISSION GRI PART OMITTED, REASON GRI PART OMITTED, REASON STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER / URL AND EXPLANATION STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER / URL AND EXPLANATION OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY AND SAFETY GRI 103: MANAGEMENT 103-1 EXPLANATION OF 50/51 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT 103-1 EXPLANATION OF 60/61 APPROACH 2016 THE MATERIAL TOPIC APPROACH 2016 THE MATERIAL TOPIC AND ITS BOUNDARY AND ITS BOUNDARY 103-2 THE MANAGEMENT 103-2 THE MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND ITS 50/51 APPROACH AND ITS 60/61 COMPONENTS COMPONENTS 103-3 EVALUATION OF 103-3 EVALUATION OF THE MANAGEMENT 50/51 THE MANAGEMENT 60/61 APPROACH APPROACH # 403-2 TYPES OF 50 GRI 416: CUSTOMER 416-1 ASSESSMENT 61 INJURY AND RATES OF HEALTH AND SAFETY 2016 OF THE HEALTH AND INJURY, OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY IMPACTS OF DISEASES, LOST DAYS, PRODUCT AND SERVICE AND ABSENTEEISM, AND CATEGORIES NUMBER OF WORKRELATED FATALITIES 416-2 INCIDENTS OF 60 NON-COMPLIANCE TRAINING AND CONCERNING THE EDUCATION HEALTH AND SAFETY IMPACTS OF PRODUCTS GRI 103: MANAGEMENT 103-1 EXPLANATION OF 47/48 AND SERVICES APPROACH 2016 THE MATERIAL TOPIC AND ITS BOUNDARY 103-2 THE MANAGEMENT 47/48 APPROACH AND ITS COMPONENTS 103-3 EVALUATION OF 47/48 THE MANAGEMENT APPROACH GRI 404: TRAINING AND 404-1 AVERAGE HOURS 48 EDUCATION 2016 OF TRAINING PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE 78 79
