COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS For UN Global Compact Initiative 2018 June Letter from CEO I am pleased to confirm that TBC Bank reaffirms its support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. TBC Bank is dedicated to creating opportunities for people and businesses through innovative banking services and sound business practices. In this communication on progress document, we describe our actions in accordance to those principles within our sphere of influence. We support public accountability and transparency and declare our readiness to stay committed to UN Global Compact and its principles, making them a part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company. Sincerely yours, Vakhtang Butskhrikidze CEO 2 ACTIONS AND POLICIES REGARDING HUMAN RIGHTS, LABOR, ENVIRONMENT AND ANTI-CORRUPTION Environment As the largest banking group in the country, we fully understand the importance of doing business with minimal impact on the environment. We are strongly committed to preserving the environment by operating our business in a sustainable and ethical manner, and to take action to reduce our negative impact from both direct and indirect activities. Lending responsibly We lend responsibly and do not finance projects that have an adverse environmental or social impact. For this purpose, the Bank has adopted an Environmental and Social Risk Management Policy to ensure compliance with local environmental legislation and applicable international guidelines. It outlines our liabilities in terms of impact on both the environment and communities. Compliance with the Bank’s Environmental and Social Risk Management Policy is closely monitored by the Social and Environmental Risk Manager. In terms of lending activities, credit officers undertake periodic monitoring visits to their clients to ensure that all environmental and social norms are adhered to. Periodic audits are also conducted by Internal Audit Department in order to identify any breaches. No such material breaches of the Bank’s Environmental and Social Risk Management Policy were identified during 2017. We are also committed to promoting eco-friendly projects. This year we attracted around US$70 million in the form of debt finance from international financial institutions to foster investments in areas related to energy efficiency, renewable energy and pollution reduction. Waste management and energy conservation TBC Bank has implemented a waste management program that has been approved by Georgia’s Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Protection and has ensured that we closely monitor and effectively manage our non-hazardous and hazardous waste. The non-hazardous waste mainly arises from printing paper, which we shred and exchange with a recycling company in return for books that we donate to orphanages, vulnerable families and libraries in remote villages in Georgia’s mountainous regions. This year we introduced several changes to reduce the usage of paper in line with the Bank’s Environmental and Social Risk Management Policy. In June 2017, we transformed several client authorization procedures paperless and saved around 1.7 million sheets of paper. We also simplified our banking product agreements and reduced the number of pages per agreement. Moreover, our customers can apply for and receive pre-approved fast consumer loans via remote channels, meaning that no additional paperwork is needed for disbursing a loan. In 2017 we disbursed around 23,000 such loans. For hazardous office waste, such as printer cartridges, we collaborate with a company that specializes in supplying new cartridges and recycling used ones. We use only energy-efficient LED lighting in our premises, which has helped us to reduce the consumption of electricity by around 9% this year. In addition, we operate an energy-efficient heating and cooling system in our offices. 4 Forest Restoration TBC Bank pledged to finance renewal of 10 hectares of forest, burned during fires in Borjomi Gorge, one of the main eco-zones in Georgia and whole Caucasus. Project will start in coordination with Georgian Government, in second half of 2018. Human Rights and Labor TBC Bank Implemented a harrasment Policy, providing an environment in which individuals are encouraged to succeed and to maximize their abilities is sound business sense in today’s competitive market place. Employees have the right to work in an environment free from sexual, religious, racial, psychological, disability and racial harassment. TBC as a Company espouses responsible and defined conduct and behavior on the part of our employees at all levels and has zero tolerance policy to all types of harassment listed Bellow. We have clear definition of harrasments,that are not tolerable in TBC environment: Sexual harassment It is any kind of unwelcome sexual advance, request for sexual favours, or other conduct of sexual nature that leaves the individual with feeling threatened or compromised, It is also any harassing conduct based on gender or sexual orientation of the recipient. Religious harassment It is unwanted behaviour based on religious beliefs or practices. This may take many forms including ridiculing items worn for religious reasons, denigrating cultural customs and dismissive treatment of requests for holidays for religious or cultural festivals, or derisory comments against an individual’s beliefs. It includes the incitement or persistent pressure through forms of evangelism and religious propaganda that suggests the answer no is unacceptable to the person trying to spread their ideas on religion or recruiting to their particular group. Racial harassment It is unwanted behavior based on race, ethnic or national origin. It includes written or verbal threats or insults based on race, ethnicity or skin color, abusive comments about racial origins, ridicule based on cultural grounds, derogatory name-calling, racist jokes, damage to property, the display of offensive graffiti or insignia and incitement of others to commit any of the above. Psychological harassment This is humiliating, intimidating or abusive behavior which is often difficult to detect leaving no evidence other than victim reports or complaints; this characteristically lowers 5 a person’s self-esteem or causes them torment. This can take the form of verbal comments, engineered episodes of intimidation, aggressive actions or repeated gestures. Falling into this category is workplace harassment by individuals or groups mobbing. Disability harassment This is unwanted behaviour based on disability, impairment or additional need. Such behaviour may include comments that are patronising or objectionable to the recipient or which creates an intimidating, hostile or offensive environment for people with disabilities. Disability harassment includes inappropriate reference to disability, unwelcome discussion of the impact of disability, refusal to work with and exclusion of people with disabilities from social events or meetings. Stalking The unauthorized following and surveillance of an individual, to the extent that the person's privacy is unacceptably intruded upon, and the victim fears for their safety. Community-based Harassment Stalking by a group against an individual using repeated distractions that the individual is sensitized to. Non-Discrimination and Equal Opportunity TBC Bank will not make employment decisions on the basis of personal characteristics unrelated to inherent job requirements. TBC will base the employment relationship on the principle of equal opportunity and fair treatment, and will not discriminate with respect to any aspects of the employment relationship, such as recruitment and hiring, compensation (including wages and benefits), working conditions and terms of employment, access to training, job assignment, promotion, termination of employment or retirement, and disciplinary practices. TBC will take measures to prevent and address harassment, intimidation, and/or exploitation, especially in regard to women. The principles of non-discrimination apply to migrant workers. Special measures of protection or assistance to remedy past discrimination or selection for a particular job based on the inherent requirements of the job will not be deemed as discrimination, provided they are consistent with national law. Grievance Procedure TBC Bank implemented Grievance Procedure and provides a grievance mechanism for workers to raise workplace concerns. Bank will inform the workers of the grievance mechanism at the time of recruitment and make it easily accessible to them. The mechanism involves an appropriate level of management and addresses concerns promptly, using an understandable and transparent process that provides timely feedback to those concerned, without any retribution. The mechanism also allows for anonymous complaints to be raised and addressed. The mechanism does not impede access to other judicial or administrative remedies that are/might be available under the law or through existing arbitration procedures, or substitute for grievance mechanisms provided through collective agreements. 6 Dealing with complains/grievances Complains can be made verbally, by e-mail or by open or anonymous letter to the HR Manager or HR Staff, Immediate Supervisor or Business Heads. Person facing any type of harassment, discrimination and/or having other concern must make complain directly or anonymously. Employees are encouraged to report incidents of harassment, discrimination or other grievances so as to ensure speedy redressal and action. Assesment HR Manager and/or HR Senior Staff together with complainant’s Line Manager (unless complain has been made against immediate line manager or complainant objects against involving line manager) will investigate the complain (be it harassment or other) with utmost confidentiality. Purpose of the initial assessment is to establish that the allegations are founded and there potentially there may be a case to answer. If the complain is unfounded or unsustainable complainant will be informed accordingly and disciplined by HR for unnecessarily bringing the charge against other employee. If there is a case to answer, HR in liaison with complainants Line manager will decide on further actions on the grievance committee together with the worker or his/her representative. Depending upon severity of the case, matter are brought to management’s attention. In this case, management representative shall be involved in group of grievance committee. In case of anonymous complains, HR in liaison with HR Business Head / Deputy CEO will decide on further actions. Action could take the form of verbal warning, written warning, disciplinary action that may result in dismissal. Parties involved will be advised of the action to be taken. Timeline 10 working days from submission of complain shall be allowed for initial response from HR Manager and panning of the first Committee meeting shall it be deemed necessary. All parties involved will participate in the meeting and thus will be informed of major dates and actions. Committee shall set the expected date of complain resolution. 7 YEARS OF OUR PEOPLE Anti-Corruption Principles The Bank has Anti-Bribery, Anti-Corruption and Prevention of the Facilitation of Tax evasion Policy that provides guidance to employees how to recognize and deal with bribery, corruption and tax evasion issues and defines the responsibilities of the employees and those working on behalf of the Bank. TBC Bank Group PLC is incorporated in England and Wales and included in premium listing segment of the Official List of the UK's Financial Conduct Authority and admitted to trading on London Stock Exchange Plc's Main Market for listed securities (the Premium Listing ). TBC Bank Group PLC's main subsidiary JSC TBC Bank is incorporated and conducts its operations in Georgia. JSC TBC Bank is the largest commercial bank in the country which is licensed and regulated by the National Bank of Georgia. The Financial Crime program for TBC Bank Group PLC is therefore based on respective laws of the European Union, United Kingdom and Georgia. Financial Crime Program The Group assumes responsibility to protect its customers, shareholders and society from financial crime and any resulting threat. The Group complies with applicable EU, UK, Georgian and jurisdictional financial crime laws and regulation. It is fully committed to comply with respective applicable regulations and industry best standards. The Group has implemented internal policies, procedures and detailed instructions to prevent itself from being used to facilitate money laundering, financing of terrorism or engage in other unlawful activities such as bribery, corruption or tax evasion. The Group has zero tolerance for financial crime, regulatory breaches and any attempt to circumvent Group's financial crime policies and controls. The Group adheres to the following core principles: To show zero tolerance for facilitation of financial crime and fraud To avoid knowingly conducting business with individuals or entities believed to be engaged in an inappropriate and unlawful behavior To avoid risks that could jeopardize the Group's strategic plans, including activities that could make the Group vulnerable to any type of public or private litigation or enforcement that could be damaging to the Group's reputation and cause deterioration of relationship with regulators To avoid or seize operating any customer segment line, for which the management believes that Group's control mechanisms cannot protect the Group from risks that exceed the tolerance threshold The Group's risk management framework is aimed at ensuring effective processes for Group wide risk management. Risk management is integral to all aspects of the Group's activities and is the responsibility of all staff. Managers at all levels have a particular responsibility to evaluate their risk environment, to put in place appropriate controls and to monitor the effectiveness of those controls. The risk management culture emphasizes careful analysis and management of risk of all business processes. Risk Governance Under the Group's risk management framework, the Board of Directors, through the Risk Committee, sets risk appetite, oversees the establishment of robust enterprise-wide risk management policies and processes, and defines risk limits to guide risk-taking within the Group. 9 The Group has established rules and procedures to treat the escalation of problems with due respect to confidentiality. The process is aimed at revealing potential wrongdoings in a timely manner. Such escalation reports are followed by analysis and respective disciplinary sanctions. Identified breaches of noncompliance are addressed as soon as practicable. Prohibitions The Group has no appetite for clients and contractors who engage in any of the following: Intentional or willfully negligent breaches of law, regulation or policy concerning financial crime and/or fraud Repeated unintentional or repeated accidental breaches of law, regulation or policy concerning financial crime and fraud Misusing accounts for money laundering, financing of terrorism or fraud Facilitating business activities which could be interpreted as a tax crime Refusing to provide sufficient information or documentation requested by the Group The Group is set to conduct business only with reputable counterparties, and/or counterparties whose identities can be reliably determined and verified. The Group does not service the clients engaged in the following business areas: Illegal manufacturers of weapons ,arms and munitions traders Anonymous accounts Pornography Human trafficking Shell Banks Payable through accounts Nested accounts On-line gambling without local on-land presentation Restrictions The Group has enhanced controls in relation to types of industries and jurisdictions as set out below (non-exclusive list) and reserves the right to restrict activities in relation to: Businesses related to forex/binary option Cash intense businesses Payment service providers/money transmitters Political organizations Charities Offshore companies Shell companies Other gambling entities Antiques or precious metal dealers At the very least, the Group may require the individuals and entities falling into above group to disclose additional documents and information for improved understanding of the nature of the business and type of transaction. 10 In case the provided information is not satisfactory for the Group the business relationships may be terminated. Fraud and Corruption The Group has no appetite for any fraud or corruption committed by, or any appearance of fraud or corruption, shown by its staff or third parties acting on behalf of the Group. The Group takes all allegations of suspected fraud or corruption very seriously and responds fully and fairly. Range of actions is implemented with help of skilled analysts and respective IT tools for identification and monitoring illegal or dubious activities. The Group has Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy approved by the Board of the Directors. The Policy prohibits bribery in any form, whether direct or indirect and emphasizes that books and records must be fair and accurate. The Employees are required to ensure that appropriate due diligence and control measures are applied to any third party they engage with to ensure that the parties comply with applicable anti-bribery legislation and regulation. The Group also maintains clear whistleblowing policy and process to ensure that individuals can confidentially and with no fear of retribution report concerns. Financial Crime Policies The Group's written Financial Crime policies and procedures are subject to annual review and represent controlling mechanism to combat money laundering, terrorist financing, facilitation of tax evasion, bribery and corruption and adhere to relevant Sanctions regimes. The Group's AML/CTF, Sanctions, and Anti-Bribery & Corruption policies include: Identification and verification of customers and counterparties Retention of satisfactory evidence from reliable and independent sources on customer/counterparty profile related issues Client classification according to the financial crime risk level Identification of potential financial crime risks relevant to each business area Internal monitoring of customer behavior, as well as transaction monitoring Risk based due diligence procedures at client on boarding, periodic basis and payment on third parties who perform services for or on behalf of the Group Maintaining appropriate records for the period defined by the relevant law Establishing and maintaining Standards for Management information on Financial Crime Provision of a financial crime training and awareness programme Risk Culture The Group recognizes that a strong risk culture, facilitated through regular risk awareness trainings, is an integral part of a good business-wide risk-management. The Group doesn't have an appetite to retain employees who do not possess the basic and sufficient knowledge and awareness of risk mitigation. The Group has a robust staff training program that applies to new and existing employees at all levels within the Group. Employing the risk based approach the trainings are delivered either through the e-learning system, or conducted face to face. The main part of the overall training program is to: 11 Complete post training assessments or attestations Keep detailed records of delivered trainings, post training assessments and attestations Review This Risk Appetite Statement is reviewed annually, or whenever there is a significant change to the Group's operating environment. This review is coordinated by the Compliance Department. Proposed changes to the Risk Appetite Statement are authorized by the Group's Risk, Ethics and Compliance Committee. The Bank assesses risks during the new product approval process, as well as during the revision process of existing products, procedures and systems. Anti-Bribery, Anti-Corruption and Prevention of the Facilitation of Tax evasion Policy covers red flag patterns and higher risk circumstances. The anti-corruption regarding business partners policy covers relationship process with third parties. The Employees are required to ensure that appropriate due diligence and control measures are applied to any third party they engage with to ensure that the parties comply with applicable anti-bribery legislation and regulation. Specific goals in the area of anti-corruption for the upcoming year: Revision of the Policy requirements Update training materials Risk and Control reassessment of certain processes. Implementation: The Policy is approved by the Management The Policy is available for the whole staff on the Bank’s intranet The relevant staff undergoes annual training regarding the Policy requirements The Bank has implemented gift and hospitality register which should be filled in if the cost of the gift /hospitality is above threshold The Compliance approval should be obtained if the cost of the gift /hospitality is above threshold The Compliance approval should be obtained on the sponsorship amount if the amount is above certain threshold The Bank has in place Whistleblowing Policy, according to which the issue regarding corruption should be escalated in a duly manner The Bank’s Code of conduct covers the Policy requirements regarding conflict of interest, acceptance of gift and hospitality The Bank has Whistleblowing Policy. Employees are responsible to escalate the issue through standard reporting lines, where standard reporting lines could not be used, through anonymous lines (web based form, anonymous hotline). The Compliance department is in charge of follow up on reported cases. In certain cases the issue could be reported to the ABC Committee for further decision. The information on number of reported cases and final decisions are reported to the Board. Training on the Policy is obligatory and applies to new and existing employees at all levels 12 of the Bank. Trainings are conducted through the e-learning system, but for employees that are involved in the activities that pose an increased bribery risk to the Bank, training is conducted face to face. The bank has in place process of controlling: Overall expenses of the Business Lines (departments) Employee accounts to identify any suspicious transactions Management is responsible for: The full implementation of the Bank's Anti-Bribery, AntiCorruption and Prevention of the Facilitation of Tax Evasion Policy Periodically reviewing the Bank’s AntiBribery, AntiCorruption Policy and Prevention of the Facilitation of Tax Evasion Ensuring that all staff are informed and fully trained about the requirements set out in AntiBribery, AntiCorruption and Prevention of the Facilitation of Tax Evasion Policy 13
