Shaping tomorrow Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Pearson’s 2017 Sustainability report Introduction Pillar 3: Be a trusted partner 52 Chief executive’s introduction 2 Respect and support our people, customers, Welcome from our VP, Sustainability and and communities 53 social innovation 3 Protect our natural environment 68 2017 Sustainability highlights 4 Build a sustainable supply chain 72 Sustainability in action 6 Our business 8 Governance 76 What shapes our approach to sustainability 9 Our 2020 Sustainability Plan 10 Appendix Strategic alignment of our business model and About our reporting 80 2020 Sustainability Plan 11 Awards and recognition 81 Key stakeholders 12 Performance data 83 Progress on 2017 targets 90 Progress towards our 2020 Sustainability Plan Targets for 2018 and beyond 94 Pillar 1: Reach more learners 16 Material issues 96 Improve access to and affordability of products and services 17 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), Collaborate to reach underserved learners 30 and UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) content index 99 Pillar 2: Shape the future of learning 38 Notes 108 Build skills that foster employability and inclusive economic growth 39 Promote education for sustainable development 45 Engage in multi-stakeholder research, dialogue, and collective action to solve global challenges 49 01 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix We believe that quality education is the key to shaping a better tomorrow. It can create better lives for individuals, greater equality within society, and a more prosperous, sustainable world. Now more than ever, the world needs everyone to be a lifelong learner. Today’s learners are the architects of tomorrow. By enabling better learning and helping to remove barriers to a quality education, we empower learners to be their best selves and, in turn, build a better life for themselves and those around them. 02 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Chief executive’s introduction “We recognize the role sustainability plays in driving our long-term growth and in building a more connected and tolerant society.” Two years ago, we made a commitment to When it comes to improving access to embed sustainability within every part of education, US colleges and universities our business by 2020. We did this because participating in our inclusive access program we recognize the role sustainability plays in reported their students collectively saved driving our long-term growth and in building more than $100m on course materials in a more connected and tolerant society. 2017 alone. Our new corporate education program – AcceleratED Pathways – partners Our 2020 Sustainability Plan and with employers to help their workers obtain commitment to listening to our stakeholders GEDs and online degrees. We also funded has helped us to understand and advance our first round of internal ventures designed the social and environmental issues that to help underserved communities through are most important to us as the world’s our Tomorrow’s Markets Incubator. learning company. These are just a few of the achievements At Pearson, our mission is to deliver from last year. In this report, you will find high-quality education that empowers many more, where we have put our values people to progress in their lives through into practice, removed barriers to education, learning, and I’m proud of the progress and embraced innovation and partnerships. we made in 2017. We know there is more to do. We are In a world disrupted by automation, continuously looking for ways to improve robotics, and artificial intelligence, we will all our practices to more deeply integrate social need to become lifelong learners to adapt and environmental issues into our and thrive in a changing global economy. operations and supply chain – in line with That’s why last year we teamed up with the our commitment to the ten principles of Oxford Martin School and Nesta to produce the United Nations Global Compact. The Future of Skills: Employment in 2030 report, which combines the best of human By working together we can shape a expertise with the power of machine better tomorrow and realize the promise learning to understand trends and make of the United Nations Sustainable more nuanced forecasts than previously Development Goals. possible about jobs in the future. The good news is the future of work is brighter than conventional wisdom suggests – but only if we give everyone the opportunity to gain the knowledge and John Fallon Chief executive officer, Pearson skills they will need to be successful. 03 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Welcome from our VP, Sustainability and social innovation “Our 2020 Sustainability Plan helps us focus on enabling learners from all backgrounds to reach their potential, while creating long-term value for both our business and our world.” As an education company, Pearson helps The demand for accessible, affordable, learners improve their lives and, in turn, and effective education is greater than positively impact their communities and ever. This year, our Tomorrow’s Markets society. It is an important and compelling Incubator provided funding, coaching, responsibility that inspires me every day. and support for employee teams to pilot new products and business models for Our 2020 Sustainability Plan helps us focus low-income and underserved markets. on enabling learners from all backgrounds As part of our Every Child Learning to reach their potential, while creating partnership, we launched a new app in long-term value for both our business and schools in Jordan to help refugees and our world. It drives us to find innovative vulnerable children continue to learn in ways to reach new markets by helping times of transition. Looking ahead, we learners overcome barriers, stay on the began research to inform enterprise-wide cutting-edge of the changing education strategies on access to learning, and landscape, and earn the trust of our education for sustainable development. stakeholders. By aligning with the UN Sustainable Development Goals, the Plan Transparency and stakeholder engagement ensures we think about business success remain a priority. Our enhanced reporting in the context of our wider responsibilities practices have helped us build trust with as part of the global community. stakeholders. Since 2015, we have followed the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) I’m proud of our accomplishments, and guidelines, and this year we transitioned the progress we have made toward more to the new GRI Standards. In 2018, we will deeply integrating responsible practices begin to develop the next iteration of into our operations. In 2017 we conducted our Sustainability Plan, and the next a human rights review of our business, generation of targets that will challenge us and set the course to take forward its to continuously improve our performance findings. For example, we introduced a in line with stakeholder needs. new global Editorial Policy to ensure all Pearson-produced educational content The possibilities are exciting. With the is relevant and inclusive. And we took full support and energy of the Pearson steps to integrate additional social and executive team and employees, we continue environmental considerations into our to advance our goal to put sustainability supply chain and procurement processes. at the heart of our business. I am confident Our first gender pay report for the UK was our efforts will contribute to shaping a released in April 2018, with aspirations to better tomorrow. extend reporting worldwide by 2020. Amanda Gardiner VP, Sustainability & social innovation, Pearson 04 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix 2017 Sustainability highlights Improved access Encouraged innovation Advanced education Raised awareness to education for for low-income learners in emergencies and mobilized action disadvantaged groups Funded and coached employees Launched a new mobile learning on illiteracy Through products and services to develop new business models app and programs in three Shed light on adult illiteracy like our developmental product that support underserved schools in Jordan through our in the US and UK through portfolio, MyPedia, Connections learners through the Tomorrow’s Every Child Learning partnership Project Literacy’s “Give Your Academy, and the AcceleratED Markets Incubator, and reached with Save the Children. Word” campaign. Pathways program, we helped over 650,000 learners in See p30 See p34 learners overcome barriers to six countries through Pearson improve their learning outcomes. Affordable Learning Fund Empowered girls See p17 (PALF) portfolio companies. and women See p28-29 Awarded 1,037 BTEC qualifications to women in Zimbabwe and Ghana as part of our partnership with Camfed. See p32 Explored the future of skills Released new research on the future of skills with Oxford University and Nesta. See p39 Developed thought Promoted the Reduced our leadership UN Sustainable environmental impact Produced research on social Development Goals Met our goal to reduce our innovation with Business Fights CEO John Fallon served as a greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Poverty; Promising Practices commissioner on the Business by 50% from a 2009 baseline. in Refugee Education with and Sustainable Development See p68 Save the Children and UNHCR; Commission, which in 2017 a Guide to Becoming a 21st launched a report showing the Century Teacher with UNICEF, enormous business opportunity Point B and Mawlamyine to achieve the SDGs. University; and Towards a See p50 Reskilling Revolution: A Future of Jobs for All with the World Economic Forum, Boston Consulting Group, and other partners. See p50-51 05 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Supported Strengthened Supported global and gender equality our commitment to local communities Released our first gender pay inclusive content Made over $2m in Kiva loans to report in the United Kingdom Introduced a global Editorial 43,000+ micro-entrepreneurs and continue to work towards Policy to ensure content is in 82 countries, and mobilized our target to report in our appropriate, effective, and 1,000+ employees in 15 cities for other geographies. relevant for all learners, for the North America Volunteer Day. See p64 21st century and beyond. See p65-67 See p59 Completed a human rights assessment Reviewed how our operations, products and services, and the activities of our business partners impact people inside and outside of Pearson. See p53 Upgraded our reporting Received awards Our reporting follows the new Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. Corporate Knights World’s FTSE4Good (6th year) 100 Most Sustainable Companies (4th year) Dow Jones Sustainability Index Human Rights Campaign (6th year) Corporate Equality Index (5th year) 06 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Sustainability in action Preparing low-income To reach more learners, we strive to improve access to education for those 93% and first-generation who need it most. At Hennepin of eligible program participants are currently Technical College in Minnesota in enrolled in college learners for college in the US, Lisa Roney directs a summer Minnesota, US enrichment program for low-income Read more about how we are working to and first-generation high school improve access to and affordability of our students with the potential to succeed products and services. in higher education. Using Pearson’s See p17 ACCUPLACER/MyLab Foundational Skills, the program aims to bolster students’ academic progression and prepare them for careers. “Instead of losing academic skills during the summer break, our students are strengthening core academic skills that will enable them to succeed in their next academic year curriculum, to graduate high school on time, and to demonstrate readiness for college.” Lisa Roney Director of TRiO – educational talent search, Hennepin Technical College Pearson works with Save the Children on the “Every Child Learning” partnership to Supporting access deliver high-quality education to Syrian to education in refugees and host community children in Jordan. The partnership has three pillars emergencies in of activities: investment in the research the Middle East and development of new digital and programmatic solutions, program funding to meet immediate needs in Jordan, and advocacy and awareness. £4.5m committed from 2015-2019 Read more about the partnership. See p30 Through Every Child Learning, we are helping Khaled*, 11, to achieve his dream of becoming a dentist * name changed to protect identity 07 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Improving access to education and career advancement for underserved working Providing education adult populations is a critical element of opportunities to reaching more learners. Pearson has partnered with Brinker International, Brinker employees one of the world’s leading casual dining in the US restaurant companies, to provide a comprehensive educational program, Best You EDU. The program offers three components: foundational skills and English as a second language (ESL), GED preparation, and associate degrees – all provided at no cost to the employee. Read more about the partnership. See p25 “The confidence that education provides is what encourages our team members to achieve the next step in their career.” Rick Badgley Chief people officer, Brinker Through the Tomorrow’s Markets Incubator, we support teams of Pearson Addressing youth employees to develop new products unemployment in and services, as well as overall business models, to bring high-quality education South Africa to learners in low‑income and underserved communities. One team has developed Project Boost, a recruitment, job preparation, and integration service in South Africa. Boost aims to address the unemployment challenge for low-income youth, while making recruitment of high-quality candidates more efficient for potential employers. Read more about Project Boost and the Tomorrow’s Markets Incubator. See p28 Read more about our work on 21st century skills and employability. See p39 08 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Our business Pearson is the world’s learning company, providing a range of products and services to empower people across different learning stages to make measurable progress in their lives. We operate in 70 markets worldwide with a focus on those shown on right North America Core markets Growth markets Sales Sales Sales £2,929m £815m £769m Our largest market including Our international business Our growth markets in emerging all 50 US states and Canada. in established and mature and developing economies, education markets including with investment priorities in the UK, Australia, Italy, France, Brazil, India, South Africa, Germany, Spain, Poland, Mexico, Hong Kong and China, Singapore, Malaysia, and Vietnam. and the Middle East. We provide content, assessment, and digital services to schools, colleges, and universities, as well as professional and vocational education to learners to build the modern skills they need to succeed in their work and in life. Courseware Assessment Services Sales Sales Sales 49% 30% 21% We provide world-leading We provide assessment We provide integrated educational content for use services to measure and services that help educational in both traditional and digital validate learner progress, institutions deliver greater learning environments. and to certify competency. student success. 09 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix What shapes our approach to sustainability Our values and behaviors Brave Imaginative Decent Accountable S  how determination and  ssess complex issues from A  honest, transparent, Be T  ake ownership of own work courage in the face of multiple angles and address and straightforward when and drive to successful obstacles and setbacks problems that do not have working with others completion and closure  ffer ideas or opinions O clear solutions or outcomes  uild trusting relationships B I dentify and involve others without fear of criticism O  ffer creative ideas and with a broad range of people to accomplish individual or professional risk innovative solutions inside and outside Pearson and group outcomes  et high standards for own S to solve problems and L  ook for and include diverse Follow through on commitments and others’ performances address opportunities viewpoints and talents T  ake a broad perspective to identify opportunities and solutions Our material issues Our commitment to the UN Sustainable Development Goals We put the issues that are most relevant to our stakeholders We are aligning with the UN Sustainable Development and to the sustainability of our business at the heart of our Goals (SDGs), which were adopted by UN Member States work. Through a comprehensive stakeholder engagement to eliminate poverty, reduce inequality, and protect our process, we identified nine issues we believe are most planet. We have prioritized Goal 4 on education, Goal 8 material at this time. on decent jobs, and Goal 10 on inequality as areas where we think we can make the most impact through our Competitiveness Economic business strategy, activities, and partnerships. of digital products empowerment Data privacy and Access security £ Affordability ! Security, health, 21st century skills and safety 4 Corporate governance  HG emissions and G climate change 17 Goals Learn more about Pearson’s Learn more about our stakeholders and how we materiality assessment. engage them. See p96 See p12 10 8 10 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Our 2020 Sustainability Plan Through our 2020 Sustainability Plan, our products and services, and the work that we do every day, we empower learners to shape tomorrow. Our three focus areas – be a trusted partner, reach more learners, and shape the future of learning – drive our commitment to integrating social and environmental issues into every aspect of our business. Through our plan, we foster innovation and growth, strengthen our operations, and contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 1 Reach more learners 2 Shape the future of learning 3 Be a trusted partner Improve access to and affordability B  uild skills that foster employability R  espect and support our people, of products and services and inclusive economic growth customers, and communities C  ollaborate to reach P  romote education for Protect our natural environment underserved learners sustainable development Build a sustainable supply chain  ngage in multi-stakeholder E research, dialogue, and collective action to solve global challenges How we shape tomorrow Better World Our personalized, flexible, and engaging products and services enable better learning – and we Better Life help the people who need it most overcome barriers to education. A high-quality learning experience helps students and educators be their best selves and enjoy a better life. Learnin tter g Through education, we empower learners to build a Be better, more prosperous, and sustainable world. “Sustainability is a fundamental part of everything Pearson does.” Linda Lorimer Member of the board, Pearson 11 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Strategic alignment of our business model and 2020 Sustainability Plan In the chapters that follow, we demonstrate how our business model and 2020 Sustainability Plan support each other to advance a set of economic, social, and environmental objectives that create value for stakeholders by growing our business and contributing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Business priorities 2020 Sustainability Plan 1 Grow market share through digital transformation Reach more learners 2 Invest in structural growth markets Shape the future of learning 3 Become simpler and more efficient Be a trusted partner Our impacts Economic Social Environmental Revenue and earnings High-quality education  ood labor practices and G G  lobal GHG Jobs and income A  ccessible and working conditions emissions reductions Investor returns affordable learning Diversity and equality Forest conservation Inclusive economic growth E  mployability and Social inclusion and peace S  ustainable production 21st century skills and consumption Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals Elements of our 2020 Sustainability Plan  oal 4: G G  oal 8:  oal 10: G Quality education Decent work and Reduce economic growth inequalities Improving access to and affordability of our products and services (p17) Collaborating to reach underserved learners (p30) Build skills that foster employability and inclusive economic growth (p39) Promote education for sustainable development (p45) Engage in multi-stakeholder research, dialogue, and collective action to solve global challenges (p49) Respect and support our people, customers, and communities (p53) Protect our natural environment (p68) Build a sustainable supply chain (p72) 12 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Key stakeholders Identifying our key stakeholders We are committed to listening to our stakeholders and We worked with a leading sustainability responding to their needs. We believe their perspectives organization to identify and prioritize our key stakeholders, and we continue offer valuable insights for improving our business, to strive to find the most effective implementing our Sustainability Plan, and improving channels for interacting with each of these groups. We participate in a number our products and services for those who need them most. of multi-stakeholder initiatives that provide valuable opportunities to engage and collaborate with stakeholders across sectors (see p49). How we engage our key stakeholders STAKEHOLDER GROUP Customers Learners Employees Our business depends on building strong, Our learners are in school, higher education, We have over 30,000 employees in over KEY CONCERNS long-lasting relationships with a variety of vocational training, and continuing professional 70 countries around the world, who are a customers, including governments, educational education. They have different nationalities driving force behind our success. As brand institutions, and individual teachers and learners. and backgrounds, and their learning needs are ambassadors, it is critical that they continue Together, we can evolve education to meet the just as diverse. They expect modern, engaging, to embody our purpose and values, and help needs of learners today and into the future. Our and personalized educational experiences that us continuously be better. customers expect the best from our products – allow them to be successful at every stage of that they deliver reliable, engaging, and seamless their lives. interactive experiences and learner success. At the same time, our products need to be accessible to reach as many students as possible. We use a wide range of methods to We are continually interacting with learners We listen to employees through virtual town HOW WE ENGAGE gather feedback from customers, including to understand how the consumption of learning halls with senior leaders, webinars, and a regular face-to-face interviews, surveys, usability is changing and how we can better meet those call hosted by our chief executive. Our employees testing, and efficacy research. needs. For example, we regularly review data also exchange ideas, expertise, and information See customer insights function, p57. and conduct surveys to understand changing through our online collaboration tool, Neo. Our sales representatives also engage with demographics, attitudes, and buying behavior We have focused on communications around our customers regularly, and we receive feedback relative to education. We also seek input on business strategy and ensuring that everyone through social media as well as at conferences. trends, as well as product development, understands how their individual jobs contribute from our Pearson Student Ambassadors to Pearson’s goals to empower human progress and Student Insiders. We regularly have through learning. conversations through social media and To better support our employees, we are often involve our students in internal and increasing our work on diversity and inclusion, external panels at conferences. and engagement and development programs. See diversity and inclusion, p63. See employee engagement, p61. 13 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Key stakeholders STAKEHOLDER GROUP Teachers and educators Media Suppliers Educators are vital to helping learners make The media and journalists play an important Our business is supported by thousands KEY CONCERNS progress in their lives. They are looking for role in analyzing and reporting on business of suppliers, from paper producers and more engaging ways to connect with students and corporate behavior, education, and printers to digital device manufacturers and and seek more timely feedback on student sustainability. They also help us to raise software developers. progress to set them up for success. awareness about our business, share our We believe that working with suppliers who They are important customers, users, and stories, and engage other stakeholders. share our commitments to international stakeholders for Pearson. And, many Pearson standards for human rights and environmental employees were or are educators. stewardship strengthens our supply chain and reduces our business costs and risks. We see educators as our partners on the We work to help the media understand who Our suppliers agree to our Business Partner HOW WE ENGAGE journey to shape the future of learning. we are as a company and how we are working Code of Conduct and terms of business, We collaborate with educators on thought to improve lives through learning and advance which outline our expectations for responsible leadership and product development in order the UN Sustainable Development Goals. business practices. We conduct due diligence to give the next generation of learners the tools We maintain bilateral relationships, respond and regularly engage in dialogue, training, they need to be successful. We value input from to media requests, and develop external audits, and remediation with our suppliers educators who are working with students of all materials for traditional and social media. when needed. We collaborate with industry abilities and at all stages in the learning journey. working groups to improve sustainability in our We also want to celebrate the stories of teachers supply chain. We also have a Mentor-Protégé who are making a difference for learners. Program to support our diverse suppliers. See our Univision partnership, p37. See Build a sustainable supply chain, p72. See Mentor-Protégé Program, p75. Spotlight: Celebrating educator voices In the US In the UK Around the world Pearson is a sponsor of the National Teacher For many years Pearson has sponsored Pearson celebrates great English language of the Year program, the oldest and most the Pearson Teacher Awards. The Awards teachers who have developed innovative prestigious national honors program recognize and celebrate excellence in solutions to common classroom problems for teachers. To empower great teachers education, honoring outstanding teachers with our Pearson ELT Teacher Award. through professional development and policy who help students achieve their potential. Reviewing more than 1,300 teachers, engagement, the program brings together The award ceremony is broadcast as the expert panel selected five regional state teachers of the year from the 50 states, “Britain’s Classroom Heroes” on BBC2. first place winners for 2017. territories, District of Columbia, and the In addition, with the help of LMKco, Pearson Department of Defense Education Activity engaged British teachers as well as school through a year of activities. In 2017, Pearson leaders, experts, and parents to better helped the teachers of the year prepare for understand and address their concerns media interviews, amplified their stories, about educational assessment. The resulting and, most importantly, listened to their needs. report, Testing the Waters, sets out clear steps for how assessment can underpin, rather than undermine, great classroom teaching. 14 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Key stakeholders STAKEHOLDER GROUP Governments Shareholders Business and other education and investors partners agenda-setters Given our deep expertise in educational We are accountable and report quarterly to We work with a variety of commercial KEY CONCERNS research, programs, and new approaches to our shareholders, which include institutional partners, ranging from large technology supporting learners throughout their lifetime, and retail investors in the UK, US, and many companies to education start-ups. we participate in national and local government other countries. Our business partnerships strive to leverage policy discussions to share our perspective Investors increasingly seek better information and make the most of each organization’s and inform their deliberations. and more reliable data about how companies unique resources and capabilities. are addressing sustainability. We are working to meet these needs by providing more relevant information, goals, targets, and key performance indicators (KPIs). We use our government affairs professionals We respond to requests for environmental, We primarily engage in bilateral meetings and HOW WE ENGAGE to share research and information with social, and governance information from relationships with our business partners and stakeholders and policymakers and advocate investors and raters, including the Dow Jones seek to provide them with relevant and for equity in education. We do not set policy; Sustainability Index (DJSI) and FTSE4Good. transparent information about our company. rather, we inform government officials on Additional information about engaging policy considerations that support greater shareholders can be found in our Annual Report. access to high-quality learning materials, technologies and services for learners. We also interact with governments through various multi-stakeholder groups. See multi-stakeholder groups, p49. 15 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Key stakeholders STAKEHOLDER GROUP Parents International, non-governmental, and non-profit organizations Parents want to see their children succeed in We listen carefully to the insights of KEY CONCERNS school and in life. Research shows that while organizations working to improve education parents want to help their children progress for vulnerable and marginalized groups, in school, some struggle to understand how as well as those looking at the impact of federal, state, and local policies and curriculum, business in society. and factors beyond academics (like health and wellness or social and emotional development) impact their child’s academic progress. Pearson sponsors the Parent Toolkit, which is In addition to maintaining bilateral relationships HOW WE ENGAGE produced by NBC News, to support the needs with key organizations, we participate in a of parents. The Parent Toolkit is a free resource number of multi-stakeholder initiatives that designed to help parents navigate a student’s aim to strengthen global education systems. educational journey from pre-kindergarten These relationships allow us to share through high school and beyond. Learn more experiences, capabilities, and perspectives; at: www.parenttoolkit.com respond quickly to opportunities and criticisms; Pearson also curates and creates content to and help shape the global education debate. support parents through its social media See multi-stakeholder initiatives, p49. accounts on Facebook and Twitter. Pearson’s @KidsAndLearning channels bring in experts to cover timely topics on Facebook Live, share relevant news and third-party content across the channels, and provide opportunities to listen and learn about parents’ needs. 16 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Our commitments: Reach more Improve access to and affordability of products and servicesp17 Collaborate to reach underserved learnersp30 learners We want our products and services to help We believe everyone deserves to be their best self. more learners make progress – regardless of their income level, the way they learn, or We work to identify and remove barriers to education their background. Reaching more learners helps us to grow our business and supports for those most in need, both through our core business our commitment to quality education for and our partnerships, to enable learners to reach their all, decent jobs, and equality in line with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. full potential. Our continued commitment is to better address the needs of vulnerable groups through our products, services, and partnerships. Helping improve access to quality education for a broader spectrum of learners contributes to stimulating innovation, developing new markets, and strengthening our performance. The potential to change our world and business for the better is clear. With regard to our products and services, we are taking steps to better understand the barriers underserved learners are facing and foster innovation to refine or create new products and delivery channels that will help learners of all stages and backgrounds overcome their challenges. We know that increasing our digital reach is an opportunity to reach more learners globally and improve outcomes. It is therefore a key element of our business strategy. In addition, through partnerships involving non‑governmental organizations, teachers, education experts, governments, and others, we are also tackling some of the biggest education challenges related to gender inequality, conflicts and emergencies, and illiteracy. 17 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Improve access to and affordability of products and services We develop products and services designed to meet learners where they are. We look for new and innovative ways to provide inclusive and equitable quality education for all, in line with UN Sustainable Development Goal 4 (quality education). In 2017, we continued to advance our first-generation college students, commitment to improve access and students who do not speak the dominant affordability for key groups who are language, people with disabilities, particularly underserved in terms of underrepresented minorities, and those accessing and completing education. facing personal constraints, such as the Our efforts cover our products and need to balance education with work services at the primary, secondary, higher and family responsibilities. education, and adult learning stages. Girls and women are another key group we In order to both scale up our positive impact want to reach. Our products and services on society and better serve our customers, are used by millions of girls and women we are taking steps to better understand every day around the world, providing a and respond to dramatic changes in learning unique opportunity and responsibility and global and local education systems for us to help them thrive. Girls’ and around the world, as well as the unique women’s empowerment is one of the most needs of the diverse set of learners that powerful drivers of equitable growth we serve. We are conducting research, and development. It helps lift families and developing insights, and refining and communities out of poverty, creates jobs creating new products and services to and income, and increases demand for empower learners to overcome barriers products and services. to access, affordability, and success. If women participated in the economy When it comes to affordability in particular, at the level of men, it would add Many of our customers have goals to while often small in relation to overall $28 trillion reach underserved groups, so by supporting 1 education costs, the cost of course materials those learners, we are often helping can have a significant impact on students’ customers achieve their objectives. ability to prepare for and successfully or 26% to annual global GDP in 2025 New technologies are playing a key role in complete courses. In higher education, bringing education and opportunities to courseware costs can also make up more people in more places – whether a larger share of expenses in cases where through content that can be accessed tuition and other costs are subsidized anywhere, or ways of delivering digital by governments or special programs. content that reduce costs. We have introduced new offerings to reduce the costs of our courseware As we look toward the future, the offerings and continue to work on demographics of learners around the developing more affordable options world are changing – and that means so for all learners. are our customers. Some of these include low-income students, rural students, 18 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Improve access to and affordability of products and services Access and affordability in US higher education Out of 17m students in US higher education… 2 8.3m 3 5.7m 4 3m 5 6.1m 6 4.9m 7 come from are ﬁrst generation speak English as a are underare over low-income college students second language represented age 24 families or are bilingual minorities 6.5m 8 5m 9 2m 10 2.5m 11 3m 12 attend 2-year work partare enrolled have are single institutions or full-time exclusively disabilities mothers online 19 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Improve access to and affordability of products and services Support disadvantaged groups through primary and secondary school products and services We are helping more students progress in primary and secondary education and earn degrees that enable them to continue their education and get better jobs. We are also evaluating how our products and services can help improve progress for students who thrive in different learning environments, need more support, or come from disadvantaged backgrounds. Our youngest learners are experiencing education in different ways. They are exposed to technology much earlier than previous generations and are increasingly on the go. We are expanding our digital Another example of a product supporting Advance access to and portfolio for primary and secondary school underserved groups is MyPedia in India, students to better meet these needs. which is showing positive results for affordability of higher Connections Academy and MyPedia are low-income learners. Designed to involve education products two examples of how our digital products and services can have a positive impact the full academic ecosystem – teachers, school leaders, parents, and students – and services on underserved groups in the US and an MyPedia includes print and digital content, Our higher education business helps emerging market. online assessments, and a host of other colleges and universities expand access services like support visits for teachers, to education and opportunities for more Pearson’s Connections Academy is a tuition parent orientations, and preand postlearners by developing and supporting a free, fully‑accredited, US-based online skill mapping. wide variety of online education programs. public school for students in grades K-12. The program offers an inclusive, MyPedia’s HomeApp supports students Our digital products contribute to collaborative learning experience that to learn at home and involves their parents. expanding access to college courses and meets the unique needs of learners with a The app allows access to in-class videos online degree programs. Personalized, wide variety of backgrounds and abilities. and practice assessments. It works offline, adaptive solutions in our MyLab & An alternative to brick-and-mortar public without an internet connection, so students Mastering online homework, tutorial, and schools, Connections provides a valuable without internet at home are able to use it. assessment products adjust to the level option for students who are not finding and needs of individual learners and help success in the traditional classroom. Over 600 schools and 200,000 learners them better absorb course material, Students with serious health issues, are using MyPedia. Using MyPedia has understand difficult concepts, keep pace in who have been bullied, or are struggling helped one group of students improve their courses, and achieve their goals. Digital or advanced academically: all these can their overall scores by four points platforms also support learning on-the-go benefit from attending a Connections between 2015-16 and 2016-17. from mobile devices, which can be especially Academy online school. beneficial for adult learners (see p22). Our efficacy research found that The cost of college, especially in the US, is Connections Academy students perform a challenge for many learners. Our digital just as well in math and reading on state products contribute to making education tests as similar students at traditional more affordable. As we transition to schools and that students at Connections a platform-based approach to developing Academy schools statistically outperformed our products, we are creating internal similar students at other virtual schools in efficiencies that will lead to lower prices reading proficiency on state assessments. for customers and learners. In 2017, we embarked on two projects, which continue in 2018, that are gathering insights on how to better support underserved groups. 20 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Improve access to and affordability of products and services First, we are analyzing the needs of Developmental products Online learning services underserved populations in the context Our developmental products are designed to We collaborate with partner institutions to of a larger research project that will look support students who have not yet achieved develop new programs and approaches to at the changing face of learners globally, the levels of math and writing proficiency reaching prospective students and guiding including how they use technology, and needed to take full credit college courses. them through enrollment. In many cases, explore opportunities to address important we provide ongoing student support and needs where there are gaps. To help these students refresh and retention services, from registration to strengthen their skills, we have a suite of graduation. We also support faculty by developmental math and developmental helping to design online course curricula English products that include both digital and providing specialized training to create 74% and print content. We also offer MyLab Foundational Skills, which is often used and deliver successful online courses. outside of regular courses, such as Inclusive access delivery channels of our potential customers believe bootcamps before school starts, to help In the US, we are working to make higher it is important for Pearson to students avoid taking remedial courses. education courseware more affordable invest in programs that support We are investing in capabilities and content through our Inclusive Access program education for underserved or improvements to help make these products and our rental program. disadvantaged learners. more adaptable to individual learners’ Inclusive Access provides every student Source: Pearson brand tracker needs in order to help accelerate their with access to affordable, high-quality digital progress in getting ready for college. At the course materials and tools on the first day of A second project aims to understand same time, many university systems are class, better preparing them for each term. and measure how Pearson is reaching changing their approach to developmental disadvantaged populations through education and we are working to adjust our our higher education business in the US. products to support this changing market. We are working to identify and understand the needs of different groups of underserved learners with a goal to develop insights that our business can use to help better support them and our customers in higher education. Customer spotlight: Inclusive Access results MyLab Foundational Skills At the University of Iowa13 At Auburn University14 at Rio Salado College Over the past two years, students enrolled in General Chemistry, one of several courses $1m By assessing reading, writing, math, cumulatively saved by students through the participating in the Inclusive Access program and digital literacy skills and targeting Inclusive Access program since fall 2014. at University of Iowa, have gained instant skill gaps with personalized learning access to Mastering Chemistry and an eText objectives, MyLab Foundational Skills is designed to help students prepare and saved over $146,000, a 47% discount 2,185 compared to the national price of Mastering students projected to opt into Inclusive themselves to enter college and careers. Chemistry and an accompanying eText. Access during spring 2017 would otherwise At Rio Salado College, where more not have purchased course materials, Pearson Inclusive Access has enabled than half of the student body relies on according to survey data. students to begin working on course federal Pell grant assistance and 73% assignments before the semes­ter start: are enrolled part-time, research showed that mastering more learning objectives in MyLab Foundational Skills was associated 44% of students began work on Mastering with higher course grades. Chemistry assignments before the first class session; 70% of students began work by the first class session (compared to 2% in 2014); and 88% of students began by the second class session (compared to 42% in 2014). 21 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Improve access to and affordability of products and services Educator spotlight: Lisa Roney helps prepare high school students for college Students in the TRiO program often fall behind ”We are achieving our program in credits, struggle to finish high school and goals. Instead of losing may not envision themselves attending a post-secondary institution. Director Roney academic skills during the designed the six-week summer enrichment summer break, our students program to bolster students’ academic progression and offer a continuity of career are strengthening core preparation and advising during the summer break. Licensed teachers and advisers guide academic skills that will enable students through the curriculum; them to succeed in their next ACCUPLACER/MyLab Foundational Skills, Lisa Roney directs a summer enrichment is the primary courseware, supplemented academic year curriculum, program at Hennepin Technical College in with outside readings according to grade level. to graduate high school on Minnesota for high school students eligible Students in the program achieved acrossfor a year-long TRiO program. TRiO is a type the-board skills gains in reading, writing, time, and to demonstrate of federal outreach and student services and math as measured by ACCUPLACER program designed to identify and provide readiness for college.” services for individuals who are low-income diagnostic preand post-tests. and/or first generation with the potential to 93% Lisa Roney, Director of TRiO – educational talent search, Hennepin Technical College succeed in college. The summer enrichment program is run on a separate grant and includes only a subset of the students Director of eligible program participants Roney serves during the academic year. are currently enrolled in college. The program is particularly important in her area. Federal data indicate that Minnesota ranked last in four-year graduation rates for Latino and American Indian students, second to last for African American students, and near the bottom for low-income students.15 Using data and analytics to support at-risk students Our North America Higher Education Data Evidence to date suggests promising outcomes and Analytics Services team works with in the pilot program: course administrators to provide actionable C  ampuses of the school involved in the dashboards to help identify and intervene pilot have averaged 23% higher pass rates early with at-risk students. The team also compared with a non-participating campus supports customers in developing predictive of the school. models forecasting whether a student is on  tudent-faculty interactions increased S track to complete a course, by drawing data considerably with the introduction of the from multiple institutional sources and early alert dashboard, with evidence systems when possible. suggesting more faculty interactions result As one example, the team partnered with a in better student performance. community college to pilot a plan to improve T  he integrated data services approach has the quality of developmental math courses, ensured educational data is meaningful, increase student-faculty interaction, intervene actionable, and relevant for both faculty early with at-risk students, and support more and campus leaders. data-driven decision making. 22 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Improve access to and affordability of products and services Inclusive Access enables institutions to We are also reducing prices on our e-book Technology can support adults in unique deliver high-quality digital course materials rentals and have announced a new rental ways. We have found that over two-thirds and tools, including eBooks, MyLab & pilot program for print textbooks. Students of adult learners enrolled and working Mastering, and Revel, which saves students will have significant savings on more than toward a degree today are using online-only up to 70% on their digital course materials 2,000 e-book titles and will still be able to programs or some combination of online over new print materials. With access to rent them through trusted online retailers. and in-person classes. Online products help course materials from day one, students students learn in smaller, bite-sized chunks have more time to prepare for class, keep up Support adult and and shorter time periods, so they are able with their assignments, and achieve their professional learners to carve out a few minutes from their busy academic goals. Educators also gain days or make use of transition times like valuable insights into students’ learning Whether learning on the job, continuing commuting when they would not otherwise activity through access to data that enables professional education, or returning to be able to study. Mobile access is valuable them to continuously track and assess school later in life, adults are a key priority for learners who do not have a computer. students’ progress. for our access and affordability work. A recent Pearson study found that for the Currently, more than 400 institutions trust majority of adult learners, flexibility in how Inclusive Access to help improve retention they take classes is key to their success. rates and drive down the overall cost of a While they are busy with work and other college degree. obligations, they know that taking the next In 2017, we committed to enable 3 million step in their education can be the key to students to access more affordable digital improve their incomes, open new doors, course materials from the first day of class and build better lives for their families. by 2019. Already, 1.5 million students are in an Inclusive Access course, which represents $157m in total cost savings on course materials through Inclusive Access. What adult learners want What stands in their way 30% 79% Job advancement Time commitment 36% 80% Better family life Inflexible class scheduling 80% 46% Tuition and other costs Improved earning potential Source: Adult Learners Sharpening Employability Skills for a Changing Workplace: A Study on Adult Learner Motivations and Expectations in 2016, https://www. pearson.com/us/professional/ products-services/managededucation-strategies/acceleratedpathways.html 23 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Improve access to and affordability of products and services GED In 2016 the GED test debuted two new These programs are saving GED graduates When the computer-based GED was college-related performance levels backed time and money as they move more revamped in 2014, it was developed by the American Council on Education’s quickly into and through college programs. to help adult learners be better prepared College Credit Program. Nationally, GED graduates who score at for college, career training programs, the College Ready levels or higher are Scores at the GED College Ready level or better paying jobs. The test measures equivalent to the top 27% of graduating indicate that a student has demonstrated critical-thinking and problem-solving high school seniors. the skills to start college-level courses and skills, and it is the only test fully aligned should be able to bypass a placement test Adult learners are in a strong position to state and national college and career and developmental education courses in to compete with traditional high school readiness standards. that subject. graduates for middle-skill jobs that are Online test registration allows test takers to projected to be created over the next Scores at the GED College Ready + Credit schedule convenient testing appointments, two decades. level indicate that the test taker has and most test takers can access their score demonstrated college-level skills and GED graduates are significantly more likely report within one hour of finishing the test. knowledge in one or more subjects and to be prepared for, enroll in, and persist The enhanced GED test program offers a could be eligible for up to ten college credit in college and career training programs variety of online study tools and guides to hours. More than 200 colleges and according to data since 2014. help students prepare for the GED exam as universities in the US are using the GED well as opportunities to explore college and College Ready score level, including more career options beyond the GED credential. than 15 community college systems. Test takers have access to the free career exploration tool, PathSource, through their MyGED account, which allows students to take a career assessment and get a list of potential careers that match their interests. GED test takers January 2014 – December 2017 45% 35% 29% 26 of GED graduates enrolled in enroll within one year of earning a Prior to 2014, only 29% of GED is the average age of a a college certificate or degree GED credential and 90% of those graduates enrolled in college GED test taker. program within three years. grads persisted by re-enrolling certificate or degree programs from one semester to the next. remained enrolled from one semester to the next. 85 The GED test was also delivered in more than 85 countries around the world in 2017. Test taker race/ethnicity 1% 1% 1% White 2% Hispanic 15% Multi-race Black 38% Asian 18% Native American Declined to answer None 24% Source: Research conducted by GED Testing Service, through Hawaiian/Paciﬁc Islander a data match with the National Student Clearinghouse 24 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Improve access to and affordability of products and services AcceleratED Pathways To respond, Pearson launched the meets their needs. In addition, prior work In the US, almost two-thirds of people in AcceleratED Pathways program in 2017, experience, course credits, and other the labor force do not have a college which is a managed online employee credentials can be applied toward degrees, degree.16 There are an estimated 40 million education program customized to meet shortening the path to educational working adults without a GED or high each employer’s needs. It can include attainment. school equivalent in the US, and another foundational skills – including reading, The AcceleratED Pathways team works with 31 million who have been in and out of writing, and English as a second language employers to redesign a traditional tuition college but left without a degree.17 where appropriate – GED, and online reimbursement plan into a strategic associates, undergraduate, and even The underserved working adult population education benefit that can alleviate the masters degrees. in the US represents a critical nextcost and access burden for an employee, generation talent pool, but most lack access The program supports many of the unique driving participation and persistence, while to affordable, meaningful educational challenges that adult learners who have improving employee engagement and pathways to take their careers to the next been left off the path of education morale. We are already implementing level. This can be especially true for frontline attainment face (see p22). Course materials a similar program with Starbucks. Along staff whose roles interact with customers, are mobile optimized, so they can learn with Brinker International announcing their like retail sales or restaurant waitstaff, as anytime and anywhere, which supports a program, the American Hotel & Lodging well as those working behind the scenes, seven-day-a-week workforce. A mix of Association (AHLA) and ten participating like in cleaning or food preparation. funding sources, including employer hotel brands announced their partnership contribution, grants, and school discounts, in the AcceleratED program. By providing opportunities for employee can reduce or remove the cost barrier development, employers can reduce the In just ten weeks after announcing Best for participation. Programs include a cost of turnover, increase employee You EDU, Pearson and Brinker have begun combination of blended learning, self-paced engagement, and improve customer working with over 2% of Brinker’s team content, and academic partners with satisfaction. While many corporations members in 40 states. During this period, frequent semester starts, accommodating traditionally focus learning investment five team members received their GED those with busy schedules. on internally provided or funded training, credential and applied to college. Twenty and tuition assistance for pursuing college An important element of the program started their first semester and hundreds degrees, we have found that frontline is that learners have access to bilingual more are in the application and enrollment workers have unique needs. academic success coaches, enrollment process for the summer and fall terms advisers, and tutoring that help them and are working towards their GED and develop a personalized learning plan that foundational education credentials. 25 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Improve access to and affordability of products and services Partnership spotlight: Providing education “We firmly believe that education opportunities to is the single best benefit we can Brinker employees Pearson has partnered with Brinker provide to our team members.” International, one of the world’s leading casual dining restaurant companies and owner of ”We firmly believe that education is the single Chili’s® Grill & Bar and Maggiano’s Little Italy®, to best benefit we can provide to our team provide a comprehensive educational program, members. The confidence that education Best You EDU. The program offers three provides is what encourages our team components: foundational skills and English as members to achieve the next step in their a second language (ESL), GED preparation, and career. Best You EDU is personal to me associate degrees – all provided at no cost to and the larger Brinker leadership team as the employee. All participants receive dedicated many of us started our careers as a cook, coaching, based on where they are in their dishwasher, or host at a restaurant. Through educational journey. Support will be provided education, we gained the confidence to them on everything from navigating work One of Rick Badgley’s first jobs in high school necessary to further pursue our careers.” and school simultaneously to outlining their was working hourly shifts at restaurants Rick Badgley Chief people officer, Brinker career goals and development. owned by his dad. His parents could not ”Pearson is proud to partner with Brinker afford tuition and when Rick enrolled at to develop a custom education program. Johnson & Wales, a hospitality-focused Only 2-3% of workers are in a position university, the school made it possible to use employer-tuition programs because for him to pay his own way by working of upfront costs, difficulty fitting education on campus. He saw the transformational into their busy lives, or a lack of foundational power of resources and programs built to skills. Brinker is one of the few companies help those who do not have the same addressing this range of barriers to a better advantages as others. Today, Rick serves job and to a better life.” as the Chief people officer for Brinker. Kevin Capitani president, Pearson North America 26 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Improve access to and affordability of products and services Provide accessibility for Higher Education Courseware made Pearson Canada continues to advance the major steps to formalize how we manage levels of accessibility across our domestic people with disabilities and govern our accessibility program. Higher Education and K-12 programs. We continue to make progress towards our We integrated the accessibility team into We are working with the on-campus goal to make 100% of our digital portfolio Pearson’s global product development accessibility community to communicate accessible for people with disabilities function and began to centrally coordinate our current and future plans, as well as to around the world by 2020. and prioritize activities in order to improve prioritize our efforts. Our higher education efficiency. We were able to raise awareness accessibility roadmap is updated annually, Our efforts are guided by widely adopted of accessibility across the business and and serves as the primary internal and international standards such as the Web developed workstreams focused on: external reference point for our efforts. Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) assessing our content and platforms to of the World Wide Web Consortium. As Pearson has accelerated its focus on identify and remediate accessibility We have developed roadmaps to facilitate digital and online learning, we have had problems; making the latest accessibility integrating these standards into our core to make some changes to our staff and guidelines widely available and increasing platforms, products, and services. Given the resources, which has resulting in delays uptake internally; integrating accessibility uniqueness of our learners and products, releasing our updated global accessibility into marketing and sales strategies by we recognize the important differences that policy and global accessibility council. creating publicly available documents exist amongst our users. Therefore, in areas We have not changed our guiding (digital and print) that outline the like primary, secondary, and post-secondary commitments to accessibility, and instead accessibility of our products; and education, we supplement these standards we are recalibrating our priorities to align embedding accessibility into user with our own guidelines that address with business strategy. experience and design. specific challenges in those markets. Going forward, we will: UK Schools Accessibility Group’s key focus Accessibility highlights from 2017: is to provide leadership, raise awareness, R  elease our updated global Pearson Online & Blended Learning (POBL) and support development for the UK accessibility policy; and the schools it supports, including businesses and services so they can meet Pearson’s global accessibility goals  ontinue our outreach to key global C Connections Academy (see p19), use as defined by WCAG and Pearson’s leaders, associations, and institutions information technology as a means of Accessibility guidelines. To support the to partner on our accessibility providing equality of opportunity to the teams, our content accessibility framework program; and greatest number of people, including people with disabilities. Our employees involved will provide guidance for how to create Increase our research into regulatory with the production or procurement of content that conforms to accessibility trends and technological advances that programs, products, or services received standards. This framework will provide might affect accessibility as the switch to ongoing accessibility training with a focus an overview of the different tiers of digital picks up pace, as well as outreach on universal design principles, Section 508 adoption, making visible the potential to countries outside of the US and UK. technical standards, and WCAG 2.0 time, budget, and platform requirements This is an area that we will prioritize for Success Criteria. POBL created a standing when adopting accessibility standards. 2018 to better meet the needs of these accessibility working group in support of A training program is also being rolled users in the growth markets. these efforts for students, teachers, and out to help teams developing and designing employees. Key accomplishments over content. In addition, accessibility training the past several years include a 24-hour for employees, is being delivered, accessibility hotline, accessibility tutorials in collaboration with our Pearson available for all employees, and expanded Able colleagues. curriculum development with members from the accessibility team. 27 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Improve access to and affordability of products and services Initiative spotlight: Mentoring people with disabilities ”Haben is the first deaf blind graduate of According to Elizabeth Delfs, VP and senior Harvard Law School. When I first met her, counsel, and director of the mentoring she was transitioning from a career as a program, “When talking with successful successful disability rights litigator into a new disabled professionals about their career and very public career where she had space path, many can point to someone in their life, to educate large numbers of people about sometimes only one person, who encouraged the importance of inclusion and accessibility. them to pursue the career that reflected what I saw my role as one of supporting and they wanted to do, not what others thought guiding her through this incredible expansion. was right for them. For many in our program, She is now a frequent speaker at corporate we are that someone.” conferences and published her first editorial The mentors and mentees also have practical in The Financial Times. She and I mentor each Pearson tools at their disposal, like the other at this point.” MyCareerSuccessLab course and human Bjarne Tellmann Chief legal officer and resources career workshops. Mentors have also opened up their own internal and Improve access to general counsel, and Haben’s mentor. external networks to their mentees. educational support Haben participated in “Changing the Channel”, Our mentees have received offers from major through clinical a mentorship program that our legal department firms, promotions in existing roles, and one developed in partnership with the National mentee has started her own disability mentoring assessments Federation of the Blind (NFB) to combat the program at her college. In the future, we hope Our clinical division provides assessments low expectations, lack of encouragement and to expand the program beyond the legal lack of preparation that young disabled people and solutions for professionals working with function and reach out to young adults with a often face in entering and succeeding in highpeople facing barriers such as learning, variety of disabilities. level professional careers. In the program, developmental, neurological, and mental members of our legal team are paired with health difficulties, whether in school or in young disabled professionals to mentor them the workplace. Through assessments, we and help develop their career roadmaps. hope to help identify people facing these challenges, so that they can gain access to the tools they need to succeed. As one example, it is estimated that up to More than a Hollywood movie 20% of people in the US show symptoms of dyslexia, a learning disability that affects Ameer Baraka understands firsthand how until he was 23 years old and in prison language skills, leading to difficulties in undiagnosed dyslexia can dangerously alter that Ameer learned he had dyslexia. the course of a person’s life. He was unaware reading, spelling, and writing. Waiting “I want to screen every one of those of his dyslexia. He struggled in school and to identify students at risk for dyslexia kids who feel they’re struggling like I was. eventually his life followed the path of drug Children who go undiagnosed with has far-reaching consequences for success dealing, gang violence, and ultimately prison. dyslexia all too often end up exactly like in school and in life. Now a successful actor, Ameer shared his I ended up: as dropouts, filling up our personal story to spread awareness of In 2017, Pearson released a second nation’s jails and prisons instead of our dyslexia and highlight the importance component of the Shaywitz colleges and universities.” of early childhood screening. It wasn’t DyslexiaScreen™, a universal screener for K–3 learners that uses teacher observations to rate a student as at risk for dyslexia or not. The screener is part of Pearson’s dyslexia toolkit, which includes clinical and classroom resources for screening, diagnostic evaluations, interventions, and progress monitoring. We are now working to develop an adolescent/adult version. We also gave permission to the Dyslexia Resource Center to use the unpublished form in a study seeking to understand how many prisoners in Louisiana may have dyslexia. Learn more at: PearsonClinical.com/dyslexia 28 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Improve access to and affordability of products and services Innovate to advance We launched the Tomorrow’s Markets and integrated learnings from the ventures Incubator in 2016 with the goal of into Pearson’s strategy for new markets. access and affordability developing new products and services, We capture our learnings and share them While we believe we have taken important as well as overall business models, to with the broader community of public, steps to make education more accessible bring high-quality education to learners in private, and non-profit sector practitioners and affordable, we realize there is much low‑income and underserved communities. (see p51 for more information). more work to be done. We recognize the Through an annual investment of need to consider and contribute to bigger Over the last year, we have done work to £1.5m, the incubator provides an innovation access and affordability issues in education refine the incubator model and in early 2018 platform that enables Pearson employees that go beyond our existing products and launched a second call for new venture to develop and test their ideas for new services. We are addressing some of these ideas to incubate. products and business models, while also issues through our Tomorrow’s Markets helping them build and broaden their In the second half of 2018 and in 2019, Incubator initiative and the Pearson capabilities. In addition to seed funding, we will: Affordable Learning Fund. Both initiatives participating employees receive coaching are exploring new approaches, ways of from external thought leaders and access E  mbed the incubator and its approach thinking, and business models that can to trained researchers who specialize in to venture innovation further across reduce the cost of products and services venture creation for low-income markets. the company; and improve access to education for In 2017, we selected and funded four teams  upport four finalist teams that were S those who need it most. to advance from the “Explore” to “Validate” selected and funded through the Tomorrow’s Markets Incubator phase of our product lifecycle process. incubator’s first round through prototype Today, many of our products and services We invested in and guided these teams and pilot activities; and do not reach the more than 4 billion, through the Validate phase, with the L  aunch a new call for venture ideas, guide a low-income and emerging middle-class ultimate goal of creating successful pilots second cohort of eight teams through the consumers across the globe – a rapidly in market. We also socialized the venture incubator’s initial Explore phase, and select growing market segment estimated to innovation approach with business partners the most promising ones to receive be worth more than $5 trillion. investment for the Validate phase. Intrapreneur spotlight: Addressing youth unemployment in South Africa Boost aims to address the unemployment challenge for low-income youth, while making recruitment of high-quality candidates more efficient for potential employers Through the Tomorrow’s Markets Incubator, Pearson employee Carolynne Lengfeld, Head of learning innovation in South Africa, is leading a team that has worked to develop Project Boost, a recruitment, job preparation, and integration service in South Africa. Boost aims to address the unemployment challenge for low-income youth, while making recruitment of high-quality candidates more efficient for potential employers. Unemployed young people who participate will receive support and training at no cost and will have access to jobs that offer the chance to build a résumé, establish a network of contacts, gain work experience, and increase their earnings. The project is in its early R&D phase and will be piloted among a small group of unemployed young people alongside a number of employers who have shown interest in the service. Pearson aims to take a successful model to other countries in Africa in due course. The DFID Business Partnership Fund is supporting this project by providing a combination of technical assistance and a financial grant to the value of £225,210 over 20 months. 29 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Improve access to and affordability of products and services Pearson Affordable Learning Fund The Pearson Affordable Learning Fund PALF highlights in 2017 (PALF) invests “patient capital”– investments with a long time horizon for returns – in 650,000+ learners 3 micro-mentorships independently run, for-profit, education reached in six countries through facilitated between Pearson employees start-ups using innovative approaches to portfolio companies. and portfolio companies. Hearing about improving learning outcomes and increasing the exciting work of PALF portfolio access at scale. By investing in new $15m companies and working with them educational ventures, we help to increase combined revenue of portfolio (90% first-hand through secondments the quality of education for millions of year-on-year growth over past four years). and employee-portfolio company learners, identify what’s next in the world’s collaborations helps to motivate, highest growth markets, and generate 5 fellows placed develop, and retain staff. attractive financial returns. PALF has within portfolio companies through the invested over $20m into a portfolio PALF summer internship program, which of nine companies across six countries. enables Pearson to attract top talent and PALF’s last investment in Affordable Private create influential advocates and allies Schools was in 2014, and while it continues as fellows go on to work in education, to actively support existing portfolio entrepreneurship, and emerging markets. companies, it has focused new investments on asset-light models that provide content and curriculum, often digitallyenabled. See more about Pearson’s position on Affordable Private Schools at: https:// www.pearson.com/corporate/aboutpearson/our-position-on/low-cost-privateschools.html). PALF portfolio spotlight: Karadi Path Karadi Path is an English PALF originally invested in Karadi Path in 2015 and has been working closely with the courseware company that sells to company since then. Karadi Path has seen schools throughout India with an phenomenal growth over the past three interactive curriculum that engages years, more than quadrupling its revenue. young students to learn through It is now serving nearly 500,000 students song, dance, and stories. in over 5,000 schools – many of which are government run. In India the current method of teaching English is highly stressful for students and teachers because it is taught as a “subject” rather than as a “language.” For example, there is a focus on teaching grammar rules and memorizing vocabulary lists rather than using the language in practice. Because most other school subjects are taught in English, having a limited understanding of how to use English in practice makes mastering other concepts nearly impossible. Karadi Path’s methodology integrates kinaesthetic activities, music, illustrated audiobooks, and accelerated reading solutions that are structured around the natural processes in which students learn their mother tongue. As a result, English learning is more enjoyable, playful, and effective. Even teachers with limited English skills can implement Karadi Path easily and many improve their own proficiency as a result. 30 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Collaborate to reach underserved learners No single organization, or sector, can tackle global education challenges alone. We work in partnership with international non-governmental organizations, governments, and local organizations to expand access to high-quality education for learners struggling to overcome barriers including gender inequality, conflict, and illiteracy. Improve education Investment in the research and Save the Children’s expertise working development of new digital on the ground with vulnerable children, for people affected and programmatic solutions we developed a new education project, by emergencies with The cornerstone of the partnership which has been approved by the Jordanian Save the Children is researching and developing new Ministry of Education. The pilot launched programmatic and digital solutions. in September 2017 and will be trialed Millions of people around the world have throughout 2018 and 2019. Through Drawing on both organizations’ core been displaced by conflict and emergencies, monitoring and evaluation, we will gain expertise and assets, the aim is to improve with disastrous consequences for insights from the pilot and make any education for Syrian refugee and host education. More than 3.5 million refugee adaptations necessary with a view to scale. community children in Jordan, and children did not have the chance to attend ultimately to adapt and scale these The project includes “Space Hero” school in the last academic year according solutions in other emergency situations. (Batlalfada), a fun and engaging math to UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency.18 Initially, this work included an ethnographic learning app, designed by Pearson in Since 2015, Pearson has been working research project so that teams at Pearson collaboration with refugee and Jordanian with Save the Children on the “Every Child could gain a deep understanding of Syrian children, aged 9-12, to strengthen their math Learning” partnership to deliver high-quality and Jordanian families’ own perspectives skills. The app follows the story of Shehab education to Syrian refugees and host regarding education during emergency (Arabic for shooting star) as he travels back community children in Jordan, and to situations. Based on insights from our to earth. It is available on the Google Play innovate new solutions that improve the research, and by using Pearson’s expertise store to download for free, so that children delivery of education in emergency and in educational content development and can access learning anywhere at any time. conflict-affected settings. Between 2015 and 2019, Pearson has committed £4.5m across the three pillars of activities of the partnership: investment in the research and development of new digital and programmatic solutions, program funding to meet immediate needs in Jordan, and advocacy and awareness. 31 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Collaborate to reach underserved learners The app is also supporting a broader in-school program, led by Save the Children, that focuses on teachers’ professional Every Child Learning in 2017 development, school-community relations, after-school learning, and psychosocial support. The program is currently being ”Utilizing technology in teaching implemented in partnership with the math will develop the students’ Jordanian Ministry of Education in the following double shift (Jordanian and Syrian) skills, and students will realize boys’ schools in Amman: Akef Al Fayez that technology is a useful School, Al Emam School, and Marj Al Hamam School. Overall, the pilot project tool to be used in education aims to reach 3,750 people directly to and not only used for games, accelerate learning and improve wellbeing. especially if it promotes Program funding to meet immediate critical thinking.” needs in Jordan Mr. Fahed Al Abbadi, Principal assistant, To kick-start the partnership, we enabled Marj al Hamam School for boys the establishment of two educational centers in Amman, Jordan, in communities with a high refugee population and great Through Every Child need. The centers provided early childhood Learning, we are helping care and development services for 604 * pre-school-aged children; child protection, Khaled ,11, to achieve his psychosocial support, and life skills services dream of becoming a dentist for 613 school-aged children (ages 6-13); * name changed to protect identity and informal education and supplementary tutoring sessions for 873 children. These centers continue to serve the communities today. Advocacy and sponsorship to raise awareness of education in emergency and conflict-affected settings Pearson and Save the Children also jointly advocate for children’s rights to an education. We raise awareness among employees, political leaders, and the public about the need to improve education for children affected by emergencies. One example of this is the Promising Practices in Refugee Education initiative, which was launched in 2017 (see p51 for more). 32 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Collaborate to reach underserved learners Empower girls In 2017, Pearson extended the partnership In 2017, 946 Learner Guides in Zimbabwe to enable Camfed Tanzania to take the first and 91 Learner Guides in Ghana were and young women in steps in what could become a nationwide awarded their BTEC qualifications, and East Africa with Camfed scale-up of the Learner Guide program, Pearson’s BTEC team is continuing to work at the request of the Tanzanian Ministry with Camfed to award the remaining ones. Since 2013, Pearson has partnered with of Education and Vocational Training. international NGO Camfed on a project Raising funds through matched supported by the UK Department of Creating a BTEC qualification employee donations International Development (DFID) and the for Learner Guides At the start of 2017, we announced a relevant national Ministries of Education Pearson employee fundraising campaign. We have committed to develop a BTEC to help girls from low-income communities We asked employees to help raise funds, qualification for 5,000 Learner Guides to in Zimbabwe and Tanzania stay in school, which Pearson matched, further boosting recognize and certify their achievements. learn, and develop key skills for life the work of Learner Guides by sending This qualification is designed to help more and work. more girls to secondary school with the girls enter formal higher education, teacher Developing unique resources and training, and the workforce by improving necessary materials to succeed. the Learner Guide Program their employability potential. Through our partnership with Camfed, young women can train to become mentors, or “Learner Guides.” As Learner Guides, they teach a curriculum called “My Better World” to vulnerable children in rural schools. We co-created the My Better World life skills curriculum with students to ensure it is relevant, gender-sensitive, and effective at improving students’ future employability prospects. Learner Guide program outcomes Pearson’s direct contributions 129,142 secondary £581,250 school children contributed by Pearson over 2016 and 2017 at the request reached by Learner Guides with of the Tanzanian Ministry of weekly sessions in 2017. Education and Vocational 60,744 vulnerable girls Training to enable Camfed enrolled in secondary school since 2013. to extend the Learner Guide program. Over 400,000 girls and boys in 1,172 rural secondary schools 4 new districts 10,890 children 1,200 marginalized empowered to improve their educational now have the Learner Guide program in Tanzania through have been reached by the rural girls experience and learning outcomes. Learner Guides trained through in Tanzania stayed in secondary Pearson funding. the My Better World program. 3,820 young women school through financial trained as Learner Guides working in New staff 74 children support given in 2017. 1,172 secondary schools across Tanzania including four Core Trainers, 80 Teacher Mentors, and 236 have been returned to school 43,200 children and Zimbabwe. after working with Learner (approximately) Learner Guides from rural, Guides in 2017. in 80 schools benefited from marginalized communities were recruited, trained, 6,540 learning an improved learning environment through the employed, and offered materials expansion of the Learner continued support in 2017. for children were provided Guide program in Tanzania. as part of the project. 33 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Collaborate to reach underserved learners Learner spotlight: Saviour Azaare As a Learner Guide, Saviour returned to her school to lead students through the My Better World life skills program Saviour is a radio presenter, pre-school program, establishing a study group to help teacher, and entrepreneur in Bongo District, her learners prepare for exams. At the same northern Ghana. She chose to work in radio time, she started a business selling cassava because it’s a platform through which she can leaves to support her younger siblings through address the youth in her community directly, school. Saviour works with CAMA members in tackling issues such as teenage pregnancy, her district to raise funds to provide essential early marriage, and the importance of educational needs to vulnerable children in education. As a Learner Guide, Saviour the community – a true display of the CAMA returned to her school to lead students multiplier effect. through the My Better World life skills 34 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Collaborate to reach underserved learners End illiteracy with We achieve this by focusing on three areas: Raising awareness and raising awareness and mobilizing action, mobilizing action Project Literacy advancing best practice, and innovating In 2017, we raised awareness and Project Literacy is a global movement to for new solutions. mobilized action through “Give Your Word”, make significant and sustainable advances In three years, Project Literacy has reached a campaign that shed light on adult illiteracy in the fight against illiteracy so that all three billion people through awareness in the United States and United Kingdom, people – regardless of geography, language, campaigns, and seven million people de-stigmatizing a largely invisible issue race, ability, class, or gender – have the have benefited from our programs and by celebrating the bravery of 14 adults opportunity to fulfill their potential through partnerships. The campaign has won who recently learned to read and write. the power of words. Founded by Pearson 29 awards and recognitions, including We inspired audiences to take action by in 2015, Project Literacy brings together a the Cannes Lions Grand Prix, and the sharing on social media, volunteering, diverse and global cross-section of people Project Literacy network now includes and supporting adult literacy organizations. and organizations to help unlock the more than 120 partners – as diverse as Influencers such as actor and musician potential of individuals, families, and Room to Read, Doctors of the World, Idris Elba promoted the campaign, communities everywhere so that by 2030, The Hunger Project, Microsoft, The resulting in a media reach of 1.3 billion, no child will be born at risk of illiteracy. Unreasonable Group, and UNESCO. helping elevate intergenerational illiteracy to policy and activist agendas. Read more about our work in 2017 at https://www.projectliteracy.com/ Watch the campaign video at https://www. annual-report. projectliteracy.com/GiveYourWord. 35 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Collaborate to reach underserved learners Advancing best practice Continuing to innovate We advanced best practice by supporting for new solutions research on inclusive digital technologies We continued to innovate for new that support low-skilled and low-literate solutions to illiteracy by helping 29 social adults. We also supported the development entrepreneurs scale up their proven of new reading fluency benchmarks that interventions. The entrepreneurs work can support literacy programs in diverse across 120 countries, have $121m in contexts. We partnered with organizations, combined revenue and financing, and like UNESCO and Room to Read, and spread reached 20.6 million users online. We these learnings widely to shape global engaged 659 employees in skills-based literacy policy and strengthen efforts volunteering to support these literacy around the world. enterprises. Project Literacy also advanced research and programs leveraging mobile Read about the case studies from UNESCO phones to engage parents and caregivers to that we supported at: https://en.unesco.org/ support early literacy development, like the themes/literacy-all/pearson-initiative/ Read to Kids pilot in Delhi with Worldreader, case-studies. which reached over 203,000 households. Meet the entrepreneurs we work with at https://www.projectliteracy.com/lab/. 36 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Collaborate to reach underserved learners Increase graduation rates $200,000 grants to various organizations in graduation, and post-secondary and Arizona, Massachusetts, and Minnesota to workforce readiness to using high-quality with America’s Promise encourage statewide collaboration, share data to ensure students are on track Alliance: GradNation knowledge to accelerate adoption of proven for success. strategies, and develop successful models A high school diploma is key to achieving a In 2018, we will have two research releases. to replicate and scale. better life in the US. The America’s Promise In Arizona, the research will focus on the Alliance focuses on the goal to increase the America’s Promise Alliance launched the Steps-to-Success program led by a mayor US high school graduation rate to 90%. GradNation campaign in 2010 to raise to re-engage at-risk youth. In Minnesota, Recent data, however, shows that the graduation rates, inspire action, and help the research will highlight how to change graduation rate for the class of 2016 is prepare all students for success. To date, exclusionary school disciplinary policies to 84.1%.19 The nation must therefore our work has helped fuel the GradNation help more students graduate. significantly increase its pace of progress national movement among education, for all learners by 2020 to reach this. non-profit, local, and state communities. In 2015, we made a three-year $3m In 2017, our online GradNation Activation commitment to launch the GradNation Community has remained an active hub for State Activation initiative to help students sharing successful practices and facilitating prosper and increase high school conversations. We have increased the graduation rates across the country. virtual community of state-level participants With purposeful investment at the by 109% since its start, and in 2017 engaged state level, Pearson helped fund three in meaningful conversations ranging from I Came Here to Learn While a national leader in education, Massachusetts also has some of the nation’s largest achievement gaps. With the grant that Pearson supported (see above), the state is convening urban school districts that are focused on improving outcomes for students whose first language is not English (FLNE). In May 2017, the Center for Promise – the research arm for America’s Promise – released a report entitled, I Came Here to Learn and mini-documentary video. The report dispelled a number of common myths, such as that FLNE students are low performing, and asserted the importance of establishing a supportive and positive school climate for these students. The participating Massachusetts districts continue to work together and share best practices and lessons as a network of learners. 37 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Collaborate to reach underserved learners Partner with Univision Pearson and Univision joined forces to launch “Nuestros Maestros” – a researchto support Hispanic based, teacher-focused digital and social learners and teachers media campaign across Univision’s mass, trusted media brand to celebrate teachers The Hispanic population is the largest, who are successfully serving Hispanic fastest growing demographic in the US. students. We have produced and released Although Hispanic students represent 36 original, co-branded pieces of Spanish nearly a quarter of the nation’s student language content focused on teacher population, only 7.8% of teachers are stories, recruitment and retention. Hispanic.20 As the Hispanic student Our digital content reached over population continues to grow, it is crucial 2.5 million people. We also hosted an for teachers to become more aware of in-person event that was live streamed. Hispanic learners’ diverse and unique needs to help them prepare for their futures. Educator spotlight: Osiel Gonzalez Osiel Gonzalez is a Cuban-American teacher at Boston International Newcomers’ Academy, a public school made up mostly of immigrant students from around the world. An immigrant himself, Osiel knows firsthand what it’s like to be the new kid in school whose English is far from perfect. It’s part of the reason he spends so much time building meaningful relationships with his students. Osiel is one of the many remarkable teachers profiled for Nuestros Maestros (Our Teachers). 38 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Our commitments: Shape the Build skills that foster employability and inclusive economic growthp39 Promote education for sustainable developmentp45 future of Engage in multi-stakeholder research, dialogue, and collective action to solve global challengesp49 learning We will do this by ensuring our learners We will continue to build on our leadership in are equipped with the skills and capabilities they need to build careers and communities, educational content and assessment to innovate and navigate uncertainty, address the world’s biggest sustainable development find new ways to meet each learner where they are, challenges, and thrive in the 21st century with content that equips today’s learners to shape a and beyond. Technology, insights, and partnerships will help us deliver on our better tomorrow for people and planet. aspiration. We contribute to a growing body of research and participate in multi-stakeholder fora so that we can pool our insights with others to help global education systems better serve the next generation of students. 39 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Build skills that foster employability and inclusive economic growth We focus on fostering the knowledge, skills, and values that learners will need to succeed in life and in work – contributing to UN Sustainable Development Goal 8 on economic growth and decent jobs and Goal 10 on reducing inequality. Education drives social mobility, helping We know that megatrends like demographic more people play a part in society and enter change, political uncertainty, globalization, into the job market so they can build better income inequality, sustainability, lives for themselves and their families. urbanization – along with emerging Good jobs and careers transform individual technology – will all have significant Partnership for 21st century skills lives, bring stability to communities, influence over the jobs of the future. In 2017, we collaborated with P21 to release and help economies flourish. The future will be about leveraging both the Skills for Today series. Each paper human and machine capabilities. Hard and summarizes what is currently known about Develop insights about soft skills will be important, and education teaching and assessing one of four key skills: will play a key role in preparing people for 21st century skills these future jobs. collaboration, critical thinking, creativity, and communication, which are elements Approximately 290 million young people of our Personal and Social Capabilities In the US, there is particularly strong are out of work, while at the same time, Framework (see below). emphasis on interpersonal skills and almost 40% of employers tell us they cannot higher-order cognitive skills such as complex fill their vacancies. There is gap between Based on leading scholarly research, the problem solving, originality, fluency of ideas, the skills that employers need and those papers present an overview of the qualities, and active learning. In the UK, skills related with which job seekers are equipped. traits, and behaviors that comprise each to systems-oriented thinking (i.e., the ability A student entering formal education skill. The white papers are accompanied by to recognize, understand, and act on today will be making decisions about research-based classroom assignments, complex sets of information), such as his or her career by the year 2030. assessments, and rubrics. judgement, decision-making, systems Future of skills analysis, and systems evaluation also Our partnership on this series signifies a feature prominently. Visit https:// commitment to helping educators, To understand the skills needed for the futureskills.pearson.com to learn more. policymakers, and employers understand 21st century we strive to listen to employers how best to support students in developing and help educators respond to their needs. the skills needed to succeed in college, Over the last year, we undertook an in-depth career, and life. research project with Nesta and machine learning expert Michael Osborne of the Read the reports at: http://www.p21.org/ Oxford Martin School to analyze and our-work/4cs-research-series. forecast how major societal and economic trends – and the interactions between them – will affect the future of work. 40 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Build skills that foster employability and inclusive economic growth Teach 21st century skills need for success, including critical Career Success Program thinking, collaboration, communication, Many colleges simply do not have To better prepare students for life and for self-management, leadership, and social enough career services staff to provide professional environments, Pearson has responsibility. It was informed by dozens every student with carefully sequenced focused on guiding students toward their of frameworks from educational and assistance in discovering their most career aspirations and equipping them with career organizations and institutions, appropriate career pathway, developing crucial workplace skills. We help learners and teams across Pearson have worked the necessary skills, and demonstrating prepare to enter specific careers – whether together to conduct research based on these skills to employers. through delivering vocational training, academic literature, as well as surveys providing industry-focused qualifications and focus groups with faculty, Our Career Success Program (CSP) aims and assessments, or teaching skills such as administrators, and employers. to meet the needs of both colleges and science, technology, engineering, and math employers by providing a digital suite of (STEM) and English. As students use our The framework and the P21 white papers assessments, learning modules, and tools online platforms, we also aim to help them (see above) provide the foundation for that help students discover career goals strengthen the digital skills they will need instructional modules in the Career Success and identify and fill their skills gaps. in the 21st century. Program through which students learn the concepts and the practical application The CSP assessments help students As one example, our higher education of these skills (see below). Going forward, understand their level of college and career business and economics team has Pearson hopes to build upon this framework readiness, and Growth, Resilience, Instinct, undertaken research to identify key and many of the higher education product and Tenacity (GRIT). The CSP also includes employability skills and where they appear teams will create a set of skills badges that tools to help demonstrate their skills on in our products. As a result, some titles identify students who have learned specific LinkedIn and information about the job have a new Employability Skills Matrix at content, tasks, and information about market in fields they want to explore. the beginning of each chapter that provides key disciplines and career tracks. Students earn badges that can be displayed students with a visual guide to features In 2018, we will undertake a review of publicly so that employers can better that support the development of skills all our products to understand the extent understand their skills and experience. employers are looking for in today’s to which they are teaching and assessing Additional credentials are in development business graduates. This helps students the skills outlined in the Personal and to recognize learning experiences and to see from the start of class the relevance Social Capabilities Framework and the practical skills in important areas like of the course to their career goals. top skills identified in the Future of Skills intercultural communication, ethics, Personal and Social research. Following the review, we will diversity, and other topics. Capabilities Framework identify gaps and develop a strategy to The Personal and Social Capabilities better integrate these key skills into new Framework provides clear definitions and existing products. of professional skills that students Learner spotlight: Sashen Peramaul ”The unique learning approach, which consisted of interactive lecture-led learning, smaller classes, and the use of technology prepared me for the exciting modern workplace.” Sashen Peramaul is employed as the head “Marketing soon became a way of life for me, of channel marketing at an international tech and a passion was born. My performance company and he attributes his workplace was reflective of the skills I had acquired in success to the theoretical and practical the classroom. I was able to think critically education he received at CTI, a higher and innovatively, self-manage, collaborate education institution we own and operate across teams, and communicate effectively. in South Africa. The program emphasizes a I could not wait to get back to lectures for my balanced approach to teaching theory and next marketing lesson to acquire more skills,” practical knowledge, which helps to ensure he adds. Sashen attributes his workplace students have the skills needed for work readiness to the regular Employability when they graduate. workshops hosted on campus. “I am In addition to attending courses on privileged to work with talented managers campus during the week, he worked as a and directors to plan and execute marketing, part-time marketing assistant. That is incentive and motivation strategies. Studying where his passion for marketing grew at CTI has set me up for a successful career.” and he started excelling. 41 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Build skills that foster employability and inclusive economic growth Studies21 have shown that the students Indiana Connections Career Academy As of March 2018, approximately 150 most in need of and willing to take Indiana Connections Career Academy (INCC) students were enrolled and the split by advantage of such extra career guidance is a full-time tuition-free online high school career cluster is as follows: 32% Health are often students of color, first generation with a strong focus on career readiness, Science, 21% Information Technology, students, and those starting college or available for students in grades 9–12 19% for Arts, A/V Technology and career training later in life. We intend for throughout Indiana. Opened in the fall Communication, 19% for Hospitality and the CSP to support all students, regardless of 2017 and supported by products and Human Services, and 7% Manufacturing. of their backgrounds, to access greater services from POBL, INCC’s mission is to UPSHIFT: Collaborating with levels of employability and more prepare students for employment and/or UNICEF in Myanmar and Vietnam satisfying careers. further their skills at a post-secondary institution, through rigorous academic In 2017, we supported a UNICEF program We are on track toward our goal of reaching coursework, supportive personalized called UPSHIFT, which focuses on improving 100,000 students by 2020 through the learning, a continuum of career explorations, 21st century and employability skills Career Success Program. In the program’s and relevant work experiences aligned to for marginalized youth in Myanmar first year, we launched the tool at 19 schools, the unique workforce development needs and Vietnam. reaching 80,000 students, and project having 100 new commitments for 2018. of Indiana. UPSHIFT prepares young people from Initial results show that students are INCC students interested in starting a marginalized low-income communities to embarking on well-informed career career immediately after graduation can identify, analyze, and take entrepreneurial searches, working to build the skills pursue a program of study in one of five action to address social, environmental, they lack, and developing more effective in-demand career pathways: Health Science, and economic challenges in their résumés and digital portfolios to support Hospitality and Tourism, Information communities. The program consists their job searches. Technology, Arts, A/V Technology and of a series of workshops delivered by Communication, and Manufacturing. local teachers, youth facilitators, and By 2020 we will publish quantitative data community leaders. on how many more interviews and INCC gives students the flexibility to learn job offers students using the CSP receive, at home via an online school that meets and on qualitative feedback from local rigorous state education standards and employers on improvements they see offers a challenging curriculum and in their more recent job candidates’ curriculum materials, and instruction preparation for the workplace. by state-certified teachers and trained school counselors. Learner spotlight: Huynh Nhu Co ”My dream, to see other similar people like me integrated into society, has a chance to be realized through UPSHIFT. I find UPSHIFT to be very suitable and helpful for young people like myself to make a contribution to my community.” When Huynh Nhu Co was five, he started roles or working in hard, manual jobs as losing his hearing. For many young people in porters, cleaners, or construction workers. Vietnam, this would be a significant setback Their lack of options and relative isolation can to continuing education or finding a job, but also leave them vulnerable to exploitation. Co was lucky. He was able to go to a special Co’s team used their UPSHIFT sessions to school for deaf children, which taught its develop a proposal for a set of classes to pupils formal sign language and provided a teach basic sign language and Vietnamese good general education. to illiterate, hearing-impaired young people When Co first joined UNICEF’s Upshift in Vietnam. They put together a successful program (see above) and was asked to think application for seed funding and, after of a challenge to overcome, he thought about spending some time developing teaching his own education. Many hearing-impaired materials and recruiting students, they people in Vietnam never learn formal sign started their first class with 25 students language, meaning they cannot fully enrolled. Developing and integrating the participate in school and do not learn to course has not been easy, but Co and his read or write. Without literacy or a quality teammates have used the skills learned education, they often struggle to find decent through UPSHIFT to address challenges. work, and many end up working in short-term 42 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Build skills that foster employability and inclusive economic growth Over several months, the young participants learn critical skills such Pearson VUE 15m Pearson VUE helps individuals prepare for computer-based tests as problem identification and analysis, their next educational or career opportunity delivered each year project design and management, business through credentials that verify the skills plan development, critical thinking, communications and team skills, and learning required for a specific job or 5,550+ educational program. Pearson VUE serves test centers human-centered design, and prototyping. test owners and test takers in nearly Together, we have reached over 3,000 young every industry, including: academia and 180 people, supporting them to gain the tools admissions, financial and related services, countries and resources to create their own solutions government, healthcare, information to the barriers their communities face. technology (IT), military, transport licensing 450 and global regulatory. global clients Prepare students for Pearson VUE delivered 67,000 tests on careers in specific sectors behalf of the Construction Industry Training Science, technology, engineering, Board in the UK in 2017 – all of which BTECs and math (STEM) education included major components on both health and safety, and the environment. In the US, jobs in STEM are expected to Pearson’s BTECs are qualifications that increase to more than 9 million by 2022. provide specialist, work-related learning VUE also delivers the LNAT university We seek to provide resources that help across a range of sectors, in nearly 40 admissions exam for law students in the UK. increase achievement in STEM, preparing subjects. Delivering the knowledge, LNAT helps universities make fair choices students for STEM-related careers. There skills, and understanding students need by identifying potential students with the is a particular opportunity to support to prepare for their chosen career, required natural abilities, regardless of their women and minorities. For example, in BTECs can support progression to higher background, ethnicity, or social class. It is the US, while women filled 47% of all jobs or further education or into employment. designed to test core skills, which means in 2015, they held only 24% of STEM jobs.22 Pearson also offers apprenticeships that attending an elite school or a wealthy across a wide range of career paths. Pearson has a number of products family offers no advantage. If students get a good LNAT score, they stand out that support STEM education. Digits is By helping people progress to higher and universities will consider their a digital learning tool that combines a education, they are contributing to a application very seriously. comprehensive math curriculum, best better qualified workforce. In the UK, practices in teaching, and technology around 24% of students progress to higher Pearson VUE also delivers a certification so teachers can deliver personalized education with a BTEC, which has increased program for the World Institute for Nuclear instruction effectively and save valuable from only 13% in 2008. BTEC has made a Security (WINS) Academy. There are more time. Project STEM focuses on integrating significant contribution to social mobility than 200,000 personnel responsible for STEM into teachers’ current elementary as 41% of students using BTEC to enter nuclear and radioactive material security or middle grades science program curricula higher education come from the lower worldwide, yet until the launch of this set of through hands-on, real-world, project-based four socio-economic groups (as defined exams, there had been no existing structure activities. Interactive Science teaches, by the UK Office for National Statistics) of required competencies for professionals practices, and applies the key skills of inquiry compared to only 20% of A level students. with accountability for nuclear security. on a daily basis for both teachers and Also, the proportion of students from students while providing extensions black and minority ethnic groups gaining to project-based learning designed to BTEC certifications is higher than for enrich and enhance learning. A level students. S  ee p46 for more on how BTECs support sustainability careers 43 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Build skills that foster employability and inclusive economic growth Customer spotlight: supporting underrepresented students in STEM The Gap Committee at Oakton Community College near Chicago has been working to encourage underrepresented minority students to study math and support them to “stick with it.” They hold open office hours where students can come for help and host diversity seminars for faculty. The instructors leverage a number of Pearson products, Measuring the impact of including MyLabsPlus Student Success and teaching English in Mexico MyLab Math, which have modules to teach skills to overcome test-taking anxiety and to In 2017, our efficacy team helped to develop mindsets that build confidence. support English language learning in Mexico. The team won a bid to conduct a study for the Mexican government’s National Program of English (Programa Nacional de Inglés – “PRONI”) to understand the impact of a recent investment in teacher training and materials to teach English in public schools. We evaluated the outcomes of PRONI for over 350 preschool and primary grade students in 15 groups and 10 schools, in both rural and urban areas. We developed a report that includes group statistics, teacher performance, individual teachers’ reports, as well as an overview of the tools used. Findings from the study reflected the need to stress teaching English in primary school. Some recommendations for teachers included: improving their English language skills, strengthening formative evaluation, and focusing on the communicative function of language. Decision-makers took these findings on board for future training and follow-up actions with teachers. 44 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Build skills that foster employability and inclusive economic growth English Over 2 billion people are expected to be Leveraging Microsoft’s AI technology to teach learning or speaking English by 2020,23 and 85% of the world’s international English in China organizations using English as their In 2017, Pearson partnered with Microsoft By combining listening and speaking official language.24 Research Asia to launch Longman English+, exercises with technologies like speech a jointly developed English language learning testing and evaluation, the app provides English is becoming the language for mobile app. The app integrates Pearson’s users with personalized learning services universal communication, and English high-quality content and resources with in order to increase students’ ability to put skills are now a key contributor to individual Microsoft’s cutting-edge AI technology. language skills into use in a comprehensive opportunities and socio-economic growth It is delivered through WeChat, a Chinese way. Because it is delivered on smartphones in many countries. Governments, mobile social media app with almost through WeChat, we have an opportunity companies, and individuals are rapidly a billion regular users. to expand new and effective ways to learn prioritizing high-quality English language English to many more Chinese learners learning programs within and outside of from all backgrounds. the education system. As a result, there is increased demand from governments and parents who are looking to introduce English as a foreign language in earlier stages of school education. Many universities are now offering subject-area courses in English, in addition to teaching English as a subject in its own right. In addition, competence in English continues to offer people better career opportunities and progression, including studying abroad and immigration. Therefore, English language learning and assessment represents one of the single greatest growth opportunities for Pearson. Pearson is a leading provider of English language learning and assessment, covering everything from beginners in primary schools to boardroom-level business English. We do this by offering a rich suite of products and services including blended courseware, professional development, and midand high-stakes assessment with certification. To support our learners, the courseware and assessment products we create rely on sound pedagogy and clearly demonstrate progression. Our In 2017, the Council of Europe released a In the US, we are developing English English products are supported by Companion Volume to the 2001 Common language products for adults, including technology that helps learners of all ages European Framework of Reference for migrants and learners from lower and levels of proficiency advance their Languages (CEFR), which acts as an socio-economic backgrounds, which are English language skills. All new English international standard for describing designed to help them balance learning with products are aligned to and underpinned language ability. Around 50 learning busy work schedules and prepare them for by the Pearson-developed Global Scale of objectives from our GSE were included in future education or career opportunities. English (GSE), which measures skill levels the framework, an important recognition in English reading, writing, listening, and endorsement of the GSE that shows it and speaking. This alignment to the GSE can be used seamlessly alongside the CEFR. supports personalization, efficacy, and pedagogy in our blended and virtual courseware and assessment products. 45 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Promote education for sustainable development In order to shape a better tomorrow for people and planet, today’s learners must be informed global citizens who not only understand global issues such as poverty, inequality, and climate change, but are equipped with the skills needed to take on these challenges. By promoting sustainability education, we can explore new market opportunities while making a direct contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and inspiring the next generation to create a better world. Develop an education society so that more jobs focus on environmental and social impact, living 97% for sustainable sustainably, and acting for the greater good In an Accenture survey of leading global CEOs, 97% said that sustainability development strategy of our world.25 Given our core business in is important to the future success of education, we have an opportunity to As part of our 2020 Sustainability Plan, their business.26 support ESD as an enabler of achieving all we have prioritized three goals where we believe we can have the most impact, of the SDGs. We also see growing interest in ESD from a number of our stakeholders, 4-4.5m including SDG 4 on quality education. In the US, green jobs in 2017 collectively including employers, customers, educators, SDG target 4.7 sets an objective to promote represent 4-4.5 million jobs, up from students, and intergovernmental agencies education for sustainable development 3.4 million in 2011.27 that are asking for sustainable development (ESD) and global citizenship education. topics to be included in content, courses, and other services (see p46). 81% According to UNESCO, ESD “empowers of a sample of Pearson customers think it learners to take informed decisions and is important for students to learn about Employers increasingly expect their responsible actions for environmental sustainability and sustainable development.28 employees to have an understanding of integrity, economic viability and a just sustainable development issues. Our society, for present and future generations, research on the future of work and 21st 3,000 while respecting cultural diversity.” It In a study of over 3,000 US students, 88% century skills (see p39) have identified both includes providing learning content about of respondents felt learning about social technical knowledge around green jobs sustainable development topics; creating and environmental issues is a priority, but and having a sense of social responsibility pedagogy and learning environments only half were very or completely satisfied as highly important for career success that foster the skills to solve sustainable with their school’s focus on social and today and into the future. development challenges; and transforming environmental issues in their curriculum.29 66% of countries reported having a national ESD strategy or plan, and 50% of countries have included ESD in relevant policies.30 46 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Promote education for sustainable development In 2017, we began an internal review to have made it part of the materials they green building using US Green Building identify opportunities for Pearson to develop for Pearson. They often have goals Council (USGBC) aligned content (see more advance ESD. We are working with an of educating and empowering students to at https://www.pearson.com/corporate/ external adviser to define what ESD means make informed decisions as consumers, sustainability/sustainability-stories/ for Pearson; identify existing and potential voters, environmental stewards, and everglades-university.html). ESD activities and initiatives across our citizens, as well as ensuring they are ready BTEC portfolio; and develop a strategy that for the job market. prioritizes areas of focus. We engaged We have developed a number of Sustainability-related topics are central sustainability specialist BTEC qualifications, internal and external stakeholders to our geosciences, environmental science, and have embedded sustainability within to understand the opportunities and and personal health titles, where they BTEC qualifications across sectors, including challenges for Pearson and determine are integrated throughout the main engineering, warehouse operations, where we can make the most impact presentations, boxed features, and animal management, science, and IT. through our products, services, digital assets. and thought leadership. BTEC qualifications in Environmental For example, we offer Mastering Sustainability help people to become ready In 2018, we will: Environmental Science, a collection of online to take up employment in the sustainability C  omplete an internal review to homework, tutorials, and assessment tools, sector, or in a sustainability role within a identify opportunities for Pearson to which is a market leader. Our geography company. The qualifications cover themes advance education for sustainable portfolio covers topics like globalization like: food and drink; energy and water; travel development; and and diversity; the impact of humans on and traffic; purchasing and waste; buildings the planet; cultural sustainability; social, and grounds; inclusion and participation; Publicly advocate for and produce a environmental, and climate justice; local wellbeing; and global dimension. report on the role of the private sector sustainable urban planning; and geospatial Our sustainable resource management in education about sustainable technology in disaster relief, as just certifications meet the needs of employers development in partnership with some examples. in the UK waste management and recycling Business Fights Poverty and others. In our business portfolio, our best-selling industries by aligning with national standards and apprenticeship frameworks. Responding to sustainable managerial accounting book presents the business case for integrating sustainability development needs in our into practices. In economics, one of our Some engineering qualifications look at how continuously improving processes can products and services authors is award-winning Professor Daron impact sustainability, and reduce both Acemoglu whose work explores inequality, waste and cost, which can be measured In response to our customers, we have globalization, and development. He is best by an increase in profits and operational developed content, courses, qualifications known for Why Nations Fail: The Origins of efficiency. One of our units with this focus and other services that help students learn Power, Prosperity, and Poverty (with James A. was developed in partnership with Toyota, about sustainability. Robinson), a New York Times bestseller in BMW, and other large employers. Higher education 2012, and Pearson’s Principles of Economics (with David Laibson and John List). A warehouse operations certification Across our disciplines in the higher looks at how warehouse equipment can education textbook market, we work with a We have also partnered with Everglades be used safely and effectively, which number of authors and professors who are University in Florida to develop a digital contributes positively to an organization’s experts in various sustainability topics and course to help prepare students for jobs in sustainability goals. Product spotlight: Diversity Amid Globalization: World Regions, Environment, Development Diversity Amid Globalization (Rowntree, Lewis, Diversity Amid working 68 Toward Diversity Sustainability Amid Globalization Working Toward Sustainability Price, Wyckoff), one of our US higher education Women and Water in the Developing World Meeting the Needs of Future Generations W T consume them now without considering their availability for future omen and children bear the burden Google Earth he word sustainability seems to be everywhere, Google Earth generations. Similar cautions apply to sustainable use of all other Globalization of water problems in most developing Virtual as we hear about sustainable cities, agriculture, Virtual resources—air, water, genetic biodiversity, wildlife habitats, and so on. countries. Not only are children the most Tour Video forestry, businesses—even sustainable lifeTour Video Sustainably utilizing a specific resource, however, can be extremely world regional geography titles, includes vulnerable to waterborne diseases, but mothers, styles. With so many different uses of the word, it is difficult because it requires knowing the total amount of the resource aunts, grandmothers, and older sisters are the careappropriate to revisit its original definition. in question and the current rate of consumption, and then estimating givers for these sick children, adding yet another Sustainable has two meanings: The first is to the needs of future generations. These challenges have led to the field time-consuming task to their already busy days. http://goo.gl/Dvcsy4 endure or to maintain something at a certain level http://goo.gl/oGTPq9 of sustainability science, which emphasizes quantifying these factors. Further, women and older girls are the so that it lasts. The second means something that primary conveyers of water from wells or streams Because of these measurement difficulties, many researchers suggest can be upheld or defended, such as a sustainable that sustainability is better thought of as a process rather than an World Regions, Environment, Development dedicated “Working Toward Sustainability” to their homes. Every person requires at least 5 gallons (19 liters) idea or action. Resource management has long used terms such as of water per day for their hydration, cooking, and sanitation needs; achievable state. sustained-yield forestry to refer to timber practices in which tree Sidebars in the following chapters explore the different ways consequently, this amount (multiplied by the number of people in harvesting is attuned to the natural rate of forest growth so that the 7 TH E D I T I O N a household) must be carried each day from source to residence. that people around the world are working toward environmental and resource is not exhausted, but can renew itself over time. resource sustainability. Examples include the city of Copenhagen's bike Women and children are also responsible for supplying water for Moral and ethical dimensions were added to this traditional culture (Chapter 8; see Figure 1.2.1); solar power in Morocco (Chapter kitchen gardens that provide the family’s food. At a global level, the usage in 1987 when the UN World Commission on Environment and 7); and gibbon conservation in Cambodian forests (Chapter 13). Each water source for about a third of the developing world’s rural popufeatures that detail positive environmental Development addressed the complicated relationship between ecosidebar links to a Google Earth virtual tour video. lation is more than half a mile (1 km) away from residences. To meet nomic development and environmental deterioration. The commission water needs, women spend about 25 percent of their day carrying stated that “sustainable development is development that meets the 1. Does your college or community have a sustainability plan? If so, water. A recent UN study estimated that in Sub-Saharan Africa about needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generwhat are the key elements? 40 billion hours a year are spent collecting and carrying water, the ations to meet their own needs.” This cautionary message expands the 2. How might the concept of sustainability differ for a city or town same amount of time spent in a year by France’s entire workforce. Besides the time expenditure, water is heavy, and most of it is notion of sustainability from a narrow focus on resource management in India or China compared to a U.S. city? Browse the Internet to and social efforts and outcomes. These to include the whole range of human “needs,” both now and in the see what you can learn about sustainability programs in other LES ROWNTREE MARTIN LEWIS MARIE PRICE WILLIAM WYCKOFF carried by hand. In Africa, 44-pound (20-liter) jerry cans are common; in northwest India, women and girls balance several 5-gallon future. Fossil fuels, for example, are finite, so we should not greedily cities. m Figure 2.3.2 Woman using Wello WaterWheel. University of California, Berkeley Stanford University George Washington University Montana State University (19-liter) containers on their heads to lessen the number of trips made (Figure 2.3.1). (Note that 40–45 pounds is the weight of the features also include links to Google Earth suitcase you check with the airlines on a typical trip. Try carrying it Population and Settlement: People on your head through the airport parking lot someday.) After years of carrying water, women commonly suffer from chronic neck and back on the Land problems, many of which complicate childbirth. Additionally, girls’ Currently, Earth has more than 7.4 billion people, with water-carrying responsibilities often interfere with their schooling, demographers—those who study population dynamics— virtual tour videos. Chapters integrate resulting in a high dropout rate and furthering female illiteracy in forecasting an increase to 9.8 billion by 2050. Most of that rural villages. increase will take place in Africa, particularly in Sub-Saharan Toward a Solution: The Wello WaterWheel After studying the Africa, North Africa and Southwest Asia, and Australia and water-carrying issue in semiarid northwestern India, Cynthia Koenig, Oceania (Figure 1.22). In contrast, the regions of Europe, the an engineering graduate from the University of Michigan, invented Russian Domain, and East Asia will likely experience no the Wello WaterWheel, a barrel-like 13-gallon (50-liter) rolling demographic growth between now and 2050. Population ATLANTIC sustainability themes to demonstrate how water container that greatly reduces women’s water-carrying duties concerns vary, with some countries, such as Bangladesh, OCEAN (Figure 2.3.2). Previously in that part of India, women and girls were spending 42 hours per week carrying water back and forth; with the trying to slow population growth, while others, such as Wello WaterWheel, that has been reduced to only 7 hours a week. Ukraine, worry about population decline. Using this timesaving device has also reduced the school dropout rate Population is a complex topic, but several points may PACIFIC for young girls in the region. Currently, Wello, which is a nonprofit OCEAN help to focus the issues: these concepts apply across topics and organization, can deliver a WaterWheel from its factory in Mumbai to a rural Indian family for a mere $20. Thousands of Wello Water• The current rate of population growth is now half the peak rate Wheels have been purchased by international aid organizations and experienced in the early 1960s, when the world population PEOPLE PER was around 3 billion. At that time, talk of a “population bomb” SQUARE KILOMETER donated to villages in Rajasthan, moving them closer to a sustainable and “population explosion” was common, as scholars and 0 existence. activists voiced concern about what might happen if such high 0.1–1 1. List the social costs incurred when the women and children of a growth rates continued. Still, even with today's slower growth, 1.1–5 geographies. The title’s current lead author, village must provide water. What are the probable social benefits of demographers predict that some 2.5 billion more people will 5.1–25 readily available clean water in a rural village? 25.1–50 2. The average American uses 80–100 gallons of water each day. ▶ Figure 1.22 World Population This map emphasizes the world's different 50.1–100 m Figure 2.3.1 Women in India carrying water on their heads. A gallon of water weighs over 8 pounds. How would your water population densities. East and South Asia stand out as the most populated 100.1–250 usage habits change if you had to carry water to your home? regions, with high densities in Japan, eastern China, northern India, and 250.1–500 Bangladesh. In arid North Africa and Southwest Asia, population clusters are Marie Price, has deep expertise on migration often linked to the availability of water, as is apparent with the population cluster 500.1–1,000 along the Nile River. Higher population densities in Europe, North America, and More than 1,000 68 other countries are usually associated with major metropolitan areas. 20 issues, and she currently serves as the first A01_ROWN9423_07_SE_FM.indd 13 12/16/16 10:19 PM M02_ROWN9423_07_SE_C02.indd 68 11/18/16 9:26 PM M01_ROWN9423_07_SE_C01.indd 20 12/9/16 3:19 PM female president of the 167-year old American Geographical Society. 47 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Promote education for sustainable development A unit on animal management focuses on how production systems can be used sustainably to conserve water, and reduce School spotlight: Hamble Primary School’s global and eliminate pollution, thus having an learning journey impact on animal and human health. ”If we don’t learn about the Global Goals then we won’t In some of our science certifications learners consider the potential impact achieve them by 2030. Now, 330 more people in our school of nanoparticles from transport exhaust know about them!” fumes on the human respiratory system, and their effects on marine life. They also Harry, Hamble Primary School student explore the role of modern materials in creating alternative methods of energy production in order to reduce carbon emissions. Additionally, a unit on contemporary issues in science focuses on the ethical, social, economic, and environmental factors that learners must consider in their careers. One of our IT certifications enables learners to think about how a new IT project or system can help an organization to lower its overall carbon footprint and waste. Students also learn to think about sustainability when defining IT service delivery requirements with their customers and clients that want to support their organization’s commitment to sustainability. Hamble Primary School has a history of teaching its students about the UN A list of BTECs with sustainability content Convention on the Rights of the Child. can be found in the appendix.31 For more When the school joined the Global Learning about BTECs and employability, see p42. Programme, its leaders found that using the SDGs as a new framework to teach Global Learning Programme global citizenship was an exciting way to sustainable cities and communities and We continue to integrate sustainable re-energize both students and faculty. Goal 12 on responsible production and development into schools in England Students have been conducting their own consumption through the picture book through the Global Learning Programme. research about the SDGs and present their “Michael Recycle” and the concept The Global Learning Programme helps work at assemblies and within other student of becoming a “recycling superhero”. children aged 8 to 14 make sense of the groups. The school also challenged students In July 2017, 100% of the Year 6 students at world they live in and understand their to look for “good news” stories locally, Hamble Primary School responded positively role in a global society by teaching them nationally, and globally that they shared to survey questions that related to to critically examine global issues, such as both at school and with parents. feeling safe; knowing that adults would poverty, sustainability, and development. Through joining the Global Learning support them; knowing about their rights, Programme, the staff was able to access responsibilities, and how to respect people; It focuses on equipping students with the a range of training at no cost that supported and that their ideas about making their knowledge, skills, and values to make a them to consider how to embed the SDGs school a better place would be listened to. positive contribution to a globalized world. 98% of the children surveyed said that the and children’s rights within the curriculum. The Global Learning Programme in England school helped them understand different Teachers are also exploring ways to help is funded by the UK government and cultures, faiths, and ways of life. The school younger children understand the more delivered by a consortium of partner complex goals. For example, Year 1 children sees global learning as an essential part of organizations, led by Pearson. have been able to learn about Goal 11 on their wider school curriculum. The Global Learning Programme focuses on building teacher confidence in teaching students about global issues. Through a continuing professional development model of delivery, teachers in lead schools, “Expert Centres,” are supported to share best practices with schools in their network, and all registered schools also have access to funding for additional relevant training. 48 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Promote education for sustainable development Partner to advance education for sustainable development In 2017, we continued to support the UN Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME), which works to inspire and champion responsible management education, research, and thought leadership globally. Over 700 higher education institutions from 85 countries have become signatories to the six Principles for Responsible Management Education committing to the initiative. PRME has recently launched a champion group of higher education institutions who are piloting new ways to integrate the SDGs into their curricula. We sponsor and collaborate with Net Impact to inform our work on ESD. Net Impact is a membership organization that mobilizes its community of over 100,000 students and professionals to use their skills and careers to drive transformational social and environmental change. The organization has a number of programs – delivered centrally and through student-led chapters The Global Learning Programme has Throughout 2017 the number of new at universities – that give members the skills, had a number of successes since it schools registering for the Global Learning experiences and connections to support began in 2013: Programme continued to increase. In March them in building impactful careers. we ran a “Spring into Sustainability” social B  y the end of 2017, over 7,200 schools in media campaign, which involved raising England had registered for the program, awareness of the SDGs and themes each in a wide range of contexts, both rural day in March, and linking to the Global and urban. Learning Programme resources and O  ver 400 teachers have been trained for opportunities. In September, we supported their schools to become Global Learning Global Goals week and the World’s Programme “Expert Centres.” Largest Lesson by again raising awareness of the global learning activities schools  early 30,000 teachers have N have been involved in as part of the received training. Global Learning Programme. H  undreds of continuing professional Research and data gathered over the life development (CPD) courses have of the Global Learning Programme so far been offered to schools in England. demonstrate positive impacts on teachers’  he program has been highlighted T and school leaders’ understanding of the positively by Ofsted. value of global learning and how it makes pupils more able to navigate complex  ine reports have been developed N global issues. through program research projects. M  any free online resources have been created and shared. C  ase studies and films have been produced on a wide range of global learning and education for sustainable development topics. 49 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Engage in multi-stakeholder research, dialogue, and collective action to solve global challenges We are active participants in multi-stakeholder, collective action initiatives that aim to strengthen global education systems, explore the role of the private sector in global education and development, and advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We are active participants in multiHelp to strengthen education systems stakeholder, collective action initiatives that aim to strengthen global education systems, explore the role of the private sector in society, and share best practices on social innovation. Global Partnership for Education Global Business Coalition for Education Our engagement allows us to share our (board member) (founding member) experiences, capabilities, and insights, The partnership brings together over The coalition brings the business learn from others, and respond quickly to 50 lower-income countries, donor community together to accelerate progress opportunities and criticisms. We also governments, international organizations, in delivering quality education for all of the make sure that we actively listen to other the private sector, teachers, and civil society world’s children and youth. organizations working to improve education groups to support these countries with their around the world, especially for underserved education sector plans through financial and marginalized groups. assistance and technical expertise. Taking a position on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) Program in the US Pearson signed the FWD.us letter from In September 2017, our Leaders of American Industry. It calls for the CEO John Fallon shared an continuation of the DACA program and for Congress to enact bipartisan legislation important message with that provides these young people with a employees and stakeholders permanent solution to gaining citizenship. When Pearson takes a corporate position on about the Deferred Action an issue, we do everything we can to remain non-partisan. But we feel it is important to for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) speak out when there are policy issues that program in the US. run counter to our values, our business interests, and the communities we serve. We believe that everyone deserves access to a quality education and the opportunity to work and build a better life for their families. Read more: https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/ our-position-deferred-action-childhoodarrivals-daca-program-fallon/. 50 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Engage in multi-stakeholder research, dialogue, and collective action to solve global challenges Promote the private sector’s role in society and achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals United Nations Global Compact Business & Sustainable Development Sponsoring and participating (participant) Commission (commissioner) in SDG events We are signatories to the Ten Principles Our CEO John Fallon is a commissioner who We support events and use our speaking of the UN Global Compact, the UN’s main helped to guide the group’s investigation platforms to help inspire and mobilize other initiative for engaging responsible of how the private sector can realize companies and stakeholders to take action businesses. We have committed to operate significant long-term economic rewards to achieve the SDGs. responsibly, take action in support of UN and help to achieve the Sustainable In 2017, members of our executive team, goals and report on our progress. This Development Goals by 2030. In 2017, the together with other employees, participated report represents our UN Global Compact Commission presented their findings in the in numerous events, including at the World Communication on Progress (COP). Better Business Better World report. We also Economic Forum in Davos and UN General See p80 and p99 for more information. contributed to a discussion paper on the Assembly Week in New York. critical role of women in achieving the SDGs. Read the report: http://report. During UN General Assembly Week, we BETTER BUSINESS businesscommission.org/report sponsored Business Fights Poverty’s annual BETTER WORLD The report of the Business & Sustainable Development Commission event on collaborating to deliver the SDGs; January 2017 a Global Goals Awards dinner convened by Business Fights Poverty (sponsor) the UN Secretary-General with support BfP is the largest global network of from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation professionals passionate about fighting and UNICEF to celebrate leaders working to poverty through business. We support Read the report: http://s3. achieve the SDGs; and an event on refugee several of their “challenges,” which aim BEHIND EVERY GLOBAL GOAL: WOMEN LEADING amazonaws.com/aws-bsdc/ education (see p51). As part of our program to identify and address specific, strategic THE WORLD TO 2030 Discussion Paper BSDC_Behind-Every-Gobalof events at the World Economic Forum questions about how to harness and Goal.pdf Annual Meeting, we sponsored the Global September 2017 scale the positive impact of business on Goals Gathering convened by Bill Gates, people or the planet (see p51). Bono, and Malala in support of the SDGs. Through these and other speaking engagements, we highlight how we are supporting the implementation of the SDGs, particularly Goals 4, 8, and 10, through our 2020 Sustainability Plan, core business GRI GOLD Community (participant) activities, as well as through social impact GOLD Community members are GRI’s programs, campaigns, and advocacy. core supporters. Our sustainability report follows the GRI standards (see p80 and p99) and we engage with this group to improve our reporting and contribute to conversations about the future of reporting. World Economic Forum (member) The Forum engages the foremost political, business, and other leaders of society to shape global, regional, and industry agendas. 51 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Engage in multi-stakeholder research, dialogue, and collective action to solve global challenges Share best practices on social innovation Promising Practices Based on our experience with the Guide to Becoming in Refugee Education Tomorrow’s Markets Incubator (see p28), a 21st Century Teacher In September 2017, during UN General we developed a set of videos and tip sheets One of the outputs of our UPSHIFT Assembly week, we held an event to designed to help other companies jumppartnership with UNICEF (see p41) is a Guide launch the Promising Practices in Refugee start internal social innovation processes, to Becoming a 21st Century Teacher developed Education report, which we developed and give intrapreneurs the confidence together with Point B and Mawlamyine together with Save the Children and the that comes with knowing what they’re University. The guide is an aid for secondary UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR), as part of getting themselves into – even if they school teachers to integrate 21st century our advocacy efforts for our Every Child won’t fully figure it out until they try. skills into their teaching practice and Learning partnership (see p30). The report See the videos and tipsheets at: classrooms. The information, tools, and identifies promising practices in refugee http://socialinnovation.pages.ontraport.net activities in the guide were developed, education around the world, with a focus used, and tested with the different user on bringing innovation to existing efforts. Other social innovation events groups in 2017 and early 2018 in Myanmar, We sponsor and participate in a number with Pearson’s Global Schools and Social Read the report at: https:// www.promisingpractices.online of events on the cutting-edge of education Innovation teams working closely together and social innovation, such as the Aspen with UNICEF. Ideas Festival and SXSW. At the Skoll World Forum on Social Entrepreneurship and Arizona State University (ASU) + GSV conferences, Business Fights Poverty social we presented our learnings from the innovation challenge Tomorrow’s Markets Incubator on innovation for underserved learners. In 2017, we worked with Business Fights We shared lessons which can be applied Poverty, Barclays, and Cemex, together to core innovation strategies, including with The Intrapreneur Lab and Be Inspired how organizations can foster a culture of Films, to explore the question: what social innovation by putting in place the know-how do employees need to drive internal resources, support systems, and corporate social innovation? partnerships that intrapreneurs need to thrive. John Fallon speaking at the Promising Practices in Refugee Education report launch in New York, September 2017. 52 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Our commitments: Be a trusted Respect and support our people, customers, and communities p53 Protect our natural environmentp68 partner Build a sustainable supply chainp72 Being a trusted partner extends to all of We are committed to being the best partner the people our business impacts, including learners, customers, employees, local we can be to learners, educators, suppliers, communities, and the people who work in our supply chain. We take steps to and communities: living our values through protect their rights and keep them safe, how we do business, treat people, and protect and ensure our products and services do what we promise. Managing the the environment. environmental impact of our operations helps ensure a healthy planet for people, as well as reduces costs. 53 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Respect and support our people, customers, and communities We protect the rights, privacy, and safety of our learners and customers, and ensure we deliver relevant, easy-to-use, and effective products and services. We prioritize the wellbeing of our employees and provide them with the opportunity to develop, grow, and be their best selves. We are also dedicated to investing in local communities. Respect human rights Develop and implement our human rights strategy Our vision is to respect and promote human rights, including the right to education, throughout our operations and with our customers, employees, contractors, and supply chain. We have a corporate responsibility to respect human rights, and our approach is guided by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s declarations on fundamental principles and rights at work, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and the UN Global Compact Principles. We are a founding signatory to the UN Global Compact, and we are a member of the Global Compact’s UK Local Network. Following the goal we set in 2016, we As a result of the human rights assessment, undertook a comprehensive human we have identified priority human rights We respect the rights of our employees to rights assessment in 2017. Drawing on risks and opportunities, which fall under freedom of association and representation the expertise of BSR, a sustainability the five themes below. In 2018, our focus through trade unions, works councils, consultancy, we engaged a range of internal is finalizing an external human rights or any other appropriate forum wherever and external stakeholders to consider statement and implementing a human local laws allow. Pearson employees are how our operations, products and services, rights strategy addressing key themes participants in trade unions across the and the activities of our business partners (see p54). group. We work to prevent discriminatory, may have a positive or negative impact. illegal, or inhumane labor practices, We also already have policies in place for including child labor, forced labor, slavery, The work considered the rights of learners, key elements of human rights including and human trafficking. We use our influence parents, employees and contractors, editorial content (see p59), health and with our suppliers to improve standards teachers and educators, customers, safety (see p64), safeguarding (see p56), for their employees. Read more about supply chain workers as well as the and data privacy (see p55). supporting our suppliers and our work broader community. to prevent modern slavery in the supply chain on p72. 54 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Respect and support our people, customers, and communities Key themes of our human rights strategy Content Appropriate content See p59 Education about human rights See p45 Learners Learners’ rights and safety in our direct interactions See p56 Access to and affordability of products and services for underserved learners See p17 Gender equality See below Accessibility See p26 Partnerships Risks and impacts of customers, distribution partners, supply chain relationships, See p72 and other third parties Technology Privacy See p55 and data Impacts of artificial intelligence (AI) Employees Support for vulnerable workers See p64 Diversity and inclusion See p63 An extra year of primary school boosts girls’ future wages by 10-20% 10-20% an extra year of secondary school increases them by 15-25% 33 Advance gender equality to increase women’s empowerment by Our products and services are used by promoting access to high-quality education, millions of girls and women every day skills and training, and decent employment. around the world, providing a unique Our 2017 human rights assessment opportunity and responsibility for us to (see p53) also identified opportunities help them thrive. If women participated around gender equality. in the economy at the level of men, Our approach to women’s empowerment it would add $28 trillion, or 26%, includes helping women and girls overcome to annual global GDP in 2025.32 barriers to education and employment In 2016, a cross-functional steering (see our work with Camfed on p32), being committee at Pearson undertook a review gender-sensitive in our educational content of how we empower girls and women (see our Editorial Policy on p59), and across our value chain. We considered developing, supporting, and advancing risks and opportunities in our workplace, women who work at Pearson. marketplace, and supply chain; social See diversity and inclusion on p63 investments and philanthropy; and public policy and advocacy activities. We ultimately developed a set of strategic priorities 55 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Respect and support our people, customers, and communities Build trust with our Our internal audit team regularly reviews W  e acquired and implemented a new our data privacy and security programs. electronic Governance Risk Compliance learners and customers By way of example, they suggested (eGRC) tool that will provide a single, Respect the right to privacy and governance improvements to our privacy enterprise-wide platform for risk ensure data security program to meet the increased obligations quantification, remediation, and under the European General Data lifecycle management; We strive to protect the rights, freedoms, Protection Regulation (GDPR), which and dignity of all of the people who entrust W  e developed and implemented training we implemented during 2017. This included us with their personal information, including and policies to address key privacy and establishing executive and steering learners, customers, and employees. security risks; and committees on data privacy, and appointing We recognize our responsibility to keep  e embedded our product privacy W a data protection officer for Europe before their personal information safe and requirements into the product the GDPR came into effect in May 2018. secure, and to use it responsibly. development process to support the For the third year in a row, we made a goal of building privacy into our products Keeping important information private and significant improvement to our Information and platforms from the ground up secure is a matter of trust and reflects our Security Program maturity level score, known as “privacy by design.” values of decency and accountability, as which is provided by an external assessor. well as our commitment to human rights. Our global information security policies We have robust protocols to inform all and standards are updated regularly to stakeholders about how the company reflect “best in class” behaviors and changes collects and uses their data. to external compliance requirements. We have annual training for all employees In 2017, we made significant improvements on information security and data privacy. to our data privacy and information security As part of this training, employees read and programs and processes: sign an Acceptable Use Policy. All Pearson employees who deal with US student  e continued work on an in-depth privacy W information are required to take additional and security assessment of our key training on protecting educational data. products to evaluate compliance with current requirements; Pearson’s chief information security officer oversees the information security program, W  e extended the reach of our Security and our chief privacy officer manages our Operations Center and expanded our data privacy program. Both are accountable continuous security vulnerability scanning to the executive leadership team. The and response capabilities; security and privacy frameworks are W  e created and delivered a new, more linked to ensure a holistic approach and engaging awareness training program provide aligned guidance on product and that has been attended and embraced technology development processes, on a broad, global level; policies, training, and vendor management. W  e reduced the number of security-related Our risk management process is based incidents and drastically improved our on recognized international standards response and repair times; (ISO 27005/31000) for assessing and ranking  e made significant progress with a W data privacy and information security risks. detailed GDPR plan to ensure we focused Our information security controls are on the various activities required to adapt based on 27001/27002 and are regularly our program to meet the changes that tested and evaluated through internal came into effect in May 2018; and third-party reviews. W  e refined our vendor management We comply with relevant legislation and processes to include the execution of more contractual requirements and monitor robust contractual privacy and security regulatory changes to assess their impact terms, and expanded our use of privacy on our processes and programs. To help impact assessments for new programs inform our approach, we are members and onboarding new vendors; of the International Association of Privacy Professionals, Software & Information Industry Association, Future of Privacy Forum, and Centre for Information Policy Leadership in Europe. 56 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Respect and support our people, customers, and communities Safeguard and protect learners We have developed a sexual harassment “I was very encouraged to see We are committed to safeguarding and policy for our learners, which will be implemented in 2018; the implementation how across the diverse Pearson protecting learners wherever we operate, and particularly essentially in schools, of this has been delayed due to some businesses and different country restructuring within the main business. training and learning centers, and teaching In addition, we are currently exploring the contexts there is now a clear facilities. Our primary concerns focus on ensuring children’s safety and providing viability of an app that would strengthen commitment to ensure that the safeguarding practice of schools across safe, age-appropriate learning India where, according to the Ministry of safeguarding of learners is environments for all in both physical and virtual classroom settings. Safeguarding has Women and Child Development, 53% of taken seriously and that there school children suffer sexual abuse in been identified as a principal risk under our is also senior management enterprise risk management system and is some form, of which 20% are severe. subject to regular reporting to the audit endorsement of the work. In 2018, we will deliver safeguarding incident committee, a board-level committee. management training to senior managers , There is of course much to do, In 2017, we further embedded safeguarding implement the sexual harassment policy, but I think that the direction of in our governance processes through the and strengthen our safeguarding integrated assurance processes. travel is the right one. There has Safeguarding Committee. The relevant businesses have continued to assess Based on the findings of our human been significant progress made their safeguarding risks, and to action rights assessment (see p53), we will over the last two years.” improvements. With support from the strengthen our processes for learners to board, we have strengthened safeguarding raise concerns about harassment or abuse Jenny Myers Independent member practices in relation to the Pearson by integrating recommendations from of Pearson’s safeguarding committee Affordable Learning Fund portfolio (see p29). the UN Guiding Principles on Business and independent consultant at We have worked with an external expert to Jenny Myers Consultancy Ltd and Human Rights into our safeguarding develop training materials for our senior risk assessment framework for our direct managers, and we have ensured all delivery businesses. managers have the information they need to understand their roles and responsibilities in relation to safeguarding. 57 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Respect and support our people, customers, and communities Create a world-class digital experience Key to this strategy is to build a Global Improve customer experience Pearson’s product portfolio includes Learning Platform (GLP): over time, the GLP Our business depends on building strong, blended and fully digital solutions, will be the single platform that supports long-lasting relationships with our current and we are determined to use technology all of Pearson’s digital products and customers, and also anticipating the needs to help an even wider group of learners courseware, using a network of common, of future learners. achieve better outcomes. To do so, we are reusable components and software. To that end, we have created a centralized investing heavily – £700m+ annually – Creating a Global Learning Platform means research and insights function of 30+ in product development. we can significantly improve reliability and experts who work across geographies and Leveraging technology to expand our reach stability, but it is also critical to our ability business units. This group is modeled on an can help bring better learning to more to speed up the launch of new products agency structure, allowing team members people, including underserved groups, by and services, and to create a consistent to be flexible and work with the parts of supporting learning wherever they are in yet personalized customer experience the business where they are most needed. the world. For example, a number of our that is accessible on any device, anywhere The team is comprised of experts in products, like MyLab Foundational Skills in the world. research methodologies including surveys, (see p20), Connections Academy (see p19), While we establish the Global Learning face-to-face interviews, focus groups, online MyPedia (see p19), and our AcceleratEd Platform we will remain focused on bulletin boards, and more. This team keeps program (see p24) are deploying technology delivering the best customer experience us close to learners – constantly listening, to serve the unique needs of our customers. possible across our current Learning watching, and collaborating on today’s most Platforms. We are improving service stability important issues as they relate to education, Technology also presents us with exciting for customers – in particular during the and using technology to bridge the gaps that opportunities to make learning more critical North America “back to school” may exist in the future. personalized and engaging in real-time. For example, we are exploring how a virtual periods each spring and fall. For example, A few areas of focus in 2018 include several tutor can provide students exactly the help in 2017, we established a central operations initiatives that will help us leverage the they need, just when they need, through team to provide a rapid response to any benefits of technology and meet learner asking questions in natural language, arising issues and embedded further needs in education. Two of our priorities like they would with another student or customer-centric working practices to are looking at Gen Z – who were born in the professor. In this way students show up ensure any problems were resolved as late 1990s to mid-2000s and are our newest better prepared for lessons and importantly swiftly as possible. We also took steps to customers – and the changing learner the virtual tutor also provides actionable improve our operational stability, helping demographics, including underrepresented insights for instructors. us to more than halve our number of major groups (see p17 for more on this work). incidents and speed up issue resolution For teachers, automating activities like by 47%. In 2019, we will also expand our global grading, enables instructors to spend customer experience measurement more time with students and focus on As a result of these changes, the volume of program. In 2016, we launched a program other added value activities. customer issues in North America Higher to measure the Net Promoter Score (NPS) Education dropped by 41% (compared to the across the business, working to ensure that Over the last three years we have been previous year), and five times more students every interaction a customer has with a working hard to improve customer successfully resolved their issues with online Pearson product, website, salesperson, experience using our products by stripping self-help tools. This also contributed to an or service agent is engaging, seamless, and out the complexity – and consequent 82% customer satisfaction rate for our positive. Through the NPS feedback system, fragility – from the infrastructure that customer support agents, and an increase customers rate us on various interactions supports all of our products and services. in satisfaction levels across almost all of our across touchpoints and products. Pearson North America businesses in fall 2017. proactively follows up on feedback and uses it to identify continuous opportunities for improvement. We have set benchmarks based on our first year of measurement and will monitor the entire customer experience to look for areas of continuous improvement. 58 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Respect and support our people, customers, and communities Improve the outcomes that matter to We aim for our efficacy agenda to contribute learners through our efficacy research to shaping the future of learning by positively We are committed to selling products that influencing the global education system. By meet our customers’ expectations. To make publishing our efficacy reports, we are also sure our products and services deliver hoping that our competitors will follow suit learning outcomes, we conduct in-depth and transparently publish their own results. efficacy research on individual products. With greater insight into the efficacy of competing products, our customers will be Efficacy reports By “efficacy”, we mean a set of principles able to make more informed decisions and and practices that are rooted in product have greater confidence in the outcomes 15 efficacy reports published development and the way we interact that our products help learners to achieve. Connections Academy with our customers. To contribute towards While meeting our commitment to have Bug Club meeting the ambitious Sustainable our reports audited is a big achievement, Mastering Chemistry Development Goals through efficacy, externally reporting on the efficacy of our Mastering Physics we aim to: products was not our only goal. In 2018, Mastering Biology Work with students and educators to and beyond, we will continue to develop MyLab Math identify the outcomes that matter to them; new ways of partnering with educators, MyLab Foundational Skills researchers, and institutions so we can MyLab IT Partner with institutions and educators advance our work. In doing so, we will MyLab Statistics to conduct rigorous research into the continue to advocate for the need to apply Speakout efficacy of our products; rigorous evidence to improve the outcomes Top Notch Measure the extent to which learner of teaching and learning, while also seeking NAME outcomes are impacted; to ensure that evidence captures customers’ aimswebPlus experiences and is relevant and useful to WISC-V Use our research to inform how we plan, GED Testing Service educators in their practice. design, develop, and improve our products, Read our efficacy reports online at and how we engage with and support our https://www.pearson.com/corporate/efficacycustomers and learners; and and-research.html Share the results of this efficacy research with our stakeholders to enable our customers to make more informed, evidence-based purchasing decisions. We made a commitment to publish reports annually on the impact of the use of our products on learner outcomes, and in last year’s Sustainability report, we highlighted our commitment to have those efficacy reports externally audited by 2018. This year, as promised, we are proud to publish our first set of audited efficacy reports, externally certified by PwC. Collectively, these reports represent products that affect the lives of 18 million learners. Visit https:// www.pearson.com/corporate/efficacy-andresearch.html to learn more and see our audited reports. 59 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Respect and support our people, customers, and communities Deliver relevant, appropriate, and inclusive content Learners trust and depend on Pearson to provide course materials that are not only effective in improving learning outcomes, but also relevant, appropriate, and inclusive. In creating our products, we think specifically about the culture, background, and age of the learners that will access our content. Our processes include editorial reviews, internal and external peer reviews, and external commissioning. We also conduct testing with teachers, pupils, and independent academic experts. Where necessary, we enable parental controls for relevant digital products. As we become increasingly integrated globally, we understand the importance of standardizing best editorial practice. To advance our 2020 Sustainability Plan, These are fundamental principles that The policy is intended to: we committed to develop a common need to be considered to ensure that all P  rovide guidance for product development Editorial Policy across Pearson to ensure products apply Pearson’s values of being teams and individuals involved in the all content is appropriate, inclusive, Brave, Imaginative, Decent, and Accountable content creation process to avoid creating and relevant for all learners, for the that underpin our brand and shape the or including content that is not aligned to 21st century and beyond. way we think, work, and behave. In turn, Pearson’s values, and this reflects in our content and in our Our Editorial Policy is based on principles interaction with our customers, students,  revent unintentional errors or P in the following areas: parents, and teachers. inappropriate content being published 1. R  especting human rights including which may cause offense. The policy has been developed to be applied freedom from discrimination and bias across all of Pearson’s markets, business The policy was introduced in 2017 and 2. C  reating content that embeds an units, and varying operating models. It is we are currently in the early stages of awareness for and the promotion based upon editorial principles in operation implementing the policy throughout our of diversity and inclusion today across our business, as well as best business through webinars (delivered practice external guidelines. The policy to over 1,000 director level and above 3. D  emonstrating support for learning applies to all content in all geographies, employees cross-functionally and across which is based on evidence and facts regardless of whether it is print or digital all our markets), workshops, and an online or if it is created internally or by a vendor. learning module. We are also performing 4. A  ligning with legal and ethical obligations of content creation and production deeper dives on specific areas of importance related to Diversity and Inclusion (see p63). A cross-regional and functional steering committee, chaired by a member of our executive team, oversees the implementation of the policy and provides a forum for escalation and issue resolution. We also have policy champions in each market and business unit to assist with the implementation of the policy. 60 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Respect and support our people, customers, and communities The process to implement this policy was R  olling out a process to apply the policy We collaborate with industry partners to accelerated following the discovery of specifically in our higher education maintain a current database of all chemicals inappropriate material in our Concepts in courseware business at scale. The process that are used to make our products and Nursing series of textbooks in 2017. We took will include: training relevant employees on classify them according to relevant safety immediate action – issuing a public apology generaland certification-level curriculum; legislation. For more information, visit: (see https://www.youtube.com/ creating and distributing diversity and bookchainproject.com/home. watch?v=PnXjq6XdLw8), removing the inclusion guidelines for content In 2017, we again had zero product safety offensive material, and offering a free development and review; integrating a incidents. We continued to focus on and replacement copy to students who workflow to assess risk for each piece of addressed relevant regulations and industry requested a reprinted copy. content and the appropriate steps to trends (including US Consumer Product mitigate it; establishing diversity and Going forward, we will continue to embed Safety Commission (CPSC), ASTM toy inclusion “discipline leads” in each team; the policy into our business by: standard activities and updates, and EU and clearly articulating and communicating General Product Safety Directive, UK TSI, R  olling out an online training module escalation paths for content issues that EN 71 Part 1, 2, 3); and continued to ensuring that all employees and editorial arise at any stage of development, represent Pearson at the PIPS (Publishing business partners are who are involved in production, quality assurance, or within Industry Product Safety) Forum, the the creation and review of content have our markets. Bookchain project in the UK, where trade taken and passed the course. As of May Ensure product safety and academic publishers in the industry 2018, over 75% of employees involved Pearson takes measures to ensure the come together to share best practices and in content creation or marketing in almost safety of our customers. Our products keep abreast of legislative and chemical 40 markets had completed and passed – physical books as well as other items updates (see p72). We continued to work this training. like marbles, balloons, puppets, pen, with approved suppliers providing products W  orking with markets around the world to and pencils, among many others – subject to labeling requirements and to date review local editorial guidelines and ensure for young children are age-appropriate we have six vendors in the PIPS database. alignment with the global policy. and properly labeled with relevant Going forward, we will: R  eleasing a Business Partner version of choking‑hazard warnings. M  aintain our ongoing target of zero the policy for that is being shared with Our product safety manual sets out product safety incidents or recalls; our editorial third-party vendors. procedural and legislative requirements for product testing, development, and O  nboard two more vendors in the labeling, and is regularly updated to reflect PIPS database; and any new developments. We carry out  rovide training for all of the vendors P risk assessments based on learners’ on using the PIPS database. ages, product use, and materials, and use third parties to test and certify compliance with product safety standards. 61 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Respect and support our people, customers, and communities Develop our employees Pearson continues to transform along with our rapidly changing environment. About our employees To improve the experience our employees At times that has meant that we have had have in the workplace, we ran an employee to implement organizational restructuring 30,339 engagement survey in 2016, which highlighted areas of focus for 2017. activities that reduce our workforce. We are committed to support our people who are total average number of employees Each member of Pearson’s executive affected, by working with them to find in 2017 management committee used the insights alternative roles within the organization, to develop a plan of action. The results as well as providing transition support Employees by region were monitored and tracked quarterly. to assist​them in finding roles outside Pearson where necessary. Create the structure for a healthy organization Workforce 2020 Capabilities and A healthy organization is one that is aligned our digital transformation on its vision, able to execute and renew As our organization evolves, it is key to have itself over time. In 2017, we focused on leaders who have diverse perspectives, putting the structural foundations of our can lead through change and ambiguity, organization in place to drive our business and create inclusive environments where transformation to digital. This included employees can experiment and innovate. reviewing our operating model to identify We need the right roles and skills in our North America: 16,295 Growth: 8,268 specific areas where clearer accountability leaders, from the first line to the most senior Core: 5,291 Other: 485 and role clarity across our teams is needed. leaders. We empower our employees to In addition, we gained further insight have the confidence and skills to adapt as by conducting a pilot organizational the organization moves, learn by testing Employees’ gender health survey with our top 1,700 leaders and doing, and have transparent and diversity in July 2017. honest conversations about their career development. 39% 61% As a result of this, in December 2017, we shared three priority areas with We developed the Workforce 2020 men women employees that we will focus on over the Capabilities34 and a set of leadership next 18 months to make Pearson a healthier behaviors to describe what we need to do to and more sustainable organization: execute Pearson’s strategy and achieve our 1) creating strategic clarity, 2) creating competitive advantage in the marketplace. role clarity and personal ownership, and 30% These capabilities cover leadership (results, 3) generating customer, competitor, and people, values) and core skills (digital, external insights (i.e. market insights). commercial edge, change, sales, innovation). Board positions held by women Further to this work: Empower our people through learning 30% W  e worked across business units to identify what the impact of digital We promote a culture of learning at work, enabling more time for development and Senior leadership positions transformation means in the workplace discovering new learning paths that are held by women* and which employability capabilities are aligned to our Workforce 2020 Capabilities. * two reporting lines from the chief executive needed for the future. We want to make it easier for our employees to find relevant learning that builds skills.  e ensured activities and accountabilities W across teams were aligned. This helped Our Finance, Product, and Leadership develop and deliver products to market and Management online Academies were faster; and identified how roles could launched in 2016 and 2017 to provide be changed to improve our operations. employees with career development and leadership capability development W  e built criteria for critical roles for resources they had been seeking. The succession planning and partnered with learning opportunities and career resources Diversity and Inclusion to monitor the within these Academies are designed impact proposed organization changes carefully, to aid personal and professional would have on diversity. growth, whilst helping the business fill We implemented the Global Design gaps in skills and meet its strategic goals. Authority, a governance group accountable The academies, including the Tech Academy for approving organizational change, (rolled out in 2016), are available in Pearson including those impacting the operating U, our online learning platform, and are model. This collaborative approach has open to all employees. resulted in improved accountabilities, better alignment and faster execution. 62 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Respect and support our people, customers, and communities We delivered Career Development actions. For example, we relaunched the programs for different levels of the pipeline. Workshops for personal development and company global career site and developed We have established a quarterly reporting participated in National “Learning@Work” recruiter toolkits with elevator pitches to cadence to our executive committee weeks, which are week-long learning engage candidates. spotlighting succession and development festivals aimed at encouraging workplace of our senior leaders. We need to enable knowledge transfer learning and connecting people across between geographies, identify future talent, Support our people in and out of the organization. and build a pool of potential future talent the workplace Through Discovery Days, colleagues from suitable for international assignments. We are committed to offering benefit all parts of the organization meet each other, We piloted the “Talent Brokerage Program” programs that make our employees’ lives learn about our newest product offerings, – an international exchange of talent easier, simpler, and more rewarding. Our and join workshops to increase commercial knowledge and skills across our growth programs vary globally and include benefits and digital knowledge. markets – which has triggered a high level such as health insurance, disability coverage, of engagement and interest. We plan to retirement savings matching, employee Pearson supports performance-based widen the offering in 2018. stock purchase options, commuter benefits, compensation decisions, guiding managers to target money to where it is needed We recognize that career development tuition reimbursement, and programs that the most. We aim to recognize high and learning go hand-in-hand and our support wellbeing and work-life balance. performance, whether that is collective Career Development Workshops hosted Helping our employees outside of the or individual. Awards are made and 1,530 employees in 111 sessions in office leads to higher levels of employee differentiated based on performance, 27 locations in 23 countries. engagement and productivity at work, market, and affordability. and improves individual wellbeing. Develop strong leaders Connect our people to roles Our industry is experiencing unprecedented Looking ahead We strive to increase internal mobility to disruption and our employees face social, 2018 brings specific opportunities and retain and develop our talent, especially generational, governmental, and challenges in managing talent: balancing through times of change. Our focus is to technological changes and challenges transparency and privacy; leadership develop our pipeline, address succession, as many in the workforce do today. development and new ways of working; and support our employees by finding roles the drive for innovation; and making the To help our people navigate this change, human resources function a strategic that allow them to progress. This includes we created our Leadership and changemaker within the organization. being involved in new products, services, Management and Technology Academies and projects, across various markets. In 2018, we will: (see above) to support them in this Our employees have opportunities to transition. We introduced a set of new  xpand the Talent Brokerage E develop skills that build global mindsets, leadership development programs to all Program globally; have exposure to our customers, and levels of the organization that are steeped in understand centralized operations. U  se insights from the organizational health building our future capabilities (Workforce As a result of conducting an analysis of 2020 Capabilities, including amongst others, survey to enable more employees to internal mobility and drafting a future state digital, innovation, change leadership, and contribute to innovation and growth; proposal, we undertook a number of commercial edge); and launched specific Recognizing employees through the Growth Awards In an effort to promote a high-performance culture, 18 individuals and teams received ”The days in London gave us an Growth market awards for exceeding targets, opportunity to take a pause and going the extra mile and making a difference to learners. learn more about ourselves, The winners – who came from Brazil, Greater about the leadership, about China, Hispano America, India, the Middle East and South Africa – were invited to spend a few how to shape our careers, days at our London headquarters. For many it and of course about Pearson. was their first time in the UK, and they had an opportunity to meet with the leadership team, It was incredibly inspiring to Award winners on their trip to London. other award winners, and a variety of other teams, including sustainability. hear about some of the creative and innovative experiences of colleagues from around the world.” Neha Nupur, General manager, digital marketing, India and Growth Awards winner 63 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Respect and support our people, customers, and communities  rovide learning and development P Foster an inclusive and Talent management and attraction opportunities for all employees, with a diverse workforce Learning and development focus on digital talent, skills and expertise; At Pearson, we value the power of our differences. A culture that values innovation D&I thought leadership Ingrain our Workforce 2020 Capabilities across our talent processes; and and learning benefits from diverse Assessment and measurement perspectives and ideas better reflecting  aunch Pearson-wide business L the people we serve – teachers and There has been considerable progress in transformation tools and development. learners. Our commitment is to seek 2017 and below we set out some highlights to maintain a work environment that’s as well plans for 2018 and beyond. Our long-term focus includes: inclusive as well as diverse, in which Employee engagement A  workforce that drives growth and our people can be themselves. Our focus on employee engagement is focused on critical capabilities In 2017, we renewed our organizational continued through a mix of local events (Workforce 2020) as we transform in, commitment to diversity – our global like colleague lunch-and-learns as well and embrace a digital landscape; Diversity and Inclusion program aims as the fourth Annual Global Inclusion  eadership that drives business L to build a stronger company for our Week to celebrate inclusion in education performance through consistent employees, our learners, and the around the world, with around 50 sessions leadership practices and behaviors across communities in which we operate. on topics including Ending Stigma for Pearson and embedded management Adult Literacy Learners and learning basic practices that drive a high-performance As part of our renewed commitment, British sign language. culture; and Pearson has adopted a 2020 Diversity and Inclusion Road Map. It recognizes We expanded the Global Diversity  healthy organization that is innovative A that we have many strengths to maintain, and Inclusion Advocates team – which leads and adaptive in response to market such as employee engagement, as well initiatives to embed D&I across the business changes and opportunities. as identifies six priority areas for focus – to six countries, and the Global Employee for improvement: Resource groups to five countries. As committed in 2016, we launched Generation Executive engagement Pearson, our eighth Global ERG, dedicated Products and services to collaboration across generations. Global diversity & inclusion 2,400+ 6m+ 2,400+ employees trained in 2017 active Twitter users average daily active reach from users on Neo. #DiscussDiversity chats and 3,000+ downloads 5,000+ views of the Global INclusion Week Schedule on Neo. 8 Global ERGs at Pearson: – Generation Pearson – Pearson Able – Pearson Bold – Pearson Latino Network – Pearson Parents – Pearson Veterans – Pearson Spectrum – Women in Learning and Leadership 64 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Respect and support our people, customers, and communities Executive engagement Talent management and attraction The global H&S team develops, maintains, 2017 saw the establishment of a new We published the Pearson Great Britain and supports our H&S policy, and the executive level committee led by the gender pay gap report and continued board’s audit committee oversees General counsel and Chief legal officer to work towards our commitment H&S performance. We consider to provide strategic oversight of the extend gender pay reporting globally by printing and warehousing to be D&I agenda at Pearson. The legal team 2020. See https://www.pearson.com/ our high-risk activities. also created Pearson’s first departmentcorporate/news/media/newsPearson Management Services, the specific diversity pledge and accompanying announcements/2018/03/pearsoncompany in the UK that manages our standards and processes. publishes-gender-pay-report.html. head office, is certified against BS (OHSAS) Products and services We recognize that we can do more and 18001, an internationally recognized H&S We also worked on integrating the principles are working to support women better to management standard. of diversity and inclusion into our business realize their full potential and progress. At the beginning of 2018 we completely processes and policies. Most notably, Planned initiatives include: revised and internally published our diversity and inclusion was an important E  nsuring a diverse slate of candidates 2018-2020 strategy, together with a element of our work to implement a global is put forward for consideration for significantly revised Global Health and Editorial Policy to ensure our products and VP roles and above; Safety Policy and Standards. The latter was services are free of bias and are inclusive recently communicated to all our employees (see p59 for more on this work). In 2017,  etting up a mentoring program for S globally with a supporting animation on why we also: women with a particular focus on health and safety is important at Pearson. North America; and  upported Global Product’s Higher Ed S After only a few weeks, approximately Courseware review and creation of Introducing an executive mentoring 10,000 employees had certified their review anti-bias editorial processes and training; program for high performing women and understanding of their responsibilities in our talent pipeline. in our learning management system. W  orked with Pearson’s Online and Blended Learning business to create Looking forward to 2018 A robust H&S assurance program has gender-inclusive name and pronoun Our 2020 Roadmap is continuing to embed also been established and is essential for options for students; D&I into the way we work. In 2018, we will: ensuring we are actively identifying hazards, regulatory compliance concerns, and  eveloped and delivered an Inclusion Job D Integrate D&I as a mandatory element non-conformance with the policy. This is Aide for our US Learning Services schools’ of organizational goals and scorecards, supported by a global network of nearly 200 business to ensure that all customer-facing which link to performance assessment, “H&S coordinators” who work to ensure the solutions consider diversity; and pay/reward, and ultimately promotions; H&S management system is implemented  onsulted with Pearson VUE to ensure that C  mbed diversity concepts and principles E and managed in their business locations. candidate security screening procedures into our employee learning; The global H&S team has become a are inclusive. Implement consistent quarterly registered center to teach the Institution of D&I thought leadership reporting on global and national Occupational Safety and Health “Managing We launched new programs such as the diversity metrics; and Safely” course. Going forward, the H&S DiscussDiversity Podcast that highlight coordinator group will be the first to receive the stories of our diverse colleagues. S  upport senior leaders in being change this training. This course will better equip Our #DiscussDiversity Twitter chats agents and role models and inspiring our coordinators to recognize hazards, reached over six million active users. others to take action. assess risk, take appropriate corrective Improve health action, investigate incidents, and much As part of our commitment to lesbian, more. Raising the level of H&S awareness gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) staff and safety and competence in our business locations and the wider LGBT community, we Our people work in many different facilities will make our system much more effective. externally benchmarked our practice. around the world, including schools, We were recognized for our fifth straight colleges, test centers, offices, data centers, For 2018, our key focus areas include: year as a Best Place To Work for LGBT call centers, printing sites, and warehouses. R  eviewing our global H&S management Inclusion in the US by scoring 100% on the Simply put, we cannot be a sustainable system to be more digital and efficient; Corporate Equality Index. We also took part company and a trusted partner unless in Stonewall’s 2018 Workplace Equality we ensure the safety and wellbeing of U  ndertaking a comprehensive review Index in the UK. The feedback has given us our people, our learners, and all who of current global H&S documentation good guidance to drive forward LGBT come into contact with our operations. that supports our management system, inclusion at Pearson. including all processes, guidance, and We are working to firmly establish, and resource documentation; and We were also recognized by Forbes who continuously improve, an effective health named Pearson one of America’s Best and safety (H&S) management system  volving our assurance program to E Employers for Diversity. On the list of 250 across our business. We have made good include more proactive reviews and employers, Pearson comes in at number 91. progress, but recognize more needs to implementation support prior to be done, especially given the continuing formal audits being conducted. evolution of our company. 65 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Respect and support our people, customers, and communities Initiative spotlight: Improving H&S in Cedar Rapids, Iowa Our H&S management system is based on a With a committed staff and an accountable, robust approach to support, risk assessment supportive management team, Iowa and control, employee communication, and operations was the first location in the US continuous improvement. One of our best to fully implement our global H&S policy and examples of success is our Cedar Rapids, standards. Working together over several Iowa processing center, part of our assessment years they have significantly reduced their business. Employees in this location perform injury rates (78%) and workers’ compensation a variety of activities including warehousing, losses (86%) since 2002. The combined focus packaging operations, and document on productivity, quality, and safety has helped processing. These activities involve a Cedar Rapids successfully consolidate variety of risks including machine and operations, and consistently deliver high equipment operation and repetitive, performance results for the company. manual handling tasks. Matt Herold, team member from the Cedar Rapids warehouse, wearing high-visibility clothing to promote safety.  ndertaking a comprehensive gap U While no employees were directly impacted Invest in our global and analysis of global incident reporting and by terror incidents, we focused on management; occupational health risk encouraging employees to be more aware local communities managing and wellbeing; ergonomics; of potential security threats when at work. Educational opportunities and outcomes and occupational road risk. With regard to natural disasters, our office are closely linked to the prosperity of local of 25 staff in Puerto Rico were impacted by communities and global development. In In 2019-2020, we will focus on the back-to-back hurricanes that caused 2017, we directed 1.4% of our pre-tax profits Implementation of action plans widespread devastation on the island, and to community activities, maintaining our generated in the above projects. on the mainland US, the hurricanes also ongoing commitment to invest at least Ensure corporate security impacted learners who use our products 1% annually. We are a member of the and resilience and services. In all instances, the focus London Benchmarking Group, a global We live in an increasingly complex world was and remains to ensure our staff and standard for measuring corporate with new and emerging security challenges learners are secure and accounted for, and community investment, which allows us – geopolitical threats, terrorism, crime, that assistance is given where needed. to track and report on our in-kind and and natural disasters, for example. Corporate security efforts concentrated on cash contributions to community causes Pearson has a responsibility to help assessing our locations determined to be (see http://www.lbg-online.net for minimize and manage these risks for high-risk, based on country and other risk, more information). our people, and our goal is zero harm. and protecting employees who travel to As part of our commitment to support our In 2017, the newly combined corporate them. There were 1,200 high-risk trips, communities, we provide employees with security and business resilience team an increase of 55% from previous years. a variety of opportunities for volunteering reviewed the approximately 40 highestA newly appointed global travel security and giving. These opportunities also help impact locations, based on their number manager has begun to undertake reviews to engage, attract, and retain people who of employees and the importance of service of these locations and released a traveler are passionate about our mission to and products they produce. We engaged training course in early 2018. The training improve lives through learning and our business partners to understand the risks is targeted especially to high-risk travelers commitment to advance the Sustainable to business delivery and to implement agile though its coverage is global and it is Development Goals. We have a global solutions. With more information about relevant for all staff and associates. network of over 200 social impact risks and how they impact our business, Our physical security work focuses champions who lead our efforts to we were able to take a more proactive on protecting people and assets, such partner with local non-profits and enable approach to resilience, for example by as buildings or our reputation, from volunteering and giving opportunities anticipating risks that may arise as we unauthorized access and preventing harm in the US, Canada, the UK, South Africa, transition to a more digital business. to our staff or intrusion into our systems Brazil, Australia, Italy, Sri Lanka, and and network. In 2017, we focused on other countries. Throughout the year, the resilience program development was accelerated as we securing our students from legacy threats, responded to 16 significant incidents on such as loss of data or exams, at our a global scale, a 100% increase from 2016. direct delivery locations by increasing We faced nine terrorists incidents, five our engagement with local police natural disasters, and two internal incidents. authorities when needed. 66 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Respect and support our people, customers, and communities Volunteering charitable organizations. We offer matching “I am very pleased that my All global employees can use up to three programs for charitable donations for all UK and US employees and a payroll giving contributions will help improve paid volunteer days a year for charitable work. We also offer company-organized program in the UK. In 2017, our overall the Youth Ready program, as employee giving increased by 230%. volunteering opportunities with non-profits Pearson’s total giving contribution, I strongly believe in its ability that align with our company’s mission. In 2017: which included employee donations and to positively impact the lives of matching, was £423,706.  earson employees volunteered 26,611 P young, disenfranchised people In 2017, our world was impacted by natural hours, an 89% increase from last year, from lower-income nations. I feel exceeding our target to increase hours disasters and our employees were eager by 40%. to respond to our seven campaigns for privileged to have worked with  0,640 individual instances where 1 Hurricanes Irma and Maria, Hurricane such dedicated and incredibly Harvey, the central Mexico earthquake, employees have participated in a social Northern California fires, Sri Lanka smart people from all over the impact initiative. 6,314 made a $25 loan flood relief, and Manchester bombings. world. It was an excellent use on Kiva, 2,096 volunteered, 1,788 donated, Employees made more than 6,400 and 442 posted stories about their donations for disaster relief that were of my three volunteer days.“ volunteering experience on our intranet. matched by Pearson. An employee in Australia volunteering with 8  8% of employee participants said having World Vision’s Youth Ready program, using her In the UK, we partner with Charities Aid skills to help review and edit educational content the opportunity to volunteer makes them Foundation and its “Give as you Earn” designed to support youth aged 16-24 in more proud to work for Pearson. scheme. Pearson matches tax-deductible developing essential life skills. donations by employees – up to £400 Giving per annum. Through our giving programs, employees have the chance to donate to specific Highlights from our employee volunteering programs Literacy mentorship Skills-based volunteering  ead for the Record : We supported the R ®  oard service: Employee resource groups B world’s largest shared reading experience (see p63) WILL UK and Spectrum UK offered Since 2015, Pearson has partnered for the 12th year. 1,139 employees read workshops to prepare employees with Kiva, an online microlending platform with 11,175 children in 45 states in the to apply to volunteer on non-profit boards. from entrepreneurs, to provide small loans US, Australia, India, South Africa, Spain,  dvising entrepreneurs: Through Project A to people around the world without access to and the UK. Literacy (see p34), Pearson hosted a workshop traditional banking systems. We committed  utoring programs: Over 250 employees T where employees provided feedback, $1m to support the initiative, with all Pearson participated in a variety of tutoring programs, guidance, and potential business connections employees receiving $25 to lend to a Kiva including Booktime in the UK, Reading to 13 education start-ups who participated in borrower of their choice. Partners in the US, and TutorMate, an accelerator program in partnership with In 2017, we made $1.8m in Kiva loans to a virtual program. the Unreasonable Group. 43,962 Kiva borrowers in 75 countries, with over 14,908 total members (employees, students, and customers) participating in the initiative, and as of early 2018, we have made over $2m in loans. More than 25% of our loans to date consist of education-related loans to give disadvantaged students the opportunity to attend a vocational training program, university, or other higher education institution. Other loans help to overcome barriers to education by providing support with food, health, and housing. Our Kiva partnership was recognized by Third Sector UK with the “Partnership of the Year” award for the media sector. 67 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Respect and support our people, customers, and communities 2017 North America Volunteer Day Add pictograms 1000+ employees participated 15 cities 85% of employee participants volunteered at schools and education/literacyrelated charities. 50 Employees rated the experience non-profits, organizations, 9.23/10 and schools 68 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Protect our natural environment Responsible environmental stewardship not only contributes to a healthy and sustainable planet, it benefits our business by reducing costs and managing risks. This thinking underpins Pearson’s long track 3. Offset: Whatever emissions we have not Pearson has a global online data record of investing in green initiatives. Our been able to reduce or avoid are offset collection system in place covering flagship environmental initiative is climate each year by supporting a range of utilities, waste, water, and business travel. neutrality but our commitments extend to forest-based projects that either save A network of contacts in facilities embracing a concern to protect the natural or absorb a tonne of carbon for each management and finance are responsible resources on which we all depend. tonne that we emit. for data entry. We regularly commission reviews of the system. We have asked We believe education plays a key role in Development and implementation of our Deloitte to look at the management and promoting sustainable development, strategy is overseen by the Responsible implementation of the reporting system and many of the educational institutions Business Leadership Council. Progress and data verification is assessed annually we serve have strong commitments to is reported to the Reputation and through our assurance process carried learning and research that advance responsibility committee, a formal out by Corporate Citizenship. environmental stewardship. committee of the board. See p77 for more about these governance structures. Advance our climate neutral strategy In 2006, we committed to become climate neutral in response to concerns of investors, employees, learners and customers alike. We achieved this goal in 2009 and have maintained it every year since, including 2017. Our climate neutral commitment covers company operations under our direct control such as buildings and travel. The commitment does not cover our supply chain activities such as our digital supply chain, paper purchase, printing, or distribution where we can exercise influence rather than control. Our strategy is built on three key areas: 1. Measure: We have an established, independently-verified process to measure our climate footprint relating to our buildings and business travel. 2. Reduce: We cut the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions relating to our buildings and business travel. We have invested in energy efficiency projects in our buildings and alternatives to business travel, such as video conferencing. We also purchased and generated renewable energy to meet our global electricity needs. 69 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Protect our natural environment Manage and measure our Pearson first introduced its environmental We have also embraced Leadership in policy in 1992. Our businesses in the Energy and Environmental Design (LEED), environmental impact UK and Australia are accredited against the green buildings standard in the US. Globally, our operations are accredited ISO 14001, the international environmental We currently have four buildings certified against the Carbon Trust Standard. We were management standard. In other parts under the LEED standard which together the second organization to be certified of the world, we apply our own global account for over 800,000 square feet against the standard, which recognizes environmental management system and approximately 10% of our footprint. leadership in measuring, managing, and (EMS) based on ISO 14001 standards. We continue to work on securing our reducing year-on-year carbon emissions. Our global EMS is described in the fifth LEED certification. We were re-accredited for a third time policies and downloads section of during 2016 and our certification is pearson.com/corporate. next due for renewal in 2018. Reduce our footprint  ew technology which is enabling more N flexible and greater home working as well through buildings as reducing the need for business travel. and business travel  hanges to our business portfolio – C Our main motivation for adopting our most notably the sale during 2017 of commitment to become climate neutral Global Education (GEDU). is to reduce our carbon footprint. C  ontinuing efficiencies implemented by the We set a target to reduce our global climate operations teams as well as strategies such footprint by 50% by 2020 compared to as limiting business travel. our baseline year of 2009, which we have Improvements in electricity transmission now met three years early. and a shift in the mix of energy sources Factors behind this performance include: towards lower carbon options and reduced emission factors.  ur accelerating investment in digital O content and the related switch away We estimate that we have reduced our from physical-related infrastructure energy spend by £4.25m in 2017. Beyond such as distribution. cost savings, good environmental management enhances our reputation. GHG emissions Our two flagship targets relate to energy use in our buildings as our most significant impact area under our direct control and a second covering wider greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions combining both buildings and travel: Global targets Baseline year 2016 2017 Target progress To reduce our GHG emissions by 50% by the end of 2020 using 210,306 MT CO2e 126,385 MT CO2e 104,384 MT CO2e -50% Target met 2009 as the base year. To reduce energy use in our buildings on an absolute basis by 50% 285,590 MWh 201,040 MWh 147,384 MWh -48% by the end of 2020 using 2013 as the base year. 70 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Protect our natural environment Local spotlight: Sustainable building in Columbia, MD, US In late 2017, Pearson opened a new The new workstation seating was office in Columbia, MD, home for its sourced through Knoll, which has a Online & Blended Learning (OBL) K-12 nearby manufacturing facility that group. Throughout the entire journey allowed for local sourcing. The to OBL’s new space, sustainability furniture meets a number of and the environment were considered sustainability certifications and with every decision. Through ancillary furniture was 90% reused dedication to sustainable building from other Pearson offices. and furnishing practices, Pearson As a result of these and other Pearson embraces digital continues to support the protection of measures, the building is currently our planet for the students we serve. applying for the United States Green sampling in the US Building Council (USGBC) Leadership To enable customers to preview in Energy and Environmental Design content, we have traditionally (LEED) certification, with results mailed print samples of textbooks. expected in 2018. In February 2018, we announced that we are accelerating our use of digital samples, which is faster, less expensive, and more environmentally friendly. By reducing the quantity of print samples, we can both improve our carbon footprint and provide more immediate access to content for customers. There may be specific situations where physical print titles are required, but Pearson is aiming to drive a large reduction in those instances as our customer base embraces the use of digital platforms. 71 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Protect our natural environment Reduce our footprint Offset emissions through More information through renewable our global partnerships In addition to this report, we publish an electricity Whatever emissions we are not able to environmental review providing more detail reduce or avoid are offset through a range on both our climate neutral commitment Our journey to purchase 100% renewable and on paper purchasing as our most electricity started in 2008 and was of forest-based projects. Our footprint for 2017 was 104,384 metric tonnes of carbon material environmental impact area (see completed in 2012. We have invested in https://www.pearson.com/corporate/ renewable energy generation at five sites dioxide (CO2e). sustainability/reporting-policies/reportsand have 2.3 Megawatts of wind and solar We avoided a further 76,950 metric tonnes benchmarks.html). We also publicly disclose assets installed. through our global commitment to purchase our performance on carbon management, electricity from renewable sources. water, and forest management to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). This left Pearson 27,434 metric tonnes to offset to maintain our climate neutral status. Our 2017 environmental data has been Pearson is a member of RE100, joining We did this through partnerships such as verified by the specialist consultant, over 125 companies helping build a with the Children’s Tropical Forests UK, the Corporate Citizenship. The assurance global market for renewable electricity. Algoma Highlands Conservancy in Canada statement (see https://www.pearson.com/ and the Woodland Trust in the UK. corporate/sustainability/reporting-policies/ For more information on Pearson’s commitment, reports-benchmarks.html) covers In the UK, we support Woodland Carbon visit http://there100.org/companies. the methodology, data collection, offered by the Woodland Trust. Woodland and accuracy of data reported. Carbon was the first scheme to meet the UK’s voluntary standard for woodland creation projects which sequester carbon. Our funding created over 20 hectares of new native woodland in Heartwood Forest in St Albans. In North America, our offset partner is Algoma Highlands Conservancy. The Algoma Highlands area in Ontario, Canada covers approaching 50,000 acres and our support is the anchor funding for the project. A wide variety of plants and wildlife species are being protected including rare plants and animals that are iconic to the Canadian wilderness – moose, bear, timber wolves, otters, woodpeckers and loons.  he Children’s Tropical Forests UK is our T primary offset partner. For 2017, we have once again agreed to purchase and protect rainforest in Colombia adding to our existing commitment to protect rainforest in both Colombia and Costa Rica in previous years. Since 2009, our climate neutral program has protected 1,650 hectares of forest. 72 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Build a sustainable supply chain Doing business with partners who share our commitment to human rights and the environment strengthens our supply chain relationships and reduces risk. Last year, Pearson purchased over £2bn As part of our approach to responsible We work with industry partners to improve of goods and services from over 63,000 sourcing, Pearson looks to work with sustainability in our supply chain. We are a third parties around the world, ranging from partners and businesses that have founding member and sit on the steering large multinationals to smaller specialist standards that reflect our own. We have a group of Bookchain, a partnership between companies and sole traders. number of policies and processes relating publishers to enhance industry standards to working with third parties – the most relating to labor standards and human The vast majority of the products and important of which is our Business Partner rights, product safety and paper sourcing. services that Pearson and its operating Code of Conduct (https://www.pearson. Working together with industry partners companies purchase are sourced from com/corporate/business-partner-code-ofhelps reduce the compliance costs for suppliers in Organisation for Economic conduct.html). suppliers as well as to reinforce the Co-operation and Development (OECD importance of adopting high standards. countries), mainly those in North America The Business Partner Code of Conduct and Europe. (“partner code”) clarifies the responsibilities and expectations we have of our business Manage our direct Pearson divides its supply chain into two broad areas: partners (which include joint venture suppliers: print and paper partners, vendors, franchisees, distributors, While we have a growing digital products D  irect – relates to the textbook production suppliers, contractors, consultants, and services supply chain reflecting our supply chain – paper, print, and and agents) for ethical and responsible increasing shift to digital, our traditional transportation. More detail about our business practice. paper-based products remain the most paper supply chain is below and more The partner code sets out our support for significant area of risk and impact (see about our print supply chain is on p73. universal human rights (including equal below). Our supply chain function manages Indirect – covers all other categories employment, freedom of speech and of our purchases of paper for books and of spend. This includes professional association, and cultural, economic and our contracts with printers and work with and consultancy services, content social wellbeing), good labor practices, and distributors and shippers who bring our development, the digital supply chain, decent working conditions. It also sets out products to market. marketing, and facilities. More detail about our expectations for supply partners to Paper supply chain our indirect suppliers is on p74. oppose discriminatory, illegal or inhumane labor practices including slavery and Timber production and forestry has Our relationships with suppliers are guided human trafficking. been identified by Pearson as a higher by our commitment to the UN Global risk industry due to the potential for Compact and other human rights standards The partner code forms part of new human rights abuses including the use of including the Universal Declaration of contracts and it is included when contracts forced, indentured and child labor. Paper Human Rights, the International Labour are renewed or updated. Compliance with production is linked to a number of Organization’s declarations on fundamental the principles in our code is a minimum important environmental issues, such as principles and rights at work, and the standard of behavior outlined in contracts. climate change, deforestation, and illegal UN Guiding Principles on Business and logging, and the loss of natural forest cover Our business terms of reference, which Human Rights (see p53 for more on our is a significant source of greenhouse gases. include social and environmental issues, commitments). The UK Modern Slavery Act, provide us with the power of audit and Pearson has a longstanding responsible which requires companies to specify the if necessary, the right to terminate paper sourcing policy that recognizes this steps they have taken to ensure their a relationship if we find issues of risk. This policy sets out our preference for business and supply chains are slavery free, non-compliance. This means our papers that hold Forest Stewardship Council also guides our approach to supply chain responsible purchasing principles of (FSC) certification, and we also recognize the sustainability and our modern slavery behavior are contractually enforceable. Programme for the Endorsement of Forest statement is available at: https://www. pearson.com/corporate/about-pearson/ Certification (PEFC) system of certification. our-position-on/modern-day-slavery.html PEFC endorses national schemes of certification. The two most significant schemes for us endorsed by PEFC are the 73 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Build a sustainable supply chain Canadian scheme, the Canadian Standards Worked with Bookchain on fiber testing. Print supply chain Association (CSA) and the Sustainable Innovation here has made it easier to We rely on third-party suppliers for printing Forestry Initiative (SFI) which is used in identify and prevent illegal logging by our textbooks and course materials. We both the US and Canada. linking book papers to tree species, have a single global policy and approach for a process we use as part of rating our managing risk in our print supply chain that We are reducing our use of paper. Our paper risk. covers supplier risk assessments and visits, increasing shift towards digital and services as well as business portfolio changes such Through a risk assessment process, we have third-party audits, and remediation of as the sale of The Financial Times and our identified the potential supply of paper from compliance issues. further reduction in our stake in Penguin Indonesia as an area of moderate risk for Our print production departments visit Random House have greatly reduced our modern slavery as well as high risk with suppliers around the world to assess direct paper purchases. In addition, we have regard to other social and environmental compliance with our standards and outsourced book production in North concerns. No paper manufactured in ensure suppliers address issues with America to LSC Communications. Together Indonesia or paper that contains pulp non-compliance. We require suppliers these changes have reduced the volume of from Indonesia currently meets our supply rated mediumand high-risk over a paper we directly purchase from an average standards. We communicate our standards threshold spend of £100,000 to undertake of about 300,000 metric tons each year to to printers and others who purchase paper an independent third-party audit before around 40,000 metric tons in 2017. on our behalf. they are approved as a supplier and to agree Even at these reduced levels, paper supply Recognizing that systemic issues such to regular review audits as an existing remains a significant category of supply as modern slavery require joint action, supplier at least once every 24 months. chain spend. We have taken the following during 2017, Pearson became a member These visits provide a valuable opportunity measures to help address these issues: of a stakeholder working group to consider to reinforce our commitments to eliminating the status of APP, a major supplier of pulp all forms of child, forced and compulsory Retained Chain-of-Custody accreditation and paper based in Indonesia. Our work labor, and promoting environmental from the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) with the FSC system has the potential to stewardship. We also intend for visits to in the UK, which enables Pearson products open a new source of supply for us. help improve suppliers’ business practices. to carry the FSC logo; Doubled the relative volume of paper purchases carrying the highest sustainability rating (FSC or equivalent certified) to around 45% of the total compared with 2014 levels; and What goes into our products? Direct Paper Relates to Print the textbook Transportation production supply chain Indirect Professional and consultancy services Covers all other categories of spend Content development Digital supply chain Marketing Facilities 74 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Build a sustainable supply chain During 2017, the production and In September 2017, Pearson introduced a In 2017, we continued to develop sustainability teams carried out a joint new, centralized approach to supplier due the program by identifying qualified review of printers in Malaysia. Our printers diligence and onboarding in the UK covering and competitively priced certified in China and Malaysia are visited at least all categories of spend. The system provides diverse businesses. annually and a visit report with follow-up centralized management that helps to We regularly support our Assessment and actions is completed after each visit facilitate audits of suppliers. Topics covered North America businesses with customers’ covering both commercial operations include data privacy and safeguarding. Request For Proposals (RFPs) that have and labor standards. In 2017 in the UK, we vetted over supplier diversity requirements. We We maintain a printer register to monitor 500 potential suppliers, and procured collaborate internally by locating and the environmental performance of more than £100m of goods and services identifying qualified diverse suppliers to suppliers, which includes over 90% of our utilizing contracts with updated terms partner with to meet customer compliance printers by value. We survey our global and conditions to ensure supplier regulations. Last year alone, we supported printers every two years to assess their: compliance with our social, ethical, 27 customer RFPs, whose total potential and environmental policies. contract value exceeded $350m. U  se of a recognized environmental management system; and In 2018 and 2019, the new onboarding This proposal development support is system will be introduced into other essential to maintaining our current Measurement and reduction policies geographies, and we will incorporate customer contracts and winning new for water, ink, solvents, alcohol, energy, additional due diligence questions across a business. It also provides the opportunity and waste. range of non-financial risk issues, including for our diverse partners to provide We continue to be concerned that the modern slavery. This centralized approach meaningful subcontracting services to release of Volatile Organic Compounds will give us better insight into our global support our customers and learners. (VOCs) present in inks and solvents is supply chain and enable us to report Future objectives managed effectively and reduced. additional data about our indirect suppliers. We encourage our printers and operating We continue to refine our supplier diversity companies to monitor reduction targets Foster supplier diversity strategy to further support Pearson’s for VOCs. corporate diversity activities while Our supplier diversity program began in continuing to embrace initiatives to expand Other considerations 2005 to ensure contractual compliance opportunities for diverse suppliers. During 2017, Pearson organized a training and has given rise to new strategic business day for the production team on alliances, commercial benefits, and positive In 2018, we plan to improve the way we sustainability, modern slavery, the FSC impact on society. capture our diverse supplier data, in order system and book donations. to ensure we are reporting accurately on our Once we began to realize the advantage of diverse spend and utilization. Additionally, We outsource road distribution and working with local, small, diverse businesses we aim to increase our diverse spend with shipping to third-party carriers and work – such as those that are small, underutilized, our Global Procurement Category Leads. with suppliers to consolidate shipments or women-, minority-, LGBT-, or veteranto maximize container loads. owned – we created a company-wide By the end of 2019, our goals are to: initiative in support of commercial goals. Increase our spend with diverse suppliers; Manage our indirect Building strategic partnerships that deliver  dopt a corporate policy on supplier A procurement risk process flexible and innovative solutions helps make diversity, and include supplier diversity us more competitive and in some cases Of the indirect suppliers paid in 2017, over language in our RFPs; and reduces costs. It is a business strategy half of our total spend (£1.3bn) is with our that demonstrates our commitment to  ork with our prime (Tier I) suppliers to W top 100 suppliers and approximately 1,000 sustainability, diversity, and inclusion, and integrate diverse utilization goals and suppliers account for 80% of our global it has economic impact in US states where spend targets in order to increase our spend (over £2bn). Our top 20 suppliers we do business. Supplier diversity is also overall diverse spend with the Tier II account for 32% of our total spend (£800m). important to ensure we meet the needs suppliers that supply goods and and expectations of our customers, services to Tier I suppliers. investors, employees, and communities in which we operate. 75 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Build a sustainable supply chain Supplier spotlight: Frishco, Ltd. Frishco, Ltd., a woman-owned One benefit for protégés is the business based in Austin, has opportunity to network with flourished since becoming a Pearson Pearson’s internal business groups, supplier and joining our Mentorthus expanding their breadth and Protégé Program. The supplier of depth of expertise. In 2017, we worked editorial services was selected to with Frishco on the Partnership become part of the program to for Assessment of Readiness for support our Texas Student College and Careers Assessment Assessment contract in September Development, Content Management 2010. At the time, the company and Technical Services RFP. As a struggled to expand its partnership result, Frishco was selected to provide with Pearson outside of that contract editorial review services, and the until 2017. three-year subcontract amount more than tripled its existing contract with Pearson. ”The Protégé-Mentor relationship with Pearson has greatly benefited our company. Through the program, we were encouraged to attain our Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC) certificate, demonstrating that we are an eligible woman-owned business to help companies meet requirements for state contracts.” Mary Ann Frishman President, Frishco, Ltd. 76 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Governance Our strong governance structures and internal systems all play key roles in managing risks and in advancing and embedding sustainability, responsibility, and ethics across our business. Provide high-level oversight Reputation and responsibility In 2018, the committee will continue to committee (RRC) explore Pearson’s material sustainability Our chief executive and our board are issues, including employability and 21st The RRC is a formal committee of the board ultimately accountable for everything we century skills as well as affordability, health providing ongoing oversight and scrutiny do as a company. and safety, and safeguarding. It will hold a across all of our responsible business activities, including communication deep dive into sustainability considerations The board is deeply engaged in developing strategies and policies and processes relating to our supply chain, and review our and measuring the company’s long-term related to reputational issues and people. 2018 efficacy reporting activity and plans strategy, performance, and value. In keeping for 2019. The RRC will also review our with best practice, we continuously assess Key activities overseen by the committee group-wide approach to reputational risk and refresh the board to ensure we in 2017 included: management and will consider culture and maintain an appropriate balance and employee engagement, bearing in mind diversity of skills and experience. I ssue management-related customer challenges and opportunities presented and media engagement in the UK and Our chief executive and chief financial by the ongoing transformation and the US officer are both members of the board. simplification across the business. See p61 and p63 for more information Global Editorial Policy about gender diversity on our board and Responsible business leadership executive management. More details about N  ew US administration and approach council (RBLC) to government affairs and public policy The RBLC is an internal governance group of governance at Pearson can be found on our website and in our Annual Report. Sustainability report senior executives from across the business. Led by the chief corporate affairs and global Tomorrow’s Markets Incubator Manage sustainability marketing officer, the RBLC meets in line Efficacy reporting plans with the RRC to provide guidance and input The board’s reputation and responsibility on sustainability strategy and activities. committee provides important oversight G  reenhouse gas emissions and of our Sustainability Plan. Our responsible climate change Key activities in 2017 included advising on: business leadership council, comprising Sustainability strategy and reporting; Brand strategy senior executives from across the business, helps to integrate sustainability throughout Marketing campaigns Global standards and policies; the company. See diagram on p77.  isks and opportunities related to the R  eview of any brand and R marketing incidents efficacy agenda;  ccess and affordability of US A Values and culture; and higher education courseware Initiatives including Project Literacy and C  ommunity investment plan, Every Child Learning. including Project Literacy updates Pearson’s digital narrative 77 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Governance In 2018, the committee plans to discuss Sustainability governance at Pearson issues including sustainability goals and targets, access to education and reputation management, as well as social impact Board of directors programming. The RBLC will also conduct a review of its membership in light of changes Board committees to our business. Audit Nomination Remuneration Reputation & Manage risk committee committee committee responsibility committee Pearson has a structured enterprise risk management (ERM) framework that aligns with international standards. Pearson Executive Management (PEM) The framework and supporting process Chief executive Chief strategy officer guide the identification and effective Chief financial officer President global product management of risks to meet our Chief technology and operations officer President North America strategic and operational objectives. Chief corporate affairs and marketing officer President UK and core markets Chief human resources officer President growth markets The board oversees our ERM program and Chief legal officer President Pearson assessments the audit committee reviews the status of each risk and its mitigation status at least twice a year. Pearson executives are accountable for risks relevant to their respective areas of responsibility. Human resources Legal Our most material risks are reported as principal risks in Pearson’s Annual Report. We define these material risks as those Chief corporate affairs and Flow of information Corporate global marketing officer which have a higher probability and Operations affairs & Responsible business significant impact on strategy, reputation, marketing leadership council or operations, or a financial impact greater than £50m. Sustainability & social innovation team The principal risks that relate to the material Efficacy & issues in Pearson’s 2020 Sustainability Product research Plan include products and services, testing Audit & failure, political and regulatory risk, data compliance privacy, information security, customer digital experience, and safety and corporate security. A table mapping our material issues with principal risks can be found Operational responsibility leaders on p89. We consistently applied the risk framework to identify, monitor, and review our most Global operations across Pearson significant and emerging risks. In addition to managing and monitoring enterprise risks, the framework is also used to further embed the risk management approaches across the organization to support the business in making risk aware decisions. All Pearson business functions continued to maintain their own risk maps in 2017, with the spotlight on the robustness of the mitigation plans. 78 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Governance In 2018, we will be implementing a more For 2018 the policy goals include: Over the past several years, Pearson has integrated approach to assurance across steadily committed greater resources to R  evising the policy framework to simplify Pearson (based on a model which strengthening and improving our global requirements and processes; outlines the different levels of assurance compliance office and our anti-bribery and responsibilities from business management C  reating new internal site and procedures corruption (ABC) program. In 2016, we through to external audit and oversight), for making policies easier to find and more introduced the greatest overhaul of our as well as updating our framework to readily available; global ABC program since its introduction ensure it continues to align with the 2017 in 2011. We launched a new ABC policy – update of the COSO ERM standard. P  ushing to increase compliance with providing clearer, more helpful guidance mandatory training, and making the and instruction on how to identify and training more engaging and better Follow our code spaced out annually; and avoid bribery and corruption. of conduct We also established a new network of local A  ligning important pre-framework compliance officers in our geographies and The code of conduct sets out global policies with the requirements set out in businesses to advise and guide business standards for our day-to-day work and is the revised framework. partners on conducting business fairly, supported by a suite of global policies and honestly, and lawfully and establish principles that are publicly available on our Raise concerns appropriate internal controls. We website. We developed a new training We operate a free, confidential telephone introduced and rolled out to many of our course in 2016 to reinforce key elements helpline and website for anyone who wants geographies and businesses a new system of the code. Employees provided strong to raise a concern, and we have a clear and tool automating the request and positive feedback and highlighted new non-retaliation policy in place to encourage approval process for gifts and hospitality. insights and learnings from the course. honesty and openness. Cases that pose We continued our core commitment to In 2017, we revised and updated the code significant risks to our business are reported training in 2016 by delivering ABC training of conduct, rolled out a certification for to the Pearson audit committee. to numerous employees, including a all employees, and achieved a 100% In 2017, 87 concerns (107 in 2016) were significant number of our sales organization completion rate. raised and investigated. Thirty two concerns and senior leaders. In 2018, we will again re-certify the code of (36%) related to human resources matters We also began to conduct third-party due conduct, and will include a specific training and 51 concerns (58%) related to financial diligence on our “high-risk” third parties, course for the code that will be rolled out to irregularities or violations of our policies – a project which was expanded in 2017 all employees. none were classed in our highest risk to additional third parties. category. We took appropriate steps to Manage global policies resolve these issues, mainly through In 2017, through our Local Compliance employee training, policy improvements, Officers (LCO) network, we provided training Following the creation of the global policy and raised awareness of our anti-bribery or disciplinary action. In 2017, there were 13 framework in 2016, we have made solid and corruption policy, conducted ABC risk terminations and separations of employees progress improving the quality and assessments in businesses in four parts as a result of these investigations. standardization of our global policies. of the world, with an additional three to be Through the new process and controls, completed in 2018 in those places in the we were able to launch more than ten Implement an anti-bribery world that have higher risk according to global policies in 2017, including our and corruption program Transparency International’s Corruption Editorial (see p59) and Health and Safety Perception Index. Policies (see p64). As part of our commitment to conducting business fairly, honestly, and lawfully, we In 2018, we will complete a pilot project for In late 2017, the Global Policy Committee have a zero-tolerance policy towards bribery our highest risk third parties with an eye was tasked along with our Learning and and corruption of any kind. This includes toward rolling out a global approach to Development team to streamline and compliance with all applicable anti-bribery third-party due diligence that will be make more effective training and/or and corruption laws, including the US implemented in the highest risk countries acknowledgement required in the countries Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK in the world according to Transparency where we operate and do business. Bribery Act 2010, as well as local ethics and International’s Corruption Perception Index. bribery laws. We aim to work and partner only with those who share this commitment. 79 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Governance Engage with public policy Disclose our approach Government officials around the world to taxation make daily policy decisions that have a All companies have a responsibility to direct impact on education and our maintain and strengthen public trust in business, and our government relations the corporate tax system, and companies teams are responsible for tracking how should take steps to help improve public political and legislative trends might understanding and awareness of their affect us. The teams develop and maintain position and payment of tax as well as relationships with key government to support international tax reforms. representatives, associations, membership organizations, and third-party institutions In 2017, we released our first voluntary to ensure that we have a voice in policy tax report (https://www.pearson.com/ discussions. These relationships ensure corporate/about-pearson/our-position-on/ that we are able to work in partnership on tax.html). It provides an update on the shared agenda items; that our company is tax principles that we use to guide our well-positioned and represented; and that approach, a description of our tax strategy our work is fairly and accurately conveyed. as well as financial information for the company’s 12 largest markets. In all our engagements with government, we act in accordance with multinational, national, state, and local laws and regulations, and are guided by our corporate values and code of conduct. Pearson expressly prohibits the use of company funds for making political contributions. Pearson does not make direct contributions or donations to political parties or candidates anywhere around the world, nor do we operate a Political Action Committee. During 2017, we contributed to policy discussions on issues including intellectual property, the Sustainable Development Goals, refugee education, education and technology, teacher development, and improving learning outcomes. For more information on how we engage in the global dialogue on global issues, see p49. Public policy activities are overseen by the board’s reputation and responsibility committee. 80 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Appendix About our reporting This section provides more information about several reporting and related topics, including assurance, external recognition, certifications, targets, and material issues. It also shows how we have applied relevant Assurance international reporting standards and Our environmental data (p88), and our  frameworks, including the Global Reporting data on community investment (p87)  Initiative (GRI) guidelines, UN Global were assured by independent external Compact (UNGC) Ten Principles, and the  assurance providers Corporate Citizenship. UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Statements are available for download at: Our 2017 Sustainability Report covers  https://www.pearson.com/corporate/ data from 1 January to 31 December 2017, sustainability/reporting-policies/reportsand it was released on 27 June 2018. benchmarks.html. Our reporting framework We recognize the importance of assurance for building credibility and driving This report has been developed in performance. As in previous years, we will accordance with the GRI Standards.  aim to address the recommendations made A list of material issues and their  for improvement, and to report on our relevance to GRI is on p96 and our  progress in next year’s environment report. GRI table is on p99. Read more about GRI at www.globalreporting.org. Contact us This report has been prepared by  Pearson’s 2017 Annual Report includes a Pearson’s sustainability and social summary of the issues covered in this report innovation team in consultation with  and, as required by 2013 amendments  other key departments within Pearson.  to the UK Companies Act, comprises a We welcome your thoughts and feedback. separate strategic report with disclosures Please email sustainability@pearson.com on human rights, gender diversity, and with any questions or comments. greenhouse gas emissions. Visit https://www.pearson.com/ Pearson was a founding signatory to the  sustainability to view this report online, UN Global Compact in 2000, and considers along with our environment and other  its ten principles in our reporting process. key reporting policies and downloads. Our report serves as our Communication  on Progress and outlines our contribution  to the SDGs (see p99). Learn more about sustainability at  Pearson and read this report online at:  Read more about the UN Global Compact at unglobalcompact.org. www.pearson.com/sustainability. 81 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Awards and recognition Sustainability Corporate Knights Pearson has been included in a ranking of the Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World for a fourth year. Pearson was ranked 15th. The 2018 list is drawn from over 4,000 companies with a market capitalization in excess  of $2bn. The assessment covers social impact, environmental performance, and corporate governance. DJSI World Index Pearson has been included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for over a decade. In 2017, we were named the  Media Sector leader. We currently hold the Silver Class. Only 10% of global listed companies are included in the  World Index based on their sustainability leadership. Our company score for 2017 was 75 (76 in 2015). FTSE4Good Pearson has been included in the FTSE4Good indices since their inception in 2000. Business in the Community Pearson has participated in BITC’s Corporate Responsibility Index benchmark every year since its launch until its  final year in 2016. In 2016, our CR Index Score and Performance Star Rating were as follows: CR Index Score: 94% (2015: 94%) CR Index Star Rating: 3.5 Employees ISO 18001 Pearson Management Services, the company in the UK that manages our head office, is certified against ISO 18001,  the international health and safety management standard. Human Rights Campaign Pearson received a perfect score in HRC’s Corporate Equality Index for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender  (LGBT) workplace equality in the US for five consecutive years, making our company a designated Best Place to Work  for LGBT colleagues. Dave Thomas Foundation Named as one of the 100 Best Adoption Friendly Workplaces in the US by the Dave Thomas Foundation for Adoption. Stonewall Participated in the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index, and members of the Stonewall Diversity Champions program. DIVERSITY CHAMPION 82 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Awards and recognition Environment Carbon Trust Standard Pearson retains global certification against the Carbon Trust Standard. We were the second organization ever to secure the Carbon Trust Standard globally, which recognizes leadership in measuring, managing, and reducing year-on-year carbon emissions. Leadership in Energy and Pearson’s buildings in the US — Centennial, CO, Cedar Rapids, IA, Hoboken, NJ, and our building at 330 Hudson Street,  Environmental Design NY hold LEED Gold Certification. Together, these four LEED-certified buildings represent over 800,000 square feet of space. ISO 14001 Pearson businesses in the UK and Australia are certified against ISO 14001, the international environmental  management standard. CDP Climate change Pearson voluntarily discloses data and information on carbon management to the Carbon Disclosure Project.  Pearson was rated in the B performance band in 2017 as taking coordinated action on climate change issues. CDP Forests Pearson voluntarily discloses data and information on forest management to CDP. Pearson was rated in the  A performance band in 2017 as having assessed the risks related to deforestation and is measuring and managing  the impacts. CDP Water Pearson voluntarily discloses data and information on water management to the CDP. Pearson was rated in the  C performance band in 2017 as being aware of water issues and for providing a comprehensive disclosure on  water issues. We do not consider water risk as material for Pearson. 83 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Performance data 2015 2016 2017 Governance and ethics Total number of concerns raised and investigated 119 107 87 Human resources matters 77 (65%) 61 (57%) 32 (36%) Financial irregularities or violations of our policies 42 (35%) 46 (43%) 51 (58%) Terminations and separations 26 20 12 Percentage of employees completing code of conduct 98.6% (for all n/a 99% (for all certification or training certification processes) certification processes) Labor practices and decent work Our employees Total average number of employees for the year 37,265 32,719 30,339 Total number of permanent employees, as of 31 December 2017 99.1% Permanent contracts – male 38% Permanent contracts – female 61.5% Total number of temporary employees, as of 31 December 2017 2.6% Temporary contracts – male 34% Temporary contracts – female 63.9% Total full-time employees, as of 31 December 2017 83.4% Full-time – male 41% Full-time – female 58.7% Total part-time employees, as of 31 December 2017 15.9% Part-time – male 24.2% Part-time – female 74.8% Employees by geography, total average for the year North America 19,951 16,841 16,295 Core (including Australia and Europe) 5,936 5,664 5,291 Growth (including China, India, Brazil, and South Africa) 11,114 9,868 8,268 Other 264 346 485 Employee gender diversity Male, total average for the year 41% 40% 39% Female, total average for the year 59% 60% 61% Board positions held by women 33% 30% 30% Percentage of women on Pearson’s executive team 18% excluding enabling functions 0 Female representation by level Senior leadership, total average for the year 34% 32% 30% VP, as of 31 December 2017 41.1% Director, as of 31 December 2017 46.9% Manager, as of 31 December 2017 51.3% Percentage of women in technology roles (IT/engineering),  23.52% as of 31 December 2017 84 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Performance data 2015 2016 2017 Employees age representation, all as of 31 December 2017 Employee age Under 30 years old 6,052/19.6% 30-50 years old 17,960/58.17% Over 50 years old 6,864/22.23% Employee age by gender Female 3,928/12.72% Male 2,111/6.84% Not available 13/0.04% 30-50 years old Female 10,811/35.01% Male 7,114/23.04% Not available 35/0.11% Over 50 years old Female 4,270/13.83% Male 2,479/8.03% Not available 115/0.37% Turnover Turnover rate, total average for the year 27% (US and UK) 26.27% (US and UK) 8,413/25.7% (global) Voluntary turnover 5,185/15.9% (global) Involuntary turnover 3,228/9.9% (global) Turnover by region Core 648/7.69% Growth 2,318/27.46% North America 2,209/26.34% Other 3,238/38.52% Turnover by gender Female 5,098/60.62% Male 3,126/37.1% Not available 189/2.28% Turnover by region & gender Core Female 442/5.24% Male 194/2.3% Not available 12/0.14% Growth Female 1,333/15.8% Male 946/11.19% Not available 39/0.46% North America Female 1,424/16.98% Male 716/8.51% Not available 69/0.84% Other Female 1,899/22.59% Male 1,270/15.1% Not available 69/0.83% 85 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Performance data 2015 2016 2017 Turnover by age group 35 Under 30 years old 2,479/29.58% 30-50 years old 4,292/50.91% Over 50 years old 1,642/19.52% Turnover by gender and age group Female Under 30 years old 1,561/18.63% 30-50 years old 2,559/30.38% Over 50 years old 978/11.62% Male Under 30 years old 893/10.65% 30-50 years old 1,689/20% Over 50 years old 544/6.45% Not available Under 30 years old 25/0.3% 30-50 years old 44/0.53% Over 50 years old 120/1.45% New hires Total number and rate of new employee hires36 6,153/19.9% New hires by region Core 710/11.5% Growth 580/9.41% North America 2,144/35.06% Other 2,719/44.02% New hires by region and gender Core Female 472/7.64% Male 218/3.53% Not available 20/0.33% Growth Female 257/4.17% Male 298/4.85% Not available 25/0.4% North America Female 1,549/25.36% Male 565/9.22% Not available 30/0.48% Other Female 1,589/25.73% Male 1,040/16.83% Not available 90/1.47% New hires by age group Under 30 years old 2,242/36.43% 30-50 years old 2,869/46.64% Over 50 years old 915/14.86% No date 127/2.07% 86 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Performance data 2015 2016 2017 New hires by age group and gender Under 30 years old Female 1,359/22.09% Male 856/13.9% Not available 27/0.43% 30-50 years old Female 1,855/30.19% Male 976/15.85% Not available 38/0.61% Over 50 years old Female 631/10.25% Male 275/4.46% Not available 9/0.15% No date Female 22/0.36% Male 14/0.23% Not available 91/1.49% Average length of service for a Pearson employee in years Total 6.15 Female 6.06 Male 6.36 Not available 1.79 Health and safety (H&S) Percentage of H&S standards implemented across all locations37 49% 67% 82% Number of H&S audits38 53 45 41 Percentage closure of open action audit findings as of January 1 39 81% 90% Number of improvement follow-up actions from audits implemented40 354 76 319 Number of injuries41 103 156 112 Number of work-related illness cases 42 147 124 99 Number of serious incidents43 30 37 27 Number of work-related fatalities 0 0 0 Total incident rate per 100 employees 44 1.36 1.01 0.77 Injury and illness rate per 100 employees45 0.24 0.38 0.28 Serious incident ratio46 5% 9% 9% Workplace inspections reported47 990 2,287 2,407 Employee training Total hours by all employees 146,587 144,561 151,165 Average hours per year per employee 3.49 4.07 4.89 87 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Performance data 2015 2016 2017 Percentage of total employees by gender and by employee category 19,436/62.93% who received a regular performance and career development review during the reporting period. Female 10,840/35.1% Male 8,493/27.5% Executive 0/0% SVP 93/0.3% VP 363/1.18% Director 1,034/3.35% Manager 2,527/8.18% Other levels 15,419/49.92% Percentage of all employees with formal appraisal impacting pay 98.8% (at least annually) Employee benefits Health and wellness benefits Percentage of employees participating in Pearson medical programs 84.7% (US) 83.4% (US) 82% (US)/51% (UK) Average percentage of health insurance costs for employees paid by Pearson 80% (US) 80% (US) 80% (US)/79% (UK) Average percentage of health insurance costs for employees, spouses, 80% (US) 80% (US) 80% (US)/82% (UK) and dependents paid by Pearson Financial benefits Percentage of eligible employees participating in Pearson’s 401(k) Plan 92% (US) 91% (US) 92% (US) Percentage of employees participating in the Employee Stock Purchase Plan 25% (US) 22% (US) 22% (US) Percentage of employees participating in the Worldwide Save For Shares Plan 18% (global excluding the US) Percentage of workforce below senior leadership eligible for 5.2% (global) long-term incentive programs Work/life balance and lifestyle programs Number of employees using commuter benefits 1,007 (US) 692 (US) 600 (US) Number of employees using Pearson’s Employee Assistance Plan 486 (US) 452 (US) 390 (US)/239 (UK) Number of interactions with Pearson’s lifestyle programs 12,231 (US) 14,169 (US) 12,709 (US)/10,148 (UK) Society Community investment48 Community investment in GBP (£m) 10.7 6.8 7.2 Community investment as a percentage of pre-tax profits 1.5% 1.2% 1.4% Volunteering49 Employee volunteer hours 10,390 14,085 26,611 Kiva partnership Kiva partnership lending $600,000 $1,300,000 $1,800,000 88 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Performance data 2015 2016 2017 Environment 50 Greenhouse gas (GHG) (carbon dioxide equivalent) emissions overview (metric tons CO2e) Scope 1 Gas, fleet and refrigerant loss 22,343 19,093 15,691 Scope 2 Electricity 88,381 77,579 61,047 Scope 3 Other 1,044 1,359 1,230 Business travel 26,255 22,708 21,999 Electricity transmission 8,345 5,647 4,418 Total Scope 3 35,644 29,714 27,647 Total 146,368 126,386 104,385 Total GHG/FTE metric tons (CO2e/FTE) 3.93 3.86 2.53 GHG emissions from Pearson businesses (metric tons CO2e) US 79,872 64,590 54,503 UK 20,251 17,167 12,462 China 17,655 18,478 11,963 South Africa 12,976 India 1,863 Brazil 1,530 Canada 1,865 Australia 2,383 Rest of the world (except US, UK, China) 28,715 26,150 Rest of the world (except US, UK, China, South Africa, India, Brazil,  4,839 Canada, Australia) Total 146,492 126,385 104,384 Percentage decrease from year to year (for Scope 1 to 3) 10% 13.7% -17% Renewable energy (kW) Total solar 2,575 2,475 2,265 Total wind 95 95 95 Total 2,670 2,570 2,360 Environmental reporting measures (units) Net internal area of reporting offices (m2) 1,208,954 858,237 788,506 Energy consumption measure Percentage of electricity from renewable sources 100% 100% 100% Total electricity consumption from renewable sources only (MWh) 162,916 154,910 122,224 Total gas consumption (MWh) 48,760 45,855 25,553 Total fuel oil consumption (MWh) 3,500 276 96 Total energy consumption (MWh) 215,176 201,041 147,873 MWh/employee 5.8 6.1 4.9 89 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Performance data 2015 2016 2017 Business travel measure Air passenger (km) 207,822,988 163,722,174 152,430,338 Rail passenger (km) 4,374,643 7,496,013 13,893,549 Road (distance) (MWh/year) 1,447,092 64,318,474 58,254,200 Road (fuel use) (litres) 4,894,843 0 0 Road (derived energy) (MWh) 43,899 45,071 41,511 Total GHG emissions from business travel  26,255 22,708 21,999 (metric tons/CO2e) Paper Paper used (MT) 132,551 43,027 40,953 Waste Total waste to landfill (MT) 1,112 1,249 1,244 Total waste to landfill (MT/FTE) .03 .038 0.04 Water Total water consumption (m3) 1,014,268 526,297 530,728 Total water consumption (m /FTE) 3 27 16 17.5 Legal compliance Reported environmental prosecutions nil nil nil Climate neutrality GHG reduction for period 2009 to 2016 105,922 Purchase of green electricity 61,047 Offsets 43,337 Managing key safeguarding issues KPI 2016 outturn vs target KPI 2017 outrun vs target To manage safeguarding risk, our risk  assessment process identifies opportunities  Complete 70% of  85% were  Complete 80%  to strengthen practice. actions identified completed of actions 85% We are working to extend the reach of  the training program in our direct delivery  Complete 75% of Reached 85%  Complete 90%  businesses, which includes 4,000 employees. training of the target of training 90% 90 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Progress on 2017 targets Area of focus Status Reference Managing sustainability Sustainability strategy Continue to embed our five-year Sustainability Plan, including by: This report shows progress across each Refining our strategy; of these areas. Setting measurable targets and KPIs; Improving how we capture and analyze data; Formalizing our stakeholder engagement processes; Increasing employee engagement with our sustainability activities; and Increasing transparency in our reporting. Awards and recognition Maintain or improve how we are viewed in external benchmarks of p81 sustainability and corporate responsibility practice. Pillar 1: Reach more learners Improve access to and affordability of products and services Accessibility Make 100% of our digital portfolio accessible for people with disabilities p26 around the world by 2020. Launch a global accessibility policy in 2017 that will enable us to deliver The process has been delayed due on our goal to reach more learners by including users with disabilities. to organizational changes and work is ongoing. See p26. Establish a UK accessibility committee. The process has been delayed due to organizational changes and work is ongoing to create a global accessibility group. See p26. Work with our Growth markets to support their capacity to develop p26 accessible products that fit the needs of users. Enrich our marketing, communication, and customer support around p26 accessibility so learners have a better understanding of the capabilities of our products and services as well as avenues to get information and help as needed. Affordability Enable 3 million students to access more affordable digital course p20-21 materials from the first day of class by 2019. Through Tomorrow’s Markets Incubator, we will: p28 S  elect and fund up to five teams to advance from the “Explore” to “Validate” phase in our product lifecycle; Invest in and guide these teams through the Validate phase, with the ultimate goal of creating successful pilots in market; Socialize the venture innovation approach with business partners and integrate learning from the ventures into Pearson’s strategy for new markets; R  efine the model and launch a second call for new venture ideas to incubate; and Capture our learnings and share them with the broader community of public, private and non-profit sector practitioners. 91 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Progress on 2017 targets Area of focus Status Reference Collaborate to reach underserved learners Certify 5,000 women with BTEC qualifications through our partnership p32 with Camfed by the end of 2019. Enable Camfed to extend the Learner Guide program in Tanzania  In 2017 Learner Guides supported 6,540 in 2017 by: children across 80 schools. Supporting an additional 6,400 children in 80 schools; Training 236 young women as Learner Guides in four rural districts  236 young women were trained in 2017. of Tanzania; Distributing 32,000 books to 80 schools in rural Tanzania; and 32,700 books were distributed in 2017. E  nabling Learner Guides to reach over 10,800 additional children  10,890 children were reached in 2017. on a weekly basis with targeted life skills sessions. Pillar 2: Shape the future of learning Build skills that foster employability and inclusive economic growth Employability Grow users of the CSP steadily to reach 100,000 students by 2020. p40 Engage in multi-stakeholder research, dialogue, and collective action to solve global challenges Research Support external research on topics including refugee education, p50-51 innovation in education, role of business in sustainable development, and employability. Engage with multiMaintain leadership and participation in multi-stakeholder initiatives p49-51 stakeholder groups and partnerships that promote quality education and lifelong learning. Pillar 3: Be a trusted partner Empower and support people Human rights Conduct a human rights assessment and implement a new human p53 rights policy by 2018. Safeguarding Continue to embed our governance processes. p56 Complement our existing training for all employees with targeted This is now planned for 2018. See p56. workshops for senior leaders and communications leads on their  roles and responsibilities in incident management. Adopt a global policy and supporting procedures on sexual  We have developed a sexual harassment harassment in adult learning centers operated by Pearson. policy for our learners, which will  be implemented in 2018; the implementation of this has been delayed due to some restructuring within the main business. See p56. Digital infrastructure Continuously improve the availability, reliability, and security of  p57 our products. Invest in infrastructure and security improvements to minimize  p57 service disruptions. Customer experience Launch the Global Customer Experience Measurement Program, The team was restructured into a  tracking NPS and how we are delivering against our Customer global insights function. See p57. Experience Principles. Integrate the company-wide framework established in 2016 into  The team was restructured into a  our core business units. global insights function. See p57. Efficacy Report publicly and transparently on the impacts of our products  p58 on outcomes for learners. Have efficacy reports externally audited by 2018. p58 Relevant, appropriate, Establish and roll out Global Content Principles by 2020 to ensure p59 and inclusive content Pearson content is appropriate, effective, and relevant for all  learners, for the 21st century and beyond. 92 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Progress on 2017 targets Area of focus Status Reference Product safety Maintain our ongoing target of zero product safety incidents or recalls. p60 Provide training on vendors in the PIPS database. We onboarded six vendors into the database and will onboard two more in 2018. Once all vendors are onboarded, we will train them. See p60. Health and safety Publish a 2018-2020 H&S strategy to recognize our H&S maturity and  p64 reach beyond compliance. Publish and communicate a revised, fully-endorsed H&S policy  p64 and standards. Continue the implementation of our global H&S assurance program. p64 Establish more robust global processes for injury, illness, and other In progress and work will continue  incident reporting to enable more effective and transparent reporting. in 2018-2020. See p64. Develop targets and metrics consistent with GRI. p86 Establish regular senior management reviews in relevant  We have continued to hold quarterly businesses and geographies to ensure awareness of and  senior operational management reviews accountability for H&S performance. throughout our Core business, which is being extending to our Growth and Americas geographies in 2018. This is supported with specific business line reviews in our large direct delivery businesses. Throughout 2018, H&S  will also be a standard agenda item  on quarterly updates with each senior management representative within  each business line and geography. Corporate security Release an eLearning traveler training module on Pearson U. p65 Learning and Focus on gender diversity in succession planning to improve our  p61-64 development pipeline of emerging leaders, emphasizing high potential minority groups and employee peer-to-peer mentoring. Scope skill needs and gaps for future talent at specific locations to p61-62 support digital transformation. Retain and develop our talent by increasing internal mobility,  p61-62 helping employees understand their capability gaps, and developing  key skills through Pearson U and other learning opportunities. Improve employee relations by leveraging insights from our annual p61-62 employee engagement surveys. Diversity and inclusion Publish gender pay details for our UK business by 2018 and extend our We released our UK report and  reporting on gender pay to cover our global operations by 2020. continue to work towards global reporting. See p63. Launch a new employee resource group (ERG) to promote collaboration p63 across generations. Host our fourth annual Global Inclusion Week to offer learning p63 opportunities for employees across the globe. Volunteering and giving Invest 1% pre-tax profit in community activities. p65 Increase volunteering hours by over 40% to reach more than  p65-67 20,000 volunteer hours during 2017. Grow our involvement and participation in skills-based  p65-67 volunteering opportunities. Improve how we measure and understand the links between p65-67 participation in our programs and employee engagement,  retention, and development. 93 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Progress on 2017 targets Area of focus Status Reference Protect our natural Achieve 50% absolute reduction in the GHG emissions of our global p68-71 environment operations by 2020. Achieve 50% absolute reduction in energy use in our buildings by 2020. p68-71 Investigate whether our third-party data centers can be supplied by No progress. Project feasibility to  clean energy by 2018. be reviewed in 2018-2019. Look beyond direct emissions to capture impacts across the digital  p68-71 and physical value chain. Continue to invest in energy efficiency and renewable energy in order  p68-71 to remain carbon neutral. Build a sustainable  Introduce new approach to supplier risk due diligence, incorporating a p72-75 supply chain review of a range of sustainability and human rights issues. Governance Code of conduct Revise and update the Pearson code of conduct, and a related training p78 course, and roll out a certification for all employees. Introduce a “code of conduct and raising concerns” awareness  p78 campaign following our certification process. Anti-bribery Provide training and raise awareness of our revised anti-bribery and p78 corruption policy for higher risk countries and activities. Conduct anti-bribery and corruption risk assessments of our  p78 businesses around the world. Further establish an anti-bribery and corruption third-party due p78 diligence program. 94 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Targets for 2018 and beyond Continued New Timeframe Pillar 1: Reach more learners Improve access and affordability of products and services Enable 3 million students to access more affordable digital course materials from the first  2019 day of class by 2019 from a 2016 baseline. Accessibility Make 100% of our digital portfolio accessible for people with disabilities around the world  2020 by 2020. Release our updated global accessibility policy. 2019 Social innovation Embed Tomorrow’s Markets Incubator and its approach to venture innovation further  2018-2019 across the company. Support four finalist teams that were selected and funded through the incubator’s  2018-2019 first round through prototype and pilot activities. Launch a new call for venture ideas, guide a second cohort of eight teams through the 2018-2019 incubator’s initial Explore phase, and select the most promising ones to receive investment  for the Validate phase. Collaborate to reach underserved learners Certify 5,000 women with BTEC qualifications through our partnership with Camfed by the  2019 end of 2019. Pillar 2: Shape the future of learning Build skills that foster employability and inclusive economic growth Grow users of the Career Success Program steadily to reach 100,000 students by 2020. 2020 Undertake a review of all our products to understand the extent to which they are teaching 2018 and and assessing the skills outlined in the Personal and Social Capabilities Framework and the  ongoing top skills identified in the Future of skills research. Following the review, we will identify gaps and develop a strategy to better integrate these key skills into new and existing products. Promote education for sustainable development Complete an internal review to identify opportunities for Pearson to advance education  2018 for sustainable development. Publicly advocate for and produce a report on the role of the private sector in  2018 education about sustainable development in partnership with Business Fights  Poverty and others. Engage in multi-stakeholder research, dialogue, and collective action to solve global challenges Support external research and thought leadership on topics including refugee education  2018 and innovation in education. Act as a leader in and participate in multi-stakeholder initiatives and partnerships that 2018 and promote quality education, lifelong learning, and the role of business in society. ongoing Pillar 3: Be a trusted partner Respect and support our people, customers, and communities Human rights Conduct a human rights assessment. 2018 Publish a human rights statement. 2018 Publish a revised modern slavery statement. 2018 Safeguarding Adopt a global policy and supporting procedures on sexual harassment in adult learning 2018 centers operated by Pearson. Deliver safeguarding incident management training to senior managers. 2018 Strengthen our safeguarding integrated assurance processes. 2018 Based on the findings of our human rights assessment (see p53), we will strengthen  2018 our processes for learners to raise concerns about harassment or abuse by integrating recommendations from the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights into  our safeguarding risk assessment framework for our direct delivery businesses. 95 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Targets for 2018 and beyond Continued New Timeframe Relevant, appropriate,  Establish and roll out Global Content Principles by 2020 to ensure Pearson content is 2020 and inclusive content appropriate, effective, and relevant for all learners, for the 21st century and beyond. Roll out an online training module ensuring that all employees and editorial business partners 2018 who are involved in the creation and review of content have taken and passed the course. Work with markets around the world to review local editorial guidelines and ensure alignment 2018 with the global policy. Release a business partner version of the policy that is being shared with our editorial  2018 third-party vendors. Roll out a process to apply the policy specifically in our higher education courseware  2018 business at scale (see p59 for more detail). Product safety Maintain our ongoing target of zero product safety incidents or recalls. 2018 Onboard two more vendors in the PIPS database. 2018 Provide training for all of the vendors on using the PIPS database. 2018 Learning and Expand the Talent Brokerage Program globally. 2018 development Provide learning and development opportunities for all employees, with a focus on  2018 digital talent, skills, and expertise. Diversity and inclusion Extend our reporting on gender pay to cover our global operations by 2020. 2018 Integrate D&I as a mandatory element of organizational goals and scorecards,  2018 which link to performance assessment, pay/reward, and ultimately promotions. Embed diversity concepts and principles into our employee learning. 2018 Implement consistent quarterly reporting on global and national diversity metrics. 2018 Health and safety Review our global H&S management system to be more digital and efficient. 2018 Undertake a comprehensive review of current global H&S documentation that  2018 supports our management system, including all processes, guidance, and  resource documentation. Evolve our Assurance Program to include more proactive reviews and implementation  2018 support prior to formal audits being conducted. Undertake a comprehensive gap analysis of global incident reporting and management; 2018 occupational health risk managing and wellbeing; ergonomics; and occupational  road risk. Volunteering and giving Invest 1% pre-tax profit in community activities. 2018 Protect our natural environment Environment Reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 50% by the end of 2020 using 2009 as the base year. 2020 Reduce energy use in our buildings on an absolute basis by 50% by the end of 2020 using  2020 2013 as the base year. Build a sustainable supply chain Introduce a new onboarding system into other geographies beyond the UK, and incorporate 2018-2019 additional due diligence questions across a range of non-financial risk issues, including modern slavery. This centralized approach will give us better insight into our global supply chain and enable us to report additional data about our indirect suppliers. Increase our spend with diverse suppliers. 2019 Adopt a corporate policy on supplier diversity, and include supplier diversity language in  2019 our RFPs. Work with our prime (Tier I) suppliers to integrate diverse utilization goals and spend targets  2019 in order to increase our overall diverse spend with the Tier II suppliers that supply goods and services to Tier I suppliers. Governance Code of conduct Re-certify the code of conduct and roll out a training course for all employees. 2018 Anti-bribery Complete a pilot project for our highest risk third-parties with an eye toward rolling out a 2018 and global approach to third-party due diligence that will be implemented in the highest risk ongoing countries in the world according to Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index. 96 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Material issues With our 2020 Sustainability Plan and approach to reporting, we focus on the issues that matter most to our business, our learners, and all of our stakeholders (see p14-17 for more about our stakeholders). We undertook a comprehensive Security, health, and safety Education industry materiality assessment in 2015, following Ensuring the safety and security of all best practice outlined by the international Access employees, learners, and suppliers reporting standard, the Global Reporting (including through policies and practice, Ensuring equitable access to our products Initiative (GRI). training, monitoring, and disclosure). for all learners, including those with disabilities and special needs. Based on consultation and an analysis of Corporate governance the areas that are most important to our Affordability Establishing a framework and set of stakeholders, we identified a shortlist of Offering products and services that are processes promoting ethical conduct, 19 issues that are most relevant to the affordable to different income groups. transparency, and accountability to  sustainability of our business. Through our stakeholders. 21st century skills further consultation with senior leaders at Pearson, we narrowed these down to Societal issues Providing products and services that equip nine issues we believe are most material learners with the skills and competencies – at this time. Economic empowerment such as creativity, entrepreneurship, and Education is an important source of critical thinking – needed for success in the To determine materiality, we took economic growth. Providing a quality 21st century. into account: education helps increase learners’  T  he degree of influence and immediacy of earning potential, allowing them to  Environmental issues opportunity we have to tackle the issues; improve their standard of living, and GHG emissions and climate change T  he risk posed to our business, considering providing an economic value that extends  Managing and mitigating our greenhouse what steps we are already taking to to future generations. gas and climate emissions throughout our address the issues; and value chain. T  he relative impact of the issues on maintaining or building our reputation  and business success. Following the 2015 process, we made minor Materiality matrix adjustments to our material issues in 2016 to reflect input from our stakeholders. HIGH Economic Learner Data privacy empowerment expectations We continuously evaluate the relevance and security Competitiveness Academic quality of our material issues and we refresh of digital products our analysis when appropriate. Progression High-stakes testing Our material issues are broken into  four categories: 21st century skills Access Security, health, Corporate functions and safety Stakeholder concern Girls and women’s  Competitiveness of digital products Literacy empowerment  Affordability and equality The potential impact on the business  Education for sustainable Corporate development L  obbying and public governance and learners if digital products are not policy perceived to be, or experienced as,  GHG emissions and climate change leading in applicability, convenience,  Digital infrastructure price, or other elements of overall competitiveness and functionality. Disruptive Data privacy and security distribution models Nine material issues Ensuring personal information about our in our Sustainability Plan and reporting customers and learners is kept safe and Degree of control secure, with appropriate systems and High Medium Low procedures in place to prevent privacy LOW breaches and information loss. LOW Business impact HIGH 97 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Material issues The following table provides further detail on how we define our material sustainability issues, where the impact of these issues occurs (inside or outside the organization, or both), and the key stakeholders impacted by the issues. Description of material issue Boundary Key stakeholders Relevant GRI G4 aspects Data privacy and information security Ensuring personal information Impact occurs primarily outside Employees Customer privacy about our customers and learners Pearson – failure to protect privacy Learners is kept safe and secure, with and security of data could significantly Customers appropriate systems and procedures affect our learners and customers. in place to prevent privacy breaches Business partners and information loss. Suppliers International, non-governmental, and non-profit organizations Governments and other education agenda-setters Regulators Competitiveness of digital products The potential impact on the business Impact occurs primarily within Pearson Employees Content creation and learners if digital products are as this affects the company’s economic Learners not perceived to be, or experienced as, performance. However, stakeholders Customers leading in applicability, convenience, outside the organization, including price, or other elements of overall learners, customers, and suppliers, Suppliers competitiveness and functionality. could indirectly be affected through Business partners the lack of supply of products. Shareholders and investors Security, health, and safety Ensuring the safety and security of Impact occurs both within and outside Employees Occupational health all employees, learners, and suppliers Pearson. Our ability to retain and attract Suppliers and safety (including through policies and the best people, maintain supply chain Training and education Learners practice, training, monitoring, effectiveness, and protect our reputation and disclosure). could be affected if we fail in these areas. Customers Governments Regulators Corporate governance Establishing a framework and set of The impact occurs both within and All our stakeholders Anti-corruption processes promoting ethical conduct, outside our business since the way transparency, and accountability to we conduct our business affects all our our stakeholders. stakeholders – those who work for us, do business with us, and use our products and services. Economic empowerment Education is an important source of Impact occurs primarily outside the Learners Indirect economic economic growth. Providing a quality company, both on the lives of learners Customers impacts education helps increase learners’ who are able to improve their standard Diversity and equal Governments and other education earning potential, allowing them to of living, and on the prosperity of opportunity agenda-setters improve their standard of living, and communities and countries. providing an economic value that International, non-governmental, extends to future generations. and non-profit organizations 98 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Material issues Description of material issue Boundary Key stakeholders Relevant GRI G4 aspects Accessibility Ensuring equitable access to Impact occurs primarily outside Pearson. Learners Content dissemination our products for all learners, Customers including those with disabilities International, non-governmental, and special needs. and non-profit organizations Affordability Offering products and services Impact occurs primarily outside the Learners Content creation that are affordable for several company. The transition to more Customers income groups. digital products and services makes Governments education opportunities more affordable for many learners. International, non-governmental, and non-profit organizations 21st century skills Providing products and services Impact occurs primarily outside the Learners Media literacy that equip learners with the skills company. We want to help learners Customers and competencies – such as gain the skills they need for success Governments and education creativity, entrepreneurship, in life and work through our products agenda-setters and critical thinking – needed for and services. success in the 21st century. International, non-governmental, and non-profit organizations GHG emissions and climate change Managing and mitigating our Impact occurs both within the All our stakeholders Energy greenhouse gas and climate business and outside through our Emissions emissions throughout our employee activities and in our supply Transport value chain. chain. Our primary areas of impact are business travel and energy Supplier consumption in our offices. environmental assessment Alignment of material issues to principal and other Pearson risks Sustainability report 2017 Annual Report 2017 Material issues Principal risk Group risk Business area risk monitoring Disruptive distribution models Products and YES G  lobal Product N  orth America services C  ore E  nvironmental, Competitiveness of digital products Products and G  rowth Social, and services Governance Affordability Products and services Learner expectations Products and services Academic quality Products and services High-stakes testing Testing failure YES A  ssessment C  ore Lobbying and public policy Political and YES C  ore N  orth America regulatory risk G  rowth A  ssessment Data privacy and security Data privacy and YES  ore C A  ssessment L  egal information G  rowth G  lobal Product T  ech & Ops security N  orth America Digital infrastructure Customer digital YES  orth America N G  lobal Product T  ech & Ops experience Security, health, and safety Health & Safety, YES  ore C H  R A  ssessment Safeguarding G  rowth E  nvironmental, Social, and Governance Accessibility * – –  ssessment A L  egal Environmental, Social, and Governance GHG emissions and climate change – – Environmental, Social, and Governance As part of our risk management process, Group risks are tracked across all business areas, geographies, and functions. See p50 in Pearson’s Annual Report. * Emerging risk 99 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix GRI/UNGC/SDGs content index GRI 101 and 102: General disclosures Reference Indicator Description SR 2017 AR 2017 Additional notes Omissions UNGC SDGs Organizational profile GRI 102-1 Name of the organization p1 p1 GRI 102-2 Activities, brands,  p8 p4-5 products, and services GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters p124 GRI 102-4 Location of operations p8 p4; p42-47; p186-189 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form p106; p170 GRI 102-6 Markets served p8 p132-135; p186-189 GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization p8; p83-86 p118-121; p134-135; p141-142 GRI 102-8 Information on employees p8; p61;  p28-29; p138 and other workers p83-87 GRI 102-9 Supply chain p72-75 p28 GRI 102-10 Significant changes to  p40; p131 the organization and  its supply chain GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle  p68-71;  p26; p29;  7 6, 7, 13, 15 or approach p96-98 p48-50 GRI 102-12 External initiatives p9; p49-51; 1-10 17 p53; p69; p71 GRI 102-13 Membership of associations p49-51 17 Strategy GRI 102-14 Statement from senior p2-3 Statement of decision-maker commitment to the ten principles from chief executive GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks,  p8-11; p83-87; p26;  1-10 4, 8, 10 and opportunities p96-98 p48-50 Ethics and integrity GRI 102-16 Values, principles,  p9; p78; p80 p27 Company policies are posted on the standards, and norms  sustainability section of our website of behavior (https://www.pearson.com/ corporate/our-policies.html). GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and p78; p83 p27 concerns about ethics Governance GRI 102-18 Governance structure p76-77 p62-63; p67; p61-110 GRI 102-22 Composition of the  p77 p64-68 highest governance body  and its committees GRI 102-23 Chair of the highest p66 governance body SR 2016 = Sustainability report 2017  AR 2016 = Annual report and accounts 2017 100 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix GRI/UNGC/SDGs content index Reference Indicator Description SR 2017 AR 2017 Additional notes Omissions UNGC SDGs GRI 102-25 Conflicts of interest p67 GRI 102-26 Role of highest governance p77 p62-63;  body in setting purpose, p86-87 values, and strategy GRI 102-29 Identifying and managing p77 p86-87 economic, environmental, and social impacts GRI 102-32 Highest governance  p77 p86-87 The board’s reputation and body’s role in  responsibility committee reviews sustainability reporting the annual Sustainability report. Stakeholder engagement GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups p12-15; p48; p20-21 p49-51 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining p53 Pearson employees are participants 3 8 agreements in trade unions across the group. Representation takes many forms. For example, in the UK we launched an Employee Engagement Forum providing employees and senior executives regular opportunities to discuss the strategic development of the company. GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting p12-15; p49stakeholders 51; p96-98 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder p12-15; p49engagement 51; p96-98 GRI 102-44 Key topics and  p12-15; p49concerns raised 51; p96-98 Reporting practices GRI 102-45 Entities included in the p118-121;  consolidated financial p132 statements GRI 102-46 Defining report content  p96-98 p24-26 and topic boundaries GRI 102-47 List of material topics p96-98 p24-26 GRI 102-48 Restatements of  On p89, total waste to landfill for information 2015 and 2016 were restated due  to a calculation error. GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting No changes. GRI 102-50 Reporting period p80 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report p80 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle p80 GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions p80 regarding the report GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in p80 This report has been prepared  accordance with the  in accordance with the GRI GRI Standards Standards: Core option. GRI 102-55 GRI content index p99-107 GRI 102-56 External assurance p80 See more about external assurance at: https://www.pearson.com/ corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html SR 2016 = Sustainability report 2017  AR 2016 = Annual report and accounts 2017 101 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix GRI/UNGC/SDGs content index GRI 200: Economic disclosures Reference Indicator Description SR 2017 AR 2017 Additional notes Omissions UNGC SDGs GRI 201: Economic performance GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material p1-3; p11;  p13-21 topic and its Boundaries p83-89 GRI 103-2 The management approach p1-3; p11;  p13-21 and its components p83-89 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the p1-3; p11;  p13-21 management approach p83-89 GRI 201-1 Direct economic value p8-11 p2-5; p34-41; 1 1, 8, 10 generated and distributed p118-121 GRI 201-2 Financial implications and p68-71;  p26; p29 7, 8, 9 6, 7, 13, 15 other risks and opportunities p72-74 due to climate change GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material p1-3; p11;  topic and its Boundaries p87-89 GRI 103-2 The management approach p1-3; p11;  and its components p87-89 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the p1-3; p11;  management approach p87-89 GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments p16-37;  4, 8, 10 and services supported p38-51;  p57; p65-67 GRI 203-2 Significant indirect  p16-37;  4, 8, 10 economic impacts p38-51;  p65-67 GRI 205: Anti-corruption GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material p78 p27; p59 10 16 topic and its Boundaries GRI 103-2 The management approach p78 p27; p59 10 16 and its components GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the p78 p27; p59 10 16 management approach GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for  p78 p27; p59 10 16 risks related to corruption GRI 205-2 Communication and training p78; p83 p27; p59 10 16 about anti-corruption policies and procedures SR 2016 = Sustainability report 2017  AR 2016 = Annual report and accounts 2017 102 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix GRI/UNGC/SDGs content index GRI 300: Environmental disclosures Reference Indicator Description SR 2017 AR 2017 Additional notes Omissions UNGC SDGs GRI 302: Energy GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material p68-71 See our 2017 Environment review  7, 8, 9 7, 13, 15 topic and its Boundaries at: https://www.pearson.com/ corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html GRI 103-2 The management approach p68-71 See our 2017 Environment review  7, 8, 9 7, 13, 15 and its components at: https://www.pearson.com/ corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the  p68-71 See our 2017 Environment review  7, 8, 9 7, 13, 15 management approach at: https://www.pearson.com/ corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html GRI 302-1 Energy consumption  p68-71; p88 See our 2017 Environment review  7, 8, 9 7, 13, 15 within the organization at: https://www.pearson.com/ corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html GRI 302-3 Energy intensity p68-71; p88 See our 2017 Environment review  7, 8, 9 7, 13, 15 at: https://www.pearson.com/ corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy p68-71; p88 See our 2017 Environment review  7, 8, 9 7, 13, 15 consumption at: https://www.pearson.com/ corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html GRI 305: Emissions GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material p68-71 p29 See our 2017 Environment review  7, 8, 9 7, 13, 15 topic and its Boundaries at: https://www.pearson.com/ corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html GRI 103-2 The management approach p68-71 p29 See our 2017 Environment review  7, 8, 9 7, 13, 15 and its components at: https://www.pearson.com/ corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the  p68-71 p29 See our 2017 Environment review  7, 8, 9 7, 13, 15 management approach at: https://www.pearson.com/ corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1)  p68-71;  p29 See our 2017 Environment review  7, 8, 9 7, 13, 15 GHG emissions p88-89 at: https://www.pearson.com/ corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2)  p68-71;  p29 See our 2017 Environment review  7, 8, 9 7, 13, 15 GHG emissions p88-89 at: https://www.pearson.com/ corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3)  p68-71;  p29 See our 2017 Environment review  7, 8, 9 7, 13, 15 GHG emissions p88-89 at: https://www.pearson.com/ corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html GRI 305-4 GHG emission intensity p68-71;  p29 See our 2017 Environment review  7, 8, 9 7, 13, 15 p88-89 at: https://www.pearson.com/ corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html SR 2016 = Sustainability report 2017  AR 2016 = Annual report and accounts 2017 103 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix GRI/UNGC/SDGs content index Reference Indicator Description SR 2017 AR 2017 Additional notes Omissions UNGC SDGs GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions p68-71;  p29 See our 2017 Environment review  7, 8, 9 7, 13, 15 p88-89 at: https://www.pearson.com/ corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html GRI 307: Environmental compliance GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material p68-71 See our 2017 Environment review  7, 8, 9 7, 13, 15 topic and its Boundaries at: https://www.pearson.com/ corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html GRI 103-2 The management approach p68-71 See our 2017 Environment review  7, 8, 9 7, 13, 15 and its components at: https://www.pearson.com/ corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the  p68-71 See our 2017 Environment review  7, 8, 9 7, 13, 15 management approach at: https://www.pearson.com/ corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with p89 See our 2017 Environment review  7, 8, 9 7, 13, 15 environmental laws and at: https://www.pearson.com/ regulations corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies/reports-benchmarks.html GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material p72-75 7, 8, 9 7, 13, 15 topic and its Boundaries GRI 103-2 The management approach p72-75 7, 8, 9 7, 13, 15 and its components GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the  p72-75 7, 8, 9 7, 13, 15 management approach GRI 308-1 New suppliers that  p72-75 7, 8, 9 7, 13, 15 were screened using environmental criteria GRI 308-2 Negative environmental No significant issues were  7, 8, 9 7, 13, 15 impacts in the supply chain brought to our attention. and actions taken SR 2016 = Sustainability report 2017  AR 2016 = Annual report and accounts 2017 104 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix GRI/UNGC/SDGs content index GRI 400: Social disclosures Reference Indicator Description SR 2017 AR 2017 Additional notes Omissions UNGC SDGs GRI 401: Employment GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material p12; p53;  p27-28 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 8, 10 topic and its Boundaries p61-65 GRI 103-2 The management approach p12; p53;  p27-28 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 8, 10 and its components p61-65 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the p12; p53;  p27-28 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 8, 10 management approach p61-65 GRI 401-1 New employee hires and p84-85 6 8, 10 employee turnover GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time p62; p87 8, 10 employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees GRI 403: Occupational health and safety GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material p64-65 p27-28; p54 1, 2 8, 10 topic and its Boundaries GRI 103-2 The management approach p64-65 p27-28; p54 1, 2 8, 10 and its components GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the p64-65 p27-28; p54 1, 2 8, 10 management approach GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates  p64-65; p86 1, 2 8, 10 of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and number  of work-related fatalities GRI 404: Training and education GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material p61-63 p27-28 1 4, 8, 10 topic and its Boundaries GRI 103-2 The management approach p61-63 p27-28 1 4, 8, 10 and its components GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the p61-63 p27-28 1 4, 8, 10 management approach GRI 404-1 Average hours of training  p86 4, 8, 10 per year per employee GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading p61-63 4, 8, 10 employee skills and transition assistance programs GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees p87 4, 8, 10 receiving regular performance and career development reviews SR 2016 = Sustainability report 2017  AR 2016 = Annual report and accounts 2017 105 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix GRI/UNGC/SDGs content index Reference Indicator Description SR 2017 AR 2017 Additional notes Omissions UNGC SDGs GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material p63-64 1, 2, 6 8, 10 topic and its Boundaries GRI 103-2 The management approach p63-64 1, 2, 6 8, 10 and its components GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the p63-64 1, 2, 6 8, 10 management approach GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance p61; p63-64; p29 1, 2, 6 8, 10 bodies and employees p83-87 GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary  p63 p29 See Pearson’s UK gender pay report 1, 2, 6 8, 10 and remuneration of  at: https://www.pearson.com/ women to men corporate/news/media/newsannouncements/2018/03/pearsonpublishes-gender-pay-report.html GRI 407: Freedom of association and collective bargaining GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material p53, p72 3 8 topic and its Boundaries GRI 103-2 The management approach p53, p72 3 8 and its components GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the p53, p72 3 8 management approach GRI 407-1 Operations and suppliers in p53, p72 3 8 which the right to freedom  of association and collective bargaining may be at risk GRI 408: Child labor GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material p53, p72 5 8 topic and its Boundaries GRI 103-2 The management approach p53, p72 5 8 and its components GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the p53, p72 5 8 management approach GRI 408-1 Operations and suppliers at p53, p72 5 8 significant risk for incidents of child labor GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labor GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material p53, p72 4 8 topic and its Boundaries GRI 103-2 The management approach p53, p72 4 8 and its components GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the p53, p72 4 8 management approach GRI 409-1 Operations and suppliers at p53, p72 4 8 significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor SR 2016 = Sustainability report 2017  AR 2016 = Annual report and accounts 2017 106 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix GRI/UNGC/SDGs content index Reference Indicator Description SR 2017 AR 2017 Additional notes Omissions UNGC SDGs GRI 412: Human rights assessment GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material p53, p72-75 p28 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 4, 8, 10 topic and its Boundaries GRI 103-2 The management approach p53, p72-75 p28 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 4, 8, 10 and its components GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the p53, p72-75 p28 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 4, 8, 10 management approach GRI 412-1 Operations that have been p53, p72-75 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 4, 8, 10 subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments GRI 412-2 Employee training on  p55; p56; p59; We provided training on  1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 4, 8, 10 human rights policies  p78 the code of conduct, data  or procedures privacy, safeguarding, D&I,  and anti-corruption. GRI 412-3 Significant investment p53, p72-75 p28 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 4, 8, 10 agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening GRI 413: Local communities GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material p16-37; p651, 4, 8, 10 topic and its Boundaries 67 GRI 103-2 The management approach p16-37; p651, 4, 8, 10 and its components 67 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the p16-37; p651, 4, 8, 10 management approach 67 GRI 413-1 Operations with local p16-37; p651, 4, 8, 10 community engagement, 67 impact assessments, and development programs GRI 414: Supplier social assessment GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material p53, p72-75 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 1, 4, 8, 10 topic and its Boundaries GRI 103-2 The management approach p53, p72-75 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 1, 4, 8, 10 and its components GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the p53, p72-75 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 1, 4, 8, 10 management approach GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were p53, p72-75 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 1, 4, 8, 10 screened using social criteria GRI 415: Public policy GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material p14; p79 topic and its Boundaries GRI 103-2 The management approach p14; p79 and its components GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the p14; p79 management approach GRI 415-1 Political contributions p14; p79 SR 2016 = Sustainability report 2017  AR 2016 = Annual report and accounts 2017 107 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix GRI/UNGC/SDGs content index Reference Indicator Description SR 2017 AR 2017 Additional notes Omissions UNGC SDGs GRI 416: Customer health and safety GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material p53; p55; p56; 1, 2 topic and its Boundaries p60 GRI 103-2 The management approach p53; p55; p56; 1, 2 and its components p60 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the p53; p55; p56; 1, 2 management approach p60 GRI 416-1 Assessment of the health and p53; p55; p56; 1, 2 safety impacts of product p60 and service categories GRI 417: Marketing and labeling GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material p60 1, 2 topic and its Boundaries GRI 103-2 The management approach p60 1, 2 and its components GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the p60 1, 2 management approach GRI 417-1 Requirements for product p60 1, 2 and service information  and labeling GRI 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance p60 1, 2 concerning product  and service information  and labeling GRI 418: Customer privacy GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material p55 p58 1, 2 topic and its Boundaries GRI 103-2 The management approach p55 p58 1, 2 and its components GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the p55 p58 1, 2 management approach SR 2016 = Sustainability report 2017  AR 2016 = Annual report and accounts 2017 108 Pearson Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Reach more learners Shape the future of learning Be a trusted partner Governance Appendix Notes 1.  cKinsey Global Institute, How advancing M  ational Center for Education  11. N 25. U NESCO, What is ESD, https://en.unesco.org/ women’s equality can add $12 trillion to Statistics, 2018, https://nces.ed.gov/datalab/ themes/education-sustainableglobal growth, September 2015, https://www. index.aspx. development/what-is-esd. mckinsey.com/featured-insights/ 12. N  ational Center for Education  26. A ccenture and UN Global Compact, 2016 employment-and-growth/how-advancingStatistics, 2018, https://nces.ed.gov/datalab/ UN Global Compact-Accenture Strategy CEO womens-equality-can-add-12-trillion-toindex.aspx. Study, 2016, https://www.accenture.com/ global-growth. us-en/insight-un-global-compact-ceo-study. 13. R  ead more at: https://www.pearsoned.com/ 2. N  ational Center for Education Statistics, results/digital-direct-access-study-tracks27. E nvironmental Defense Fund, Now Hiring: 2018, https://nces.ed.gov/programs/digest/ student-access-cost-savings-universityThe Growth of America’s Clean Energy & d16/tables/dt16_303.50.asp. iowa/. Sustainability Jobs, 2017, http:// 3. Ifill, N, Radford A.W., Wu, J; Cataldi; E.F; 14. R  ead more at: https://www.pearsoned.com/ edfclimatecorps.org/sites/edfclimatecorps. Wilson D.; & Hill J. Persistence and Attainment results/digital-direct-access-study-tracksorg/files/the_growth_of_americas_clean_ of 2011-2012 First-Time Postsecondary Students student-access-cost-savings-auburnenergy_and_sustainability_jobs.pdf. After 3 Years, US Department of Education, university/. 28. Pearson brand tracker, 2017. 2016, https://nces.ed.gov/pubsearch/ 15. N  ational Center for Education Statistics 29. N et Impact, Business as Unusual, 2014, pubsinfo.asp?pubid=2016401. (NCES), Public High School Four-Year On-Time https://www.netimpact.org/sites/default/ 4. Radwin, D., Conzelmann, J.G., Nunnery, A., Graduation Rates and Event Dropout Rates, files/documents/2014BAU_expanded_0.pdf. Lacy, T.A., Wu, J., Lew, S., Wine, J., and Siegel, April 2014, https://nces.ed.gov. 30. U NESCO, Shaping the future we want: P., 2015–16 National Postsecondary Student 16. S  cott, Robert E. and David Cooper,  UN Decade of Education for Sustainable Aid Study (NPSAS:16): Student Financial Aid Almost two-thirds of people in the labor Development (2005-2014: final report), 2014, Estimates for 2015–16, 2018, https://nces. force do not have a college degree, Economic http://unesdoc.unesco.org/ ed.gov/pubsearch/pubsinfo. Policy Institute, March 2016, https://www. images/0023/002303/230302e.pdf. asp?pubid=2018466. epi.org/publication/almost-two-thirds-of31. S ustainability in BTECs 5. N  ational Center for Education  people-in-the-labor-force-do-not-have-aSustainability qualifications Statistics, 2018, https://nces.ed.gov/datalab/ college-degree/. B  TEC Level 3 qualifications in  index.aspx. 17. N  ational Student Clearing House Research Environmental Sustainability 6.  ational Center for Education Statistics, N Center, Signature Report 7: Some College, B  TEC Entry Level, Level 1, and Level 2 Digest of Education Statistics: 2016, No Degree: A National View of Students with Specialist qualifications in  Chapter 3 (NCES 2017-094), https://nces.ed. Some College Enrollment, but No Completion, Sustainability Skills gov/programs/digest/d16/tables/ July 2014, https://nscresearchcenter.org/ E  dexcel Level 2 and Level 3 Certificates  dt16_303.50.asp. signaturereport7/. World Education, Adult in Principles of Sustainable Resource 7. N  ational Center for Education Statistics, Education Factsheet, https://www.worlded. Management, the Edexcel Level 2 Diploma Digest of Education Statistics: Table 303.50: org/WEIInternet/us/adult-ed-facts.cfm#f2. for Sustainable Recycling Activities, and the Total fall enrollment in degree-granting 18. U  NHCR, Over 3.5 million refugee Edexcel Level 3 Diploma for Sustainable postsecondary institutions, by level of children miss out on school, report finds,  Recycling Activities (Supervisory) enrollment, control and level of institution, 12 September 2017, http://www.unhcr.org/ Sustainability in other disciplines attendance status, and age of student: 2015, en-us/news/latest/2017/9/59b65d3b4/35B  TEC Level 3 Advanced Manufacturing 2018, https://nces.ed.gov/programs/digest/ million-refugee-children-miss-school-reportEngineering, Unit 10: Organisational d16/tables/dt16_303.50.asp. finds.html. Efficiency and Improvement 8.  ational Center for Education Statistics, N 19. N  ational Center for Education Statistics, B  TEC Level 2 Technical Diploma in Digest of Education Statistics: Table 303.50: 2015-2016, https://nces.ed.gov/ccd/tables/ Engineering, Unit 3: Business  Total fall enrollment in degree-granting ACGR_RE_and_characteristics_2015-16.asp. Improvement Techniques postsecondary institutions, by level of B  TEC Level 2 Diploma in Aerospace and 20. U  S Department of Education, Latino Teacher enrollment, control and level of institution, Aviation Engineering, Unit 5 Recruitment, https://sites.ed.gov/hispanicattendance status, and age of student: 2015, B  TEC Level 2 Technical Certificate for initiative/latino-teacher-recruitment/. 2018, https://nces.ed.gov/programs/digest/ Warehouse Operatives, Unit 2: d16/tables/dt16_303.50.asp. 21. S  trada-Gallup 2017 College Student Survey, Warehousing Skills in Logistics Supply Chain https://news.gallup.com/ B  TEC National Extended Diploma in Animal 9. N  ational Center for Education  reports/225161/2017-strada-gallup-collegeManagement with Science, Unit 19: Farm Statistics, 2018, https://nces.ed.gov/datalab/ student-survey.aspx. Livestock Husbandry index.aspx. 22. U  S Department of Commerce, Women in B  TEC Level 3 National Extended Diploma in 10. N  ational Center for Education Statistics, STEM: 2017 Update, http://www.esa.doc.gov/ Applied Science, Unit 22: Materials Science Digest of Education Statistics: Table 303.50: reports/women-stem-2017-update. and Unit 7: Contemporary Issues in Science Total fall enrollment in degree-granting B  TEC National in IT, Unit 9: Management postsecondary institutions, by level of 23. B  ritish Council, The English Effect, https:// and Unit 14: IT Service Delivery enrollment, control and level of institution, www.britishcouncil.org/sites/default/files/ attendance status, and age of student: 2015, english-effect-report-v2.pdf. 2018, https://nces.ed.gov/programs/digest/ 24. T  he Economist, A world empire by other d16/tables/dt16_303.50.asp. means, 2001, www.economist.com/ node/883997. Notes 32. McKinsey Global Institute, How advancing 38. Audits conducted by Global Risk 47. Capture of worksite inspection data women’s equality can add $12 trillion to global Management staff to provide assurance of initiated in 2015. growth, September 2015, https://www. local compliance with H&S law and policy. 48. This data has been independently assured mckinsey.com/featured-insights/ 39. New metric created in 2016, tracking against London Benchmarking Group employment-and-growth/how-advancingclosure of audit follow-up actions from Principles. See https://www.pearson.com/ womens-equality-can-add-12-trillion-toprevious audits. corporate/sustainability/reporting-policies/ global-growth. reports-benchmarks.html. 40. As of 1 January 2018. 33. UNICEF, UNICEF says education for women 49. Volunteering numbers are provided by a 41. Total injuries requiring medical treatment and girls a lifeline to development, May 2011, third-party provider and have not been or lost time due to injury. Does not include https://www.unicef.org/media/ independently verified. In 2018, Pearson minor/first aid cases. media_58417.html. will be transitioning to a new employee 42. Includes musculoskeletal disorders, 34. Technical Skills engagement platform. work-related stress, and other illness Technical skills are also focused on across 50. Our 2017 environmental data has been cases related to work. the business. These are the specific types verified by the specialist consultant, of expertise needed to work successfully 43. Internal metric defined as any work-related Corporate Citizenship. The assurance in various roles across different business injury or illness resulting in more than three statement covers the methodology, data units and geographies. days away from work. collection, and accuracy of data reported. 35. As as of 31 December 2017. 44. Rate of all incidents (including minor) See https://www.pearson.com/corporate/ per 100 employees. sustainability/reporting-policies/reports36. Number of hires/average headcount. 45. Rate of injuries/illness related to work, benchmarks.html. 37. Primary metric for implementation of not including minor/first aid incidents. our H&S management system. 46. New internal metric designed to measure prevention of serious incidents and active reporting of minor incidents. Photo credits Cover: Pearson College London P37: https://www.facebook.com/UniEducacion/ P6: top – Hennepin College, bottom – Ahmad videos/1835897149773707/ Muhsen/Save the Children P38: Christof Van Der Walt P7: top – Brinker International, bottom – Pearson P41: Image VYE/2017/Nguyen Ngoc Linh P14-15: iStock P47: Hamble Primary School P16: Christof Van Der Walt P52: Sanskar Sharma Designed and Produced by Friend. www.friendstudio.com P18: iStock P53: Mihai Frigea/Vlad Covlea/Sur Barr/ Print: Pureprint Group, a Carbon Neutral company P19: Abhishek Maji Puranjit Gangopadhyay This report has been printed on Edixion Challenger P21: Hennepin College P54: Lu Yi Offset which is FSC® certified and made from 100% Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) pulp. The mill and the P25: Brinker International P56: Ruben Alvardo/Holly Powers/Sue Barr printer are both certified to ISO 14001 environmental P31: top – Save the Children, P66: Cori O’Connell management system and registered to EMAS the bottom – Ahmad Muhsen/Save the Children P67: Patrice Jones eco management Audit Scheme. P33: Eliza Powell/Camfed P68: Christof Van Der Walt P34-35: Project Literacy P75: Frishco, Ltd. Principal offices www.pearson.com/sustainability 80 Strand @pearson London WC2R 0RL UK T +44 (0)20 7010 2000 F +44 (0)20 7010 6060 330 Hudson Street New York, NY 10013 USA T +1 212 390 7100 Pearson plc Registered number 53723 (England)
