ConTEnT • Message from the Chairman 02 • Our Sixth Annual Corporate Sustainability Report 05 • Performance Highlights 07 • SAIL – A Maharatna Company 09 • Our Sustainability Approach 12 • Our Governance Mechanism 17 • Our Corporate Integrity 20 • Partnerships, Associations and Memberships 21 • Awards and Accolades 23 • Bonding with Stakeholders 25 • Ensuring Economic Sustainability 31 • Securing Energy 34 • Our Environment 38 • Product Stewardship 50 • Supply Chain Management 56 • Ensuring Safety & Health 57 • Human Resources Management 64 • Shaping Human Capital 71 • Our Social Responsibility 74 • GRI G4 Content Index 86 • Abbreviations 92 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 Message From the Chairman Dear Stakeholders, Embedding sustainability, in its every operation, has been an unremitting approach of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL). Since inception of the Company, we have been at the fore front of adopting sustainability initiatives while carrying out our business activities. I am pleased to present our sixth Corporate Sustainability Report, which is a testimony of our Sustainability dimensions, professing cognizant choices towards transparency and disclosure of our performance for the year 2015-16. The Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 has been prepared in accordance with the G4 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) with a focus on major challenges, accomplishments regarding sustainable & comprehensive development and actions undertaken by us. We are operating in an era which is though challenging but also provides immense growth possibilities. While almost all the major economies of the world witnessed sluggish growth in 2015-16, India emerged as the fastest growing major economy. Globally the steel sector is facing testing time and the year was exceptionally challenging for us too and had an adverse effect on our profitability. The Government’s corrective trade measures regarding Minimum Import Price mechanism for Anti-dumping Duty helped us at such critical juncture. We achieved a turnover of ` 43,337 crore in the year 2015-16. We also made a contribution of about ` 8,496 crore to the National Exchequer by way of payment of dividend, taxes and duties to various Government Agencies. We achieved several milestones like highest ever Hot Metal production of 15.7 Million Tonne (MT) and Crude Steel production of 14.3 MT, surpassing previous bests, in the year. We strongly believe that we will be able to overcome the effects of current global economic slowdown by improving our product quality, reducing cost through operational efficiency, optimum utilization of the modernized units and discovering new markets. In the current fiscal, we plan to finish the ongoing modernization and expansion projects in our Bhilai Steel Plant. In addition to the ongoing Modernization and Expansion Programme (MEP), we have also taken up new projects which will enhance our product mix and profitability. The noteworthy one being installation of a 3.0 MTPA capacity 2,250 mm wide Hot Strip Mill in our Rourkela Steel Plant. The mill will enable us to produce very high quality hot rolled coils including advanced high strength grades for the growing domestic automotive industry. Our Company incurred a capital expenditure of ` 6,034 crore during Financial Year 2015-16 and has planned ` 4,000 crore towards Capex for 2016-17. We are quite optimistic that our economy will continue its buoyant growth rate in the coming years. Enormous possibility for growth is anticipated for the steel sector as the Government of India (GoI) is continually propelling the development in steel intensive sectors like infrastructure, capital goods, construction, automobile, railways, etc. Other focus areas of the Government such as provision of housing for all by 2022, power for all by 2019, 100 smart cities by 2022 and Atal Mission for Rejuvenation & Urban Transformation (AMRUT) are also likely to boost the domestic steel consumption. Other key campaigns of the Government like “Make in India” and “Starts Ups” will also have an effect for enhancing the consumption of steel. To further enhance our involvement in the growth of shining and vibrant India and to face challenges ahead, we are working on a long term strategic plan that will steer the Company towards a target of 50 MTPA of hot metal capacity. This will also enable us to meet the strategic objective of maintaining leadership in the Indian steel sector and a respectable position amongst the top global steel producers. Our growth plan, besides targeting higher production, also addresses the need for eliminating technological obsolescence, achieving energy savings, enriching product mix, reducing environmental impact, etc. We always look for building strategic association with our esteemed stakeholders to enhance our worth for them and the society at large. We have taken number of strategic interventions which were conceptualized during the course of the year for exploring future business opportunities. Raw material security, a thrust area for us, is our strength as well major source of our subsistence. Our entire requirement of iron ore is being met from our captive mines. The capacities of the existing iron ore mines are being expanded and new iron 2 (G4-1) Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 ore mines are being developed to meet the increasing requirement of iron ore. Allotment of Parbatpur Coking Coal block in Jharkhand shall enhance our coking coal security. Our dedication towards innovation can be witnessed through the range of several new products that were developed during the year. 24 new products developed during the year, catering to industry sectors including construction, railways, defence, etc., are crucial for growth and development of the Indian economy. These new products include earthquake resistant structurals and new grades of TMT rebars, further enhancing our extensive product portfolio. As a well-aware corporate entity, we are making sincere efforts in improving our environmental footprints. Our dedicated and determined initiatives have resulted in continual improvement of our environmental performance and best ever results were observed during the year for indicators like particulate matter (PM) emission load, specific water consumption, specific CO2 emission, specific effluent load, etc. In carrying forward its legacy towards development of greenery, more than 4.67 lakhs trees were planted at the SAIL Plants and Mines locations during 2015-16. Besides this, efforts in the field of ecorestoration of mined-out areas, greening of warehouses and other environmental projects have also exhibited encouraging results. Most of our Units are operating in congruence with various international standards like ISO 14001 for EMS, ISO 9000 for Quality Management Systems, SA 8000 for Social Accountability and OHSAS 18001 for Occupational Health and Safety. We always believe in making a positive impact in people’s lives and this philosophy is evidently visible in our approach towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). We are making meaningful contributions through our CSR initiatives in the field of medical and health care, livelihood generation, sanitation, road, drinking water, education, etc. Our CSR activities give due emphasis for uplifting the downtrodden and underprivileged living in and around SAIL townships. Our Company is actively participating in “Swachh Bharat AbhiyanSwachh Vidhyalaya Abhiyaan”, one of the prime campaigns of the GoI. By associating with this major cleanliness initiative, we have not only built toilets in the areas which had no toilet or dysfunctional toilets but also brought a positive and healthy change in the lives of people in the peripheral areas of our Plants and Units. Our Company is committed to the highest standards of Corporate Governance by ensuring transparency, disclosure and reporting as required under various laws, regulation, and guidelines and this report contains a balanced presentation of our organization’s economic, environmental and social performance. in conclusion, i reiterate our commitment towards sustainability by quoting the excerpt from the india’s intended nationally Determined Contributions (inDCs) submission before Paris agreement, “equitable, inclusive and sustainable development would be the key to a new model of growth that india is committed to pursue”. With best compliments, P k Singh Chairman (G4-1) 3 OUR A MAHARATNA COMPANY Presence THE SAIL NETWORK SHIMLA JAGDISHPUR SRU, Bhandaridah SRU, IFICO SRU, Ranchi Road SRU, Bhilai ODISHA HYDERABAD TELENGANA ANDAMAN & NICOBAR BHAWANATHPUR JITPUR CHASNALLA RAMNAGORE TULSIDAMAR BOKARO BURNPUR SATNA DURGAPUR RANCHI KUTESHWAR KOLKATA PURNAPANI ROURKELA HIRRI BARADUAR CHIRIA GUA BOLANI NANDINI BARSUA KIRIBURU THAKURANI KALTA MEGHAHATUBURU TALDIH BHILAI DALLI RAJHARA KERALA Captive Mines of SAIL IRON ORE....................................... LIMESTONE .................................. DOLOMITE ..................................... COAL .............................................. SALES RESIDENT MANAGER ............... SAIL REFRACTORY UNIT (SRU)............. STEEL PROCESSING UNIT .................. 6th August, 2016 TRANSPORT & SHIPPING OFFICE ........... Sail organisational network in India 4 (G4-6, G4-8, G4-12) Our Sixth Annual Corporate Sustainability Report Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 rEPORT pROFILE Period We, at SAIL, have been publishing our annual sustainability reports since the financial year 2010-11. The current report is thus the sixth annual sustainability report profiling our commitments and resulting actions towards Sustainability, covering the financial year from 1st April 2015 to 31st March 2016. The last year report was published for the financial year 2014-15. Framework All our sustainability reports have been published as per guidelines of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This year also, we are following GRI G4 guidelines ‘in accordance’ core option, as we did for our report for the financial year 2014-15. The report covers the Economic, Environmental and Social aspects of our business activities. This is in accordance with our beliefs of transparent reporting for our stakeholders, those patrons who are linked with our operations directly or indirectly, as described on page number 28. Reference to Indicator Protocol, Sector Supplements and Technical Protocol has been lent while applying the Principals of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. Please find the reference to the same on page number 29. Scope We believe in transparency and strive to keep our sustainability efforts apparent to one and all. Details of the financial information reported in the economic performance section have been aligned with our Annual Report published for the financial year 2015-16, ending on 31st March 2016. The environmental and social performances of Plants, Units and Mines find their details in respective sections. Page 10 aptly defines the boundaries within which we have hence shared the details of products and services of Plants, Units and Mining operations. We have not closed, relocated or divested any unit during the financial year. We strive to include all significant events of the past, and the estimation of their future impacts. We are committed to the values of various qualities like accuracy and reliability of data, timeliness, clarity & comparability of figures of similar periods, to conform to our ethics of reporting. Standards We have reported the financial performance of our Company as per guidelines of the Company Law. International Standards such as ISO 9000, ISO 14001, OSHAS 18001 and SA 8000 comprise an invaluable part of our quality, environment health and safety management. We also subject our Economic and Financial Systems to statutory audits as well as internal audits. Our systems are also verified and reviewed by the concerned government authorities. We, at SAIL, follow World Steel Association (WSA) guidelines and calculation methodologies while reporting the Carbon Dioxide (CO2) emissions for Integrated Steel Plants (ISPs). Relevant Indian Standards are also catered to while maintaining Quality Management System. Our work environment and safety regulations are as per the requisite regulations issued by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MOEFCC) and the Factories Act 1948. We have prioritized material issues based on their significance on economic, environmental and social performance of the Company and stakeholder engagement process. The material aspects derived from materiality assessment process have been established and explained in the respective chapter. Distribution and Feedback We have used English Language for publishing the full report. The report is available on request via email and is available on SAIL website (www.sail.co.in) also. We shall communicate the Stakeholder feedback on the report to the related department upon its receipt via email. For additional information about our efforts on sustainable development, we are available at sailsustainability@gmail.com Assurance We are submitting the report for GRI Content Index for ‘in accordance‘-Core to confirm the accuracy of GRI G4 Content Index. External Assurance for the report has not been carried out. 6 (G4-13, G4-23, G4-28, G4-29, G4-30, G4-31, G4-32, G4-33) Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 PERFORMANCE hiGhliGhtS The year 2015-16 was challenging for almost all the major economies of the World. The year saw a free fall in steel prices to a historic low and our Company too had an adverse impact on profitability. However, production of Hot Metal and Crude Steel was the highest ever and we believe that the Company would turnaround in coming future as most of the enablers are in place. FinanCial All values are in ` Crore key Performance indicators 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Turnover 51,866 50,627 43,337 Net Sales 46,189 45,208 38,514 Profit Before Tax 3,225 2,359 -7,198 EBITDA 5,909 5,586 -3,052 Capital Expenditure 9,890 6,840 6,034 Total Assets 91,962 99,327 98,269 Export Sales 1,497 1,568 557 Profit After Tax 2,616 2,093 -4,137 CSR Budget 40 78 56 ProDuCtion All values are in MT key Performance indicators 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 PlantS Hot Metal 14.45 15.41 15.72 Crude Steel 13.58 13.91 14.28 Pig Iron 0.22 0.63 0.64 Total Saleable Steel 12.88 12.84 12.38 Semi-Finished Steel 2.76 3.01 3.05 Finished Steel 10.12 9.84 9.33 mineS Iron Ore Production 25.31 23.18 24.83 Flux Production 2.18 2.11 2.26 (G4-9) 7 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 We have taken various initiatives to reduce our environmental footprint and minimise emissions. Our environmental improvement programmes are focused on reducing energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, incorporating water reuse and recycling, managing wastes, reducing emissions, and mitigating the risk of environmental incidents. The state-of -the-art facilities installed under the current MEP has led to significant improvement in environmental parameters. We are also closely monitoring various social impact indicators such as labour productivity, employee training, and our spending on social development. enVironmental key Performance indicators unit 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Specific CO2 Emission t/tcs 2.69 2.65 2.60 Particulate Matter Emission Load kg/tcs 0.86 0.83 0.81 Specific Effluent Load kg/tcs 0.11 0.10 0.09 Specific Effluent Discharge m3/tss 2.16 2.16 2.14 Specific Water Consumption m3/tcs 3.67 3.66 3.51 SoCial key Performance indicators unit 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Labour Productivity tcs/man/year 278 302 315 Training Man-hours/employee/year 105.6 115.2 109.6 Spending on CSR ` Crore 62.06 35.04 76.16 Female Employees % of total employees 5.73 5.81 5.81 Community Service by Sail 8 (G4-9) SAIL a MAHARATNA Company Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 THE ComPany Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), a Maharatna Central Public Sector Enterprise, and Government of India Undertaking, is the leading steel-making company in India which has been contributing to the growth of shining and vibrant India since independence. We are proud to be among the seven Maharatnas of the Country's Central Public Sector Enterprises. With headquarters, at New Delhi; we have our significant footprints all over the Nation. We produce iron and steel at five integrated steel plants and three special steel plants, located principally in the eastern and central regions of India and situated close to captive iron ore, limestone and dolomite mines which are one of our domestic sources of raw materials. We produce both basic and special steels for domestic construction, engineering, power, railway, automotive and defence industries and for sale in export markets. Globally, we were ranked 26th in terms of crude steel production in 2015 by World Steel Association and we are among the top five steel producing companies of the Country. Our product portfolio covers a wide range of steel products covering Long, Flat and Tubular products. We offer 50 mild, special and alloy steel products in more than 1,000 qualities and more than 5,000 dimensions SCoPe oF the rePort The following SAIL Plants, Units and Mines are covered in the Scope of this report. Plants units Bhilai Steel Plant Central Marketing Organisation Durgapur Steel Plant Research and Development Centre for Iron & Steel Rourkela Steel Plant Bokaro Steel Plant Centre for Engineering and Technology IISCO Steel Plant SAIL Safety Organisation Alloy Steels Plant SAIL Growth Works, Kulti Salem Steel Plant Environment Management Division Visvesvaraya Iron and Steel Plant Chandrapur Ferro Alloy Plant SAIL Refractory Unit rmD mines bSP mines iron ore mines iron ore mines Kiriburu Rajhara Meghahatuburu Dalli Gua Jharandalli Manoharpur Dalli Manual Bolani Mahamaya Barsua Flux mines Kalta Nandini Limestone Mine Flux mines Hirri Dolomite Mine Kuteshwar Limestone Mine ViSl Flux mines Bhawanathpur Limestone Mine Bhadigund Limestone Mine Tulsidamar Dolomite Mine Kenchapura Dunite Mine We have the largest Marketing network among all the Sales Value of the Products steel producers in the Country. Our functional network marketing offices consist of 37 Branch Sales Offices (BSOs), 10 active Customer Contact Offices (CCOs), 25 Departmental Warehouses and 21 Functional Consignment Agency Yards. Further, our marketing efforts are complemented by a well-built dealer network of 2,172 dealers spread across the Country with 170 new dealers appointed during the year 2015-16. Our domestic endeavour is complemented by strong and ever widening network of rural dealers who takes care of the need of the smallest customers in the remotest corners of the Country. 10 (G4-3, G4-5, G4-9, G4-17) Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 our PRODUCTS HOT ROLLED We are the largest domestic producer of hot rolled coils, sheets and skelp having several direct industrial and manufacturing applications PLATES We are currently the largest domestic producer of plates commanding significant market share. Our Plates are used for building infrastructure, ships, pipes, tanks, vessels, etc. COLD ROLLED Cold rolled sheets and coils offer superior finish and properties and preferred for precision tubes, automobile panels and also for further processing such as colour coating, galvanizing and tinning RAILWAY PRODUCTS We produce high quality railway products such as rails, wheels, axles and sleeper plates which are sold to Indian Railways and also exported around the world STRUCTURALS I-beams, channels and angles are long steel products with cross sections of various shapes which are used for structures such as transmission towers, bridges and other infrastructure applications BARS AND RODS Reinforcement steel and wire rods are primarily used in construction industry and we are the prominent player in this sector SPECIALITY PRODUCTS We also produce special products such as electrical sheets, tin plates, galvanized products and pipes which are used by specific industries ALLOY AND STAINLESS PRODUCTS Alloys and stainless steel products offered by us find applications in automobiles, railways, pharmaceutical equipment and household utensils SEMI-FINISHED products Blooms, billets and slabs are converted to finished products at our units and also sold to re-rollers for conversion (G4-4, G4-8) 11 OUR SUSTainabiliTy approaCH We have adopted a holistic approach for our sustainability framework; addressing the Business, Health & Safety, Environment and Community management across all our operations. Our Sustainable Development Policy, supported by our Operating Model, helps in implementation of this framework that promotes enhanced accountability within the system. We derive our achievement in sustainability from a deep-rooted dedication and commitment of our corporate family. The business roles and responsibilities of the employees are designed in such a way that they are aligned with mission and values of the Company. This sense of social responsibility has not only helped us in engaging our stakeholders in a constructive way, but also placed us in a leading role in the global commitment towards Sustainability. We work in tandem with our supply chain, striving towards improvement of product portfolio & quality and decreasing any adverse affects. We are committed to giving back to the society through our various well designed community initiatives. our Vision To be a respected world class corporation and the leader in Indian steel business in quality, productivity, profitability and customer satisfaction. our Credo • We build lasting relationships with customers based on trust and mutual benefit. • We uphold highest ethical standards in conduct of our business. • We create and nurture a culture that supports flexibility, learning and is proactive to change. • We chart a challenging career for employees with opportunities for advancement and rewards. • We value the opportunity and responsibility to make a meaningful difference in people’s lives. Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 OUR SUSTAINABILITY CENTRIC PRIORITIES • To be a leader in the steel sector • To develop growth strategies for achieving continuous expansion in the market • To instil the element of ethics in business with all our stakeholders • To device participative mechanisms for all our stakeholders such as employees, customers, suppliers and community so that “development with sustainability” remains our focus area • To envisage multi-dimensional approaches in the areas of cost and financial management, technology upgradation, value addition on products along with addition of new products in our basket that align with the future demands and keep the business sustainable • To inculcate the element of global best practices across our value chain • To excel in the area of environmental management by adopting ‘state-of-the-art’ technologies • To monitor and incorporate functional improvements in the all-inclusive business-model of our Company viz-aviz mining, steel making, marketing, human resource management and peripheral services including community development STRENGTHS • Leading steel producer of the Nation • Well established systems, processes and practices in the organization • Having edge over domestic players with diverse portfolio and pan-India presence • Modernised Units after completion of the on-going MEP • Having captive power plants and JV power plants to meet the rising power demand ensuring energy security • Availability of land bank for future expansions • Input security absolute integration in iron-ore • Second largest captive iron ore mining operations in India • Large skilled pool of manpower with highly qualified professionals with experience in steel making • Acclaimed in-house research establishment OPPORTUNITIES • Government policies for growth of steel Growth intensive sectors such as infrastructure, Strategies capital goods, construction, etc. to position India as the 2nd largest steel consumer in the • Strengthen leadership position through capacity enhancement World in the coming years • Optimizing production and sales volume, • High potential for exports to the markets while reducing in-process inventory and of Middle East, South East Asia and import minimizing production from inefficient routes substitution through product innovation • Enhancing operational and techno-economic • Enhanced operational efficiency and efficiency, product mix enrichment and stabilization of production from new facilities utilization of the modernized units to result in improvement in product quality and • Optimizing coal blend, improvement in yields, reduction in coke rate, enhanced concast reduction in cost production and maximizing use of in-house • Attaining dominance in Marketing, Human engineering shops Resources, Infrastructure & Utilities, • Increasing focus on value added products Maintenance, Information Technology, • Augmentation of raw materials base and Environment and Safety Management, etc. improving quality of input • Consolidation of market share by exercising • Strategic alliances for further supporting the national outreach of the Company growth initiatives 14 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 SUSTAINABILITY Framework We plan our sustainability priorities with support from the relevant stakeholders of the Company. The engagement feedback from our valuable stakeholders are used to identify the material aspects based on which we identify sustainability priorities, impacting our triple bottom line growth and assisting us in formulation of our Vision, Goals, Policies and Strategies. 15 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 our SuStainable DeVeloPment ProJeCtS We have drafted our Policy for Sustainable Development as per the Guidelines of the Department of Public Enterprises (DPE), Ministry of Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises, Government of India. Encouraged by this Policy, we have engrained Sustainability Development across all our operational locations. In 2015-16, we worked on the maintenance of the restored ecosystem at Purnapani Limestone & Dolomite Quarry in collaboration with the ‘Centre for Environment Management of Degraded Ecosystem’ (CEMDE), University of Delhi. Community SuPPort by Sail It is a part of our Company’s culture to be conscious towards the socio-economic conditions of the communities we operate in. We undertake many CSR activities at our various locations in adherence to the directives like ‘DPE Guideline on CSR & Sustainability for Central Public Sector Enterprises–2013’, ‘The Companies Act 2013’ and ‘The Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014’. For details of our CSR initiatives, please refer to page 74-85. Garden at barsua iron ore mine 16 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 OUR GoVernanCe meChaniSm Effective Corporate Governance to make certain a transparent and compliant structure has been a key belief of SAIL’s philosophy. Our Corporate Governance initiatives are aimed at enhancing value for our diverse stakeholders. The governance practices endorse an ethical and sound conduct of the operations towards our objectives of making a meaningful and affirmative impact on people’s lives. Our utmost levels of responsibility make sure that the Board keenly promotes and upholds the entire Company’s conduct continuously to unrelentingly towering levels of Corporate Governance. To maintain our corporate responsibility endeavours, we have adopted a governance structure and various management processes which have been appropriately refined over the years to face the potential challenges. At SAIL, we strive to ensure transparency, disclosures and reporting conforms wholly to the laws, systems, regulations and guidelines and infuse ethical conduct throughout the Company. Our internal mechanisms such as oversight of management, independent internal audits, structure of the Board of Directors, etc. forms part of our well established protocols. The Company is committed to an upmost model of Corporate Governance where the Board is accountable to all stakeholders and each member of the Board owes his/her first duty towards protecting and supplementing the interest of the Company. Corporate Governance has been carried out in accordance with the Companies Act 2013, Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement and SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. The Board of Directors is guided by the organization’s Vision and Credo and the Board regularly reviews the performance of the organization on economic, environmental and social issues. The composition of the Board of Directors is a combination of full time Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors. The annual report of the Company along with audited accounts for financial year is presented by the Directors in the Annual General Meeting (AGM). The proceedings of the AGM, including the suggestions, comments and feedback from the shareholders are duly recorded for rationally prioritizing and incorporating in our business planning exercise. The various Committees of the Board like Audit Committee, Nomination & Remuneration Committee, Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, Corporate Social Responsibility (including Sustainability Development) Committee, etc. keep our corporate governance agenda on track. In addition to these Statutory Board Level Committees, various other Board SubCommittees (BSC) like BSC on Evaluation of Capital Schemes; Strategic Alliance(s) & Joint Ventures; Projects Monitoring; MoU; Health, Safety & Environment and Technology Acquisition & Product Enrichment have also been constituted by the Company and all of them are headed by an Independent Director. This enables the Company to have an independent perspective on various issues and utilise the rich and varied experience of Independent Directors before the issues are considered by the Board of Directors. The Company also has a SAIL Risk Management Committee which overseas the risk management function of the Company. We have a Code of Conduct applicable to Board Members as well as the senior management. There were no instances of non-compliance and no imposition of any penalty or stricture from the Stock Exchange(s) or SEBI in the matter related to capital markets or compliance during the year. (G4-14, G4-34, G4-56) 17 17 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 The nomination and fixation of terms and conditions for appointment of Director(s) are made by Government of India. The Non-Executive Directors (other than Government Nominee Directors) are paid only sitting fee for each Board/ Board SubCommittee Meeting attended by them and no other pecuniary benefit is granted to them. The salary and pay scales of the Whole Time Directors are fixed as per the prevailing rules of the Government. The various issues pertaining to the management of economic, environmental and social areas are collected, compiled and monitored through the various divisions of our Corporate Office. The agenda papers along with the status report on the economic, environment and social performances including legal compliance are made with the help of information provided by the respective Plants/Units in advance, to the Board for review, comments and suggestions. The feedback from the Board members is analyzed by the top management and considered for business decision-making. There were no transactions by the Company of material nature with Promoters, Directors or the Management, Subsidiaries, relatives, etc. that may have potential conflict with the interests of the Company at large. The Government of India owns 75% of the equity and retains voting control in the Company. However, SAIL, by virtue of its 'Maharatna' status enjoys significant operational and financial autonomy. boarD oF DireCtorS As on 31 March 2016, the Board of Directors comprised of a full time Chairman, 6 Whole Time Directors, 6 Independent Directors and 2 Government Nominee Directors. Number of shareholders complaints received during the period from 01.04.2015 to 31.03.2016 was 22. All complaints were resolved and no complaint was pending for redressal as on 31.03.2016. Shareholders breakup for Sail as on 31st march 2016 (% of equity) 18 (G4-7, G4-14, G4-34) board of Directors (as on 1st August 2016) Shri P. k. Singh Chairman Ms. Bharathi S. Sihag Shri Sunil Barthwal Shri A. K. Chaudhary Additional Secretary & Financial Advisor, Joint Secretary, Director (Finance) Ministry of Steel, GoI Ministry of Steel, GoI Shri Kalyan Maity Shri Binod Kumar Dr. N. Mohapatra Shri G. Vishwakarma Director (Raw Materials & Logistics) Director (Commercial) Director (Personnel) Director (Projects & Business Planning) Shri Raman Shri P.K. Dash Prof. Ashok Gupta CA Parmod Bindal Smt. Anshu Vaish Director (Technical) Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director Chief executive oﬃcers (Permanent invitees) Anutosh Maitra Ashwini Kumar R K Rathi A K Rath M Ravi Bokaro Steel Plant Rourkela Steel Plant IISCO Steel Plant Durgapur Steel Plant Bhilai Steel Plant (G4-34) 19 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 OUR CorPorate inteGrity We regard integrity as the core value that underpins all our business activities. It has earned its standing of dependability through several decades of unswerving, value-driven business operations. Preventive and proactive vigilance is an inalienable and integral part of the our management function from top to bottom, where all our workforce perform with integrity, efficiency and impartiality while upholding the highest ethical and moral standards. As a value driven organization, we have established vigilance departments in all Plants/Units with Quality Management System (QMS) to receive and investigate complaints including those relating to corruption as per the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) guidelines. CVC is a Government of India Institution set up to prevent corruption and to advise and guide Central Government agencies in the field of vigilance. Vulnerable areas/ departments of different Plants/Units were subjected to a total of 2,765 periodic checks which included file scrutiny and joint checks. Since inception, it has been a thrust area of Vigilance Department to effectively implement and monitor various preventive vigilance measures. Several activities such as awareness sessions and workshops are undertaken on periodic basis to create vigilance awareness among the employees on aspects such as Whistle Blower Policy, Purchase/ Contract Procedures, RTI Act, Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Rules, system and procedures followed in SAIL, etc. 141 workshops/ trainings were organized at different Plants/Units, covering 2,938 employees in the year 2015-16. All line managers were covered in phased manner. Based on the findings of the complaints, major penalties were advised against 20 employees and minor penalties against 52 employees during the year 2015-16. Further, major penalties were imposed on 21 employees including dismissal of four (4) employees and minor penalties were imposed on 44 employees during the year 2015-16. In addition, various systemic improvements and preventive / administrative actions were suggested in the above cases to prevent recurrence of such incidents. We do not believe in practicing any anti-competitive behaviour, antitrust and monopoly practices, hence we have not initiated any case in this regard. We do not believe in supporting any kind of political lobbying and political persuasion in its functioning guide. However, we respect all national and state-level political representatives. We have not made any monetary or in-kind contribution to any political party during the reporting period. There were no fines or sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations in the reporting period. thruSt areaS oF Sail ViGilanCe For the year • Scrutiny of files pertaining to high value projects. • Scrutiny of contracts awarded on Single tender enquiry (proprietary purchase basis) of value more than ` 5 lakhs. • Surveillance in the areas of receipt, sampling & testing of high value raw materials. • Surprise checks in high value raw materials area including Ferro Alloys, Refractories, etc. Pledge taken during Vigilance awareness week 2015 20 20 (G4-14, G4-56, G4-Dma (anti-Corruption), G4-So3) Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 PARTNERSHIPS, ASSOCIATIONS AND MEMBERSHIPS WORLD STEEL ASSOCIATION (WSA) Our long term association with the WSA has helped us in achieving excellence in steel production through knowledge sharing on sustainable steel production and practices for achieving business eminence. We conform to the WSA Principles and are committed to reduction of CO₂ emissions by use of co-products, adoption of best practices, enhancing energy efficiency through use of better operational practices & new technology and exploring breakthrough technologies. MONTREAL PROTOCOL We have been successful in our commitment to Montreal Protocol by phasing out Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS). viz. Carbon Tetra Chloride (CTC). Now, we use Trichloroethylene (TCE) as cleaning solvent in our operations. UN GLOBAL COMPACT We have aligned our business policies and actions with the ten universal principles of UN Global Compact towards our commitment to human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. STOCKHOLM CONVENTION ON PERSISTENT ORGANIC POLLUTANTS (POPs) We have active collaboration with MOEFCC and UNIDO for setting up a static facility for environmentally sound management of Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCB) at BSP in line with the Stockholm Convention (SC). PCB, a POP, in electrical transformers will be treated/destroyed using suitable technology being brought in by UNIDO under this project. CHARTER ON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY FOR ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (CREP) We have voluntarily subscribed to the action points defined under the Charter on Corporate Responsibility for Environmental Protection (CREP). As a responsible corporate citizen, we strive to go beyond the statutory compliance and try to make a significant mark in this Charter. STANDING CONFERENCE OF PUBLIC ENTERPRISES (SCOPE) We, being one of the largest Public Sector Enterprises (PSE) in India, have had an active role in the proceedings of the SCOPE. OTHER ASSOCIATIONS & MEMBERSHIPS • All India Management Association (AIMA) • Indian Institute of Metals (IIM) • All India Organization of Employers (AIOE) • Indian Institute of Plant Engineers (IIPE) • Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of • Indian Society for Trade and Development (ISTD) India (ASSOCHAM) • Indo USSR Chamber of Commerce and • Centre for Organization Development (CoD) Industries (IUCCI) • Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) • Institute of Public Enterprises (IPE) • Consultancy Development Centre (CDC) • Institute of Rail Transport (IRT) • Delhi Productivity Council (DPC) • Project Management Associate (PMA) • Federation of Indian Chambers for Commerce and • The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) Industry (FICCI) • The Indian Iran Chamber of Commerce • Forum of Women in Public Sector (WIPS) and Industry (IICCI) • Global Institute for Flexible System Management (GIFT) • World Confederation of Productivity Science (WCPS) (G4-15, G4-16) 21 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 key Joint Venture CollaborationS • NTPC SAIL Power Company Private Limited (NSPCL) • SAIL SCL Kerala Limited • Bokaro Power Supply Company Private Limited (BPSCL) • SAIL-RITES Bengal Wagon Industry Pvt. Ltd. (SRBWIPL) • SAIL Bansal Service Centre Limited (SBSCL) • SAIL Kobe Iron India Private Limited • Mjunction Services Limited (MSL) • SAL SAIL JVC Limited • Bhilai Jaypee Cement Limited (BJCL) • TMTSAL SAIL JV Limited • S&T Mining Company Private Limited • Sail-Bengal Alloy Castings Private Limited • SAIL & MOIL Ferro Alloys Private Limited • Prime Gold-SAIL JVC Limited (PGSJL) • International Coal Ventures Private Limited (ICVL) • VSL SAIL JVC Limited • SAIL-SCI Shipping Private Limited • Abhinav SAIL JVC Limited ultra-meGa Steel ProJeCt in baStar DiStriCt, ChhattiSGarh In accordance with concept of developing Ultra Mega Steel Plants by the Ministry of Steel, which would help India in achieving the capacity growth of 300 MT of crude steel by 2025-26, we have extended our participation in setting up of an Ultra Mega Steel Plant of capacity (3+3) or (4+2) MTPA (MT per annum) in Bastar, Chhattisgarh. An MoU to this effect has been signed between SAIL, NMDC, Ministry of Steel and Government of Chhattisgarh in May 2015. DeVeloPment oF rail CorriDor From rowGhat to JaGDalPur in the State oF ChhattiSGarh With the aim of bringing about greater socio-economic development of the backward areas of Bastar region in Chhattisgarh and to further the industrial progress and mining activities in the region, an MoU was signed amongst SAIL, NMDC, IRCON and Government of Chhattisgarh in May 2015 for development of a rail corridor from Rowghat to Jagdalpur. The rail corridor with a proposed length of 140 kms would also pass through Narayanpur and Kondangaon in Chhattisgarh. A Shareholders Agreement (SHA) has been signed and a joint venture company has been incorporated under the name “Bastar Railway Private Limited”. automotiVe Steel Joint Venture in inDia We are in discussions with ArcelorMittal for exploring the possibility for setting up an automotive steel manufacturing facility under a Joint Venture (JV) arrangement in India. The two companies signed an MoU on 22nd May, 2015 to this effect. The proposed JV will construct a state-of-the-art Cold Rolling Mill (CRM) and other downstream finishing facilities in India which will offer technologically advanced steel products to India’s rapidly growing automotive sector. The input material for the CRM will be supplied by us from our new Hot Strip Mill being set up at Rourkela Steel Plant. mou between Sail and nSDC 22 22 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 AWARDS & ACCOLADES SAIL • 4 Prime Minister’s Shram Awards (involving 23 employees) for the year 2014 • 15 Vishwakarma Rashtriya Puraskar Awards (involving 86 employees) for the performance year 2013 • Dainik Bhaskar India Pride Award 2015-16 under Corporate Social Responsibility award category • CII-ITC Sustainability 2015 Award for ‘Corporate Excellence – Commendation for Significant Achievement’ in recognition of its exemplary performance and contribution in the economic, social and environmental segment • India Today – MDRA CPSE Best HR Excellence Award – 2015 • CII-EXIM Bank Award 2015: BSP bagged ‘PRIZE’ for exceptional business excellence initiatives whereas DSP, RSP & BSL got ‘Commendation for Significant Achievement’ • EEPC India National Awards for Engineering Export Excellence as the Star Performer for the year 2013-14 in the Basic Iron and Steel – Large Enterprise product group category • SAIL’s ‘Ispat Bhasha Bharti’ bagged Shiromani Patrika Puraskar at town level • Businessworld HR Excellence Awards 2015 under award category of “Best Initiative for Connect with Family” in recognition of effective implementation of an innovative workplace practice “Aap Bhi Janiye” at Bhilai Steel Plant • India Pride Awards 2014-15 for Excellence in Environment Protection and Conservation • First award in the 12th National Award for Excellence in Cost Management 2014 under the category of Public Manufacturing Organization • BT-STAR PSU Award 2015 for its R&D and innovations in the Category of Maharatna and Navratna PSUs Bhilai Steel Plant • Prime Minister’s Trophy for the Best Performing Integrated Steel Plant (ISP) in the Country for the year 2011-12 for a record 11th time • Golden Peacock Environment Management Award 2015 in the category of Steel in July 2015 • NARAKAS, Bhilai-Durg bagged the Rajbhasha Kirti Puraskar in September 2015 Durgapur Steel Plant • Greentech Environment Award – Gold for the year 2014-15 • Greentech Safety Award 2015 Certificate of Appreciation in Metal and Mining Sector for the year 2014 • Greentech HR Award 2015 (Training Excellence) – Silver • Ispat Suraksha Puraskar for No Fatal Accident in Rolling Mills during 2013 & 2014 by JCSSI • Srishti Good Green Governance Award 2015 Certificate of Commendation in recognition of Environment for the year 2013-14 Rourkela Steel Plant • CII National HR Excellence Award 2015-16 (Strong commitment to HR Excellence) • 1st Prize in ‘National Energy Conservation Award 2015’ in Integrated Steel Plant sector for fiscal year 2014-15 • 5th Annual Greentech CSR Award 2015 – Gold Award under the category Metal & Mining • OTV CSR Award in the Water and Sanitation Category for CSR initiatives 23 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 bokaro Steel Plant • Greentech Award – 2015 to Environment Control Department of BSL • Greentech HR Award 2015 (Corporate Category of Training Excellence) – Gold raw materials Division • Barsua Iron Mine bagged 1st Prize in “Installation & Use of Mineral Beneficiation Equipment including Crushing” & 2nd Prize in “Noise, Vibration & other Scientific Studies” in the category of fully Mechanized Mines alloy Steels Plant • Greentech Environment Award 2015 – Gold in Metal & Mining Sector for outstanding contribution in Environment Management • Ispat Suraksha Puraskar 2015 for no fatal accidents Salem Steel Plant • National Sustainability Award (First Prize) for the year 2014-15 research & Development Centre for iron & Steel • BT Star PSU for Excellence in Innovation (Tech/R&D) under category Maharatna & Navratna Proud Vishwakarma awardees 24 Bonding with stakeholders Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 STAKEHOLDER PrioritieS engaging with Stakeholders 26 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 Our wide-ranging stakeholder engagement programme has been honed over several decades to sustainably address all stakeholder groups and their areas of concern. The engagement has enabled us with a good understanding of our responsibilities towards our stakeholders aligned with our business commitments. Our stakeholder engagement activities have provided us a platform for encouraging transparent communiqué and an opportunity to recognize and address interests of the stakeholders. We hold all our stakeholders in high esteem and believe that stakeholders who can affect or are affected by the operational footprints of the Company should be given ample opportunity for commenting and giving valuable submissions for decisions which will directly or indirectly touch them. Our frequency of engagement varies with the stakeholder groups ranging from regular everyday interaction with employees to Annual General Meetings (AGM) for shareholders. meeting Vendors (G4-25) 27 27 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 StakeholDer enGaGement matrix Stakeholder Sub-Groups engagement mechanism Concerns / Perceptions accrued benefits Groups Shareholders • Government Annual General Meetings, Profitability of the Company, Creation of wealth for • Institutions Quarterly and halfyearly reports Creation of wealth, Stock price, shareholders • Insurance to shareholders, Shareholder Grievances and Complaints companies relation meets, Investor surveys • Individuals employees • Regular Labour Unions, Bipartite & Safe and healthy working Inspired, encouraged, • Contractual Tripartite Meetings, Departmental conditions, Good remuneration satisfied and enthused & Zonal Committee Meetings, package, Professional growth, workforce Various Platforms for Dialogues & Quality of life, Welfare Communication, CEO Interactions, measures, Training and Career Employee Satisfaction Surveys, Development Annual Appraisals, Internal newsletters, etc. Suppliers • Ancillaries Vendor meetings, Meetings with Partnership with value creation, Contented suppliers • Bulk Suppliers, Ancillary Association Timely payment, Engaging Suppliers Meetings, Supplier Relationship more local suppliers, Supplier • Vendors Management satisfaction, etc. Customers • Institutional Customer meets, Plant visits, Partnership with value Long-lasting association, • Retail Director’s conference with creation, Product quality, contented customer customer groups, Visits to Delivery compliance, Customer customers and customer satisfaction, Resolution of satisfaction surveys complaints, etc’s Community • Urban Community meetings, Interaction Quality of life, Job Socio-economic • Rural with municipalities, Town opportunities, Education, development of the • Indigenous administrative committee, Welfare measures, Medical area, Partnership in Communities Involvement in local society facilities, Sustainable livelihood development functions nGo’s • Local Visits to Plants, Seminars, Environment quality, Human Safe and healthy labour • National Conferences, Interactions, etc. rights, Freedom of association, force, Environment Compliance to regulations friendly operations, Ethical operations, Compliance to Standards regulators • Central Meetings with Central & State Economic, Environmental and Legal Compliance, Government Government/Steel Ministry / Trade Social Compliance, Human Beyond Compliance • State Bodies, Industry Associations, Rights, Safety, Compliance to Government Ministry of Environment, Forests & ILO Conventions • Local Bodies Climate Change, Other statutory bodies, etc. Competitors • Local Knowledge sharing, Partnership Fair business, Partnership, Public Knowledge sharing, • International with value creation, Antipolicy advocacy Best practices, Ethical competitive behaviour, Consumer business privacy industry • WSA Conferences, Workshops, Seminars Industry Policy, Regulations, Knowledge sharing, associations • CII Technology, Environment, CSR, Public policy advocacy, • FICCI Business Excellence Best practices • IIM, etc. academic • Institution Conferences, Workshops, Seminars Knowledge management, R&D Knowledge sharing, New bodies • Research activities, Partnership for value technology Labs creation Professionals • Local Visits to Plants, Seminars, Partnership with value creation, Knowledge building, /Consultants • International Conferences, Interactions Training and development Value creation, Collaboration media • Local Press Meets, Interactions with Plant Economic, Environmental Transparency and • National & Corporate Communications, etc. and Social performance communication Achievements 28 28 (G4-24, G4-26, G4-27) Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 FeeDbaCk From StakeholDerS Our stakeholder engagement contrivance gives importance to building ongoing communication with those who are valuable to our organization. This has aided in establishing a continuous improvement progress which assists us in anticipating expectations and addressing them successfully. As mentioned earlier, we have in place various modes of engagement mechanism with our valued stakeholders. To carry out the materiality assessment, efforts were made to connect with the stakeholder groups by organizing interactive sessions and capturing their responses against methodically designed questionnaires prepared by the experts. We have developed parameters for systematically capturing stakeholder feedback. While developing materiality mapping, inclusivity in the approach and due importance to the views of the stakeholders were ensured. The response pattern also appropriates the needs and expectations of the stakeholders which help us in strategizing our sustainability initiatives, strategic planning and consequent objective setting. These responses also help us in focusing on improvements of our products and services which are essential for retaining and widening our customer base, managing connections with customers and a profounding penetration in the market. materiality aSSeSSment ProCeSS Materiality Assessment is a framework which allows for ranking of issues and areas pertaining to economic, environment and social aspects of Sustainability according to their perceived importance and impact to the business. The activity of materiality assessment comprises connecting with the stakeholders through interactive meetings and assessing their responses against tailored questionnaires. The materiality mapping incorporates our internal & external stakeholders across our Plants, Units and Mines ensuring inclusivity in the approach. We, at SAIL, have been conducting structured materiality assessments since past six years. For the present report, the response was sought from valued internal and external stakeholders on existing aspects of G4 guidelines. Due effort has been made through this report to connect on the issues identified as having importance to stakeholders as well as those which impact our business. We have gathered feedback in the form of survey responses from 129 respondents during execution of the materiality assessment workshops at Corporate Office, Plants and Mines. For the present report, reporting boundary for all aspects has been restricted to the operations of SAIL. issues identified During Stakeholder engagement linkage with Gri aspects Page in report Enhancing profitability & growth Economic Performance 32 Curtailing operating cost and encouraging cost saving Economic Performance 32 Providing fair and equal wages Market Presence 66 Managing resources and conserving minerals Materials 47 Enhancing energy efficiency and adopting renewables Energy 36 Conserving water by recycling and reusing Water 42 Conserving biodiversity and land rehabilitation Biodiversity 48 Reducing greenhouse gas emissions & carbon footprint Emissions 41 Managing waste by recycling, reusing, recovering and reducing Effluents & Waste 44, 45 Enhancing employee satisfaction Labour Management Relations 67 Health and safety of employees, process safety and emergency Occupational Health & Safety 58 preparedness Enhancing employee productivity Training & Education 72, 73 Providing healthcare to community Local Communities 76 Preventing corruption Anti-Corruption 20 Increasing customer satisfaction Product & Service Labeling 53 (G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21) 29 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 materiality matrix 30 30 (G4-19) Ensuring economic Sustainability Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 ECONOMIC PerFormanCe India is the world’s third-largest producer of crude steel and is expected to become the second-largest producer shortly. India was the only major steel consuming market in the world which exhibited a growth during 2015-16. The year also witnessed an exceptional rise in imports. We have achieved several milestones like highest ever Hot Metal production of 15.7 MT and crude steel production of 14.3 MT surpassing previous bests in the year. In order to scale up steel production in the Country to 300 MT by 2025 from about 90 MT in 2015-16, the Government of India is taking several initiatives for giving major boost to the economy. We are considered as the favoured steel manufacturer delivering world class products and are appreciated by our customers across the globe. In order to continue the legacy forward and to consolidate our leadership while extending the outreach and sustaining growth, we have undertaken several proactive measures. The key areas of action followed by us include cost control measures through productivity improvement, monitoring of high value procurement, optimising coal blend, etc. Positive outlook of credit ratings is an outcome of robust fund management practices. key economic indicators (in ` crore) 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Gross Turnover (Direct Economic Value Generated) 51,866 50,627 43,337 Net Turnover 46,189 45,208 38,514 Cost of Material Consumed including Bought out Goods 19,272 18,523 17,151 Employee Wages & Salaries 9,579 9,736 9,894 Payments to Providers of Capital : Interest (Finance Cost) 968 1,454 2,047 Interest (Capital-Expenditure During construction) 845 638 644 Dividends 834 826 0 Community Investments (CSR Expenditure) 62 35 76 Contribution to Government / Exchequer 11,560 11,110 8,496 Operating Profit 3,136 3,813 -5,152 Profit After Tax 2,616 2,093 -4,137 Income Retained in Business 1,641 837 -4,224 Since inception, we believe in providing world class products and services to our customer at the competitive cost, which has helped in creating a niche for ourselves in the market. Our customer centric approach and zero compromise on quality have always proven beneficial, helped us in gaining appreciation and loyalty from customers as well as achieving leading market position. In-spite of the exigent market, we have achieved total sales volume of 12.2 MT during the year 2015-16, registering a growth of about 4% over the previous year. We have achieved highest ever sales of Plates of 1.79 MT with a growth of 16% over previous year. Further, sales of Long Products also registered a growth of 21% with best ever sales of TMT & WRC at 1.68 MT and 0.41 MT respectively. Similarly with regard to Dealer Sales, the best ever sales of 0.79 MT were achieved during the year 2015-16, thereby registering a growth of 29% over last year. During the Year 2015-16, 170 new dealers were appointed. Our Company offers a wide range of product-mix that caters to almost the entire array of the steel business Flat Products in the form of Plates, HR Coils/Sheet, CR Coils/Sheets, Galvanized Plain/Corrugated Sheets and Long Products comprising Rails, Structurals, Wire-rods and Merchant Products, in addition to Electric Resistance Welded Pipes, Spiral Welded Pipes, Electric Tin Plates and Silicon Steel Sheets also. rSP gets international approval for producing ship building grades of Steel Rourkela Steel Plant has added another feather to SAIL’s cap by getting approval from ABS (American Bureau of Shipping) and DNV·GL (Det Norske Veritas-Germanischer Lloyd) for producing ship building grades of steel. This approval is for both ordinary as well as high strength grades of steel. RSP is already approved by LR (Lloyds Register) for producing LR grade plates. It is noteworthy that ABS and DNV-GL are ship building classification societies for certification of the materials being used for the manufacture of ships. 32 (G4-Dma (economic Performance), G4-eC1) Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 Some of our key economic risks and barriers along with their mitigation strategies are briefly described below:eConomiC riSkS • Dumping of steel from abroad and increased mitiGation StrateGieS competition from domestic and overseas • Market growth to strengthen presence in new steel manufacturers growth segments • Cheap sourcing of steel from countries with • Consistent improvement in product quality and whom India has Free Trade Agreement (FTA) reducing cost through operational efficiency • Declining sales realization • Product innovation to provide customised • Higher Royalty rate on Iron Ore and products and retain customers dependence on external sources for key • Exploring avenues for acquiring new mines input coking coal and identifying domestic and international • Adverse employee age-mix and High collaboration opportunities manpower cost • Manpower rationalization and multi skill development our r&D aCtiVitieS We have a well-established Research & Development Centre which has earned recognition as a leading organization in the field of ferrous metallurgy. We have taken up an inclusive strategic vision for research and development with an intention to uphold leadership position in market, improve operational efficiencies, cultivate process innovations and reengineering and enhance quality of products to international levels. To pursue this, Centre of Excellence (CoE) are being setup in all the Plants which will implement High Impact Projects (HIP) and Technology Missions (TM) to achieve technological eminence. This initiative has taken roots and is under different stages of implementation. The revised R&D Master Plan 2015 was released during the year in which following new CoE projects have been identified: 1. AB3 steel production (CoE-RSP) 2. Automation system for heat and quality management at SMS-II, RSP (CoE-RSP) 3. Improvement in process efficiency and production of value added grades of Steel ISP in (CoE-RDCIS) 4. Improvement in productivity of SP #1, DSP (CoE-RDCIS) Our RDCIS engineers and scientists have filed 35 patents and 36 copyrights in association with SAIL Plants during the year 2015-16 and published as many as 105 technical papers (32 international) and presented 159 papers (79 international). RDCIS also undertook contract research work and provided consultancy services and know-how to organizations outside SAIL. our moDerniSation & exPanSion ProGramme (meP) nearS ComPletion We are nearing the last leg of implementation of the current phase of Modernization & Expansion Programme. At present, the installed Hot Metal capacity of our Company is 19.73 MT per annum and the envisaged Hot Metal capacity of 23.46 MT per annum will be after completion of this programme. During the Financial Year 2015-16, we have achieved many milestones. Hon’ble Prime Minister of India dedicated the modernized and expanded Rourkela Steel Plant and IISCO Steel Plant to the Nation in 2015. At Bokaro Steel Plant, Roughing Mill Up-gradation of Hot Strip Mill has been completed and has become operational. At Durgapur Steel Plant, New Medium Structural Mill has become operational. At Bhilai Steel Plant, New Rail Welding Line is in operation and Hot trials in Universal Rail Mill have been carried out. We incurred a capital expenditure of ` 6,034 crore during Financial Year 2015-16 and planned ` 4,000 crore towards Capex for 2016-17. In addition, the state-of-the-art facilities installed under the current MEP has led to significant improvement in the technoeconomics including lower energy consumption and improved environmental parameters. (G4-Dma (economic Performance)) 33 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 34 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 SECURING enerGy 35 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 ENERGY manaGement India is witnessing an exponentially high growth in every sphere, and infrastructural development occupies a major part in the process. We, at SAIL, being the largest player in the Iron and Steel sector, have a vital role to play in the Indian development scenario. Steel is a constant application in sectors spanning from Automobile, Power, Machine goods and Infrastructure. The process of production and processing of Steel has a large carbon footprint as one of the outcomes. The Iron and Steel industry has taken several initiatives in order to counter the ill-effects so that better energy efficiency and low carbon footprint is achieved. The world is taking gigantic steps towards conservation of energy, and it is more called for in the Iron and Steel sector as this sector is highly energy intensive. We are committed towards a better tomorrow not only by way of participating in the development in a big way, but also by giving the future generations a energy secured future. We are continually working towards this end by way of dedicated Plant wise Energy Management Departments that analyse Plant operations and subscribe to several energy saving mechanisms. Owing to our continual efforts, we have been able to reduce our energy consumption over the years. This fact can be deduced from the figures given below: Specific energy Consumption (GCal/tcs) Power & Fuel Consumption 2015-16 Quantity (tJ) Purchased Electricity (M kWh) 7615 97,853 Generated Electricity (M kWh) 971 12,477 Coking Coal (MT) Including CDI 15.38 433,716 Non Coking Coal (MT) 0.514 9,766 Furnace Oil (‘000KL) 19.3 804 energy Consumption 554,616 In keeping with the discipline for energy conservation, we have taken various initiatives for the use of renewable energy. At RSP, 1 MW Solar Power Plant has been commissioned, which is connected with the electrical grid system of the State Electricity Board. The solar power plant is the first of its kind and scale in SAIL and will generate solar-electrical power from 3,465 solar photovoltaic panels installed over an area of 4.7 acres in the plant premises. Besides this, 6 nos. of solar water heating systems have also been installed at the Rourkela House and action has been initiated for installation of 90 more such heaters at the Ispat General Hospital. Two nos. of 5 KW capacity Solar Power Packs were installed and planning has also been done for installation of another 7 nos. at various locations (inside and outside works premises). At BSL, a total of 65 nos. of solar street lights have been installed at various locations within the Plant. 36 36 (G4-Dma (energy), G4-en3) Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 SChemeS For enerGy ConSerVation anD teChnoloGy abSorPtion bhilai Steel Plant • In-house commissioning of VVVF drive system in Return Ladle Car-1 in SMS-II • Commissioning of VVVF drives in Merchant Mill • Commissioning of very low speed VVVF drive (ACS 800) in Wire Rod Mill • Modification of coal dust burners’ tips in Boiler-2 of CPP-I • Successful up-gradation of existing CEMS (Centralised Energy Monitoring System) to a new & more efficient platform and seamless integration with the online monitoring of some MODEX units • Replacement of 180 Nos. of HPSV streetlights inside works area with energy efficient LED lights Durgapur Steel Plant • Introduction of Round Casting in Bloom-cum-Round Caster to eliminate its production through energy intensive ingot route. • Commissioning of New Dolomite Plant, 125 T Ladle Furnace #3, Benzol & Naptha Scrubber Plant and Ammonium Sulphate Plant • Successful completion of Capital Repair of BF 2. • Installation of CO gas booster for enrichment of CO gas in fuel gas of BF4 Stove rourkela Steel Plant • Increased power generation from Top Recovery Turbine Generator (TRTG) & Back Pressure Turbine Generator (BPTG) • In house erection and commissioning of new Thyrister drive in front mill Groove Roll-1 • Replacement of 300 nos. of energy consuming Street Light Fittings with LED Fittings • Installation and commissioning of ten nos. of High Mast Towers using 200 W energy efficient magnetic Induction lamps. • Insulation of skid pipes in RH Furnaces of HSM to reduce heat loss. bokaro Steel Plant • Cold repair of CO Battery no # 3 • Capital Repair of 3 nos. Sinter Machines, 3 nos. Soaking Pit Ceramic Recuperators, and 3 nos. Soaking Pit Metallic Recuperators • Total skin insulation in HSM Reheating Furnaces to minimize heat loss through furnace wall • Provision of heat shield at delay table during modernization of Mills iiSCo Steel Plant • Commissioning of BOF Gas Holder (50,000 m3 Capacity) for better gas utilization • Commissioning of Top Recovery Turbine (14 MWH) to convert energy in the form of BF top pressure to electrical energy • Introduction of BF gas under firing in COB #11 for better by-product gas utilisation. A capital expenditure of ` 136.8 crore on energy conservation equipment was incurred during the Financial Year 2015-16 Sail Steel used for wind mill 37 37 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 38 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 OUR environment 39 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 ENVIRONMENTAL PerFormanCe We, at SAIL, carry out all of our operations with a firm objective of promoting clean, green and sustainable growth. Our commitment is evident in the form of Company’s Corporate Environment Policy. Various interventions made by us include adoption of latest state-of-the-art environment friendly technologies, implementation of robust environmental management systems, creating awareness and training the employees on industry’s best practices. All environmental programmes at our Plants, Units and Mines address the vital issues such as energy conservation, resource optimization, biodiversity protection, mitigation of adverse environmental impacts. We have progressively introduced well defined environment management systems in our Plants, Units and Mines, resulting in noteworthy improvement in waste minimization and recycling, water & energy conservation, noise reduction, reduction in particulate emissions and effluent discharges, in accordance with National Environmental Policy 2006. Being a responsible corporate citizen, we have always maintained a proactive approach to safeguard the environment. There were no fines or non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Some of the key environmental risks foreseen by us and their mitigation strategies are briefly listed below: enVironmental riSkS • Enhanced global concern for climate change mitiGation StrateGieS prompting adoption of challenging targets by the Administration • Enhancing adoption of clean technologies to reduce CO2 emissions • Probable introduction of emission caps, carbon taxes, etc. in the future • Investment in environmental protection measures • Increasing quantity of waste requiring proper management and disposal • Developing strategies for proper handling, recycling and reuse of waste • Deteriorating quality of air and water as a result of increasing concentration of • Compliance with the norms as well as preparing industries in the vicinity for going beyond Our commitment towards sustainable development is evident from our conformance to the Charter on Corporate Responsibility for Environmental Protection (CREP) requirements. This is a voluntary commitment between SAIL and MOEFCC, Government of India which helped steel plants reduce their environmental footprint across their operations. We have also put in place a Sustainable Development (SD) Policy and taken up specific SD projects across our Plants, Units and Mines, as per the Sustainable Development Guidelines issued by Department of Enterprises (DPE), GoI. Increasing the production capacity along with phasing out the old technologies and equipment and installing efficient & environment friendly technologies were the key focus areas during this MEP. About ` 5,000 crore is being spent on pollution control schemes only from the total outlay of about ` 72,000 crore for the ongoing MEP while other ongoing schemes are also contributing towards energy efficiency, resource conservation and emission reduction. To keep an eye and lessen the environmental impact of our operational activities, we have established a dedicated unit, namely, Environment Management Division (EMD) catering to the varied environmental implications arising from our diverse operations ranging from mineral extraction to selling out the finished steel. EMD is a corporate unit of ours which has been bestowed with responsibility to monitor and assist the environment management and pollution control activities in our Plants, Units and Mines. Besides EMD, each Plant and Mine has its own Environment Department manned with qualified personnel for execution of environmental protection measures. Our commitment to “comply with applicable environmental regulations and striving to go beyond”, results from the concerted efforts by SAIL’s fraternity towards environmental stewardship and protection of the environment in and around our operating units. 40 (G4-14, G4-Dma (emissions)) Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 We have also constituted a Board Sub-Committee (BSC) on Health, Safety and Environment that guides the efforts of the Company towards environment management. During the year, a detailed review of the Corporate Environmental Policy of the Company has being carried out by the BSC and a revised Policy has been unveiled. One of the focus areas of action for us has been curbing the stack emissions from our chimneys as these affect not only the health of employees, but also the health of communities residing around our Plants. For provision of a clean and green ecosystem, numerous steps have been taken which have reduced the particulate matter to 0.81 kg/tcs for the reporting year. Emissions of SO2 are also reduced by the use of low sulphur coal and desulphurization of coke oven gas, while for NOx control special burners and process related changes have been put in. Particulate matter emission load (kg/tcs) our Carbon FootPrint Coke Ovens, Sinter Plant, Blast Furnaces, Steel Melting Shop, Power Plant, etc. are the various functional units of our Plants which contribute to the CO2 emissions. Transportation of raw materials & finished products and employee commute are the other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions activities. Though these emissions are reasonably insignificant, we have undertaken several interventions to minimise them. Due to various meaningful steps taken by us, the CO2 intensity for SAIL has been brought down to 2.60 t/tcs during the year. As evident from the figures, we have been able to bring down CO2 emissions consistently over the years. Co₂ intensity (t/tcs) (G4-Dma (emissions), G4-en18) 41 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 water body near bokaro Steel Plant ConSerVinG water The significance of conserving our strained water resources is becoming more pertinent each day. India has around onefifth of the world’s population and a mere 4% of the globe’s water resources. Water availability for industrial purpose needs to be taken into account in near future as water scarcity and water quality have been predicted to be one of the largest economic and health concerns in the coming times. Steel making, being a water intensive process, requires billions of gallons of water and a number of regulatory requirements also mandate the sector to ensure efficient management of water. We have undertaken several concrete steps towards water conservation and result oriented initiatives in this direction. It has been SAIL’s continuous endeavour to keep a balance with the neighbouring ecosystem while carrying out the production activities. Setting up of efficient Water Treatment Plants, identifying source of leakages and arresting them promptly, assessment of the discharged water from various shops and analysis by experts to identify areas that need improvement to reduce consumption of fresh make-up water etc. are the regular initiatives taken towards water conservation. Due care has also been taken to minimize water consumption at our Mines also. Notable among these are suitably designed tailing dam with facility for reclamation of clarified water, check dams at various strategic points in downstream areas, construction of sedimentation tanks, slow speed classifiers, etc. All efforts are being made to reuse and recycle the treated effluents to the maximise possible extent in order to achieve minimum effluent discharge and also to minimize the pollution load on the water environment. Our Plants and Units have taken various initiatives to reduce the fresh water consumption that include: • At BSP, new pipe line laid down for phenolic water to prevent contamination of Phenolic water with storm water, regular monitoring of various Pump Houses and project sites to check leakages, overflow, etc. and “Save water” Awareness campaign in Plant. • At DSP, recirculation of BF GCP Blow down water for coke quenching, recirculation of overflow from 1 MT cooling tower to 1.8 MT cooling tower and modification of Section Mill Return water main • At RSP, plugging of leakages in water pipe grid and 2 no. of Recharge pits for rain water harvesting developed in COB#6. 42 (G4-Dma (water)) Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 • At ISP, recovery of seepage water from Damodar Yard • At SSP, water conservation measures include CRM water recycling scheme, usage of treated eﬄuent in ASTP for floor washings etc. • At Dalli (Mech.) Mines of BSP, re-circulation of overflow water to the tune of 45.372 lakhs m3 from Hitkasa Tailing pond. Initiatives for following ZLD schemes have also been taken up in the Plants: • Scheme for Zero Discharge of effluent from Outlet B and C at BSP • Treatment and Recycling of effluent from outfalls to achieve “Zero Discharge” at BSL • Scheme for implementation of zero discharge scheme at ISP water sources for various Sail Plants & units Plants/units water Source BSP River Mahanadi DSP River Damodar RSP River Brahmni BSL River Damodar ISP River Damodar ASP River Damodar SSP River Kaveri VISL River Bhadra CFP Groundwater (borewells) SGW River Barakar Specific water Consumption for Sail Plants (m3/tcs) All of our Plants and Mines are located strategically to ensure availability of surface water. No negative impacts were observed on the water sources or the nearby water bodies because of operations of SAIL. (G4-en9) 43 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 eFFluent manaGement The effluent discharged from various operations in steel industry can have damaging effect on the ecology of the local biosphere, natural resources and nearby water bodies. We are committed to treat the effluent adequately through ETPs and monitor strictly the water discharged from our operations so that the effluent quality conforms to the prescribed standards. This goes a long way in meticulously conserving the nearby environment and natural resources. effluent discharged by iSPs during last three years 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Quantity of Effluent discharged (Mm ) 3 30.26 30.31 25.57 During the year, all the parameters pertaining to standards of effluent discharged from all the Plants were well within the norms. effluent Quality of Five iSPs during the year unit: (mg/l except ph) Parameters ph SS boD CoD Phenol Cyanide oil & Grease nh3-n norm 5.5-9.0 100 30 250 1.0 0.2 10 50 BSP 7.5–8.3 37 – 77 13 – 25 37– 80 BDL – 0.36 BDL – 0.10 1.0– 3.0 2 – 29 DSP 7.3–8.4 6 – 45 11 – 25 110–147 0.12 – 0.48 0.04 – 0.19 1.0 – 4.8 4 – 38 RSP 7.4-7.9 12 – 42 7 – 11 31 – 85 0.09 0.18 0.08 – 0.11 2.0 – 5.0 10 – 19 BSL 6.5–8.1 19 – 36 7 – 13 37 – 109 0.009–0.025 0.004–0.053 0.18– 1.92 1–4 ISP 7.0–8.4 12 – 31 1 – 17 13 – 117 BDL – 0.12 0.02 – 0.11 0.5 – 1.5 1 – 29 effluent Quality of SSPs during the year unit: (mg/l except ph) Parameters norm aSP SSP ViSl CFP pH 5.5-9.0 7.18.6 7.6-8.7 6.5 8.0 6.2 8.6 Suspended Solids 100 8-61 4-36 40 60 30 89 BOD 30 5-8 <2.0 3.0 5.0 15 28 COD 250 7-71 8-32 3.0 7.0 104 196 Fluoride 2 <0.2 0.32-1.56 <0.02 na* Iron 3 <0.3 0.01 0.08 0.40-0.90 0.25 2.30 Oil & Grease 10 1-8.6 1.0-4.0 BDL <4 * = not applicable aeration tankboD Plant of rSP 44 44 (G4-Dma (effluents & waste)) Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 waSte manaGement We believe in the policy of 4Rs (reduce, recover, recycle and reuse) across all our operations. A large quantity of wastes and by-products like slag, dust, sludge, used firebricks, etc. are generated during the iron and steel making process. Slag which accounts for a majority of by-products, is almost entirely utilized. Blast Furnace slag is used for cement making while BOF slag is used as material for road base, civil engineering work, soil improvement, fertilizer, etc. With indefatigable efforts, we have been successfully able to maintain solid waste utilization at 84 % during the year 2015-16. We do not transport any type of waste, whether hazardous or non-hazardous outside India. There were no significant spills during the reporting period. With the belief of reuse and recycle firmly embedded in the organizational approach of SAIL, there have been several initiatives to maximise the utilisation of solid waste generated at various operations. A few of these initiatives are listed below: use of weathered lD Slag as rail track ballast The physical properties of weathered LD slag (WLD Slag) meet the specification required for stone ballast for use as rail track ballast. Since June 2015, field trials with the weathered LD Slag from Bokaro Steel Plant are being conducted by the South Eastern Railway (SER) at the Ispat Nagar Railway Yard, Bokaro. Monthly inspections of the track parameters are being carried out jointly by the representatives of SER and SAIL and shall continue for a total period of two years. use of bF-boF slag as replacement of natural aggregates (Sand) in iS: 383 With initiatives of the Company, the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) has suitably amended the relevant IS: 383, permitting utilization of iron and steel slag as a replacement of natural aggregate up to the extent as has been given in the IS: 383 (Revision-III), 2016. Dry Granulation of lD/boF Slag (hydro-mechanical Study) a project taken up under r&D master Plan of Sail This innovative process is under research stage globally. It has been estimated in a lab scale study that LD slag after granulation can be utilised in cement making up to the extent of 15 %. This led to the development of a new route of recycling steelmaking slag in cement making through the process of granulation. We have engaged IIT Kharagpur for conducting lab scale study for this project in which molten LD slag is atomised under centrifugal forces on a spinning disc and the droplets generated are quenched and quickly solidified using air. Solid waste Generation and utilisation for iSPs (t) type of waste Generation % utilization BF slag 5,928,295 88.96 LD BOF slag 1,554,416 78.03 THF slag 130,741 3.86 BF Flue dust 171,986 82.33 BF Sludge 101,838 1.46 LD /BOF Sludge 108,940 31.22 Mill scale 277,134 97.63 Lime/Dolo Fines 210,515 100.00 Refractory Wastes 30,051 100.00 total 8,513,916 84.01 (G4-Dma (effluents & waste), G4-en23) 45 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 Solid waste Generation and utilisation from units for 2015-16 (t) CFP Generation utilization ViSl Generation utilization Fe Mn Slag 1,753 67,178 BF Slag (Granulated) 21,993 16,275 Si Mn Slag 51,244 17,808 Coke Breeze 3,018 2,544 Mn Ore Fines 8,912 16,415 BF Flue Dust 1,427 0 Coke Fines 3,314 5,005 BF Sludge 708 0 Quartz Fines 349 0 BOF Slag 6,311 0 Flux Fines 88 0 BOF Sludge 653 0 Iron Ore Fines 0 0 Iron Ore Fines 31,784 0 GCP Sludge 6,809 1,465 Refractory Waste 532 0 total 72,469 107,871 total 66,426 18,819 SSP Generation utilization aSP Generation utilization Neutralized Pickling Sludge 1,385 0 EAF/AOD Dust 174 145 Diatomaceous Earth 29 0 EAF Slag 2,353 0 Grinding Dust 444 444 ARS Metal Oxide Powder 532 25 Mill Scale 1,552 2,375 SGL Swarf 40 91 Refractory Bricks 469 333 Boiler Ash 1,539 0 total 4,992 3,297 Steel Shot Dust 568 1,793 Solid waste Generation from mines Mill Scale (HRM & APL) 4,759 5,931 bSP mines 2015-16 SMS Slag 42,615 0 Overburden & Subgrade Ore 11,174,977 EAF Dust 2,728 0 Tailings 852,722 AOD Dust 2,328 0 rmD mines Grinding Swarf & Dust 187 0 Overburden & Subgrade Ore 12,801,000 Torch Cutting Bag house Dust 53 0 Tailings 336,000 Caster Scale Pit 82 0 ViSl mines Waste from Scrap handling 4,371 0 Overburden & Subgrade Ore 23,000 total 61,216 7,840 total 25,187,699 The challenges associated with hazardous waste management have drawn due attention from management. Due to the disadvantageous potential of these wastes, environment friendly management of the same becomes essentially important to the Company. The Company has always been of the belief that suitable collection and disposal of hazardous waste is extremely important. Inventorisation and quantification of the hazardous wastes have been done at our Plants and the identified wastes are being handled and disposed as per the Hazardous Waste (Management, Handling and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016. SAIL Plants, Units and Mines have received authorization for the same. hazardous waste Generated at iSPs (t) for 2015-16 Plants Generation BSP 4,809 DSP 5,762 RSP 1,600 BSL 4,699 ISP 257 total 17,127 46 (G4-en23) Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 material manaGement It is certain that rapid economic growth has ushered an epoch of affluence and contributed to the enhanced living conditions for millions and has also increased the burden on already strained resources. We have ensured that we give key consideration to optimal utilization of raw materials and have accordingly enacted our policies and taken up initiatives for the same. This has resulted in reduced material consumption and better recycling of waste. The following details furnish a consumption pattern of raw materials at SAIL’s various plants, recycling of steel scrap and use of other wastes generated within the operational units. raw material Consumption (mt) in Sail for 2015-16 iron ore Coal Dolomite limestone 24.96 15.38 3.12 3.94 explosive Consumption (t) in Sail mines for 2015-16: 6,334 It is a well accepted fact that the future of steel industry will be shaped by the preparedness of the companies to reprocess the steel scrap. We, being well aware of this, have taken meaningful steps to guarantee maximum recycling of internal scrap. Complete recycling of the scrap generated within the operational units is done whereas other wastes are reused in the Sinter Plants, Blast Furnaces and Steel Melting Shops. Scrap utilization (t) in Sail iSPs for 2015-16 Scrap utilization bSP DSP rSP bSl iSP Scrap Used at BF Nil 101,802 Nil 75,410 Nil Scrap Used at SMS 833,674 230,200 260,509 359,444 92,589 iron ore excavation at meghahatuburu iron ore mine (G4-en1, G4-Dma (materials)) 47 47 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 our eFFortS For eColoGiCal reStoration We realize the importance of plantation in overall environmental management initiatives. It is an acknowledged fact that plants play a significant role in the eco system by functioning as a carbon sink. Over the years, vast afforestation programme has been executed in all of our Plants and Mines. The basis of deciding the species of plants chiefly depends on availability and commonness of local species, local soil characteristics and existing meteorological conditions. The green belt developed by afforestation adds not only to aesthetic environment but also helps in watershed management, soil protection, erosion control, developing windbreaks and landslide stabilization. None of our operations are in the vicinity of protected areas. There is no IUCN red list of national conservation species with habitats in the areas of operation. Our Plants and Units have taken up massive plantation programmes using scientific methods to extend already established green belts, parks, clean and green surroundings, tree lined avenues and townships. Realizing the importance of plantation in overall environment, till date close to 2 crore trees have been planted in our Plants and Mines locations with more than 4.6 lakh trees planted in the reporting year itself. Our afforestation programmes also have a focus on carbon sequestration. In collaboration with the Tropical Forest Research Institute (TFRI), Jabalpur, a project spanning more than 5 years, has been taken up at the Rourkela Steel Plant. Cumulative Plantation in Sail Plants & mines (nos. in lakhs) We have successfully executed a Sustainable Development Project on “Biodiversity Conservation & CO2 Sequestration at Bolani Ores Mines” over and above the stipulated legal requirements. This ecological restoration project, planned for three years, was initiated with the central objective of restoring ecosystem functions and services in the selected area, with a larger view of enhancing the sustainable livelihood of the local people. Ecological restoration of 75 acres of de-graded landscape was taken up through collaboration with the Delhi University and Ambedkar University, Delhi. During 2015-16, over 65,000 saplings and 5,000 seeds of different native tree species were planted. Also, more than 2,500 saplings of fruit yielding trees were planted to enrich the project site. Long term maintenance of ecologically restored 250 acres Lime Stone mined out area at Purnapani Lime Stone & Dolomite Quarry is a five year project towards sustainability of the restored ecosystems while providing ecological services and goods to the local communities. 48 48 (G4-Dma (biodiversity), G4-en11) Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 land area of mines (in ha) lease area land for mining waste Dump area waste dump rehabilitated RMD Mines 15,038.14 3,807.76 238.93 143.70 BSP Mines 6,608.01 1,192.50 271.10 160.20 VISL Mines 40.12 30.00 2.50 0 enVironment manaGement SyStem (emS) We have been a fore-runner in the establishment of the environment management system in the steel industry in the Country. We started implementation of EMS-ISO 14001 in the mid 90’s with Salem Steel Plant being the initial plant to get certified. Subsequently, our various units have been accredited to EMS, resulting in improvement in work zone ambience, reduction of noise, reduction of heat & dust exposure, control of stack and fugitive emissions, improvement in waste management and improved housekeeping. In addition to this, ISO 14001 accredited units have been able to lessen environmental liabilities, maximize the efficient use of resources, reduce wastes, build awareness of environmental concern among employees, improve environmental performance through more efficient operations and exhibit a superior corporate image. In addition to the Plants and Mines, our Warehouses under CMO have also been accredited to EMS-ISO: 14001 Standard. Sail units accredited to emS -iSo 14001 Plants/units Certification Status BSP Entire Plant & Township DSP Entire Plant RSP Silicon Steel Mill, Sinter Plant-II, Hot Strip Mill, Plate Mill, ERW Pipe Plant, SW Pipe Plant, Special Plate Plant, Environment Engineering Department and RSP Township BSL Entire Plant SSP Entire Plant & Township ASP Entire Plant VISL Entire Plant CFP Entire Plant CMO Warehouses at Faridabad, Dankuni, Kalamboli, Chennai, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Ghaziabad, Delhi, Durgapur and Vizag Transport and Shipping BTSO Vizag mineS Dalli Iron Ore Mine Entire Mine Kiruburu Iron Ore Mine Entire Mine Megatuburu Iron Ore Mine Entire Mine Bolani Ores Mines Entire Mine Kuteshwar Limestone Mine Entire Mine Barsua Iron Ore Mine Entire Mine (G4-en11) 49 49 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 50 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 Product stewardship 51 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 pRODUCT & SERVICES Change is the law of nature and we believe in continuously realigning/ re-engineering our strategies/Products/services to remain viable in market, keeping in line with increasing customer demands. As a customer centric organization, meeting the customer expectation is our utmost priority. In addition to our existing diverse product portfolio, we are continually developing special grades with new features such as earthquake resistant, light weight, corrosion resistant TMT rebars, etc. These innovations have helped several industries in India while facilitating safe and reliable infrastructure development Our RDCIS (Research and Development Centre for Iron and Steel) centre at Ranchi is the pioneer of the strategic product stewardship initiatives. The major task of RDCIS is to plan, demonstrate and implement multi-disciplinary innovative programmes in SAIL Plants to improve their key performance indices related to quality, productivity and yield. In collaboration with Steel Plants and Central Marketing Organization, RDCIS aims to reduce product cost, develop value added market centric products and demonstrate the application of SAIL products amongst the customers. In recent times, businesses and society are giving attention to the origins of the materials and products they specify and use and are in quest of assurances that sustainability principles and responsible sourcing have not only been addressed to but also taken care of in the supply chain. We have robust Quality and Environment policies which ensure production of safe and sustainable products. Our products comply with the quality norms of the Bureau of Indian Standards or with the specific customer requirement depending upon the application. We also have well-established systems and procedures to ensure compliance with requirements related to product labeling, marketing, communications and customer privacy. IMPROVEMENT & DEVELOPMENT OF PRODUCT We have laid down a ‘Master Plan for Research & Development’ in order to smoothly acquire and develop suitable technologies for sustainable growth. In alignment with the Plan, Centres of Excellence (CoEs) are being created at the individual plant level to focus on various product development and improvements in collaboration with key customers and technology suppliers. The plan identifies ‘demanding markets‘ for steel, such as steels for supercritical thermal and nuclear power generation, defence, renewable energy, high strength profiles for high rise buildings with seismic and fire resistance, as focus areas for product development. Our corporate R&D set-up is an umbrella organization, overseeing both centralized R&D and the plant-level CoEs. We have developed 24 new products required by the various sectors crucial for growth and development of the Indian economy like, construction, railways, defence, etc. Steel is also used for manufacturing of products such as vehicles wherein there are many opportunities available for reducing the weight. Recognizing this, the Company has channelled its research capabilities to come up with higher strength steel products which are light in nature, thus facilitating significant reduction in environmental impacts during their usage phase. We also continuously interact with our customers through customer feedback systems as inputs for product development with a view to improve customer satisfaction. PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING We believe in Quality and Transparency, the two key principles that we follow during delivery of our products. Our website which is available for common public contains all the details with respect to technical product information details on grade, size and application. We always try to strictly adhere to physical dimensions, chemical composition and technical delivery conditions for the associated specifications during production and dispatch of various products manufactured by us. Test certificates are also issued along with the deliveries to the customers for ease of identification of material and quality assurance. There was no reported incidence of non-compliance with respect to regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling. BRAND MANAGEMENT In today’s complex and challenging environment, managing brands is a strenuous task. Businesses get affected by heightened competition, regulations, supply chain issues and manufacturing costs, while requiring constant advocacy and reputation management. In order to manage internal and external factors across multiple locations, Company’s brand management practices need to be flexible, approachable, growth -oriented and persuasive. 52 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 The Corporate Affairs Division of SAIL is engaged in reputation/ corporate brand building of the Company while the product related branding is managed by the Central Marketing Organization of SAIL. Our dealers are the crucial points of dissemination of branding initiatives because of mass outreach and large volume of sales at their outlets. CuStomer SatiSFaCtion In the competitive background of the Indian Steel industry, it is vital for companies to focus their efforts on customer satisfaction, which is directly linked with the Company’s profits. We are a customer centric organization as we value our customers whose patronage has helped us to achieve a leading position in the market. Our Marketing division, the Central Marketing Organization (CMO), is responsible for reaching out to all the customers. It conducts a market survey annually and makes forecasts with respect to customer groups and market segments to be served by SAIL and communicates the same to the Plants. We have a well defined Key Account Management (KAM) for customer relationship management which captures the specific requirements of key clientele, and these requirements along with the customer feedback are reviewed monthly in the Plant-CMO meetings. The output of the Plant-CMO meetings and the customer orders help in finalization of the production schedule. We have established a Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI), for the feedback on customer satisfaction, which is collected every month from all the key customers through personally administered feedback forms that include various parameters related to quality, supply and service. Average CSI Index for both LP & FP Group as regards to five integrated SAIL Plants is around 95 % on a scale of 100%. In addition, CMO’s field set up as well as executives of different levels also hold direct Customer contacts. ensuring Customer Consciousness by achieving Customer Satisfaction Quality and customer satisfaction go along with the history of SAIL. Slab making in SMS-II of Rourkela Steel Plant is one such place which depicts the philosophy of customer orientation. Slabs from this Unit are being procured by Myanmar Economic Corporation (MEC) Steel Mill since 2013. MEC appreciated the impeccable quality of RSP’s product as the chemical properties of this product is exactly as per their specification and is of very high importance to MEC. MEC has been using the same in heavy structures like bridges. Sail tmt bars (G4-Dma (Product & Service labeling), G4-Pr5) 53 53 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 health & SaFety oF CuStomerS In order to offer the highest level of service to our customers, we develop and use best practices and procedures to achieve and maintain high standards of customer health and safety. Since steel products are generally environment-friendly and do not pose any health or safety hazard during their use, specific procedures for preserving customer health and safety during the use of its products are not required. However, material handling is a safety concern for the customers and accordingly use of safety appliances is mandated in the warehouses. There has been no incidence of non-compliance with respect to regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their lifecycle. All products conform to BIS Standards. CommuniCation anD meDia relationS Corporate communication activities for 2015-16 have been centred on strengthening the image of ‘Brand SAIL’ wherein our Company employed strategic tools of communication while reaching out to stakeholders. We participated in a number of high profile events and exhibitions during the year which included; Make in India Summit, Indo African Summit, Indian Maritime Summit, Railway Summit, IITF 2015, Steel Mart 2015, Bhopal Vigyan Mela, India Industrial Fair among others. These events generate business queries from India and abroad, which in future may lead to business opportunities for us. Corporate Communications activities in SAIL have always been proactive and worked towards structured image building exercises of SAIL. Our communication with the various target audience was strengthened through different channels by regularly informing our stakeholders about various initiatives through press releases, press meets, one-to-one interactions with media within India and internationally. Our Chief of Corporate Affairs is the official spokesperson of the Company who also keeps in regular touch with the media houses. Key highlights of our achievements throughout the year, such as, milestones for Company’s MEP, production and sales records, development of value added products, engaging our customers, etc. were some of the news items that generated positive coverage for the Company. Additionally, media features in national vernacular publications across India have helped in increasing the Company’s visibility among stakeholders. The prestigious events “Dedication to the Nation of the modernized & expanded Rourkela & IISCO Steel Plant” by Hon’ble PM have also accounted for tremendous media coverage for SAIL. We continue to attract attention and interest of international media such as Platts etc. Also, on a daily basis, the Corporate Communications department constantly monitors news regarding the steel industry to keep abreast of any latest developments in the steel sector. Sail at indo-afro Summit 54 54 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 Every year we identify several sponsorship initiatives of various important events to enhance the image of SAIL brand. These sponsorship initiatives continually strive for association of SAIL brand with worthwhile causes in the interest of national and social development. Advertisements released by the Company at Plants, Corporate office and Central Marketing Organization have a special focus on the organization’s product portfolio. These advertisements are released in leading publications with high readership and circulation. Similarly radio jingles by SAIL also have a way of connecting deeply with core target audiences both in the rural and urban areas. We print a number of collaterals for direct connect with stakeholders which include; SAIL Diary, SAIL Calendar, SAIL brochure, etc. Further, SAIL News – a theme based corporate magazine, features important activities of the organization with ‘SAIL employee’ being the focal point of each edition. ‘SAIL News’ plays a key role in building relationships between personnel and management with a lasting effect on employee motivation. We also regularly hold internal communication exercises in order to convey thoughts, long term vision & strategy and expectations’ of the top management to each and every employee present at various locations, down to the shop floor level. Face to face interactions, video conferences, in-house television programmes, newsletters, e-portal, intranet & web alerts are some of the internal communication tools that we regularly utilize to convey a message to our SAIL family. Our website is constantly revamped with a new layout and design with a new ‘order booking’ feature which is an innovative and interactive method of engaging with the end users. WE are actively engaging in digital & social media and efforts have been undertaken to strengthen the Company’s brand image through Facebook, Twitter, Flickr and Instagram. Other core initiatives of our Company during the year have been in line with various ongoing initiatives which include Swacch Bharat Abhiyan, Make in India, and Digital India. on – line PubliCation anD Data PriVaCy We understand our accountability to protect the information collected in the course of our business, from customers, employees, contractors, shareholders and other individuals, and we strive to uphold the confidentiality of such sensitive information. Our corporate policies on data privacy, confidentiality and security are designed to maintain the trust of the individual and organizations who share the information. The digital version of all PR publications has been initiated at all the units of SAIL. No incidents have been reported regarding non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship. We have not received any complaints regarding breach of customer privacy and loss of customer data. No fine has been imposed on us for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services during the year 2015-16. Sail at indo-afro Summit 55 55 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 SUPPLY CHAIN manaGement SAIL is a large family comprising not only the Iron and Steel Plants but also the forward linkages like suppliers and other important stakeholders. Our accomplishment on cleaner environment cannot thus be complete without the participation of our extended family members. The principal that we patronize calls for active participation of all those involved in the product lifecycle to share responsibility for maximizing the overall value and minimizing any negative impacts across commercial, social and environmental attributes that result from the production, use and disposal of the product. Our products have a long processing-cycle as also life-cycle, and these need to have an integrated programme of actions aimed at ensuring that all materials, processes, goods and services are managed throughout the life in a socially and environmentally responsible manner. We have always been conscious of our responsibility towards environmental conservation even outside our operational boundaries. Keeping in line with our commitment to Green Environment, we engage Railway transportation in our logistics; may it be reception of raw material at our facilities, or dispatch of finished goods to our godowns or the end customers. Considering the enormous amount of raw materials and finished products being handled as a result of our activities, we prefer transportation logistics through rail over roads. While on one hand this has improved operational efficiency resulting out of meticulous planning, on the other hand, rail transportation being environmental friendlier option has helped minimize the impact on environment. Depending up on the market demand, we also engage road transportations from our warehouses to customers’ sites. Necessary precautions are taken towards compliance of regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle and hence there has been no incidence of non-compliance during the year 2015-16. We have also taken care that our products do not have any adverse effect on the environment. StriVinG towarDS Zero eFFeCt on enVironment Steel, as a product does not adversely impact the environment during its use. However, SAIL has assessed its product, processes as well as associated services in this regard. In order to mitigate environmental impacts of services, certain measures have been taken and till now 10 no. of warehouses have been accredited with ISO 14001. Such measures include maintenance of proper road and hardstands, replacement of wooden railway sleepers with concrete sleepers, recycle/ reuse of used oil, afforestation drive, conversion of vacant plots into flower gardens, use of energy eﬃcient lightings, hygienic toilets, rain water harvesting mechanism, DG Sets with acoustic covers, etc. Further, we are also educating and propagating use of environment friendly and energy efficient processes to local SSI/ MSME vendors based around each plant. We have in place, a checking mechanism where all handling equipment are periodically maintained to ensure a healthy & safe environment within warehouses. Packaging materials are usually dispatched to customers along with consignments in packed condition. However, packing materials retrieved from finished products dispatched in loose conditions, are disposed-off sustainably from warehouses from time to time. No significant negative environmental impact is noticeable in supply chain except for pollution resulting from deployment of vehicular traffic like trucks & trailers in the warehouses. All vehicles are duly checked Chairman Sail visiting agra Stockyard for compliance with respect to pollution control. 56 Ensuring Safety & Health Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 Occupational health & Safety management Maintaining a Safe and Healthy work environment and prioritising safety of stakeholders is of utmost importance and a part of our belief. We monitor Safety & Health at the highest level of management i.e. Board/ Board Sub-Committee level and discuss all relevant issues as opening item in all apposite forums. We have a definite approach towards Occupational Health & Safety (OH&S) matters. SAIL has a well-laid Safety Policy and in alignment with this, our individual Plants are having their respective OH&S Policy. Well-established OH&S management programmes, in line with Company’s Safety Policy and the objectives, guide us in maintaining a safe and healthy work environment. Efficient operations also, through state-ofthe-art technology, ensure safety of people and processes. Due thrust is given to the safety matters during execution & commissioning of the new Projects; resulting in conclusive results in terms of improved safety performance. The intention of our Safety Policy is to provide a safe and conducive work environment to all our employees engaged in the steelmaking as well as mining processes including regular and contractual employees employed within our premises as well as society at large. In order to widen awareness and inculcate safe working practices, various initiatives and drives are undertaken at regular intervals. Involvement of top management, trade union representatives & employees is demonstrated through active participation in the bi-partite forums like Central/ Apex Safety Committees, Departmental Safety Committees, etc. Meetings of these committees are convened on regular basis wherein all the issues pertaining to health and safety are discussed in a collaborative manner for consistent enhancement of the OH&S Standards. These Committees help in monitoring & re-assessing of promotional activities undertaken and are associated in the effective implementation of Occupational Health and Safety programmes. Joint Committee on Safety, Health & Environment in the Steel Industry (JCSSI), a unique bipartite forum at national level having representation from key central trade unions and management of main steel producers of the Country, jointly develop recommendations/ action plans for ensuring safe & healthy work culture. This gets substantiated from the harmonious industrial relations enjoyed over the years by our Plants, with varied work culture at multi-locations. Annual meetings of the Committee and award functions are organized at Ranchi as well as at member plant locations. In the recent years, renewed thrust has been laid on learning of best practices of steel producers as well as academia by way of organising National & International Seminars. Some of the functions of JCSSI include: analysis of causes of accidents and sharing views on remedial measures, scrutinize major issues on Safety, Occupational Health & Environmental pollution, spreading awareness among Committee members through sharing of best practices, support and encourage workers participation in Safety, Health & Environment and print & publish information material like booklets, manuals, films, etc. on Safety, Health & Environment. At SAIL, noteworthy progress has been achieved in the Standards of Safety and Occupational Health at workplace by establishing systems, procedures & improved work practices. We ensure whole-hearted involvement of management as well as workers for effective health & safety drives / campaigns. We do consider views of bi-partite forums for revising the Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment (HIRA) documents and Occupational Health and Safety Policy of ours. For ensuring a Safe & Healthy work environment, both Management and Workers’ Representatives reiterate their commitment to extend and implement the best standards for Safety, Occupational Health and Environment protection and maintain specified Standards of OHSAS 18001, ISO 9001 & ISO 14001. We have also signed an MoU with National Safety Council, Mumbai for mutual collaboration in the area of Safety Audits, Training, etc. We emphasise upon adherence to Safe Commissioning Procedures for our new and upcoming facilities, identification of every type of hazards & assessment and control of work related risks for implementation of proactive strategies, absolute adherence to accurately developed protocols and SOPs/ SMPs/ SWPs, organising training on Fatality Risk Control and Behavioural Based Study for curtailing risk. 58 (G4-DMA (Occupational Health & Safety)) Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 SAFETY AUDITS CONDUCTED DURING 2015-16 Safety Audits were conducted by SAIL Safety Organisation (SSO) in BSP (Oxygen Plant-II, COB # 1-11, WMD); DSP (Section Mill, Power Plant, BOF & CCP); BSL (Hot Strip Mill, Traffic Deptt., HRCF, RMHP, OHP); ISP, Burnpur (OHP, USM); ASP (Forge shop, Plate Mill & HTF); CMO (Kanpur Warehouse & Fire Safety Audit of Ispat Bhawan, Kolkata). OUR SAFETY SETUP Our SSO coordinates and monitors the operational and fire safety activities at the corporate level whereas in each of our Plant/ Unit, full-fledged Safety Engineering Department (SED) with infrastructural resources functions to ensure operational safety & fire prevention related aspects. Respective SEDs carry out awareness generation drives and campaigns in their Plant/ Unit at regular intervals. Adherence to laid down Standards & Safe Working Procedures are ensured by Departmental Safety Officer & Safety Steward/ Captain in each department/ shop of the Plant/ Unit. OUR COMMITMENT We are committed towards preventing occurrence of accident in our operations. Safety performance is regularly being monitored at the highest level of management i.e. Board, Chairman and Directors’ level as well as by the Chief Executives of respective Plants & Units. Also, we have a Board Sub-Committee (BSC) on Health, Safety and Environment that guides the efforts of the Company towards achieving a safe and healthy environment. OUR SYSTEMS AND PROCEDURES SOPs, SMPs & WIs, serve as vital guiding documents and ensure that necessary technological discipline and statutory rules & regulations are duly adhered to. Inter Plant Standards in Steel Industry (IPSS) have been developed in the area of Safety with the aim of standardising various procedures required to ensure safe working. With changing requirements, these documents are reviewed and updated accordingly. These documents are uploaded on respective Plants’ web-portals and can be easily accessed and referred by any employee, when needed. We do follow systems like Permit to Work and Protocol incorporating safety provisions during execution of hazardous & critical jobs involving multiple agencies and ensure their strict adherence. Extra precaution is duly taken through safety surveillance & intensive monitoring for ensuring safe completion of all major capital repairs/ shut down jobs. IT based systems & tools are increasingly used for various purposes such as information dissemination on Safety & Health, maintaining important records, logging & analysis of accidents, submitting safety suggestions, etc. WORKER’S INVOLVEMENT IN SAFETY MANAGEMENT Our Health and Safety Committees, having joint representation of management & workers, facilitate to maintain a sustainable health and safety culture. 100% employees are covered by the formal joint management-worker Health and Safety Committees at Plant/ Units and are duly engaged on Health & Safety issues. These committees are normally called for meeting once a month in all departments. In these meetings, the issues related to health & safety, safe working environment, welfare, security of Plant, etc. are discussed in detail. Before deployment of the contractual workers, compulsory safety and work environment related training is duly provided to each worker. Mass Employee involvement initiatives are being undertaken to ensure each individual employee’s engagement for enhancing safety culture and achieving ‘zero accident’ in his respective workplace, department and organisation as a whole. SAFETY TRAINING & EDUCATION An effective safety strategy has ‘awareness’ and ‘capacity building’ as two critical components. We organise continuous education, training, counselling, prevention and risk-control programmes for our workforce, their families and people residing in neighbourhoods to equip them with requisite acquaintance & skills. A variety of training programmes/ workshops are organised for awareness of all concerned regarding first aid, occupational hygiene, health, stress management, preventive care for occupational diseases, awareness on HIV/ AIDS, etc. For effective learning ‘Learning from Each Other’ workshops are organised for different work zones/ areas such as Iron & Steel, Rolling Mills, Maintenance Services, etc. The employees are imparted with job specific safety training on regular basis. TV networks at Plant townships also play an important role by broadcasting safety related information on regular basis. The personnel from Central Industrial Security (G4-DMA (Occupational Health & Safety), G4-LA5) 59 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 Safety mock Drills Force (CISF), deployed for ensuring security in and around the Plants, are also imparted training on safety. Occupational health and safety related training is also provided to the other security staff. All CISF personnel are trained on Human Rights aspects at their individual training camps as per standard training procedure of Government of India for security personnel. With meaningful efforts, we have developed safe & healthy working environment for all of our employees and those living in the neighbourhood of our installations. our Salient GooD SaFety aCtiVitieS • For the first time, an International Seminar on Safety, Health & Environment in the Steel Industry (ISSHR2015) with the theme ‘Quest for Excellence’ organised at Ranchi which was attended by 200 delegates from 40 organisations & 30 technical papers were presented. ISSHR2015 was inaugurated by Hon’ble Governor of Jharkhand; Director (Safety, Technology & Environment), World Steel Association was the keynote speaker • Special training programmes held on ‘HAZOP’, ‘Safety Audit’, ‘Process Safety Management’, Chemical Safety’, etc. and thrust laid on framing new Standards & revising existing Standards under IPSS 1:11 • JCSSI’s website www.jcssi.com designed & developed with in-house resources • Special ‘On-the-job’ training programmes are being conducted for contractual workmen & their supervisors at site before starting of jobs and necessary do’s & don’ts explained • Frequency of mock drills increased for different type of emergencies • Mock drill organised on chemical industrial disaster with BSP, CISF & NDRF • Tableau based on the Safety theme displayed at BSP and BSL during the Republic Day Parade – 2016 • Safety Week campaign organised in various departments across SAIL Plants and Mines 60 (G4-Dma (occupational health & Safety)) Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 • Safety Management programmes for Front-line Executives & Safety Enhancement programmes organized for NonExecutives • New Online Reporting System launched at DSP for ‘Near Miss Reporting’ & ‘Safety Suggestion’ • ‘Safety Protocol’ is being strictly followed in all critical jobs • Safety messages are being delivered at entry/ exit gates during shift change and also at different sites through PA system to create awareness among employees • Disaster Management Plan, On-Site Emergency Plan prepared and Safety & Health policy updated by SED at ISP, Burnpur • Double Earthing of all man-coolers & welding machines and use of rubber mat in front of electrical panels • Wipers, AV alarms, horns, fog lights & sunglasses maintained properly during monsoons in dumpers plying in Mines • Use of CCTV cameras • Radium tape fixed on trees/ pillars on both sides of haul road as well as approach road in Mines area • Emphasis on 100 % usage of PPEs at all locations • Fire-fighting training programme with the help of fire brigade • Various safety awareness programmes conducted throughout the year across SAIL Plants and Mines • SOPs developed for ‘working at height’ and painting jobs • ‘Radar based Oven Identification & Machine Interlocking System’ implemented in CO Battery 6 at RSP to avoid wrong oven pushing • ISP achieved ‘Zero Fatality’ in the calendar year • Permanent water sprinkler installed in main haul road in mines • Daily inspection of Heavy Earth Moving Machineries (HEMM) being done, records maintained, all Safety features of the dumpers, excavators, drills & dozers provided and maintained in order and checklists of safety devices being maintained separately at various Mines of SAIL • Roko-Toko drives conducted in every month to discourage persons riding on tippers, etc. inside mining area • Safety Audit of all seven mines of Bhilai Group of Mines was conducted by National Safety Council (India) Director (Safety, technology & environment), wSa delivering keynote address at ranchi 61 61 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 our oCCuPational health manaGement We have set standards in the area of OHS and have established full-fledged OHS centres with modern healthcare equipment at all our Plants & Mines. We cover our entire workforce under OHS programmes through OHS centres which are working tirelessly towards improving workers’ health. Our Bhilai Steel Plant’s multi-disciplinary, multi-dimensional OHS centre has emerged as the National OHS Centre (NOHSC) for SAIL and functions as a Central Nodal Agency to monitor Occupational Health activities in different SAIL Units. Health Information System (HIS) is successfully utilized as a vital tool which includes organized collection, compilation, analysis, retrieval and dissemination of necessary information. An integrated approach is adopted to provide comprehensive health care, preventive, curative, promotive and rehabilitative health services and to create a conducive work environment in conformity with the requirements of OHSAS 18001 & SA 8000 certifications. We promote awareness on health issues up to the grass root level including contractual workforce by celebrating Special Days like World Health Day, Occupational Health Day, Doctors’ Day, AIDS Awareness Day, World TB Day, Diabetes Day, World Kidney Day, World Malaria Day, International Women’s Day, etc. Focused programmes are also organised for our regular and contracted female employees. our inFraStruCture & FaCilitieS Preventive: Occupational Medicine Clinic, Periodical Medical Examination, Industrial Hygiene Survey, Computerized Health Information System (HIS). Promotive: Awareness programmes, Training on Industrial Hygiene and First Aid, Stress Management, AIDS Control, Life Style Diseases, Special programmes for working women, Celebration of Special Days. Curative: General OPD, Pharmacy, Plant Casualty services with Disaster Management facilities. Round-the-clock Ambulance services, Eye wash Fountains, Minor OT. Rehabilitative: Disability assessment following any work injury through Disability Medical Board, redressal of complaint cases from work places / deptts., job rotation based on deviation found in PME & recommendations of DMB being implemented by redeployment Committee, documenting follow up & feedback. Facilities: Lung Function Test, Biochemical Investigation, Clinical Pathology, Digital X-Ray, Vision Test, Health Education & Training, OHS Library, ECG, Psychology, Health Information System, Audiometry, etc. Salient aCtiVitieS unDertaken by our ohS CentreS • OHS activities being communicated to employees through Upgraded NOHSC website • Active participation by OHS Personnel team in activities like First Aid demonstration, Mock Drills, Gas Safety, Stress Management, Medical Boards Rehabilitative, Disability, Job Rotation, Emergency, long unfit, Job Assessment review, etc. for pre-employment purpose • Medical and employee health related programmes like Periodical Medical Examination, Pre-Employment Medical Examination, Pre-Retirement Medical Examination, Employee Wellness Programme & Vision Conservation Programmes, Tests on Audiometry, Pulmonary function, ECG, Chest X-ray conducted for all employees • Maintenance of occupational hygiene at workplace for Dust, Noise, Heat, Radiation, Humidity, Illumination, etc. • Detailed estimation of Urine phenol & pathological tests for the employees of Benzol Rectification & Recovery Plant • Activities related to Work Physiology covering Pulmonary Function Test, ECG, Energy Expenditure Study, Maximum Oxygen uptake • Programmes related to Industrial Psychology covering test for Personality, Stress Assessment, identification & counselling of stressed persons and their follow up on regular basis 62 62 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 • To combat gas exposure, OHS centre equipped with multi-channel oxygen facility for oxygen therapy • Workshop / Health education Programmes on Diabetes Mellitus, Work place hazards & prevention, Stress Management, Modular First Aid, Hypertension, Cancer, AIDS Awareness, Occupational Health Hazard Disease & prevention, safe physical work environment, Hygiene, Life Style Diseases, Women’s Health, Chemical Burn and other Burn injury management, Food & Personal Hygiene, Aging gracefully, etc. conducted successfully at most of the OHS centres • Peripheral activities like AIDS awareness Programmes and Heath awareness programme for Food Handlers Respective departments were communicated the given recommendations on control measures based on various surveys, data analysis, hazard quantification and accordingly follow up was done for its compliance. CaSe StuDy • At BSP, installation of Dust Extraction system in Sand Mixing machine # 2 of F&P Shop has reduced dust level from 5.8 mg/m3 to 2.6 mg/m3, installation of Steam trap in THF-2 KLB Row of SMS-I has helped to reduced noise exposure from 94 dB to 85 dB and SO2 concentration reduced from 4 PPM to 0.8 PPM by arresting leakages from super heater bypass valve of DCDA section, CCD deptt. • At RSP, 25-bed Disaster Management unit named ‘Dhanvantri’ & renovated laboratory units were made available in OHS Centre. In addition, new state-of-the art equipment like Pulse CO Oxymeter (non-invasive), Digital Alcohol Breath Analyzer, Defibrillator, Audiometer, Heat Stress monitor were procured. Safety Statistics (Plants and mines) year injury rate (per 200,000 hours worked) year mandays lost 2013 0.086 2013 4,057 2014 0.091 2014 5,403 2015 0.058 2015 4,576 *Excluding Mandays lost on account of fatal accidents accidents by Category (nos.) accidents by type (nos.) year regular Contractor total year Fatal reportable nonemployees worker reportable 2013 111 71 182 2013 28 75 79 2014 105 84 189 2014 26 89 74 2015 59 57 116 2015 20 53 43 total nos. of Safety training imparted year total nos. trained 2013 256,739 2014 205,629 2015 174,543 63 63 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 64 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 HUMAN RESOURCE manaGement 65 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 OUR human CaPital Foundation and success of any great organization depends on its committed, competent, loyal, dedicated Human resource. SAIL being no exception, proudly dedicate its success, growth to its loyal, skilled workforce and consistently provide conducive work environment to human capital for its incessant growth. Philosophy of mutual trust and group cohesiveness is shared by all at SAIL and is reflected and executed in management and various policies from top to down across the organization. A trained and skilled workforce is a valuable asset to any organization. Skill enhancement and competency development programmes have been organized on regular basis for its entire workforce. Connecting the local community for their social enrichment has always been our guiding principle. SAIL is a firm believer in providing equal employment opportunities to every section of the society, refraining from any gender biasness too. We have a proper recruitment process in place where fair and transparent system is adopted. Inclusion of local people in various kinds of jobs is taken care by the regular recruitment process. Be it a robust Performance Management System or Reward & Recognition Process or Labour Welfare across all the Plants, SAIL’s focus has always been to give equal and uniform benefits to its workforce. It is visibly reflected through our competitive compensation Policies or adherence to Minimum wage requirement as per the various states. The ratio of entry level wage to minimum wage for BSP is 3.53, for BSL the figure is 3.26, for RSP it is 3.61 and for DSP & ISP the ratio is 3.0. All Plants, Mines and other operations of SAIL of which employee break-up is reported are located in India. By the end of year 2015-16, the total number of employees in all the Plants, Units and Mines of SAIL across India was 88655. The ratio of employees in the gender category (female/male) is around 6:94. The percentage of employees in minority groups is around 8.58 %. Closing manpower 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Gender Profile 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Executive 14,780 14,648 13,968 Male 92,285 87,931 83,499 Non-Executive 83,117 78,704 74,687 Female 5,612 5,421 5,156 total 97,897 93,352 88,655 total 97,897 93,352 88,655 age Profile 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 minority representation male Female total <30 8,710 9,657 9,834 Total Minority Employees 6799 805 7604 30-50 46,992 43,709 41,324 Total Employees 83499 5156 88655 >50 42,195 39,986 37,497 % 8.14 15.6 8.58 Contractual workers 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Nos. 95,829 69,961 56,055 region-wise Gender-wise Closing manpower Plant/unit male Female total BSP 24421 1216 25637 DSP 9970 604 10574 RSP 15364 1094 16458 BSL 14379 853 15232 ISP 7663 443 8106 ASP 1018 54 1072 SSP 1161 65 1226 VISL 507 53 560 CFP 481 11 492 66 (G4-9, G4-10, G4-Dma (market Presence), G4-eC5) Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 Plant/unit male Female total SRU 911 93 1004 RMD 3601 174 3775 COLLIERIES 1399 73 1472 RDCIS 421 25 446 CET 250 16 266 CMO 1270 244 1514 SSO 13 0 13 CORPORATE OFFICE 435 120 555 CCSO 123 3 126 MTI 60 7 67 GD/SWG 29 1 30 EMD 23 7 30 Sail [total] 83499 5156 88655 SC St obC 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Total 15,615 14,356 14,448 13,484 12,089 12,580 10,656 10,447 10,768 enSurinG amiable work PlaCe Our HR policy gives utmost importance to innovation, involvement and creative work culture for all human resources. We believe in providing equal employment opportunities at work place irrespective of gender, caste, religion or marital status. Every modification no matter how small it is, if its related to our employee, we always believe in taking into loop representatives of employees well in advance. PartiCiPatiVe work Culture We perceive collective bargaining as a healthy practice for maintaining the participative culture in the organization; hence it has become an integral part of an overall governance framework that contributes to responsible management. All employees of SAIL are covered by collective bargaining agreements. For carrying out collective bargaining for nonexecutive employees, National Joint Committee for Steel Industry (NJCS) is a unique bipartite forum which consists of workers representatives from major Central Trade Union Organizations, representatives from recognized unions of SAIL Steel Plants and RINL and management representatives of SAIL Steel Plants and RINL. Recognized unions for non-executive employees exist in all Plants/Units. The Steel Executives’ Federation of India (SEFI) the apex body representing the executives in SAIL, carries out the collective bargaining in case of Executives. Our Company has a peaceful industrial relation ambience with trade unions/workers’ representatives which is enabled by a healthy practice of sorting out and settling issues through participative discussions. Bipartite forums like National Joint Committee for Steel Industry (NJCS), Joint Committee on Safety, Health & Environment in Steel Industry (JCSSI), etc. with representation from major central trade unions as well as representative Unions of Plants/Units meet periodically and jointly evolve recommendations / action plans for ensuring a safe & harmonious work culture. hr SyStem anD ProCeSSeS No company can deny the importance of monetary and non-monetary benefits to its work force. At SAIL, Workers’ participation at different levels, right from National level up to shop-floor level, is ensured through an established system. National Joint Committee for the Steel Industry (NJCS), which is a bipartite forum comprising of members representing both the employers as well as employees, decides wages and benefits of non-executive employees. All regular non-executive employees are covered under the purview of this collective bargaining body. Fair dealing & compliance on labour issues are ensured by the designated Labour Welfare Officers of the respective Plant/Unit/Mines. (G4-Dma (labour management relations), G4-la4) 67 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 There is no discrimination towards any section/category of employees and this is ensured by the Personnel department which regularly monitors fairness in activities and services. We also ensure Freedom of Association, as enshrined under the Constitution of India and envisaged in the Trade Union Act in addition to the Right to exercise the Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining in all our operations. We robustly support protection of Fundamental Rights described in the Constitution of India. We have always tried to protect the human rights of our employees and hence there was no recorded case during the reporting year on any violation of human rights. We also take care of the succession planning and career development aspect of our employees. Regular performance and career development reviews are done for all the employees. We have a structured system for communication with employees on a wide range of issues impacting the Company’s performance as well as those related to employee’s welfare. CEO / Senior level officers’ under mass communication campaigns carryout detailed discussion with large group of employees which is the best example of employee communication and engagement. These sessions help employees to align their working with the goals and objective of the Company leading to enhanced productivity and sense of belongingness to the Company. We have a proper exit policy in our Company where employee has to serve 3 month notice period after putting in the resignation. We also feel that quality of work life is very essential for maintaining harmony at workplace and outside; hence we have formulated appropriate leave policies for our employees. All our regular employees enjoy benefits like Health care, Disability / Invalidity coverage, Maternity Leave, Retirement Benefits, etc. We also provide maternity leave up to 180 days and 730 days child care leave to women employees. Workman engaged by the Contractors in establishments of SAIL, are covered under the ESI Benefits. As a responsible corporate, we have also been providing various social benefits to our employees in the form of housing, education, civic amenities, sports & recreation and social welfare. We have developed full-fledged townships over the years at all our Plant locations with the modern infrastructural facilities along with premier schools, super specialty hospitals, shopping malls, multiplexes, parks, gymnasium, stadiums, etc. Through implementation of SA 8000, we communicate aspects of human rights to all our vendors & suppliers. We also conduct training & awareness workshops for employees on different aspects of SA 8000 pertaining to child labour, forced labour, non-discrimination, freedom of association, safe work environment and health & safety. The SA 8000 clause on child labour that includes employment of persons of age 18 and above as a precondition to partnering with SAIL, and that, in the event of any kind of violation by vendors within or outside the Company premises, liabilities for the education of the child until the completion of high school accrue to the defaulting party. We communicate this aspect to all our vendors and suppliers during engagement with them. We avail the inclusive support and services of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) for ensuring security in and around our Plants and Mines. Training on aspects of safety and human rights is duly provided to CISF personnel. GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL MECHANISM Our Plants/Units are maintaining 3 stage grievance handling system and employees are given an opportunity at every stage to raise grievances relating to wage matters, working conditions, leave, work assignments and welfare amenities, etc. Majority of grievances are redressed informally in view of the participative nature of environment existing in the Plants/ Units. The system is comprehensive, simple and flexible and has proved effective in promoting harmonious relationship between employees and management. There are no known cases of discrimination as well as any violations of human rights in SAIL. WELL BEING OF OUR EMPLOYEES It has always been an endeavour of SAIL to make consistent efforts towards the holistic health of our employees and this approach is reflected through our well defined medical polices, available to all workforce even post retirement. We consider our employees as part of one extended family and support them during service as well as after superannuation. 68 (G4-11, G4-LA4) Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 Satisfied workforce ProViDent FunD, Gratuity & emPloyee PenSion SCheme The total contribution made by the Company to SAIL Gratuity Trust up to 31st March 2016 was ` 3,349.09 crore. The fund size has grown to ` 5,494.67 crore as on 31st March 2016, net of settlement done towards payment of Gratuity. The gratuity liabilities of the employees are valued by a professional Actuary at the end of each Financial Year and based on the actuarial valuation, the contribution to the Gratuity Trust is made. The PF and Employee Pension is being paid as per the statutory requirement. meDiCal FaCilitieS to SerVinG emPloyeeS Taking care of its employee at the time of need is the duty of every conscious corporate citizen and SAIL truly being a conscious corporate, believes in providing world class medical facility to all its manpower along with their entitled dependent family members. The Health Policy of SAIL states that: “SAIL, the largest steel producer of India, in its endeavour to maintain a healthy workforce shall focus on promoting and maintaining the health of its employees by providing them a conducive and healthy environment to work, and an efficient and advanced health care system with a balance of preventive, promotive and curative measures.” We are maintaining a huge medical setup comprising of 18 multi-specialty Hospitals and more than 33 Primary Health Centres, located across our Plants / units. For treatment not available at SAIL hospitals, the employees (& their dependants) are referred to hospitals located pan-India as per rules and requirement. For the city based employees and their dependents, where we do not have our own hospital, employees are provided comprehensive medical facilities in empanelled hospitals. The facility of reimbursement of medical expenditure is also permissible for expenses incurred in non-empanelled setups as per rules & approved provisions. Total medical expenditure incurred during FY 2015-16 was around ` 590 crores. 69 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 yoga Day Celebration meDiCal FaCilitieS to retireD emPloyeeS We can be seen as a role model company for providing medical benefits and health care, for all employees and their spouses even after their superannuation. We provide medical facilities to our ex-employees & their spouses at our Plant Hospitals at par with serving employees, free of cost. In addition, we have also been operating a Mediclaim Scheme for our retired employees and their spouses since 1991. The premium applicable to the said scheme is highly subsidized by the Company. We are proud to say that SAIL Mediclaim Scheme is amongst the largest group Mediclaim Schemes in India and at present it covers around 1.17 lakh members located pan-India. liFe CoVer SCheme SAIL is operating a Life Cover Scheme (LCS) in lieu of statutory scheme called Employees Deposit Linked Insurance (EDLI) Scheme, 1976. The monetary benefits under LCS are given to the nominee of the PF member in case of death of PF member while in service. Additionally SAIL is also extending the benefit to those who suffering from Permanent Total Disablement (PTD) on and above provision of EDLI. emPloyee Family beneFit SCheme This scheme is widely appreciated not only within the Organization but also outside. As an employee centric organization we do believe in taking care of our employees at the time of distress. According to this scheme, in cases of death of an employee while in service or on account of Permanent Total Disablement, an amount equal to his last drawn Basic Pay + DA is paid to his/her nominee or the employee (as the case maybe), on monthly basis till his notional date of superannuation. Benefits are extended if the nominee/employee deposits an amount equivalent to his/her PF and Gratuity amount with the Company. This amount is returned back to nominee/employee after attainment of notional date of superannuation. Sail emPloyeeS SuPerannuation beneFit FunD (SeSbF) Our Employees Superannuation Benefit Fund also exhibits our commitment towards our employees even after their retirement. SAIL employees are contributing @ 2% of their Basic Pay plus DA towards SAIL Employees Superannuation Benefit Fund (SESBF). The SESBF Fund is managed by a Trust representing Unions, SEFI and Management. 70 SHAPING human CaPital Satisfied workforce Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 OUR human CaPital We take great pride in our human resource capital which is constantly developed by way of training at our facilities and knowledge sharing, as also motivating the workforce by linking their growth in the Company with their performance. This mechanism keeps them constantly challenged to update their knowledge and chase excellence. We have a robust method of systematic and thorough analysis across the organization to assess current levels of skill and competence of the employees in various positions vis-à-vis the required skills for higher performance. The work profiles of all the roles are analyzed and gap between the job requirements and employee skills are identified for development of training programmes. We have also developed customized programmes that target specific workgroups and skill sets that have helped in delivering effective training to all SAIL employees. Our training programmes are oriented towards strengthening the organization’s capabilities to excel in every field and to achieve and maintain market leadership. Our HR Policy is based on the business thrust areas in tune with our Vision Statement. In order to maintain excellence in our work-force, we follow a policy of providing training to add to the knowledge of every employee at least once in three years. Based on this, Annual Training Plan (ATP) is formulated for each Plant/Unit under the following major categories: • New Entrants • Competence Enhancement • Specific Areas and • Other Areas We conduct an annual Training Need Assessment (TNA) in case of executives through online Executive Performance Management System (EPMS). Our executives fill up the required technical and managerial training in order to fulfill their KPAs as per their job profiles. These needs are reviewed by the management and training need of each executive is identified. All these needs from multiple sources are compiled and analyzed, and this analysis is used for preparing ATP and earmarking executives for different training programmes. A training coordinator is made responsible for each department, imparting training in various areas along with the identified trainers. training hours breakup for the year 2015-16 average hour of training (2015-16) executive (hrs) non-executive (hrs) total (hrs) external training 117,160 37,808 154,968 Foreign training 8,216 2,632 10,848 Specific areas 92,984 722,048 815,032 managerial Competence enhancement 588,328 318,392 906,720 technical Competence enhancement 245,288 1,304,128 1,549,416 new entrants 499,672 3,924,272 4,423,944 other areas 53,768 2,340,480 2,394,248 on-site training 72 72 (G4-Dma (training & education), G4-la10) Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 Crafting Professionals The training needs of non-executive employees are ascertained by line managers at the shop floor with the help of Training Engineers. This assessment is done through: • Measurement of Competency Gaps • Requirement for Multi-skill training, and • Skill-Gap Analysis Based on the training needs, we conduct appropriate training programmes to bridge competence gap of these employees. Training to “Management Trainees” (MTs) involves a system of mentoring which helps in building a confidence leading to individual growth necessary for MTs to deliver managerial excellence in their field of operations. Special Performance Improvement Workshops (PIWs) are planned every year mostly for the non-executive employees of the respective shops. The workshops involve root cause analysis, brain storming and building an action plan regarding issues like production and productivity, cost reduction, maintenance, housekeeping and safety. As per the policy in vogue, at least one-third employees are trained every year at various locations. We also publish various technical and managerial journals which are accessible to every employee. Our training programmes are designed so as to provide lifelong learnings and skill development, supporting our employees during and after their services. Apart from these, we also organize specialized technical training and vocational training programme for college students every year. Performance indicator 2015-16 Percentage of employee trained 36.0% Training man-hours per employee 109.6 No of employees trained 33,563 (G4-Dma (training & education), G4-la10) 73 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 74 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 OUR SOCIAL reSPonSibility 75 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 OUR CSr aPProaCh At SAIL, our vow towards populace cogitates from our credo “to make a meaningful difference in people’s lives”. Our social conscientiousness principles guide us to carry out business in ways that deliver social, environmental and economic benefits to the communities in which we are operating. Our CSR initiatives with immense outreach have enabled numerous small rural neighbourhoods translate into large industrial centres. We ensure 100% engagement with local communities in our CSR programmes focussing on their holistic development. We are dedicated to steadfastly improve our social responsibilities, environment and economic practices to make positive impact on the society. We undertake CSR activities as per SAIL CSR Policy, framed in compliance with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013. Our CSR activities are carried out in and around our steel townships, mines and far flung locations across the Country in the thrust areas of education, medical and health care facilities, rural development, access to drinking water and sanitation amenities, infrastructural development in peripheral rural areas, promotion of sports, art, culture & heritage conservation, environment sustainability, women empowerment, support to Divyangs (people with special abilities), skills and sustainable income generation through Self Help Groups, etc. Various Social Challenges associated with our operations and their mitigation strategies adopted by us are listed below: SoCial ChallenGeS • Maintaining Plant/Units/Mines activities in mitiGation StrateGieS synchronization with society • Suitable need assessment and community • Maintaining ethical dealings across supply engagement programmes chain • Adherence to ethical business traditions • Talent retention and employee motivation • Focus on carrier growth • Outreach and relevance of development programmes in villages • Investing on community and its development with focus on social up-liftment CSr initiatiVeS Some of the noteworthy activities undertaken in various fields during the year 2015-16 are: healthcare Our widespread & specialised Healthcare Infrastructure provides specialized and basic healthcare for people living in the vicinity of our Plants/Units. On fixed days of the month, regular health camps in various villages are organised so as to deliver good quality healthcare at the doorsteps of the deprived living in the periphery of Plants/Units, Mines & far-flung Free medical Service 76 76 (G4-Dma (local Communities), G4-So1) Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 Provision of mid-day meals through akShya Patra areas. During the year 2015-16, more than 3,800 Health Camps have been organized benefitting over 97,000 villagers. Our 24 exclusive Health Centres at Plants are providing free medical care and medicines to around 100,000 poor and needy beneficiaries annually. During the year, more than 1.32 lakh rural people have availed free healthcare at these Health Centers. To cater the poor and downtrodden residing in extremely remote areas, 36 Mobile Medical Units running in the Plant’s peripheries have benefitted around one lakh villagers at their doorsteps. education For development of society through education, we are supporting over 145 schools in the steel townships to provide modern education to more than 55,000 children and are assisting over 636 Government schools in Bhilai and Rourkela with about 75,000 students by providing Mid-day meals in association with Akshya Patra Foundation. 3,600 BPL category students are availing facilities of free education, mid-day meals, uniform including shoes, text books, stationery items, school bag, water bottles and transportation in some cases by our 21 Special Schools (Kalyan & Mukul Vidyalayas). We are also providing free education, accommodation, meals & uniforms, textbooks, etc. at Saranda Suvan Chhatravas, Kiriburu; RTC Residential Public School, Manoharpur; Gyanodaya Chhatravas, BSP School Rajhara, Bhilai; Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences, Bhubaneswar; Gyan Jyoti Yojna, Bokaro, etc. to 335 number of Tribal children. We award scholarships to over 2100 school students each year. CaSe StuDy Our Bokaro Steel Plant has introduced “Gyan Jyoti Yojana” scheme for provision of education and holistic development for the children of Birhor tribe, a tribe which is at the verge of extinction. 15 Birhor children were adopted by us and provided with free education along with boarding, lodging, nourishing and wholesome food, clothing, free medical treatment, sports and cultural opportunities in a conducive atmosphere. They are the first Matriculates and 12th pass from their community. Inspired from their achievements, another batch of 15 new Birhor children have been adopted, who are all set to begin their life in new surroundings. We have sponsored 9 Matriculate Birhor Boys under Gyan Jyoti Yojana for ITI training in ”Welder trade” with stipend of ` 2,500/each , accommodation and meals at Bokaro Pvt ITI. 77 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 encouraging Self-help Groups Sustainable income Generation & women empowerment Benefits of sustainable income generation were availed by 2,732 rural youths & women folks in 2015-16, through our training programmes in skills and trades such as Nursing, Physiotherapy, LMV Driving, Computers, Mobile repairing, Welder, Fitter & Electrician, Improved agriculture techniques, Mushroom cultivation, Goatery, Poultry, Fishery, Piggery, Achar/Papad/ Agarbatti/Candle making, Screen printing, Handicrafts, Sericulture, Yarn Weaving, Tailoring, Sewing & embroidery, Gloves, Spices, Towels, Gunny-bags, low-cost-Sanitary Napkins, Sweet Box, Soap, Smokeless Chullah making, etc. These income generation activities are organised through various vocational institutes/ centers set up in the peripherals of SAIL Plants/ Units. We are also instrumental in marketing of the products manufactured at these Centers. Vocational and specialised skill development trainings have been imparted by us to 1,669 village youths and 1,525 women folks in 2015-16 in industrial & agriculture techniques, soft skills, handlooms, empowering them to bond with mainstream. We have also sponsored about 739 rural youths for ITI trainings at various ITIs. Supporting rural Sports 78 78 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 Development of rural areas We have provided connectivity to over 78 Lakh people across 435 remote villages since inception by constructing and repairing of roads/pathways. Over 7,907 water sources have been installed by us during last four years thereby enabling easy access to drinking water to over 45.96 lakh people living in far-flung areas. To promote renewable sources of energy, solar street lights have been installed in rural areas, solar lanterns and smokeless chullahs have been distributed among the rural people of Saranda and other locations. We have supported setting up and operation of 100 KW capacity Solar Power Plant at Jari, Gumla in Jharkhand. Promotion of rural Sports, art & Culture We have built modern sports facilities in our townships and are running residential sports academies at Bokaro (Football), Rourkela (Hockey) with world class astro-turf ground, Bhilai (Athletics for Boys), Durgapur (Athletics for Girls) and Kiriburu, Jharkhand (Archery). Besides, regularly organising inter-village sports activities, we also extend support to major national sports events & tournaments. We have also organised various sports coaching and events viz. SAIL Khel Mela at Bhilai, Samvardhan, Rural Sports in Football and Kabbadi at Rourkela, Durgapur and Burnpur, Archery championships, Kho-Kho and Ladies Cricket Coachings and matches at West Singhbhum, Jharkhand & Keonjhar, Odisha which witnessed participation of about 7,000 rural youths. 7,000 folk artists, students and viewers participated in the Lok Kala Mahotsava organised at Bhilai and Grameen Lokotsavas at Thanod and Aheri villages of Durg. Musical instruments were distributed in 6 Gua villages of Jharkhand. For organising community events and promoting local tribal culture, we have constructed two covered shades at Gairtalai village, Kuteshwar Mines in Madhya Pradesh. We also contribute towards conservation of National Heritages and looking after maintenance & restoration of national monuments. Support to Divyangs (Diﬀerently abled) & Senior Citizens Divyang children/people are being supported by us through provision of equipment liketricycle, motorized vehicles, calipers, hearing aids, artificial limbs, etc. We support various schemes and our centres support to differently abled & senior citizens at its plant locations, viz. • “Sneh Sampada” and “Prayas” and ‘Muskaan” at Bhilai • “Schools for blind, deaf & mentally challenged children” and Home and Hope” at Rourkela” • “Ashalata Viklang Kendra” at Bokaro • Various programmes like “Handicapped Oriented Education Programme” and “Durgpaur Handicapped Happy Home” at Durgapur • “Cheshire Home” at Burnpur • Support to NGOs like TAMANNA, DEEPALAYA, etc. • Old age homes being supported at different Plant townships like “Siyan Sadan” at Bhilai, Acharya Dham and Badshah at Durgapur, etc. Besides, we have also adopted and developed a Lepers Colony at Kajora through Durgapur Steel Plant. Here, all the social and infrastructure facilities are being maintained by us. Supporting Diﬀerently-abled 79 79 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 our innoVatiVe CSr ProJeCtS 1. Project Vasundhara – Development of bio-Diversity Park Our Durgapur Steel Plant has undertaken the mission project for development of the 409 acres Bio-Diversity Park with a large water body (approx. 500×200 m) with plantation of up to 400 different species of plants and trees to attract migratory birds facilitating avian diversity, propagation of rare and medicinal plants, harvesting of rain-water and soil conservation for maintaining ecological balance and environmental sustainability. Construction facilities such as fencing of the park, construction of approach road to project site including a culvert over Rajhir Nala, plantation of different saplings and plants, development of Ficus garden, Bambusetum, Palm grove, Medicinal garden, etc. are underway. Toilets and drinking water booths have been constructed inside the park, while small islands within the water body with appropriate flora species have been developed, solar lighting along the water body is installed, thematic sculptures depicting the eco-system are being fixed benefitting 75,000 natives. 2. Facilitating 3,000 non-matriculate women for matriculation In an attempt to facilitate education to school drop-outs, non-matriculate girls and women in peripheral villages of Bokaro, our Bokaro Steel Plant has undertaken the mission project. In the first phase, 1,210 literate rural girls/women from peripheral villages of Bokaro have been enrolled with the National Institute of Open Schooling, Ranchi. Their registration and examination fee has been submitted with NIOS, Ranchi. The 1,210 learners attending the preparatory classes are being provided tutorials and learning materials, etc. They would take matriculation examination on completion of the session. 3. adoption of tribal Children for their holistic development a) Gyanodaya Chhatrawas : Our Bhilai Steel Plant has adopted 36 Tribal Children who have been enrolled in Schools at Bhilai. We are providing free education, lodging, boarding, meals, clothings, uniforms, textbooks, stationery items and sports facilities up to XII to these students. Every year 20 tribal children from Kanker and Narayanpur districts (Rowghat area) are being adopted. Scholarship of ` 2,000/per month is awarded to each XII pass out who pursues higher education. b) A similar hostel is run at Rajhara township and currently the scope of the scheme covers 20 students/ year in class VI from Kanker and Narayanpur districts (Rowghat area). Total 82 students are availing the benefits. In the latest batch, 21 new students of Class VI have been admitted in BSP Tribal hostel, Rajhara. • All students of Tribal Hostel, Rajhara have attained Matriculation. • 17 students admitted for further studies in Class-XI & XII at Bhilai. • Scholarships of ` 2,000/month awarded to each XII pass out who pursues higher education. c) honhaar Scheme for meritorious students at bhilai: Our “Honhaar” scheme aims at imparting quality education to meritorious SC /ST/ OBC students belonging to Below Poverty Line who score more than 80% marks in matriculation. These students are admitted in Class-XI in schools at Bhilai and put up in Gyanodaya Hostel with all facilities at par with Tribal Students. In addition, they are also provided coaching in premiere coaching institute for preparation of entrance examinations like IIT-JEE. d) 35 Bhilai Steel Plant employees have volunteered for providing coaching to Gyanodaya students in various subjects beyond their duty hours through extra classes. trailblazers • 15 students qualified the CGPET, i.e. 13 from Gyanodaya Hostel & 2 from Bhilai Ispat Vikas Vidyalaya. • 3 students cleared the IIT-JEE Mains exam. 80 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 4. ladies Cricket Coaching Club, bolani A Ladies Cricket Coaching Club (LCCC) is run by Raw Materials Division of SAIL at the Bolani mine. More than 30 young tribal ladies who were daily wage-earners as ‘load-lifters’, devoid of primary education and healthy food & nutrition, have been motivated, counselled, provided healthy food, cricket coach and sports kits/tools and training/practice sessions, etc. 5. Comprehensive water & Sanitation Project at rourkela Steel Plant In an effort to align the marginalized masses, our Rourkela Steel Plant has initiated a project to promote comprehensive Water Supply and Sanitation covering 897 households in 10 villages of Kuarmunda Block. All the households are getting potable water through a groundwater source, storage tank and supply network of pipelines with 3 tap points and Sanitation unit with RCC roof on partnership model. The villagers have been mobilized and empowered for their active participation in the project. Village level committees have been formed for long-term sustenance of the project. CSr initiative 81 81 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 CaSe StuDy Comprehensive water & Sanitation Programme in village baniguni & Dumerjore On similar lines, 12 Model Steel Villages of Rourkela Steel Plant have been identified for developing water & sanitation facilities. Work is in progress in Bankibahal, Chikatmati, Laing Colony and Kapatmunda villages, benefitting 669 households. Key Impacts: • Significantly improved access to safe drinking water and functional toilets at home, especially beneficial to children and women folks. • Availability of water for other purposes also like daily bathing, washing clothes and also for livestock even in summers. • Access to functional toilets with piped water connection at door step. • Reduced open defecation, a healthy sanitation practice. • Reduced incidence of morbidity due to water borne diseases, mainly diarrhoea and dysentery as well as frequent exposure to infections caused during open defecation. • Issues of Human Rights & basic amenities to equitability, privacy, dignity, basic sanitation, good hygiene & health, safety, etc. for vulnerable sections, i.e. women, children and senior citizens addressed and resolved altogether. 6. Swachh bharat abhiyan-Swachh Vidyalay abhiyan We have been actively participating in the “Swachh Bharat Abhiyan” initiated by the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India. Under the campaign, construction of 672 toilets falling within the periphery of our Plants & Mines in the States of Chhattisgarh, W. Bengal, Odisha, Jharkhand, M.P. & Tamil Nadu; as allocated to us by the Ministry of HRD, had been undertaken and completed. Facilities like squatting units, urinals, washbasin and overhead water storage have been provided. Apart from toilet construction, cleanliness campaign has been undertaken all across the Organisation. Cleanliness drive is going on at various locations including the works premises, awareness campaigns are being run and proper house-keeping is being practised on company-wide basis. Pledge taken during Swacchta Pakhwada 82 82 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 Swacchta walkathon at bSP 7. Saranda Forest Development In an effort to bring the marginalized masses of the remote forest areas to the mainstream of development, SAIL in association with Govt. of Jharkhand and Ministry of Rural Development, Govt. of India actively participated in the development process of Saranda forest, Jharkhand. We provided ambulances, 7000 each of bicycles, transistors, solar lanterns and established an Integrated Development Centre (IDC) at Digha village in Saranda forest. IDC comprises of facilities like Bank, Panchayat Office, Ration shop, Telecom office, Anganwadi Centre, Meeting room, etc. for the local populace. We are running residential school at Saranda Suwan Chhatrawas for 19 tribal students and at Manoharpur for 110 tribal students in order to provide them holistic education. Facilities such as hostel, meals, school bags, uniform and winter clothes, shoes, teaching aids, sports equipment in schools and study materials, etc. are provided to them free of cost. 8. model Steel Villages In order to bridge the gap between rural and urban areas and to provide comprehensive development of both physical and social infrastructure, 79 villages were identified as “Model Steel Villages” across the Country (in eight states). The developmental activities undertaken in these villages include medical & health services, education, roads & connectivity, sanitation, community centers, livelihood generation, sports facilities, etc. The facilities developed at these MSVs are being run and maintained regularly. model Steel Village 83 83 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 monitorinG meChaniSm We have a well-structured mechanism in place for planning, monitoring and reporting of CSR activities in consultation with local authorities like Panchayats, District & State Authorities ’s. in our Plants/Units. Each of our Plant/Unit has a separate CSR Group/Cell which is headed by a senior level officer and is supported by field staff as well as officers from Finance discipline. Each Plant/Unit has a High Level Committee/Apex Committee which recommends the projects to be taken up by the respective Plant/Unit and allocate fund against each of the activities every year. The same Committee monitors the progress and implementation of these projects. rePortinG on CSr The Annual Report of SAIL for 2015-16 includes reporting on CSR as per the format prescribed under the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014. The Annual Report is shared with stakeholders and is also available on the Company’s Website. imPaCt aSSeSSment of Sail CSr Projects The CSR quality in SAIL is measured both by Professional Agencies and by internal evaluation on a regular basis. 84 84 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 CSr SCoreCarD • No. of Model Steel Villages developed 79 • No. of rural people given specialized and basic healthcare during >132,000 2015-16 • No. of Health Camps during 2015-16 >3,800 • No. of Water Resources Installed during past four years 7,907 • No. of Beneficiaries provided with access to drinking water >4,596,000 (during last 4 years) • No. of Villages connected by construction and repair of roads 435 • No. of Schools supported by the Company >145 (with more than 55,000 students) • No. of Govt. Schools being provided assistance through Mid Day >636 (with about Meals 75,000 students) • No. of Special Schools (Kalyan/Mukul Vidyalayas) exclusively for BPL 21 (benefitting over families 3,600 Students) • No. of Tribal children including ‘Birhors’ in extremist affected areas 335 adopted for holistic development through education • No. of Youths provided with specialised skill development training 947 during 2015-16 • No. of Women provided with specialised skill development training 1,785 during 2015-16 • No. of rural youths sponsored for ITI training during 2015-16 739 85 85 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 86 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 gri g4 cONTENT INDEX 87 Gri G4 Content inDex General StanDarD DiSCloSureS General Standard Page no. external Description Disclosures assurance Strategy and analysis G4-1 2, 3 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. organisational Profile G4-3 10 Name of the organization. G4-4 11 Primary brands, products, and/or services. G4-5 10 Location of organization’s headquarters. G4-6 4 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. G4-7 18 Nature of ownership and legal form. G4-8 4, 11 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers /beneficiaries). G4-9 7, 8, 10, 66 Scale of the reporting organization. G4-10 66 The total number of employees by employment contract and gender G4-11 68 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements G4-12 4 The organization’s supply chain G4-13 6 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. G4-14 17, 18, 20, 40 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization G4-15 21 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 21 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 10 All entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents G4-18 29 The process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries G4-19 29, 30 All the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content G4-20 29 For each material aspect, whether the Aspect is material within the organization G4-21 29 For each material aspect, whether the Aspect is material outside the organization G4-22 No The effect of any restatements of information provided in Restatements previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements G4-23 6 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 88 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 General Standard Disclosures General Standard Page no. External Description Disclosures Assurance Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 28 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization G4-25 27 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage G4-26 28 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group G4-27 28 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Report Profile G4-28 6 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided G4-29 6 Date of most recent previous report (if any) G4-30 6 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) G4-31 6 The contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents G4-32 6 The ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen, the GRI Content Index for the chosen option, the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured G4-33 6 Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report Governance G4-34 17, 18, 19 The governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body Ethics & Integrity G4-56 17, 20 The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 89 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Indicators Page no. Omissions External Description Assurance Category: Economic Material Aspect: Economic Performance G4-DMA 32, 33 Disclosure on Management Approach G4-EC1 32 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Material Aspect: Market Presence G4-DMA 66 Disclosure on Management Approach G4-EC5 66 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. Category: Environmental Material Aspect: Materials G4-DMA 47 Disclosure on Management Approach G4-EN1 47 Materials used by weight or volume. Material Aspect: Energy G4-DMA 36 Disclosure on Management G4-EN3 36 Energy consumption within the organisation Material Aspect: Water G4-DMA 42 Disclosure on Management Approach G4-EN9 43 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Material Aspect: Biodiversity G4-DMA 48 Disclosure on Management Approach G4-EN11 48, 49 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Material Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA 40, 41 Disclosure on Management Approach G4-EN18 41 GHG emissions intensity Material Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-DMA 44, 45 Disclosure on Management Approach G4-EN23 45, 46 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Category: Social Labour Practices and Decent Work Material Aspect: Labour Management Relations G4-DMA 67 Disclosure on Management Approach G4-LA4 67, 68 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. 90 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Indicators Page no. Omissions External Description Assurance Material Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA 58, 59, 60 Disclosure on Management Approach G4-LA5 59 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes. Material Aspect: Training and Education G4-DMA 72, 73 Disclosure on Management Approach G4-LA10 72, 73 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Society Material Aspect: Local Communities G4-DMA 76 Disclosure on Management Approach G4-SO1 76 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes. Material Aspect: Anti-Corruption G4-DMA 20 Disclosure on Management Approach G4-SO3 20 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified Product Responsibility Material Aspect: Product and Service Labeling G4-DMA 53 Disclosure on Management Approach G4-PR5 53 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 91 Abbreviations ABS American Bureau of Shipping DPE Department of Public Enterprises AGM Annual General Meeting DSP Durgapur Steel Plant AIDS Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome EAF Electric Arc Furnace AIMA All India Management Association EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization AIOE All India Organisation of Employers ECG Electrocardiography AMRUT Atal Mission for Rejuvenation & Urban Transformation EMD Environment Management Division AOD Argon Oxygen Decarburization EMS Environment Management System ARS Alizarin Red S EPMS Executive Performance Management System ASP Alloy Steels Plant ESI Employee State Insurance ASSOCHAM Associated Chamber of Commerce and Industry of India ETPs Effluent Treatment Plants ASTP Acid Sludge Treatment Plant FICCI Federation of Indian Chambers for Commerce and Industry ATP Annual Training Plan FP Flat Product BDL Below Detectable Level FTA Free Trade Agreement BF Blast Furnace GCal Giga Calorie BIS Bureau of Indian Standards GCP Gas Cleaning Plant BOD Biochemical Oxygen Demand GD Growth Division BOF Basic Oxygen Furnace GHG Green House Gas BPL Below Poverty Line GIFT Global Institute of Flexible System Management BPTG Back Pressure Turbine Generator GoI Government of India BSC Board Sub-Committee GRI G4 Global Reporting Initiative Fourth Generation BSL Bokaro Steel Plant HAZOP Hazard & Operability BSO Branch Sales Offices HEMM Heavy Earth Moving Machineries BSP Bhilai Steel Plant HIP High Impact Projects CCO Customer Contact Offices HIRA Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment CCP Continuous Casting Plant HIS Health Information System CCS Continuous Casting Shop HPSV High Pressure Sodium Vapour CCTV Close Circuit Television HR Human Resource CDC Consultancy Development Centre HRD Human Resource Development CEMDE Centre for Environment Management of Degraded Ecosystem HRM Hot Rolling Mill CEMS Centralised Energy Monitoring System HSM Hot Strip Mil CEO Chief Executive Officer ICVL International Coal Venture Limited CET Centre for Engineering and Technology IDC Integrated Development Centre CFP Chandrapur Ferro Alloy Plant IICCI The Indian Iran Chamber of Commerce and Industry CII Confederation of Indian Industries IIM Indian Institute of Metals CISF Central Industrial Security Force IIPE Indian Institute of Plant Engineers CMO Central Marketing Organisation lISCO Indian Iron & Steel Company CO Coke Oven IIT Indian Institute of Technology CO2 Carbon Dioxide IITF India International Trade Fair COB Coke Oven Battery ILO International Labour Organization CoD Centre for Organisational Development INDCs Intended Nationally Determined Contributions COD Chemical Oxygen Demand IPE Institute of Public Enterprises CoE Centre of Excellence IPSS Inter Plant Standard Steel CPP Captive Power Plant IRCON Indian Railway Construction Company Limited CPSE Central Public Sector Enterprises IRT Institute of Rail Transport CPTI Central Power Training Institute ISO International Organization for Standardization CR Cold Rolled ISP lISCO Steel Plant CREP Corporate Responsibility for Environment Protection ISPs Integrated Steel Plants CRM Cold Rolling Mill ISTD Indian Society for Trade and Development Crore Ten Millions ITI Industrial Training Institute CSI Customer Satisfaction Index IUCCI Indo USSR Chamber of Commerce and Industries CSR Corporate Social Responsibility IUCN International Union for Conservation of Nature CTC Carbon Tetra Chloride JCSSI Joint Committee on Safety, Health and Environment in the CVC Central Vigilance Commission Steel Industry DG Diesel Generator JEE Joint Entrance Examination DMB Disability Medical Board JV Joint Venture DNV Det Norske Veritas JVC Joint Venture Company Dolo Dolomite KAM Key Account Management DPC Delhi Productivity Council KL Kilo Litres 92 Mobilizing all Upwardly Corporate Sustainability Report 2015-16 KPI Key Performance Indicators RMP Refractory Material Plant kWh Kilo Watt Hour RSP Rourkela Steel Plant Lakh Hundred Thousand RTI Right to Information LCS Life Cover Scheme ` Rupees LD Linz Donawitz SA Social Accountability LED Light Emitting Diode SAIL Steel Authority of India Limited LMV Light Motor Vehicle SC Scheduled Caste LR Lloyds Register SCL Steel Complex Limited LP Long Product SCOPE Standing Conference of Public Enterprises m3 Cubic Meter SD Sustainable Development MEC Myanmar Economic Corporation SEBI Securities & Exchange Board of India MEP Modernization and Expansion Programme SED Safety Engineering Department MKWH Million Kilo Watt Hour SEFI Steel Executives Federation of India MODEX Modernisation-Expansion SER South Eastern Railway MOEFCC Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change SESBF SAIL Employees Superannuation Benefit Fund MoU Memorandum of Understanding SGL Shot Grinding Line MSME Micro, Small & Medium Enterprise SGW SAIL Growth Works MSVs Model Steel Villages SHA Shareholders Agreement MT Millions Tonnes SMPs Standard Maintenance Practices MTI Management Training Institute SMS Steel Melting Shop MTPA Million Tonnes Per Annum SO2 Sulphur Dioxide MTs Management Trainees SOPs Standard Operating Practices MW Mega Watt SP Sinter Plant NARAKAS Nagar Rajbhasha Karyanavayan Samiti (Town Official SRU SAIL Refractory Unit Language Implementation Committee) SS Suspended Solids NDRF National Disaster Response Force SSI Small Scale Industry NGO Non-Governmental Organization SSO SAIL Safety Organization NH3-N Ammonical Nitrogen SSP Salem Steel Plant NIOS National Institute of Open School ST Scheduled Tribe NJCS National Joint Committee for the Steel Industry SWP Safe Work Procedure NMDC National Mineral Development Corporation TB Tuberculosis NOHSC National Occupational Health Service Centre tcs Tonnes of Crude Steel NOx Oxides of Nitrogen TERI The Energy and Resource Institute NSDC National Skill Development Corporation TFRI Tropical Forest Research Institute NTPC National Thermal Power Corporation THF Twin Hearth Furnace OBC Other Backward Class TJ Tera Joule ODS Ozone Depleting Substances TM Technology Missions OH&S Occupational Health & Safety TMT Thermo Mechanically Treated OHF Open Hearth Furnace TRT Top Pressure Recovery Turbine OHP Ore Handling Plant TRTG Top Recovery Turbine Generator OHS Occupational Health Service tss Tonnes of Saleable Steel OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Management System UNIDO United Nations Industrial Development Organisation OPD Out Patient Department VISL Visvesvaraya Iron and Steel Plant OT Operation Theatre VVVF Variable Voltage Variable Frequency PAT Profit After Tax WCPS World Confederation of Productivity Science PCB Polychlorinated BiPhenyls WIs Working Instructions PIWs Performance Improvement Workshops WIPS Forum of Women in Public Sector PM Particulate Matter WMD Water Management Department PMA Project Management Association WRC Wire Round Corrugated POPs Persistent Organic Pollutants WSA World Steel Association PPEs Personal Protective Equipment ZLD Zero Liquid Discharge PPM Part per Million UNDP United Nations Development Programme PSE Public Sector Enterprise UNGC United Nations Global Compact PSU Public Sector Undertaking UNIDO United Nations Industrial Development Organisation QMS Quality Management System VFD Variable Frequency Drive R&D Research & Development VISL Visvesvaraya Iron and Steel Plant RDCIS Research & Development Centre for Iron & Steel VVVF Variable Voltage Variable Frequency RH Reheating WCPS World Confederation of Productivity Science RINL Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd. WIPS Forum of Women in Public Sector RITES Rail India Technical and Economic Service WSA World Steel Association RMD Raw Materials Division 93
