Diab Sustainability Report 2017 DIAB – A WORLD LEADER IN HIGH-PERFORMANCE COMPOSITE CORE MATERIALS Diab has been at the leading edge of composite core material development for over sixty years, supplying a wide range of markets including marine, wind energy, transport, aerospace and industry. This report contains forward-looking statements that are based on the current expectations of the management of Diab Group AB. Although management believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove correct. Accordingly, results could differ materially from those implied in the forwardlooking statements as a result of, among other factors, changes in economic, market and competitive conditions, changes in the regulatory environment and other government actions, fluctuations in exchange rates and other factors. 04 06 08 CEO words The more we sell – Stronger, Lighter, the more we save Smarter 10 20 24 ONE Diab Strategy & Stakeholder Governance Involvement 28 Core Sustainability 36 Environmental 42 Zero Waste Responsibility 46 48 50 Financial Zero Corruption Social Responsibility Responsibility 56 Case Stories 60 Global Compact 62 GRI Content Index Report WORKING FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE In a world shared by 7.6 billion people, sustainability is not By offering our customers innovative technical solutions optional – it is essential. Each one of us is responsible for together with world-class productivity and quality, we are our planet and the future generations who will inhabit it. able to support them from initial concept to finished We need to use resources efficiently, improve social and product. We have come a long way, but we do not rest on working conditions, protect natural ecosystems, raise our laurels. It is our ambition to create even more value for aspirations and extend opportunities for all. We need to our customers. continuously improve our business performance and through that, improve the world in which we live, create We are determined to continue improving our performance, and build the future. putting sustainability principles and ideas into practice. Diab continues to grow, and the larger and more global our company becomes, the greater our responsibility. We believe we need to make a difference when it comes to the large issues. That is why we have made sustainability one of our top business priorities. LENNART HAGELQVIST Our sustainability efforts are divided into four different CEO areas: February 12, 2018 • Strategy & Governance • Human & Labor Rights • Business Ethics • Environment GRI Standard Guidelines and External auditors We follow our certified management systems in accorDiab Group’s 2017 Sustainability Report is based on GRI Standards, the Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability dance with ISO 14001 and ISO 9001. By reaffirming the Reporting Guidelines, with Core options. UN Global Compact during 2017, Diab is making a longterm statement to continuously focus on our sustainable PricewaterhouseCoopers has reviewed and assured compliance with this option, with a focus on the most significant development. In addition to this we have also reaffirmed CR issues. Refer to the Assurance Report on our website. our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement for 2017 and made a committment to set Science Based The 2017 Sustainability Report is prepared for sustainability Targets, SBT. reporting in compliance with the Annual Accounts Act. 04 THE MORE WE SELLTHE MORE WE SAVE Diab – leading the way Diab´s position Diab has been a frontrunner in developing composite Diab is effortlessly working to perfect the details of foam materials for over sixty years. We know that each applimanufacturing. Making its first site ISO 14001 certified cation requires a unique solution. Decades of experience already in 1998, Diab has since worked in this spirit. Over serving various types of industries have brought us invaluthe years Diab has removed plasticizers, stabilizers, able insight into products and processes, making it possible pigment etc. to ensure that our products are as sustainable for us to deliver a solution adapted to a variety of specific as possible. needs. A multitude of applications The more Divinycell we sell, the more our customers´ appWith several product lines, numerous finishing options and lications decrease carbon footprint. Light, strong and smart kit operations in combination with engineering services materials are needed in a sustainable society. and expertise, we can help our customers achieve the most competitive low-weight, high-performance structuImpact of sandwich design and core res possible. Discover how composite technology can help Lightweight materials save our non-renewable resources you getting ahead in your industry. and reduce pollution. In addition, our materials have a long and reliable lifecycle, allowing for substantial environmen-­ tal savings over their life time. Over the years our target has always been to give our core materials the best strength-to-weight ratio possible. “Lightweight materials save our non-renewable resources and reduce pollution.” 06 STRONGER LIGHTER SMARTER Design a different world Full design freedom If you can imagine it, we can probably help you build it. Do you have innovative design dreams that you have yet Diab’s high-performance solutions can take products to a to realize? With sandwich composites you can enjoy a trehigher level of competitiveness by making them stronger, mendous freedom to adapt both form and function to lighter and smarter. Combining advanced sandwich compospecific application needs without any loss of performance site materials, tailored kits, a wide range of finishing or strength. You can easily incorporate compound curves options and a comprehensive range of engineering and accurately align outer skins to load paths, maximizing services, we make it possible to develop the wildest structural integrity and performance. construction dreams in a cost-efficient and sustainable way. Simply smarter The excellent stiffness and strength-to-weight ratio of The ultimate building material the sandwich concept serve many ends. Diab’s advanced The volume and number of applications of composite core materials enable higher speed, longer range, greater materials are growing steadily, continuously penetrating pay-load capacity, reduced power demand and reduced new markets. Lighter than concrete, steel and aluminum, environmental impact. They also offer good dynamic composite materials provide great weight reductions while strength, low water absorption and excellent insulation maintaining strength. They combine full design freedom while minimizing maintenance. with exceptional durability. In addition, they are more sustainable than conventional building materials. Sustainability is at the core of our business An integral part of Diab’s business concept is that products Lightness and strength and services should have a positive environmental impact Who says a strong structure has to be heavy? Engineering in the applications and processes for which they are used. dreams can meet harsh reality without compromises. Most of the companies that use our products and services Sandwich composites significantly reduce weight and are striving for applications with light and strong designs. increase stiffness, while maintaining or even adding This brings positive effects such as reduced fuel consumpstrength. Increasing the thickness of the sandwich core tion, increased range and greater load-bearing capacity. yields even greater toughness and rigidity without subWe take the entire product life cycle into account in our stantially increasing weight. And since the support research and development to ensure sustainable products structure can be reduced, there are further weight that are reusable and recyclable. reductions to be had. 08 ONE DIAB Ratos Proven performance Diab is since 2009 wholly owned by Ratos, an investment Our products and solutions have been used in a wide range company that owns and develops unlisted medium-sized of industries for decades and are all certified according to Nordic companies. Ratos´ goal as an active owner is to relevant industry standards. This excellent track record contribute to the long-term and sustainable business proves the quality and reliability of our materials and development of the companies in which they invest, and solutions, providing security and proof of performance to make value-generating transactions. few others can offer. Our dedication to making our business sustainable means that we continually improve Ratos creates value by being the partner that unlocks busievery aspect of our operations. ness opportunities and contributes with ideas, experience, capital and contacts. Ratos´ business is about being Worldwide supply and support entrepreneurial, and a prerequisite for its long-term Diab has a global manufacturing, sales and engineering success is its ability to attract and develop employees and presence. We follow our customers – and even anticipate to build important relationships. their needs – by positioning ourselves in locations that can best support them. We have manufacturing sites in Ratos is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. It has a balanced portstrategic locations around the world, offering our full range folio and exposure to several industries and markets. of materials, plus local representation in many countries – ensuring security of supply, cost efficiency, flexibility and Complete sandwich composite solution local support. With a complete range of high-performance core materials, numerous finishing options and kit operations in combinaVision tion with engineering services and expertise, we present presumably the widest and most valuable offering in the “To be the number one in sandwich composite industry. structural cores globally” Ongoing innovation Ever since the beginning, we have been dedicated to Mission constant innovation, and we are promoting a widespread “To provide stronger, lighter adoption of sandwich composite materials. What people say can’t be done we do every day. and smarter composite solutions realizing a more sustainable world” 10 ONE DIAB One Diab House To take us to our vision to be the number one in structural The next step we are working on is implementing “Blocks”. cores globally we are implementing a performance A Block is a cross-functional team. The ideal Block has one system based on our values. The system is called One Diab person from each department with different kinds of expesince the goal is to work together across regions, countries, rience, following a strategy to improve their subject: departments and functions. We all belong to the same One Diab company. Step 1 Set strategy for Diab to achieve its goals Step 2 GAP analysis* To visualize our performance system One Diab we have a Step 3 Prioritize and plan house, where the foundation is our values. We will always Step 4 Method put safety first; caring for our people is the base of every­ Step 5 Validate thing we do. Can Do Attitude, Reliability, Customer Focus, Step 6 Reflect and improve High Efficiency and Manage Our Cost are all our values that we should live by every day. * GAP analysis = Involves the comparison of actual performance with potential or desired performance. 12 ONE DIAB The most important Block is Safety, but 4 additional Blocks Work Place Organization are ongoing in Longarone, Siualiai and Laholm, respectively This Block removes waste and works toward the 5S and these Blocks are described below. (Separate, Simplify, Systemize, Standardize, Sustain). Each working place will have all equipment in the right Focused Improvement place and the right amount available. The members of this Block will become experts of the problem-solving method DMAIC (Define, Measure, Analyze, Other Blocks will follow, involving other plants and producImprove and Control). They will be project leaders, teach tion lines. To be able to succeed we need to work as One the process to others and be auditors to make certain that Team, which is why the diamond is in the center. we follow the process. The steering committee will define projects; each project will take 60-90 days. One Team means to work cross-functionally throughout the company. This will help us successfully execute our Continuous Skills Development mission to provide stronger, lighter and smarter composite Members of this Block will be the experts in training. They solutions realizing a more sustainable world. will break down all tasks and write instructions with the help from other Blocks. Equipment Care This Block takes care of our equipment and teaches the operators to carry out daily maintenance. The members of this Block will also be experts on our planned maintenance. 13 ONE DIAB Diab Values Reliability We cooperate, we help each other out and we work as one We keep our promises, both to each other internally and to global company. Our values indicate what we think is imour customers, partners and others externally. We work for portant and what distinguishes us from the competition. a sustainable society. Our work ethic is strong and we Our values create a culture – a common platform where prove it every day. we can become One Diab even though we speak different languages, have different cultures and are geographically spread. Customer Focus The Diab Values are divided into six focus areas, presented We make sure our customers are satisfied. Understanding below. and sharing their entrepreneurial spirit, we are committed to helping them win by providing the best products and Safety solutions. Safety for people always comes first. Simply put, no one should get hurt while working at Diab. Together, we all take responsibility for each other’s safety. High Efficiency Efficiency and high performance are distinctions of our culture. With clear organization, we make sure that we do the right things at the right time with the right speed. Can-Do Attitude Each one of us is responsible for driving improvement. With a positive, productive approach to work, we take personal initiative – empowering ourselves, our coworkers and our Manage Our Costs company. We stay on top of our costs, globally and locally, knowing that everything and every one has an impact. More than a savings program, this is a mind-set. 14 ONE DIAB Brand names Composites Consulting Group (CCG) Diab, Divinycell, Matrix and ProBalsa are registered tradeCCG is an independent Diab Group company providing marks in countries all over the world. specialty composite technology services. With broad competence that includes everything from design and engineTechnical Services ering to testing, tooling, process optimization and training, Diab Technical Services partners up to help customers we ensure that you can realize the full value of composite maximize the benefits provided by the Diab sandwich designs. concept. We have deep knowledge of sandwich design, production, finishing and kits and our skills cover CCG consists of mechanical and process engineers, material everything from hand lay-up to resin infusion. We help scientists, naval architects and composite technicians with customers choose the most appropriate design procedure many years of experience from a wide range of industries. for each specific case and when necessary validate the Our process consultants routinely work with applications findings with in-house testing. Strategically located around using contact molding, vacuum infusion, RTM and RTM the world, we provide advice and support wherever the Light, prepregs, pultrusion and filament winding, among customers are. others. We can also offer both theoretical and practical training of personnel and then directly assist your team with prototyping and infusion trials. Quantity of products and services provided Diab offers a large quantity of products, amounting to approximately 14,000. The number of services provided cannot be calculated in the same way, but Diab offers technical support to its customers, and additional calculations and support can be had through the Composites Consulting Group (CCG). 16 ONE DIAB Health & Safety Training Diab has performed Health & Safety Training for a long available.The training programs aim to provide general time, recording it on all production sites with reports on information and knowledge about Diab and our materials, a monthly basis. The reported training rate for the whole but also in-depth knowledge of the Sales and Technical Diab Group from 2014 to 2017 is calculated as the hours area. Each module has been developed by various senior of training per totally worked hours and shown in percent, co-workers with long and deep knowledge of each area. as seen below. During 2018 “Smarter” will be introduced to all whiteHealth & Safety Training Rate, % collar workers globally. All line managers will find a specific 2014 0.14 program that will help them develop their leadership skills. 2015 0.33 A pilot will be run in Laholm to introduce e-learning for all 2016 0.30 co-workers to make competence development possible in 2017 0.40 an easy and effective way. The planning also involves carrying out annual mandatory trainings through the E-learning portal, as well as importing previous e-learnings to create Our e-learning platform “Smarter” was introduced in May a complete training platform. 2017 to Top management, the Sales & Technical organization, the Operations Management Team, and HR managers. As of December 31, 2017, a total of 180 users had been registered. “Our e-learning program 12 training programs consisting of a total of 65 modules Smarter provides knowledge have been launched. Each module is between one and about Diab and our materials” twelve minutes long and includes various steps – a slide show with or without voice, videos, download files or links to external webpages where extended information is 17 ONE DIAB Information on employees and other workers The majority of the organization’s activities are carried out by Diab employees, the total number of which is presented below. The data is compiled through local and global HR. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by gender: Men Women Total 1003 270 1273 Total number of employees (permanent and temporary), by employment type: Men Women Total Full-time 982 255 1237 Part-time 21 24 45 Total number of employees by employement contract (permanent and temporary), by region: Men Women Total Australia 7 1 8 China 208 95 303 Ecuador 93 3 96 France 3 2 5 Germany 5 1 6 India 6 4 10 Italy 220 7 227 Lithuania 148 67 215 Norway 2 1 3 Poland 2 1 3 South Korea 1 0 1 Spain 3 3 6 Sweden 210 48 258 Thailand 2 6 8 UK 6 2 8 USA 87 29 116 Total 1003 270 1273 18 STRATEGY & GOVERNANCE Sustainability Strategy One Planet, One Diab Diab´s strategy for sustainability is built on three pillars: It is crucial to Diab to coordinate its activities, ensure consistency, and share best practice within the global orProducts ganization. The more we sell the more we save the planet – leveraging Diab’s potential contributes to a stronger, lighter and There is special focus on ”Zero waste and closed loop” as smarter future society. the potential for improvement has been identified as significant and will deliver best return on investment in the midOperations term perspective, 1-3 years. ”Zero waste and closed loop” – waste that can be reduced must be eliminated to save resources and cost. Materials Governance structure that cannot be eliminated need to find new customers as The legal levels of management consist of the Company’s raw material in new products, to create closed loops. Annual General Meeting, Board of Directors and CEO. The Annual General Meeting elects the Board of Directors and People the Company’s CEO is appointed by the Board of Directors. Sustainability in everything we do – it is our ambition that all business activities in Diab are performed in a resourcesShareholders’ General Meeting effective and ethical manner in line with our Code of The authority of the Shareholders to make decisions regarConduct and external commitments to customers, owners ding comprehensive matters in the name of the Company and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). (including Group Companies) is exercised at the General Meetings. The Annual General Meeting for the parent Within each area selected targets are set that drive the company, Diab Group AB, shall take place within six months activities which are then funded and prioritized in the of the Company’s financial year-end, and the Board of over­all strategy and budget process on a yearly cycle. Directors is obliged to discuss the Annual Reports in accordance with the Swedish Companies Act. It is clear that Diab products fit into a future sustainable society as the sandwich core composite solution and its The Board of Directors applications are in many ways superior to traditional soluThe Sustainability Report is subject to the same liability tions mainly built of steel and other metals. The strategy rules as the annual report, which means that the Board is for Diab is to identify the applications where our products ultimately responsible for the report’s establishment as add value both from a financial and sustainable perspec­well as its contents. tive, as this is the only way to secure long-term sustainable solutions. 20 STRATEGY & GOVERNANCE The Board of Directors is responsible for the organization affairs. In background of this overall responsibility, the of the Company and the management of the Company’s Board deals with any matter it considers relevant for the affairs, such as compliance with law and the Articles of Company or the Group. Association. These are, for example, to continuously assess the The Board consists of minimum three members and maxiCompany’s and Group’s financial situation. mum six members with maximum six deputies elected at a Shareholders’ meeting and two members chosen by the The General Meeting of Diab Group AB has established union, with two deputies. an Audit Committee and a Remuneration Committee. The Audit Committee, which is a body within the Board, shall In the formal work plan, laid down by the Board, it is defiprepare issues for the Board in accordance with the ned which items should be discussed in the different committee’s tasks. The tasks include quality-assurance meetings in accordance with a specific plan drawn up to of the internal control, establish policies and currently ensure that the Board is able to fulfil its assignments in maintain contact with the auditors. terms of operational control, the establishment of strategic guidelines which are significant to the business The tasks of the Remuneration Committee, which is a body and development of the Company, as well as evaluation of within the Board, shall prepare issues for the Board concerits own actions and the work carried out by the managing ning remunerations. The Committee shall, on the Board’s director. behalf at the Annual General Meeting present guidelines for remuneration and other conditions of employment for The work plan stipulates that a minimum of six board management. meetings should be held during each year. The Company auditors participate in the meeting that deals with the The CEO for Diab Group AB is appointed by the Board of annual accounts. Throughout the financial year, the board Directors and shall handle the day-to-day management members as well as the deputies and auditors receive and co-ordinate the operations of the company and the written information about the Company business, group in accordance with the instructions set by the Board economic and financial position as well as other informaof Directors. That means that the CEO for Diab Group AB tion of significance to the Company. also is Group CEO. Overall responsibility The operating management bodies are created to support The Board is accountable to the shareholders for the orgaand control the operating group structure. Group managenization and management of the Company’s and Group’s ment is executed through DMT (Diab Management Team). 21 STRATEGY & GOVERNANCE DMT Diab Management Team Supply chain The DMT shall discuss more long-term strategic questions Diab’s main suppliers supply their raw materials as chemiand typically meets at least seven times per year. The DMT cals, except for balsa and a few others. There are in total comprises CEO, CFO, EVP Business & Sales Development, 30-40 unique suppliers, mainly located in Europe for IPN CTO, EVP EMEA & India Group SC & Operations, EVP (Interpenetrating Polymer Network) with a few exceptions Sustainability & EHSQ, EVP Asia and EVP HR. in Asia for IPN production in Europe. About five suppliers­­ are located in Asia to support the IPN production in The DMT has the overall responsibility for the Group’s opeZhangjiagang. rations, strategies and financial control. CEO is the chairman of the group. PET (Polyethylene Terephthalate) production suppliers are served from Europe, balsa mainly from South America and Product Board PES (Polyether Sulfone) from Europe and USA. The Product Board deals with tactics around Diab’s offering of core materials, finishing options and positioning. No significant changes to the organization’s size, structure, The Board consists of, at least, Market Segment Managers, ownership, or supply chain have been made in the year Product and Marketing Manager, R&D Manager, CTO, 2017. Sustainability Manager and Operations. Investment Committee The Investment Committee’s main objective is to prioritize, “The DMT has the overall responsibility decide (under the mandate of authority rights), suggest investments for CEO or Board decision and follow up on the for the Group’s operations, strategies investment budget. The committee also suggests investand financial control. CEO is the chairments budget. The committee includes Regional EVPs and man of the Group.” CFO. 22 DMT Diab Executive Management Team Lennart Hagelqvist Patrik Nilsson Mats Persson Magdalena Sandström President & CEO CFO EVP EMEA & India CTO Group SC & Operations Robert Ramnér Per-Erik Velin Per Hökfelt Lena Rickard EVP Asia EVP Business & Sales EVP Sustainability & EVP HR Development EHSQ Diversity of governance bodies: Diab Group Board members are divided as follows: DMT members are divided as follows: • 8 men and 2 women • 6 men and 2 women • 4 persons are in the age group of 30-50 years and • 4 persons are in the age group of 30-50 years and 6 persons are > 50 years 4 persons are > 50 years Diab Group AB Board members Stig Karlsson Carl-Erik Ridderståle Fredrik Nilsson Henrik Lundh Linda Jahic Chairman Board member Board member Board member Board member Torben Bjerre-Madsen Viktoria Bergman Joakim Twetman Göran Ingvarsson Per Månsson Board member Board member Board alternate Board alternate Board alternate 23 STAKEHOLDER INVOLVEMENT Stakeholders Diab interacts with a number of stakeholder groups on an This survey was undertaken specifically as part of the report almost daily basis, which brings a range of requirements preparation process. and expectations in relation to sustainable development. The survey was divided into four groups of questions: Our understanding of which stakeholders are significant – 1. Environment and what they consider to be important – is based on expe2. Working conditions rience, commercial relationships and dialogue over a long 3. Product value period of time, as well as events over the past financial ­ 4. Business ethics and anticorruption year. The areas of most concern within each of the above mentioStakeholder survey ned groups included: Additionally, during the second half of 2017, Diab performed a survey including all identified stakeholders internal1. Health & Safety for employees ly, externally and globally, where Diab mainly operates. 2. No child labor 3. Price (very close in significance to “Support before sales”) The different stakeholder groups included in the survey 4. Anti-corruption measures were customers, employees, suppliers, shareholders and society, in total approximately 30 persons. They received All the topics prioritized by the different stakeholder groups a questionnaire which varied depending on whether they (not only those presented above) were presented to DMT were external or internal stakeholders. members for common evaluation and discussion on future actions. All of them had access to personal support through Diab representatives in all countries that participated in the ­research (Sweden, Italy, China, USA and Ecuador). 24 STAKEHOLDER INVOLVEMENT The most prioritized topics for Diab’s stakeholders Health & Safety for employees Health & Safety already is the most prioritized topic within and the exploitation of children are unacceptable. A person Diab and has throughout the year been further highlighted below the age of 15 is viewed as a child unless local legisthrough the One Diab work. lation has defined other age for being able to work or for mandatory schooling”. The prevention of Lost Time Accidents (LTA) will remain one of Diab’s KPIs followed up in monthly reports. Support before sales and price The technical support provided by Diab to customers is No child labor unique and something strongly connected to our brand. Diab is already putting strong focus on this topic, but will further strengthen it through continuous work and folThe pricing of Diab products are based on the value for our low-up processes in the Supplier Code of Conduct. customers as we strive to deliver high-value products, solutions and services. In the Supplier Code of Conduct we state the following: ”All forms of child labor are unacceptable, and documenAnti-corruption measures tation certifying the age of all employees must be Our policy for anticorruption is official. In addition, we are available. All forms of work that can have a negative continuously offering internal education on this subject. impact on the child’s right to a healthy childhood and It has also been decided to annually record and report the development, or that prevent the child´s education, are amount of corruption errands identified globally, as data classified as child labor. All forms of violence, compulsion already exists. 25 STAKEHOLDER INVOLVEMENT Stakeholders Aim, requirements and expectations Value created Customers Diab believes that sustainability measures Diab’s sustainability work is continuously restrengthen customer relationships. Many viewed by customers, also during 2017. The customers demand that Diab have a Code overall results are good and Diab’s sustainable of Conduct, certified management systems development aims are valued by customers. A and phasing-out of non-sustainable chemicompletely new type of IPN product has been cals. Also, as Diab offers resource-efficient developed, which offers better properties with products, customers expect us to contilower density. It further requires a significantly nuously decrease the environmental impact lower resin consumption during the customer’s of our product range during production and process and reduces the environmental impact in the customer’s final application. overall. Consumers All Diab’s products are sold to industrial Consumers’ views were addressed during the customers. Although this relates to some year via dialogue with customers and the consumer products such as yachts and demands they place on Diab. sports gears, for example, it is unlikely that the product will be linked directly to Diab’s operations. Employees Health & Safety, benefits, social conditions, Fatalities: 0 well-being, development opportunities. Share of employees in risk positions attending training: 100% Further data is available under Social Responsibility 26 STAKEHOLDER INVOLVEMENT Stakeholders Aim, requirements and expectations Value created Suppliers Diab endeavors to have long-term and Over the year the Group has conducted assesstransparent relationships with suppliers. ments, which also addressed sustainability The aim is to ensure the right quality, finanissues. cial stability and sustainable development for both parties. Shareholders The aim for the sustainability work at Diab The major shareholder Ratos has a clear Corpois to create value for shareholders. Diab rate Responsibility Framework that is mandatory ensures this, for example, through efficient for Diab to follow. The status and progress of resource usage and investments in new implementation of the framework is reported to sustainable technology. The integration of Ratos yearly in Q1. sustainability issues in business operations, such as more sustainable products, reduces risks and creates business opportunities. Society Social engagement is an important aspect Diab Group has reaffirmed its support of the Ten and something that is expected by local Principles of the United Nations Global Compact communities where Diab Group operates. in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment As a global company, Diab Group is expected and Anti-Corruption. to undertake measures that contribute to national global sustainable development In 2017, Diab Group committed to setting science­ goals. based targets, which shows that Diab Group is making a long-term contribution to the global development goals. 27 CORE SUSTAINABILITY How do we manage sustainability All sites have local management and teams within the that Diab performed satisfactory within all investigated environmental, social (HR) and financial areas. The activisubjects. This clearly shows that we are on the right track, ties follow Diab global directives, and furhter local stratebut we have to increase our efforts even more, which is gies are added to this dependent on country, area or proalready in our plans, both long and short term. duction specific issues. DMT members were set to process and prioritize the same Each site has managers within each sustainability field areas and subjects as the stakeholder survey covered from that report to the corresponding global management. a Diab business strategy point of view. Further, all sites have a sustainability manager/coordinator, all members of Diab global sustainability network and Diab’s material topics were extracted from the process coordinated by EVP Sustainability & EHSQ. described above, resulting in the Materiality Analysis presented on page 29. A focus on materiality Diab’s sustainability report for 2017, in accordance with GRI Reporting principles Standards, includes aspects relating to the environmental, The reporting is made on core option and the material financial and social responsibility. Our ambition is for this topics identified through the process of the materiality report, together with supplementary information, to give assessment. our employees and external stakeholders a transparent view of the company’s corporate responsibility activities In line with the Ratos CR Framework, Diab reports imand how these interact with our business activities. plementation and status of progress in Q1 annually. The framework is continuously updated and revised by Ratos´ An extensive survey for all external and internal stakeholHead of Sustainability and reflects the wishes of Diab’s der groups was undertaken this year in order to investigate shareholders. Each production unit provides quantitative the areas of “environment”, “working conditions”, “business and qualitative information in accordance with Diab’s susethics and anticorruption” and “product value”. The staketainability KPIs. The person responsible for sustainability in holders geographically represent the countries where Diab each company is responsible for assuring the quality of the has production facilities. The outcome of this evaluation information submitted. This year’s performance is compagave valuable input on expected performance from Diab red and verified against information from previous years. compared to actual performance within a wide range of Most of the figures and data are received from the process sustainability areas. Both new and old focus areas for Diab connected to the ISO certification of the different units. were highlighted, but the general result for all tasks was 28 Re du ce ca r gre bon Medium Significance for Diab’s stakeholders and business strategy en e di ho ox High us ide e g an as d Inc em oth rea iss er se ion sa d r s fe wa ecyc s te l i n Effi ha g an cie nd d nt lin us ag g Summary eo Su f re sta so ina urc ble es pro du Environment ct life cyc le He alt h& Sa em fety No plo for ch ye ild es Su lab pp ou CORE ort r, < for 15 fai ye r wo a rs rki Summary ng co n dit Ed ion uc s ati Social o no 29 fe mp loy ee s An tico rru pti o nm Fa ea ir su co res m pe tit Summary ive bu sin es s Finance Diab Materiality Analysis Pri SUSTAINABILITY Su ce pp ort Summary be for es ale s Product value Significance for Diab's Significance for Diab's stakeholders business strategy CORE SUSTAINABILITY list of material topics All production sites report figures for calculating tCO2e emissions in the software tool “Our Impact” (following the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, GHG). This GHG emission assessment quantifies all scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gases produced by Diab´s global activities and also the main corresponding from scope 3. Area Sustainability target Performance in 2017 Environmental Responsibility Efficient usage The target for 2022 is approximately 2016 approximately 10 and 2017 approximately of resources 6 tCO2e/tons sold product. The reason for 8 tCO2e/tons sold product. giving it an approximate value is because of its dependence on the mix of products produced. This varies to a certain extent each year. Reduce Diab committed during the beginning of During 2017 the second CO2e emission survey for CO2 emissions and 2017 to set Science Based Targets (SBT) Diab Group was performed and arranged to fit the other greenhouse in order to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) requests from SBT . With this knowledge built up, it gases (GHG) emissions in line with the level of decarbowas possible to set SBTs and by the end of the year nization required to keep the global temthe targets were submitted to SBT for examination. perature increase below 2°C compared to An agreement on moving from natural gas to buying pre-industrial temperatures. heat from a solid biofuel boiler in Laholm was signed by the end of the year. This change is expected to significantly reduce the carbon footprint for the Laholm production site in 2019. 30 CORE SUSTAINABILITY list of material topics Area Sustainability target Performance in 2017 Environmental Responsibility Increased recycling The Group-wide objective is for the volume A lot of work and activities have been undertaken and safe waste of waste to be reduced by 50% until 2022. in order to improve and market the IPN by-products. handling Several new businesses have been identified as well as an increased interest from the market. In addition, a number of possible projects to utilize the IPN by-products have been initiated in order to decrease the amount of primarily IPN waste. The internal awareness of waste has increased tremendously as the majority of the employees has achieved education and information on the waste­ situation together with concrete tools on how everyone can contribute to a reduction of waste, but also information on planned projects and activities. Sustainable Diab markets sustainable products as they Diab continuously develops and improves sustain­ product life cycle significantly contribute to reduced usage able products. During 2017 new products within of fossil fuels and other types of energy. At both the PET and IPN range were developed with the same time the products enable efficient significantly improved properties, reducing carbon building of and recovery of renewable enerfootprint not only for Diab but also for the products gy as for example windmills. of our customers and end-users. 31 CORE SUSTAINABILITY list of material topics Area Sustainability target Performance in 2017 Social Responsibility Health & Safety To continually reduce the number of acciAll facilities record an LTA and this year the mean for all employees dents and illnesses in the workplace is an value for all sites was 14.3. This is a high number vs essential objective. LTA is one of our main general industry benchmark and significant efforts KPIs. Our long-term target here is of course to reduce the LTA has been put in place at the Euroto achieve an LTA of 0. pean sites. The One Diab program was launched in Q1 & Q2 during the year and is expected to deliver lower LTA results in 2018. No child labor No incidents, either internally or externally, No incident identified during the year. < 15 years are acceptable. Support for fair ”Support for fair working conditions” for One incident of discrimination. working conditions Diab includes Non-discrimination, Freedom of association and Collective bargaining, Forced or compulsory labor, Human rights assessments and Supplier social assessment. No incidents, either internally or externally are acceptable. Education of Diab empowers continuous learning, both This year a new e-learning system was introduced employees external and internal. Diab has performed for internal training and various lessons can and and recorded Health & Safety Training for have to be conducted dependent on employment many years. category. 32 CORE SUSTAINABILITY list of material topics Area Sustainability target Performance in 2017 Financial Responsibility Anti-corruption There should be no cases of bribery, corrupThe Group has a whistleblowing system and no measures tion or cartel formation. Continued active events relating to corruption or inadequate business information for employees. ethics were recorded in 2017. Those employees in Thailand, Australia and India who did not participate in the web-based anticorruption training during 2016 have done so during 2017. This means that all employees globally requiring the anti-corruption training have performed the training and passed the test. Fair competitive This is a KPI for Diab and should be During the year three whistleblower incidents were business measured as the amount of whistleblower registered. incidents handled per year. This KPI shall remain low. Price Pricing of Diab products are based on value It is at the core of Diab to continuously innovate and for our customers. We strive to deliver high develop new valuable products and solutions for our value products, solutions and services. existing and new customers. This year, several valuable opportunities have been identified, developed and delivered. Support before sales The technical support provided by Diab During the year Technical Services has focused on to customers is unique and something the reduction of resin consumption in our customers’ strongly connected to our brand. In order to production processes in order to reduce the final protect this strength and also ensure the product weight. A lot of this work has been done most sustainable handling and usage of our within the wind mill industry. In addition, activities products, the organization will maintain this and projects have been run during the year in order level of competence and support for our to optimize production processes for renewable customers. energy, such as solar and tidal energy. 33 CORE SUSTAINABILITY Changes in reporting Precautionary Principle or approach A few changes have been done in the list of material topics Our sustainability commitment states: and topic boundaries compared to previous reporting periods. The strong focus on health & safety, CO2e – emis• Caring about our natural resources by continuously sions, waste and recycling, efficient energy usage and improving the utilization of raw materials, chemicals, anti-corruption remains, but other topics have been added, energy, water, and minimizing waste. as can be seen below: • Continuous improvement of the environmental perfor• No child labor <15 is a new material topic on the list, but mance of our activities, products and services and prehas been recorded for a long time. venting pollution to ground, air and water through the • Fair working conditions is a new material topic on the implementation of the principles in the ISO 14001 list, but has been recorded for a long time. stand­ard. • Education of employees • Under a new focus area called ”Product Value”, two new • Systematically assessing and optimizing the environmaterial topics have been added: mental impact from the design of new and redesigned • Price products. • Support before sales • Sustainable product life cycle • Fair competitive business “The strong focus on health & safety, CO2e – emissions, waste and recycling, efficient energy usage and anticorruption remains.” 34 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Risk assessment and environment During 2016 Diab also implemented a yearly calculation on During the risk assessment carried out by DMT in 2017, CO2e emissions, which clearly showed that the usage of the most actual risks and opportunities were identified natural gas within the group is the main contributor to the and evaluated. The topics are graded based on the level of CO2e emissions connected to energy consumption in the probability multiplied by the severity. The topic with the group. Moving away from natural gas to renewable energy highest risks within the environmental area, but still only would be an efficient way ahead to reduce the carbon footat a moderate level, was identified as permits for producprint. Therefore, it is a pleasure to present the agreement tion and the risks for them to be changed or cancelled. The that was signed by the end of 2017 in Laholm, where the actions to reduce this risk have been to nominate special natural gas boiler will be exchanged for a solid biofuel boiler. functions within operations. In addition, a plan is set to This is considered a renewable heat source and the CO2e deepen the local risk assessment at each production faciliemissions will be significantly reduced in Laholm as soon as ty in order to identify the different aspects around the perthe equipment has been built and has started to deliver enmits that deviate between the different sites. DMT is set ergy to the Laholm facility. to be main responsible for this topic, where actions have been fully implemented. All data for energy consumption is measured values from all production sites. These are put into the software “Our Energy Impacts” that is designed to help conduct high-quality Diab’s Sustainability policy clearly states the importance of assessments of an organization’s greenhouse gas emissions.­ caring about natural resources as energy by continuously improving how it is utilized. Each operating site is Our Impacts is a flexible accounting service that brings measuring and keeping track of the usage of energy, which together extensive research databases and carbon and is also reported internally on a monthly basis and annually energy expertise. In addition, this tool continuously receives to shareholders. updates on scientifically-based emission factors for energy calculations. Below the energy consumption in MWh during 2017, (2016 values in brackets) from electricity and heating together with other kinds of fuel consumption for all sites and offices combined: Fuel Type Fuel Type Electricity Heating Steam Total Non Renewable Renewable Consumption Consumption Consumption MWh 1,750 (1,550) 1,241 (1,158) 41,737 (43,761) 84,328 (81,167) 1,301 (1,265) 130,357 (128,901) 36 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Emissions Diab’s sustainability policy clearly states a strive for contiMarket-Based, tCO2e: nuous improvement of the environmental performance of • Scope 1 18,042 (17,009) our activities, products and services, preventing pollution • Scope 2 15,616 (16,739) to ground, air and water through the implementation of • Scope 3 57,083 (64,393) the principles in the ISO 14001 standard. • Total 90,741 (98,141) • Biogenic 32 (30) By the implementation of the yearly CO2e emissions calculations, a global and deeper understanding of all Diab The consolidation approach for emissions is operatioactivities and their corresponding contribution to GHG nal control, and the tools used for the calculation is the emissions in Scope 1 to 3 has been achieved. In accomplishsoftware Our Impact, provided by Ecometrica. The GWP ing this, Diab realized the aim to commit to set companyrates used are GWP of Kyoto Gases (IPCC 2007): wide emissions targets based directly on climate science in the early 2017. Greenhouse Gas GWP Carbon dioxide (CO2) 1 All of the four Diab relevant gases in the Kyoto Protocol, Methane (CH4) 25 see table GWP of for Diab relevant Kyoto Gases (IPCC2007), Nitrous oxide (N2O) 298 have been included in the calculations, which have been Biogenic (CO2) 0 carried out in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Biogenic (CH4) 24 Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. CO2e 1 Below the tCO2e emission volumes divided per scope is shown for Diab Group in 2017 (2016 values in brackets), in total. As can be seen Scope 3 is by far the largest: 38 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Emissions Science Based Targets The new KPI, mentioned under Core Sustainability, The Science Based Targets initiative is a partnership showing tCO2e tons / tons sold product, can also be consibetween CDP*, UN Global Compact, WRI* and WWF*, dered as the GHG emissions intensity ratio for the organihelping companies determine how much they must cut zation. In this all types of GHG emissions are included from emissions to prevent the worst impact of climate change. direct (Scope 1) and energy indirect (Scope 2) and the main Targets adopted by companies to reduce greenhouse gas part of other indirect gases (Scope 3). As for the calcula(GHG) emissions are considered “science-based” if they are tions mentioned above all Kyoto gases are included. in line with the level of decarbonization required to keep global temperature increase below 2 degrees Celcius. 2016 was the base year for tCO2e emission calculations. The total tCO2e emissions for 2017 were 7.5% lower than Diab is one of a few hundred companies in the world that for 2016. As mentioned earlier in this section the natural are committed to reducing our climate impact in line with gas usage in Laholm will be eliminated, which will signiwhat the latest climate science stipulates is needed, to ficantly reduce the CO2e emissions in total and especially make sure that we do our part in keeping the planet’s temfor the Laholm site. In addition, many minor activities are perature increase below 2 degrees Celcius. spread throughout the organization with the main purpose of reducing CO2e emissions. In our coming Sustainability CDP = Carbon Disclosure Project Reports for 2018 and onwards, the reduction of GHG emisCDP runs the global disclosure system that enables comsions will be visualized. panies, cities, states and regions to measure and manage their environmental impact. WRI = World Recourses Institute A global research organization working on six critical goals that the world must achieve this decade in order to secure a sustainable future: climate, energy, food, forests, water, cities & transport. WWF = World Wildlife Fund The leading organization in wildlife conservation and endangered species. 40 ZERO WASTE Reduce, reuse, recycle IPN by-products Zero Waste is a goal that is ethical, economical, efficient IPN by-products created from the waste stream are assoand visionary, to guide people in changing their lifestyles ciated with IPN core production. We wish to increase the and practices to emulate sustainable natural cycles, where market for this waste stream in order to convert it from a all discarded materials are designed to become resources cost for Diab into something positive that could generate for others to use. business. Zero Waste means designing and managing products and The IPN by-products is a sandwich core material made of processes to systematically avoid and eliminate the volume recycled compounds. It is a sustainable and cost-efficient and negative environmental impact of waste and matecore material for non-structural applications. Wooden, merials, conserve and recover all resources, and not burn or tallic or GRP (Glass Fiber Reinforced Polyester) skins can be bury them. readily bonded to create light and stiff sandwich panels. Implementing Zero Waste will eliminate all discharges to Good thermal and sound insulating properties make IPN land, water or air that are a threat to planetary, human, by-products suitable for several applications such as plugs, animal or plant health. direct molds, acoustic panels, insulating panels etc. Waste Agglomerator We measure our waste in many different ways to be able Agglomerators have been installed in Longarone, Italy, to to sum up the actual contribution of our waste to our total recycle our internal waste of PET (which is the material carbon footprint. used in our P, PN, PY and PX grades) and also in DeSoto, USA, to recycle our internal waste of PES material (which is Handle waste includes the final stages of the waste, either the material used in our F grade). put in landfill or incinerated. Raw material to produce waste includes all the materials that Diab uses in order to produce the waste. Energy to produce waste includes all energy needed to produce all waste. Transport waste is waste that we transport between facilities. 42 ZERO WASTE Water discharge by quality and destination The measured water supply to Diab was calculated to a The non-hazardous waste disposal methods used and total of 3.9x106 m3. 3.8x106 m3 of these are supplied to their percentage of the total waste amount are shown Longarone. The main part is taken from the river passing below (2016 values in brackets): the factory and is used as cooling water. The water is re• Landfilled waste: 88% (71%) cycled to the river after having passed the cooling system. • Incinerated waste: 10% (25%) • Recycled waste: 2% (4%) The same process is used in Laholm but the amount of water from the river here is not measured and therefore The waste disposal method is generally decided by the not calculated. In Zangjiagang, the process utilizes a waste disposal contractor and as the IPN waste, which is cooling water unit, as the climate is warmer most part of the main part, is difficult to incinerate, only the landfill althe year. The remaining water used in Laholm, Longarone ternative remains for several production sites. and Zhangjiagang and the other sites is clean water used in offices and for minor parts of the factories. Balsa production in Ecuador – Zero waste Parts of the incinerated waste within Diab are connected Waste by type and disposal method to the waste from the balsa core production in Ecuador. The contracted external waste management to handle our Here, almost 100% of the waste from the different prohazardous waste have all necessary approvals for all the duction steps is incinerated in a chimney at our local site operations handling and finally to incapacitate our hazarand this producing direct heat to operational processes. By dous waste. According to the information provided by the this approach the production waste leaving this factory is waste disposal contractors the hazardous waste during as close to zero as you can get in reality. the year has been handled as follows (no data from 2016 compiled): • Incinerated: 172 tons • Landfill: 0.4 tons “The waste from the balsa core • Other: 14 tons production in Ecuador is as close to zero as you can get in reality.” 44 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Every company within Diab has a responsibility to fulfill Location of operations legal requirements and to maintain a high standard of The company has production units for material in Sweden, business ethics as well as ensuring compliance with Italy, USA, China and Ecuador. Material processing takes national policies and laws regarding financial responsibility. place in the production units as well as in China and Lithuania. All entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements: Scale of the organization 2017 Diab International AB (Sweden) 556509-3027 (2016 values in brackets) Diab AB (Sweden) • Total Number of Employees (December): 1273 (1242) Diab Sweden AB (Sweden) • Total number of Operations: 7 (7) Diab ApS (Denmark) • Net sales of MSEK 1439 (MSEK 1516). Split between Diab GmbH (Germany) Private sector and Public Sector: 100% Private sector Diab AS (Norway) • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and Diab Ltd (UK) equity per December 31, 2017 is published on Ratos´ Diab SAS (France) website Diab SpA (Italy) Diab UAB (Lithuania) Risk assessment and compliances Diab Sp. z o.o. (Poland) The outcome of the risk assessment done by DMT, as desDiab Spain S.L. (Spain) cribed under “Environmental responsibility”, on the risks Diab (Kunshan) Co. Ltd (China) related to compliances is pointing out failure in adhering to Diab Composite Materials & Technology Co. Ltd. (China) international trade regulations and restrictions. Diab New Material (Zhangjiagang) Co. Ltd. (China) Diab Core Materials Private Ltd (India) During the year, a control function has been built into Diab Australia Pty Ltd (Australia) Diab´s Salesforce CRM-system in order to control countries Diab South East Asia Co. Ltd. (Thailand) and companies with international sanctions as well as Diab Holdings Inc. (USA) including: export permits. This is an efficient and now implemented • Diab Ecuador S.A. (Ecuador) tool to significantly minimize the failure in adhering to • Diab Investments Inc. (USA) international trade regulations and restrictions. • Diab Americas LP (USA) 46 ZERO CORRUPTION Risk assessment and corruption The outcome of the risk assessment done by DMT, as desDiab has a confidential whistleblowing procedure in place cribed under “Environmental responsibility”, on the risks whereby potential breaches can be reported confidentially, related to corruption, pointed out corruption risks in China, and we follow up on reported incidents in a thorough and India, former Soviet Union and Ecuador. The risks are responsible manner. connected to contacts with customers, agents, distributors and suppliers. The actions performed to minimize the risks The operations within Diab still assessed for risks after the have been to change the reporting structure to avoid the actions described above are those situated in China, i.e. in organization’s dependency on ”one man”, for example Kunshan and Zhangjiagang. These facilities correspond to financial reporting to a local MD. In addition, there has been 28% of the operational sites. an increased presence of representatives from headquarters (DMT) in high risk countries and also audits. After A thorough global education on the organization’s antithe implementation of these actions during the year, we corruption policy and procedures, together with general will continue to monitor the situation. training on anti-corruption, was undertaken during 2016. Some minor areas were not covered during 2016, but the Anti-corruption training was completed also in all parts of Asia in 2017. At Diab, we make it a rule to act with integrity at all times. Our business principles commit us to comply with all rules This means that 100% of the governance body members and regulations in each country where we operate and to and all globally interested parties among our employees not accept any form of corruption. (covering all employees with email addresses) have passed the training on Diab’s anti-corruption policies and proceAnti-corruption is specifically stated in Diab’s Code of dures and general anti-corruption. Employees with email Conduct that is published on our website. addresses include all white collar workers as well as some blue collar workers. Awareness We make all our business partners and employees aware In Lithuania the work on implementing the supplier Code of of the Code of Conduct and we provide the information and Conduct, which also covers anti-corruption, was implementraining necessary to understand and comply with it. We ted during 2016 and further developed during 2017. This inform all employees about the Code of Conduct through work will continue globally during 2018. our e-learning program and via our intranet. During 2017 Diab had no confirmed incidents of corruption. 48 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY UN Guiding Principles and ILO convention Diab Code of Conduct Diab´s approach to Human Rights is based on the UN To ensure that we meet the commitments to our stakeGuiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Our holders and interact with our colleagues, customers, partpolicy is built on our Human Rights Statement below and ners, internally as well as with local and global society, in a applies to all entities within the Diab Group. respectful and correct manner, we have implemented the Diab Code of Conduct. This document is available on our Diab looks to those Human Rights defined in the Universal website and is meant to provide guidance on how to act in Declaration of Human Rights and its two corresponding any given situation. covenants, The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and The International Covenant on Economic, Social The Diab Code of Conduct describes the way we respect and Cultural Rights. human and labor rights and defines the business ethics we expect all of our employees to show. Diab’s approach to its business operations is informed by the ILO International Labor Organization’s Declaration on We believe that fulfilling our corporate social responsiFundamental Principles and Rights at Work, The Children’s bilities is instrumental in meeting our commitment and Rights and Business Principles and the United Nation´s reaching our targets. Global Compact, to which we are signatories. To this end: Human & Labor rights and working conditions at • Safety for our people always comes first. Simply put, no Diab one should get hurt while working at Diab. Together, we Human Rights, such as the right to nondiscrimination, all take responsibility for each other’s safety. are relevant for the social aspect of our business. And the • We work in strict adherence with regulatory requireaspects of working conditions will affect issues such as ments. safety and first aid. • We are a trustworthy partner for our business associates. As a global company, we have a considerable impact on the • We work in close cooperation with local society and entire range of Human & Labor rights as well as the worcontinuously focus on minimizing the impact on the king conditions at our sites. In order to know and show that environment on a local and global scale. we respect these rights, we need to have certain policies and processes in place. 50 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Discrimination During 2017 Diab Group had one incident of discrimination. The main measures to be carried out in order to contribute This incident has been reviewed by the organization, an to the effective abolition of child labor and to the eliminaaction plan has been implemented and the incident is no tion of all forms of forced or compulsory labor is to contilonger subject to action. nuously increase the rate of acceptance of all suppliers in all regions, direct and indirect, to sign the Supplier Code of Risk assessment of child labor Conduct. Operations within Diab are assessed to have very limited risk of child labor, young workers exposed to hazardous This work has mainly progressed in Lithuania during 2017, work or forced or compulsory labor. but will continue also in other regions as stated earlier in the report. The work conducted in Lithuania during the The risk for child labor, young workers exposed to hazaryear also involves screening of suppliers, using social dous work or forced or compulsory labor is assessed as criteria subject to due diligence processes. possible for suppliers to our China operations. Diab has global suppliers and the problem is primarily associated Whistleblower system with smaller local suppliers in China. Direct materials for No operations have been subject to human rights reviews production in China are mainly supplied by global European or human rights impact assessments during 2017. Diab’s suppliers, where the risk for child labor, young workers Code of Conduct is very clear on human rights, which are getting exposed to hazardous work or forced or compulthe guidelines followed by all operations. If any breakage sory labor is assessed as very low. against the Code of Conduct is conducted this would be notified in the whistleblower system. Apart from the Supplier Code of Conduct above-mentioned incident of discrimination, there has Indirect suppliers have not been audited, but have been been not reported incident on infringements on human invited to sign our Code of Conduct. In those cases a rights. Supplier Code of Conduct has been sent, it has been accepted and signed, but at present it is not always offered. 52 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Risk assessment and Health & Safety The outcome of the risk assessment done by DMT, as desSwedish safety regulations. cribed under “Environmental Responsibility”, on the risks related to Health & Safety, pointed out accidents where Nomenclature used: personnel are injured as the main material topic under Lost Time Accidents (LTA): Accidents that result in an Social Responsibility. As a response the One Diab program employee missing the next regularly scheduled workday was initiated. The program started in Laholm, Longarone or shift. Diab records LTA per million of worked hours (incluand Siauliai in Q1 & Q2 and has been expanded gradually ding temps, but excluding contractors, and only accidents on these sites during the year. The LTA for the Group is that have happened within our premises, not on the way high vs general industry benchmark. With the One Diab to/from work). program significant efforts to reduce accidents has been put in place during 2017. The program will be expanded Occurrence index: LTA + Recordable (Accidents that result during 2018 to more sites and is expected to deliver lower in an employee not missing the next regularly scheduled LTA results for the Group average. workday or shift) per million of worked hours (including temps, but excluding contractors, and only accidents that Recorded Health & Safety data have happened within our premises, not on the way to/ Data collected in each production site on a monthly basis from work). within this field include types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and number Sick leave rate: percentage of not worked hours in relation of work-related fatalities. The data is recorded according to to worked hours due to sick leave. Recorded data Health & Safety Values for all sites measured during 2017 (2016 values in brackets) LTA Occurrence Index Sick Leave Rate, % Laholm, Sweden 19.7 (24.7) 36.6 (32.9) 5.7 (5.23) Longarone, Italy 29.7 (15.1) 32.1 (15.1) 4.9 (4.47) Siauliai, Lithuania 23.1 20.6) 34.7 (29.5) 8.5 (6.34) DeSoto, USA 0.0 (0.0) 8.5 (23.4) 1.4 (0.88) Kunshan, China 5.5 (8.2) 13.8 (8.2) 1.6 (2.65) Zhangjiagang, China 5.1 (0.0) 15.4 (0.0) 0.4 (0.22) Duran, Ecuador 6.0 (6.3) 9.0 (9.5) 1.2 (0.65) Diab Group 14.3 (12.5) 22.8 (17.9) 3.7 (3.38) 54 CASE STORIES A passenger ferry for sustainable sightseeing The 40 meter long Vision of the Fjords runs the route possible, which is why Vision of the Fjords was constructed between Flåm and Gudvangen, with a capacity of 400 paswith carbon fiber composite materials. The sleek design sengers. The ferry takes sightseeing to a new – and more is not only pleasant to the eye but the light weight reduces sustainable – level. the impact on the environment. In addition, the material offers a great deal of construction freedom, allowing for a A hybrid-electric catamaran by Brødrene Aa design that efficiently reduces waves and thus the impact Constructed in 2016 by the renowned Brødrene Aa i Hyen erosion of the vulnerable shores of the Nærøyfjord. for the Norwegian shipping company The Fjords, the hybrid-electric catamaran can take tourists up Norway’s Working together to create a winner beautiful coast in a both silent and sustainable way. The Diab has been working with Brødrene Aa since 1974 and unique vessel utilizes the very latest clean technology to has been a partner in developing the sandwich composite preserve the ancient, natural treasure of the fjords. technology. Brødrene AA has produced several fast-going ships with Divinycell FRP reinforced panels. Vision of the Powered by batteries Fjords was constructed using Divinycell H, which proWith a top speed of 19.5 knots, Vision of the Fjords has a vides excellent mechanical properties and low weight. diesel engine, but the idea is to avoid using it as far as posCompatible with most wet resin systems, it can be found in sible. Instead, the ship utilizes an electric hybrid propulsion virtually every application area where sandwich composisystem developed by ABB, and powered by Mancraft diesel tes are employed, including marine, transport, wind energy or by batteries from ZEM. The idea is to only use the diesel and civil engineering. Its low thermal conductivity makes it engines for longer transit distances, but that the vessel especially suitable as insulation at low or cryogenic tempewill be powered by batteries alone during sightseeing tours ratures. in the vulnerable Nærøyfjord, a UNESCO World Heritagelisted site. The batteries can be charged either by on-shore Vision of the Fjords is officially a winner. Brødrene Aa power or by the engines on board. received the prestigious award “Ship of the Year 2016” at the International Maritime Trade Fare SMM in Hamburg, Light weight is crucial and the 2017 JEC WORLD Innovation Award. In order to reduce energy consumption and lower the battery capacities needed, the vessel needs to be as light as www.braa.no 56 CASE STORIES Croatian shipbuilder Uljanik and Diab set a new standard in commercial ship building By building the top three out of 13 decks with Divinycell tional steel decks the weight savings for the decks will be sandwich panels, shipbuilder Uljanik cuts the deck weight 25% or a staggering 200 tons. Indirectly less ballast water of car carrier Siem Cicero by 25%. These decks are the first will be required to stabilize the ship. These weight savings extensive application of sandwich composite in the shipwill result in a reduced fuel consumption of 4%. ping industry. Composite solutions are the future for shipbuilders Unique car carrier from leading shipbuilder Uljanik These substantial weight and cost savings are made posFounded in 1856, Uljanik is a shipbuilding company and sible by replacing just three out of thirteen decks. With shipyard located in Pula, Croatia. It is one of the oldest decks and superstructures traditionally made of heavy steel, shipyards in the world with 4,000 employees. After two there is a tremendous opportunity for further savings in the years of R & D with the support of Diab, Uljanik has made ships that are to follow Siem Cicero. Through close coopethe future reality with Siem Cicero. The ship will be used ration and a careful analysis of data from this first vessel, for the transportation of cars and heavy vehicles for the Uljanik and Diab are looking into how core sandwich soluLondon-based company ”Siem car carriers”, serving mainly tions can be used in other ships. The collaboration between Volkswagen cars. With a length of two football fields, the Uljanik and Diab offers a unique opportunity to estimate and ship can carry 7,000 vehicles and it incorporates new techmeasure the savings that can be achieved with Diab sandnologies that will reduce environmental impact and cut wich composite solutions. running cost. As a leader in sandwich core composite technology, Diab is Reducing deck weight constantly developing new products for stronger, lighter and The ship has thirteen decks. The top three decks are built smarter solutions and will proudly follow Siem Cicero and in sandwich composite using Diab’s strong and lightweight her sister ships. Divinycell core. Each deck uses 2500 m2 of Divinycell H80 and 1000 m2 of Divinycell H100. Compared to the tradiwww.uljanik.hr 58 GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT Diab – our commitment to sustainable business What does it mean for Diab as a company? In order to confirm our commitment to sustainability, As a member of the UN Global Compact, Diab commits to: Diab has signed up as a member of the United Nations • Continue the development of our business operations Global Compact. Through this membership we are given so that the UN Global Compact and the Ten Principles an international framework supporting our sustainability always are part of our strategy, culture and day-to-day efforts. We also send a clear signal to our stakeholders operations, including in subsidiaries and the supply on our commitment to operate according to the principles chain: of the UN Global Compact and we gain a possibility to share • Advocate the UN Global Compact and the Ten Principles experience and learn from other member organizations. via available communications channels. • Communicate annually with our stakeholders on our What is the UN Global Compact? sustainability efforts and the implementation of the UN The UN Global Compact is the world’s largest corporate Global Compact principles, and post this Communication sustainability initiative with over 8,300 participants in 161 on Progress (COP) on the UN Global Compact website. countries. It was launched by Kofi Annan in 1999. Its aim is to transform the world, creating a sustainable and inclusive global economy that delivers lasting benefits to all people, communities and markets. To make this happen, the UN Global Compact supports its member companies to do business responsibly by following the Ten Principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. 60 GRI CONTENT INDEX This report has been approved by the Board on February 12, 2018. Diab Group´s sustainability reporting refers to calendar year 2017. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. This is Diab Group´s second sustainability reporting according to GRI and Diab Group intends to report annually. In line with the Global Compact (GC) commitment, Diab Group submits a Communication on Progress (COP) that presents the task of implementing GC´s principles. The sustainability report is prepared based on GRI´s principles in order to determine content and ensure quality. Stakeholder dialogues and materiality analysis are the basis for Diab Group´s sustainability issues. GRI GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Number Omission Standard Standard Number Title Section Number Title GRI 102 General 102-01 Name of the organization Diab Group AB Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-02 Activities, brands, products 10 One Diab + Website Disclosures and services GRI 102 General 102-03 Location of headquarters Laholm, Sweden Disclosures 62 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Number Omission Standard Standard Number Title Section Number Title GRI 102 General 102-04 Location of operations 46 Financial Responsibility Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-05 Ownership and legal form Ratos 96%, Disclosures Management & Board 4% Limited company GRI 102 General 102-06 Markets served Americas, Europe, Asia, Disclosures Australia and Africa GRI 102 General 102-07 Scale of the organization 16 One Diab, 46 Financial Disclosures Responsibility, Ratos´ website GRI 102 General 102-08 Information on employees 18 One Diab Disclosures and other workers GRI 102 General 102-09 Supply chain 22 Strategy & Governance Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-10 Significant changes to the 22 Strategy & Governance Disclosures organization and its supply chain GRI 102 General 102-11 Precautionary Principle or 34 Core Sustainability Disclosures approach GRI 102 General 102-12 External initiatives Website Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-13 Membership of associations Sweden: IKEM, Svenskt Disclosures Näringsliv, Unionen. Sv.Ing., Ledarna, IF Metall. Italy: Industrial Association (Chemical & Plastics). Ecuador: Cámara de Comercio Guayaquil. USA: Global Society of plastic Professionals, National Marine Mfg Association. 63 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Number Omission Standard Standard Number Title Section Number Title GRI 102 General 102-14 Statement from senior 4 CEO words Disclosures decision-maker GRI 102 General 102-16 Values, principles, standards Website Disclosures and norms of behavior GRI 102 General 102-18 Governance structure 20-22 Strategy & Governance Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 26 Stakeholder Involvement Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-41 Collective bargaining Employees with collective Disclosures agreements bargaining agreements are engaged in Italy, Sweden and China. They represent 78% of the personnel. GRI 102 General 102-42 Identifying and selecting 24, 26-27 Stakeholder Involvement Disclosures stakeholders GRI 102 General 102-43 Approach to stakeholder 24-27 Stakeholder Involvement Disclosures engagement GRI 102 General 102-44 Key topics and concerns 24-25 Stakeholder Involvement Disclosures raised GRI 102 General 102-45 Entities included in the 46 Financial Responsibility Disclosures consolidated financial statements GRI 102 General 102-46 Defining report content and 28 Core Sustainability Disclosures topic boundaries GRI 102 General 102-47 List of material topics 30-33 Core Sustainability Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-48 Restatements of information None during the year Disclosures approach GRI 102 General 102-49 Changes in reporting 34 Core Sustainability Disclosures 64 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Number Omission Standard Standard Number Title Section Number Title GRI 102 General 102-50 Reporting period The reporting period for the Disclosures information provided is 2017 GRI 102 General 102-51 Date of most recent report The Sustainability Report Disclosures Issued May 14, 2017 GRI 102 General 102-52 Reporting cycle The reporting cycle is annual Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-53 Contact point for questions Per Hökfelt Disclosures regarding the report EVP Sustainability & EHSQ per.hokfelt@se.diabroup.com GRI 102 General 102-54 Claims of reporting in 62 GRI Content Index Disclosures accordance with the GRI Standards GRI 102 General 102-55 GRI Content Index 62 GRI Content Index Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-56 External Assurance Website Disclosures GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material 30 Core Sustainability Approach topic and its boundary GRI 103 Management 103-2 The management approach 28 Core Sustainability and Approach and its components for subject specific information about sustainability control see each focus area respectively GRI 103 Management 103-3 Evaluation of the For subject specific information Approach management approach about sustainability control see each focus area respectively GRI 205 Anti205-1 Operations assessed for 48 Zero Corruption corruption risks related to corruption GRI 205 Anti205-2 Communication and training 48 Zero Corruption corruption about anti-corruption policies and procedures 65 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Number Omission Standard Standard Number Title Section Number Title GRI 205 Anti205-3 Confirmed incidents of 48 Zero Corruption corruption corruption and actions taken GRI 302 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within 36 Environmental Responsibility the organization No energy has been sold from any of the production sites GRI 305 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) 38 Environmental Responsibility GHG emissions Location-Based, tCO2e: 18,042 GRI 305 Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) 38 Environmental Responsibility GHG emissions Location-Based, tCO2e: 13,224 GRI 305 Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) 38 Environmental Responsibility GHG emissions Location-Based, tCO2e: 56,972 GRI 305 Emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 38 Environmental Responsibility Total Location-Based, tCO2e: 88,238 GRI 305 Emissions 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 40 Environmental Responsibility GRI 306 Effluents and 306-1 Water discharge by quality 44 Zero Waste Waste and destination GRI 306 Effluents and 306-2 Waste by type and disposal 44 Zero Waste Waste method GRI 306 Effluents and 306-3 Significant spills 0 significant spills Waste GRI 403 Occupational 403-2 Types of injury and rates of 54 Social Responsibility Health and injury, occupational diseases, Safety lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities GRI 404 Training and 404-1 Average hours of training per 17 One Diab Education year per employee 66 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Number Omission Standard Standard Number Title Section Number Title GRI 405 Diversity and 405-1 Diversity of governance 18 One Diab and Partly Equal bodies and employees 23 Strategy & Governance legal proOpportunity hibitions GRI 406 Non406-1 Incidents of discrimination 52 Social Responsibility discrimination and corrective actions taken GRI 407 Freedom of 407-1 Operations and suppliers in Not folAssociation which the right to freedom lowed toand Collective of association and collective day * Bargaining bargaining may be at risk GRI 408 Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at 52 Social Responsibility significant risk for incidents of child labor GRI 409 Forced or 409-1 Operations and suppliers at 52 Social Responsibility Compulsory significant risk for incidents Labor of forced or compulsory labor GRI 412 Human Rights 412-1 Operations that have been 52 Social Responsibility Assessment subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments GRI 414 Supplier Social 414-1 New suppliers that were 52 Social Responsibility Assessment screened using social criteria GRI 414 Supplier Social 414-2 Negative social impacts in a-e. 0 Assessment the supply chain and actions taken * but a part of our improvement process to get in place 67
