CSR VISION: To be recognised as the most responsible company. CSR MISSION: Be committed to sustainable actions and contribute meaningfully to the Triple Bottom Line (social, economic and environment) performance. EDUCATE, ENGAGE AND ENABLE EDUCATE: Educate people (Internal and external stakeholders) and create awareness on various key social issues through knowledge sharing and communication. (Prosperity) ENGAGE: Engage people in various social activities and encourage them to take productive and responsible actions towards society. (People) ENABLE: Enable people by providing empowering and healthy environment as well as support the community around us. (Planet) EDUCATE ENGAGE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY ENABLE Apparel Group Sustainability Report 2017 1 ABOUT THIS REPORT We are proud to present our sustainability report, summarizing our work and achievements for the year 2017. This report has been compiled to communicate our sustainability commitments and actions to all our stakeholders, which include our customers, suppliers, employees, regulators, civil society members, and the society at large. The reporting period is from January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017. This report provides information regarding our performance on the UN Global Compact principles and, therefore, serves as our annual Communication On Progress (COP). REPORT BOUNDARY Apparel Group is a global fashion retail conglomerate with leading international brands and a diversiﬁed business portfolio of footwear, apparel, accessories, cosmetics, fragrances, watches and food and beverages. We have business operations across 14 countries that include UAE, Oman, Qatar, Bahrain, Kuwait, Jordan, Iraq, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Malaysia, Thailand, Singapore, Indonesia, India & South Africa. During the preparation of this report, the ‘Reporting Boundary’ we have considered includes only the UAE operations and for environmental disclosures, the reporting is based on the level of our inﬂuence and is mainly for our corporate oﬃce in Jebel Ali. We welcome any comments, feedback and suggestions, which will help us improve our reporting and ensure transparency. This report is available on the United Nations Global Compact website and the Apparel Group website. In case of queries, please contact: apparelcsr@appareluae.com Apparel Group Sustainability Report 2017 2 WHAT IS UN GLOBAL COMPACT The Apparel Group is a member of the United Nations Global Compact, which is the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative, focusing on 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption. We’ve been members since 2015 and present an annual report or COP of all the initiatives undertaken by the Group towards the 10 principles and United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect Principle 7: Businesses should support a the protection of internationally proclaimed human precautionary approach to environmental rights; and challenges; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and human rights abuses. Principle 9: encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technoloLABOUR gies Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition of the ANTI-CORRUPTION right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Principle 10: Businesses should work against compulsory labour; corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Principle 5: the eﬀective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. WHAT ARE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), otherwise known as the Global Goals, are a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity. These 17 Goals focus on climate change, economic inequality, innovation, sustainable consumption, peace and justice, among other priorities. Apparel Group Sustainability Report 2017 3 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE “There are many ways to measure a company’s success. However, a truly successful company is one that ﬁnds a way to return some of its rewards to the communities in which it operates. We believe a company cannot consider itself truly successful unless it makes an eﬀort to give back. Apparel Group strongly believes that as a large organization we can make a diﬀerence in several ways such as donating ﬁnancially to the needy; helping protect the environment and make the society we live in a better place for our stakeholders through various activities and campaigns. The Apparel Group supports the ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to implement those principles. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects that advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Through this Communication on Progress, we make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. It is my hope that we can set an example to other companies by demonstrating that these contributions to society will create awareness to save our planet. We believe that our compassionate actions will make the world a better place for future generations.” Apparel Group Sustainability Report 2017 4 2017 HIGHLIGHTS 12 9 3 477 37,700+ BENEFICIARIES MAN HOURS 376,000 8 CHARITY KGS RECYCLED PARTNERS DONATIONS UNITS DONATED 43,573 IN-KIND DONATION WORTH AED 3,459,897 478,511 AED RAISED Apparel Group Sustainability Report 2017 5 THE APPAREL DIFFERENCE FUNDRAISING Tim Hortons X Al Jalila Foundation Tim Hortons organised a ‘Smile Cookie’ campaign in partnership with Al Jalila Foundation. Between September 24 and October 29, guests could purchase a delicious chocolate chip Smile Cookie for AED 6 at participating Tim Hortons restaurants, with the full amount going to the Foundation. The funds raised were used for Al Jalila Foundation’s paediatric initiative, Farah, which provides life-saving treatment, funds cutting-edge research and oﬀers hope to countless children and their families. Funds raised: AED 337,053 Naturalizer X Dubai Foundation for Women & Children Naturalizer launched a campaign to support the ﬁght against domestic violence by donating 10 AED on every purchase of a pair of Bzees. The donation was made to Dubai Foundation for Women & Children, a non-proﬁt shelter in the UAE for women and child victims of domestic violence, child abuse, and human traﬃcking. The Foundation aims to protect physically, sexually, and emotionally abused women and children, prevent ongoing abuse and the escalation of violence, and promote social awareness through education and outreach. Funds raised: AED 29,000 Apparel Group Sustainability Report 2017 6 Dune London X Project Maji Apparel Group and The Maji Project joined hands to help raise funds for responsible water management and to work towards ending the water poverty crisis in small rural communities across Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). The contribution has aided the NGO in deploying solar pumping stations that can lift 3,000 litres of ground water per day and serve it eﬃciently to a village using multiple dispensing taps. Mobile-monitoring at each plant has also helped monitor the performance of the pumping stations, improving and sustaining villagers’ access to clean water. Funds raised: AED 7,260 IN-KIND DONATION Levi’s X Emirates The Children’s Place X Red Crescent Emirates Red Crescent Levi’s launched a campaign to collect lightly-worn jeans for charity, gifting customers AED The Children’s Place in association with Emirates 100 vouchers for a new pair of jeans. The jeans Red Crescent organized a programme and gave were donated to those in need, in association with away gifts to 50 orphaned children in UAE. Emirates Red Crescent. Units donated: 50 sets Total units donated: 890 In-kind donation worth: AED 10,000 Apparel Group Sustainability Report 2017 7 Aldo, Call It Spring X Emirates Red Crescent Aldo launched a campaign to collect lightly-worn shoes for charity, gifting customers a free pair of shoes for each pair donated at their stores. The shoes were donated to those in need, in association with Emirates Red Crescent. Besides this, Call It Spring donated shoes and bags for Syrian refugees throughout the year. Units donated: 25966 BabyCenter BabyCenter donated clothes, shoes and toys each for 3,000 children of Syrian refugees in Lebanon. In-kind donation worth: AED 420,000 Apparel Group Sustainability Report 2017 8 VOLUNTEERING Levi’s X Dubai Autism Centre The Levi’s team organized a fun-ﬁlled day for 70 children and spent time with them at the Dubai Autism Centre. The children were treated to a magic show, face painting, popcorn and pizza. TOMS X Emirates Red Crescent Around 185 children were in for a treat at the TOMS store at Box Park as well as the Emirates Red Crescent centre, where they received shoes, mugs and a sumptious Tim Hortons breakfast in two separate events. Around 15 employees interacted and spent time with the children at these events. Units donated: 226 In-kind donation worth: 55,544 AED Apparel Group Sustainability Report 2017 9 INCLUSIVITY 1 NO. OF NATIONALITIES IN WORKFORCE: 69 2 GENDER MIX RATIO 30% WOMEN NO. OF INTERNSHIPS AND PART-TIME 3 DIFFERENTLY-ABLED 4 WORK PEOPLE We have 178 part-timers and 50 interns from over 30 universities; Our interns receive gift vouchers in addition to a monthHIRED: 11 ly stipend. A lunch session is conducted every fortnight wherein the interns are addressed by our Chairman Mr. Nilesh Ved or an important member from the senior management. 5 TOTAL WORKFORCE IN UAE: 5,200+ CATEGORY COUNT SENIOR LEVEL MANAGEMENT 41 MIDDLE LEVEL MANAGEMENT 130 JUNIOR LEVEL MANAGEMENT 1166 NON-MANAGEMENT 3864 Apparel Group Sustainability Report 2017 10 APPAREL TRAINING ACADEMY The Apparel Development Pathway (ADP) was developed to provide training courses to employees, based on the skills required, job positions and job roles. Performing employees are put on ADP and promoted to the next higher grade with new responsibilities. Some of the programmes under this approach are: • Apparel Manager Program (AMP) • Visual Merchandiser Program (VMP) • Second-In-Command (SIC) • Trainer Apprenticeship Program (TAP) ONLINE TRAINING Training Department uses the Kahoot application to train employees through games to make learning fun and 20% of the training is done online. EXTERNAL TRAINING In 2017, two senior management leaders attended a seven-week programme at Harvard Business School. 2017 training hours: 52,732 hours (Frontline) Apparel Group Sustainability Report 2017 11 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT ACTIVITIES� The company adopted and celebrated the Retail Employees Day (RED) with the objective of bringing retail employees in the forefront by thanking them for their untiring eﬀorts. Senior management visited the retail stores, celebrating with our store staﬀ by cutting a cake and thanking them personally. All employees were given 50% discount across all brands of the Apparel Group on that day. On the occasion of Women's Day in 2017, a special contest was organized for all the women employees at the head oﬃce, wherein they had to identify the names of famous women personalities pinned on a board and lucky winners with the maximum number of correct answers were awarded a special goodie bag. This day was celebrated with a gratitude tree where employees could leave a special message on sticky notes for women that inspired them. In addition, Nine West also organized a competition where employees were asked to nominate one woman colleague they admired and mention the qualities she stands for. The three most inspiring entries received a gift hamper from the brand. During the launch of Crocs Brand, a treasure hunt competition was arranged in the oﬃce and winners who identiﬁed the clues were rewarded with a pair of Crocs Shoes. Apparel Group Sustainability Report 2017 12 HEAR FOR YOU EVENT A special Townhall meeting was conducted for our employAs part of the Friendship's day celebrations, a ees this year. A link was circulated to all employees to give contest was run across all the stores to send their suggestions and feedback. More than 1200 employtheir best team picture with a write-up of what ees’ suggestions were received, which were then segregatfriendship means to them. The entries were ed and communicated as well as addressed at the HR judged by a jury and the winners were rewarded forum, and required actions were taken soon after the with Apparel gift vouchers. forum and communicated to employees. This forum was attended by the Chairman, Vice Chairman as well as general managers of the diﬀerent brands. HEALTH CAMPS NEW BALANCE BREAKS GUINNESS In 2017, wellness programmes were held at the head oﬃce WORLD RECORD in collaboration with Harley International Medical Clinic. Apparel Group was part of Dubai’s Fitness Employee health check-ups were conducted by various Challenge, a 30-day ﬁtness challenge involving physicians such as dermatologist, dentist, and general physical and sporting activities promoted by the practitioner, among others. The leadership team was also Dubai Sports Council to create awareness on the given an executive check up at HMC. Apparel has culture of exercise and living a healthy lifestyle in partnered with a medical insurance company to provide Dubai. subsidized checkup and medicines to employees in case of sickness. New Balance in association with Dubai Festival City participated in the ﬁtness challenge and Around 538 employees received consultations through broke the Guinness World Record for the 'Most these sessions. People Attempting Squat Jumps' with 497 participants breaking the existing record of 473. Apparel Group Sustainability Report 2017 13 GEORGIA TRIP A competition was held for the best-performing store managers across all Apparel Group stores in GCC and 46 employees were given a 5 day paid vacation to Georgia. DUBAI FITNESS CHALLENGE Our employees enthusiatically participated in the Dubai Fitness Challenge in October. They took part in ﬁtness classes such as yoga classes and sprinted around the oﬃce premises for an hour each day. The warehouse employees were given lunch parties by our diﬀerent brands for all their hardwork and timely execution, throughout 2017 Apparel Group Sustainability Report 2017 14 EMPLOYEE FACILITIES • Accommodation is provided to our warehouse employees, coupled with internet facilities and subsidised meal. Access to accommodation has drastically reduced their expenditure, travel time and overall carbon footprint. • We also provide an hourly shuttle bus for our employees between the metro station and the corporate oﬃce •Apparel Group-owned Harley’s International Medical Clinic provides consultations and basic laboratory tests free of charge for Apparel Employees. Harley’s has a hotline number for Apparel employees to call during emergencies. •We have a designated parking space for pregnant employees and people of determination closer to the oﬃce building. Pregnant employees are given the ﬂexibility to leave the oﬃce early and to work from home towards the last month of pregnancy. • We have an activity area wherein employees as well as visitors can play billiards, get a back massage, and surf the internet at the computer kiosks. • The company also provides food and beverages through Tim Hortons café for all visiting the café with no charges. • Cash advances are given to new employees to help them settle down Apparel Group Sustainability Report 2017 15 PLANET ELECTRICITY CONSUMED WATER CONSUMED CARBON FOOTPRINT 5533940 KwH 2429360 GALLONS 2434959 Kg CO2e STEPS TAKEN TO REDUCE CARBON FOOTPRINT •Use of sensor-triggered lights, LEDs, timed AC usage at optimum temperature and use of chiller are some of the steps taken to reduce electricity usage in 2017 •Use of sensor-triggered taps, ﬂushes kept on minimum mode, regular audit of ﬁxtures to quell leakages •Treated water is used for irrigation and toilet ﬂushing. •Building planned with large glass windows to allow for maximum natural lighting. •Use of thermal insulation materials to increase energy eﬃciency •Introduction of single printers and tracking of printing digitally in all teams instead of individual printers, to save wastage of printing paper. • 97% of the transport has GPS for route optimization coupled with consolidation of deliveries, intermodal transport and ﬂeet management help reduce our carbon footprint. Apparel Group Sustainability Report 2017 16 WASTE MANAGEMENT WET WASTE Our waste is collected and treated by Imdaad DRY WASTE We recycle our dry waste. In 2017, we recycled 376,000 kgs of material, saving 7,000 trees. SOLID WASTE The sewerage plant on our site produces 38,000 litres of treated water daily; the treated water is used for landscaping and toilet ﬂushing. MATERIAL USAGE • Reduced plastic consumption by switching from plastic shopping bags to paper bags. • Cardless Loyalty Programme ensures that our 2.4 million customers do not use a plastic card, but their mobile phone to register, gain and use their loyalty points. • To ensure optimum utilisation of our warehouse spaces, we have converted four of our warehouses at Al Quoz into a retail outlet. We also ensure management of old and aging stock through this outlet, reducing wastage. • Our shopﬁt team eﬃciently refurbishes and renovates retail spaces within 30 days. This reduces time delay and reduces the carbon footprint of new projects, through the reuse of old wooden pallets and old ﬁxtures. Apparel Group Sustainability Report 2017 17 PROCESS DISTRIBUTION CENTRE • Imports over 6000 TEUs • DC unitwise turnover approx 100 million units • Daily replenishment to 400 stores in UAE • Multiple replenishments (1-3) during peak business days • DC operation 24/7 x 365 • Size of operations approx 500,000 sq ft of area • Fleet of 70 in-house vehicles • ONLINE AUCTION & CODE OF CONDUCT We have implementation an online purchasing system (auction platform) for non-merchandise requirements of the group. The auction platform provides absolute transparency in procuring goods and services through healthy competition and reduces the risk of favouritism, bias, non-competitive pricing and unnecessary manual interference. Code requires that suppliers of Apparel’s private brand merchandise allow factory inspections for contractual compliance, as well as for compliance with laws and regulations dealing with child or forced labour, wages and hours, and unsafe working conditions. Willful noncompliance with the Code has resulted in termination of certain suppliers’ contracts. • RISK MANAGEMENT We have an operating risk register that identiﬁes the degree of risk associated with various business activities, to plan and review the adequacy and compliance of control procedures. The loss prevention team is developed under the risk department to carry out independent checks on high-risk areas. In addition, we also undertake training of staﬀ on loss prevention activities to ensure store staﬀ is vigilant. All cases reported are investigated by the loss prevention team and disciplinary actions are initiated in consultation with diﬀerent heads of departments. Mall-wide trainings on loss prevention SOP are organized by the loss prevention team, and veriﬁed by store auditors and internal auditors. VAT IMPLEMENTATION ACROSS UAE OPERATIONS For successful VAT implementation, we had tied up with KPMG in October 2017. We worked on VAT implementation in four phases such as transaction mapping, impact analysis, IT integration and training of staﬀ on various procedures involved in VAT implementation. Apparel Group Sustainability Report 2017 18 HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY/PROCEDURE IMPLEMENTATION • HR policy • HR Townhall • Non-discrimination policy • Separate email id for • Sexual harassment policy complaints/ grievances • Oracle HCM has a separate tab for employee grievances • Applied for Great Places to Work 2017 award MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME 2018 Targets • 1200+ complaints addressed at HR Townhall • Win CSR Label and Great Places To Work • Employee satisfaction survey saw 68% awards participation and a score of 98% • Anonymous employee satisfaction surveys • 1000+ employees attended the HR Townhall • HR townhall LABOUR POLICY/ PROCEDURE IMPLEMENTATION • Code of conduct • Contracts with all employees • Online recruitment process • All employees above 18 years of age • Apparel Development Pathway • Medical insurance • Implementation of Oracle HCM has increased service speed; all HR-related requests for documentation are processed within 6-24 hours MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME 2018 TARGETS • Inclusivity details • HSE training for backoﬃce employees • 0 cases of forced and child labour • Formal safety register ﬁled against the company Apparel Group Sustainability Report 2017 19 ENVIRONMENT POLICY/ PROCEDURE IMPLEMENTATION • Code of conduct • Recyling programme • Sewage Treatment Plant • Steps to reduce carbon footprint • Oracle HCM MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME 2018 TARGETS • Recycling details • Implement Environment policy • Waste management details • 100% waste segregation • Add renewable sources of energy ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY/ PROCEDURE IMPLEMENTATION • Code of conduct • Use of Oracle Finance • External audits • VAT implementation and training • Risk Management team • Internal audit • Online bidding for procurement of non-merchandise articles MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME 2018 TARGETS • No criminal or ﬁnancial oﬀence • 100% training on anti-money-laundering case registered against the compalaws ny in 2017 • Implement sustainable supplier code of conduct Apparel Group Sustainability Report 2017 20 ABOUT APPAREL GROUP Apparel Group is a global fashion and lifestyle retail conglomerate based in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. With more than 75 brands spread across 1,750+ stores, the Apparel Group caters to eager shoppers in four continents. We have footwear, clothing, food & beverage, beauty/ cosmetics, malls, kidswear as the primary brands, products, and services, supported by our 12,000 employees. Apparel Group has carved its strong presence not only in UAE, Kuwait, Qatar, Bahrain, Oman, and Saudi Arabia, but opened thriving gateways to market in India, South Africa, Singapore, Jordan, Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia. Additionally, clear strategies are in place to enter emerging markets such as Hungary, Pakistan, Egypt and Philippines. FOUNDED IN Apparel Group operates brands from around the 5 1999 world, originating from USA, Canada, Europe, SEGMENTS BUSINESS Australia, Asia, include leading names such as Tommy FOOTWEAR, APPAREL, GLOBAL FASHION ACCESSORIES, MAKE-UP, F&B & LIFESTYLE Hilﬁger, Juicy Couture, Nautica, Aldo, Nine West, Aeropostale, Tim Hortons, Cold Stone Creamery, Inglot, Rituals among others. 70+ 1750+ NATIONALITIES STORES The Apparel Group owes its growth to the vision and guidance of its Chairman, Nilesh Ved, who has taken the company from strength to strength since its 13 75+ INTERNATIONAL inception in 1999, and has sustained performance in COUNTRIES BRANDS creating enduring value for the nation, customers, 12,000+ employees and principals. TEAM MEMBERS Apparel Group Sustainability Report 2017 21 OTHER BUSINESSES Our ecommerce business oﬀers a wide selection of Leela Megh (LM) Exchange Limited Liability Corporashoes, bags and accessories from the world’s most tion (LLC) was established in Dubai, United Arab coveted fashion brands including Aldo, New Emirates, in 1970. It is an ISO 9001:2008 certiﬁed and Balance, Nine West, Dune London, Skechers, Call It one of the oldest exchange house’s in the UAE. For Spring and many more! 6THSTREET.COM provides the past 40 years, LM exchange has been serving customers an experience of shopping from the money remittance and foreign exchange needs of comfort of their own home with ease and convemore than 180 nationalities and UAE nationals across nience. Returns and delivery across the UAE are free UAE. Today, LM exchange is a trustworthy name in on all orders (no minimum spend). One can shop the exchange industry, serving customers through 15 online at www.6thstreet.com for the latest fashion strategically-located branches with the UAE. for women, men and children. Club Apparel is a cardless loyalty program that oﬀers Harley International Medical Center is a world-class reward points on every purchase, which can then be multi-specialty clinic that was established in 2005 spent on your next purchase across 70 brands in with a view of providing quality healthcare at aﬀord700+ plus stores in the UAE, using just your mobile able cost. phone number. Apparel Group Sustainability Report 2017 22
