INTEGRATED REPORT —ANNUAL REPORT— Year ended March 31, 2018 2018 Symbol Mark The symbol mark features “Future Bloom” representing the vision of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group, which is “to generate new value through the combination of significant expertise and comprehensive capabilities, and to help the future of our clients and society bloom.” Corporate Color The corporate color is “Future Blue,” which represents the integration of the sense of value that the symbol mark implies, and evokes the closeness and the future. Management Principles (“Mission”) (I) Swiftly provide comprehensive solutions to our clients by fully utilizing the significant expertise and comprehensive capabilities. (II) Adhere to the principles of sound management based on a high degree of self-discipline with the background of fiduciary spirit and establish strong credibility from society. (III) Strive to fulfill all shareholder expectations by creating distinct values through fusing the various functions featuring the trust bank group. (IV) Offer a workplace where the diversity and creativity of its employees are more fully utilized to add value to the organization and where employees can have pride and be highly motivated in fulfilling their missions. Ideal Model (“Vision”) —Towards “The Trust Bank”— Based on the fiduciary spirit and with significant expertise and comprehensive capabilities, the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group will create distinct values by leveraging a new business model, combining its banking, asset management and administration, and real estate businesses, and will move onto the global stage as a leading trust bank group which boasts the largest and highest status in Japan. Codes of Conduct (“Value”) In order to pursue the Management Principles of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group, the executives and employees commit themselves to comply with the six Codes of Conduct described below. Completely Client-oriented­—Truthfulness and Loyalty We will adhere to the highest degree of “Truthfulness and Loyalty” as well as credibility and sureness, and will carry out all our responsibilities for client satisfaction and comfort as our top priority. Contribution to Society—Dedication and Development We will remain dedicated in all our efforts, with “Frontier Spirit,” and continue to contribute to society. Realization of Organizational Capability—Trust and Creativity We will realize our organizational capabilities with full of mutual trust and creativity through improvement by mutual learning and continuous personal transformation of various people who share the enthusiasm for trust. Establishment of Individuality—Self-help and Self-discipline With a spirit of self-help and self-discipline as well as a sense of ownership, we will carry out our responsibilities. Strict Compliance with Applicable Laws and Regulations We will strictly comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, and will ensure that all our corporate activities meet the highest standards of social norms. Resolute Stance against Antisocial Forces We will continue to take a resolute stance against antisocial forces, which may threaten public order and the security of civil society. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 1 Contents P. 4 Overview 8 4 Group Information P. 6 Financial Highlights 7 Non-financial Highlights Vision Vision 8 Value Creation Process 10 Group Strengths (Advantages of each type of capital) 12 Top Message 20 Message from Officer in Charge of Finance 24 Initiatives Related to Sustainability Editorial Policy The Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group has prepared this integrated report so readers can understand the Group’s initiatives for creating shared value aimed at sustainable growth and at providing values for all our stakeholders. In this report, after <Reporting Coverage> spelling out the Group’s mediumto long-term vision, we explain the manageReporting Period: ment foundation supporting our business strategy as a financial group specialFrom April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018 ized in trust banking. In applying our editorial approach, we strive to improve and (Partially including the information after April 1, 2018) expand not just financial information but also non-financial information such as Scope of Reporting: business model and environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors, referThe Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group; encing the integrated reporting framework issued by the International Integrated including Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc., Reporting Council (IIRC). We also disclose information appropriately, in accorSumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited, dance with our disclosure policy. For more specific financial information and ESG other subsidiaries and affiliated companies information, please see the Financial Data Section and visit our website. 2 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Contents 28 Retail Total Solution Services Business 32 Wholesale Total Solution Services Business 26 35 Wholesale Asset Management Business P. 36 Fiduciary Services Business 40 Stock Transfer Agency Services Business Business 42 Real Estate Business Strategy 44 Global Markets Business 46 Sustainability Initiatives in Our Business 48 Providing Value to the Community 50 Materiality Management for Creating Shared Value 52 Corporate Governance 60 External Director Discussion 64 Board of Directors and Executive Officers of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 66 Risk Appetite Framework (RAF) 68 Risk Management 72 Compliance 74 Compliance with International Financial Regulations P. 50 75 Internal Auditing 76 Consideration of Environmental and Social Impact of Investment and Financing Targets Management 78 Client-Oriented Initiatives Foundation 84 Digitalization Strategy 86 Human Resources Strategy 92 Communication with Shareholders and Investors 93 Initiatives to Facilitate Financing 94 History of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group P. 94 96 What is a Trust? 98 Financial Review Corporate 101 Corporate Information Information 101 Rating Information 101 Website Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 3 Overview Group Information The Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group (the “SuMi TRUST Group”) has many Group companies with businesses in areas such as banking, asset management and administration, and real estate. Through the mutual coordination and cooperation of these Group companies with Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (“SuMi TRUST Bank”), we can harness our comprehensive capabilities by integrating our trust and banking functions to provide total solutions from the standpoint of our clients. (as of March 31, 2018) Listed company Main subsidiaries of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings (“SuMi TRUST Holdings”) [64 consolidated subsidiaries; 24 equity-method affiliated companies] 91.90% 100% 84.89% 100% 100% 100% 50% 100% 100% The role of financial holding companies is to oversee group management. 66.66% Ratio of ownership with voting rights is shown, including indirect ownership via subsidiaries. SuMi TRUST Bank has built a domestic branch network with a well-balanced footprint centering Domestic Network on the greater Tokyo metropolitan area, Kinki area, and Chubu area. In the internet domain, SBI Sumishin Net Bank offers services nationwide. (as of March 31, 2018) Greater Tokyo metropolitan area Kinki area Providing online services across Japan 70 branches 34 branches Hokkaido, Tohoku, Chugoku, Chubu area Shikoku, and Kyushu 21 branches 23 branches *The substantial number of branches is 117 when the branches at the same business site are counted on a aggregated basis. For detail of branches, please see pages 8-11 of the Financial Data Section. 4 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Group Information The SuMi TRUST Group is Japan’s largest asset manager and custodian, and it is the trust bank Status group that is top ranked in each business. (as of March 31, 2018) Overview Assets under Management ¥87 trillion Domestic financial institutions No.1 Assets under Custody* ¥285 trillion Domestic financial institutions No.1 1 Fiduciary Services Business （Asset management and Balance of Corporate Pension Funds ¥13 trillion Trust banks No.1 administration） Lead Manager for Corporate Pension Funds 1,342 funds Trust banks No.1 Entrusted Balance of Investment Trusts ¥73 trillion Trust banks No.1 Real estate related profit*2,3 ¥53.8 billion Trust banks No.2 Real Estate Business Entrusted Balance of Securitized Real Estate ¥15 trillion Trust banks No.1 Vision Stock Transfer Agency Number of Shareholders under 25.61 million Services Business Administration*2 shareholders Trust banks No.1 Sales Volume of Investment Trusts/ Discretionary Investment*3 ¥1.4 trillion Domestic banks No.1 Retail Total Solution Services Business Number of Will Trusts 30,757 cases Trust banks No.2 Balance of Loans to Individuals ¥9 trillion Domestic banks No.5 Balance of Loans to Corporations ¥18 trillion Domestic banks No.4 Business Strategy Wholesale Total Solution Services Business Total Loan Balance ¥28 trillion Domestic banks No.5 Includes estimates based on investigations by SuMi TRUST Holdings (as of March 31, 2018) *1 Refers to the aggregate balance of trust assets at the SuMi TRUST Group *2 Group companies combined *3 FY2017 Result We have our own bases in key markets around the world, and with these bases and through alliances and coOverseas Network operation with local financial institutions and asset managers, we are working to expand our global presence. (as of March 31, 2018) ★ Sumitomo Management Foundation Mitsui Trust (Ireland) Limited ● London Branch ● New York Branch ★ Sumitomo Mitsui Trust International Limited ★ Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (U.S.A.) Limited ★ Sumitomo Mitsui Trust (U.K.) Limited ■ Nikko Asset Management Americas, Inc. ■ Nikko Asset Management Europe Ltd. ■ Midwest Railcar Corporation ★ Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (Luxembourg) S.A. ◉ Seoul Representative Office ● Shanghai Branch ■ BIDV-SuMi TRUST Leasing Co., Ltd. ● Hong Kong Branch ★ Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (Thai) Public Company Limited ★ Sumitomo Mitsui Trust (Hong Kong) Limited Corporate Information ■ Rongtong Fund Management Co., Ltd. ■ Zijin Trust Co., Ltd. ● Singapore Branch ■ Nanjing Zijin Financial Leasing Co., Ltd. ■ Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Leasing (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. ◉ Beijing Representative Office (Banking Business) ■ Nikko Asset Management Asia Limited ◉ Beijing Representative Office (Securities Business) ◉ Jakarta Representative Office ■ Nikko AM Limited Overseas Branches (SuMi Trust Bank) Overseas Representative Offices (SuMi Trust Bank) Subsidiaries Key Affiliates Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 5 Financial Highlights Net Income Attributable to Owners of the Parent Return on Shareholders’ Equity* 200.0 (Billions of Yen) 10.0 (%) 153.9 8.0 7.40 150.0 6.0 100.0 4.0 50.0 2.0 0 0.0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal Year) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal Year) * Page 20 for calculation method Fee Income Ratio* Overhead Ratio*1 1,000.0 (Billions of Yen) 57.4 (%) 60 800.0 (Billions of Yen) 61.7 (%) 60 800.0 705.7 600.0 55.5 40 600.0 435.1 40 400.0 405.4 400.0 20 237.0 20 200.0 200.0 0 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal Year) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal Year) Net fees and commissions and related profit (left) General and administrative expenses (non-consolidated)*2 (left) Substantial consolidated gross business profit (left) Substantial general and administrative expenses (left) Fee income ratio (right) Overhead ratio (right) Overhead ratio (non-consolidated)(right) * Net fees and commissions and related profit divided by gross business profit *1 General and administrative expenses divided by substantial consolidated gross business profit *2 SuMi TRUST Bank (non-consolidated) Non-Performing Loan*1 (NPL) Ratio*2 Capital Adequacy Ratio, etc. 300.0 (Billions of Yen) (%) 1.5 20.0 (%) 16.31 15.0 13.74 200.0 1.0 11.33 10.0 100.0 0.5 56.7 5.0 0.2 0 0.0 0.0 March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, 2014 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 NPL (left) NPL ratio (right) Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio Tier 1 capital ratio *1 Problem assets based on the Financial Reconstruction Act Total capital ratio *2 SuMi TRUST Bank (non-consolidated) 6 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Non-financial Highlights ESG Management—Initiative basics (from an investor’s perspective) Overview SuMi TRUST Bank’s ESG Investment Balance The SuMi TRUST Group’s ESG Evaluation (September 30, 2017) (2017 MSCI rating) 25 trillion yen AA Our Group is a pioneer of ESG investment in Japan. We reflect the perspectives of ESG investors in our manWe continue to be one of Japan’s largest ESG institutional agement, through which we aim to become the No. 1 investors, using a variety of investment methods for stocks financial institution for ESG management. We have been and bonds. evaluated highly for our ESG efforts, such as receiving the top rating of financial institution in Japan from an influential Vision research institution in the field. ESG Management—Enhanced initiatives Business Strategy Sustainability in Our Business E (Volume of Greenhouse-gas Emissions) (FY2017) 5 major themes (27) % We are developing businesses that resolve issues for SuMi TRUST Bank has significantly reduced the total clients. These are mainly linked to the five major themes of greenhouse-gas emissions from facilities within the scope of Management Foundation climate change issues, natural capital (biodiversity issues), the Act on the Rational Use of Energy, compared to its postenvironmentally friendly property, sustainable investment business merger emissions peak (in FY2013). (ESG investment), and super-aging society issues. S (Ratio of Male Employees Taking Childcare Leave) G (Ratio of External Directors) (FY2017) (March 31, 2018) 100 % 47 % Corporate Information Our Group supports the active participation by women, SuMi TRUST Holdings has raised its ratio of external while also working to help men achieve diverse work styles directors to 47%. This trend has enhanced the functioning and a work-life balance. All qualified male employees at of the Board of Directors, which supervises the manageSuMi TRUST Bank have taken childcare leave. ment from an independent and objective viewpoint. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 7 Vision Value Creation Process The core competency of a company is the creation of shared value. The SuMi TRUST Group uses various types of capital (management resources) to carry out business, enhancing the Group’s corporate value by providing value to stakeholders that include clients, shareholders and other investors, employees, and communities. The value we create enhances our capital and forms the foundation for further development. Leveraging Capitals Mission, Vision and Value (See pages 10-11) Business model of financial group Financial Capital specialized in trust banking • Sound financial base with a secured capital position in terms of both quality and quantity Solutions suited • Highly diversified business to different portfolio and life stages Relationship manager with clients healthy balance sheet Businesses with wide-ranging Continuous improvement Human Capital of specialized services Individual • Competent human resources • Corporate culture focused on clients diversity, health and motivation • Advanced human right management structure significant expertise Input Intellectual Capital • Accumulation of significant Corporate expertise and comprehensive Joint effort to provide clients capabilities unique to trust bank client-oriented proposals • Various functions amassed via collaboration within the Group Bespoke • Development capabilities of solutions for innovative trust products, etc. management style and size of companies Manufactured Capital • Advanced IT platforms for each Solid management foundation business that leverage our accumulated, specialized supporting business model know-how • Ability to respond to client needs through digitalization (Governance, risk management and compliance) Social and Relationship Capital Economic and Social Environment • Outstanding, solid client base • Rapidly aging population and heightened • Government-private sector cooperation • Client-oriented corporate culture needs in asset inheritance in regional revitalization based on the fiduciary spirit • Sluggish domestic loan/investment demand • Expectation for corporate governance reform • Corporate brand with a proven track record of history • Prolonged negative interest rate environment • Heightened needs for client-oriented services • Network with partners in Japan and overseas Management of high priority issues (materia 8 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Value Creation Process Sustained growth of performance and cash flow creation • Growth of fee business, improvement of loan/investment business profitability • Strengthening of cost competitiveness Overview Conversion Providing Products and Services Providing Values into capital Banking+Asset Management Clients (See pages 26-47) and Administration+Real Estate • Providing a variety of highly specialized Will Trusts products and services Financial • Providing best solutions Capital Asset Inheritance Services by grasping current and potential needs Banking+Asset Management and Administration Vision Creation Shareholders and Sales of Investment Trust of Shared Investors (See pages 20-23) • Realization of earnings Sales of Insurance Products Values greater than capital costs Human • Maximization of mediumto Capital Asset Management and long-term shareholders’ value Administration+Real Estate • Constructive dialogue Real Estate Securitization • Highly transparent disclosure Output of information including non-financial information Banking Business Strategy Bank Deposits Employees (See pages 86-91) Intellectual Corporate Credit Loans • Providing workplaces where diverse human Capital Loans to Individuals resources can display their abilities to achieve the Foreign Exchange, Derivative, M&A Group’s business model with hope and pride Asset Management and • Providing a diversity of Administration work styles and supporting work-life balance Asset Management and Administration • Fair assessment and Manufactured Management Foundation treatment in accordance with Capital Pension Trust abilities, roles and results Stock Transfer Agency Services Communities (See pages 48-49) Real Estate • Providing products and Real Estate Brokerage services to help resolve aging society issues and Construction Consulting environmental issues such Social and as climate change Relationship Other • Contributing to the sound Capital development of local Leasing communities, our operating base Corporate Information Loan/investment related business Fee-related business lity) that have impact on value creation (See pages 50-51) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 9 Group Strengths (Advantages of each type of capital) Financial Capital Adequate capital in both quality and quantity Financial base to enable stable business operations Considering the unique characteristics of a trust bank, which We are building the financial base needed to stably carry is premised on long-term transactions with clients, we have set out operations. In addition to improving the stability of earntargets for capital adequacy at a level that takes into account ings through diversification of the business portfolio, credit preparation for economic and market volatility, in addition to the portfolio management that takes into account diversification, regulatory required levels for maintaining soundness as one of the and measures to increase stable earnings, we are enhancing Domestic Systemically Important Banks (D-SIBs). Furthermore, we our resilience to market risks such as equity and interest rate will pursue investment opportunities from a mediumto long-term fluctuations through hedge transactions and flexible position perspective aimed at sustainable growth while managing our capiadjustment. tal to ensure that these levels are stably maintained. Common Equity Tier 1 ratio 11.33% Non-performing loan ratio 0.2% Human Capital Strong pool of human resources Corporate culture emphasizing diversity, health and One of the Group’s strengths is having many personnel with motivation significant expertise who can identify issues in their desigThe operations of a trust bank are wide-ranging, and the nated areas and devise their own solutions. We strive to maxiorganization is made up of people from a variety of backmize the added value provided to our clients by constantly grounds. Emphasis on diversity is therefore part of the Group’s enhancing our human capital. corporate culture. In order to bring such diverse human resources together and maximize performance as an organization, we focus proactively on creating a workplace environment History of enhancement of human capital where employees can maintain their mental and physical health 2012 Established SuMi TRUST University and job satisfaction. 2013 Formulated Human Rights Policy 2016 “No. 1 Financial Group for Human Resources Advanced management structure for human rights Development” Declaration It goes without saying that respect for basic human rights 2017 Launched Diversity & Inclusion Office* takes priority over all other matters at companies. Consideration 2017 Formulated Declaration on Work Style Reform for people, which is the basic spirit of human rights, is also 2018 Formulated Group Human Resources linked to client orientation. Based on this viewpoint, the Group Development Policy formulated its Human Rights Policy, and is developing a lead* SuMi TRUST Bank launched its Diversity & Inclusion Office in 2016 ahead of ing-edge human rights management structure, including regular the Group. implementation of human rights due diligence. Manufactured Capital Advanced IT information base in each business accuAbility to respond to client needs through digitalization mulated through use of specialized know-how We are conducting demonstration experiments on technoloAs a trust banking group, each business has an IT platform gies such as specialized text analysis AI that will allow us to disthat has accumulated expertise in its own specific area. For cover potential client needs and offer optimal solutions, and AI example, i-Ships, owned by the Retail Total Solution Services that performs multi-faceted analysis of the various information Business, has client records that include information on life we have accumulated as a trust bank and predictive analysis events as well as details of transactions. Multi-faceted analysis of products and services that match client needs. By adding of these records allows us to make timely and appropriate new information to the base of information accumulated by the proposals to individual clients regarding asset management, Group, and using digital functions to enhance our consulting inheritance, and real estate. The wide variety of information services, we aim to increase our ability to respond to the real managed by a trust bank, together with our sales support sysneeds of clients. tem with advanced analytical capabilities, contribute to the crePlan to reduce workload at branch offices by 70% in ation of added value by providing products and services that approximately five years by promoting business process are highly satisfying to clients. reform and branch strategy 10 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Group Strengths (Advantages of each type of capital) Intellectual capital Accumulation of comprehensive capabilities and sigand has established a dedicated department to promote coopnificant expertise unique to a trust bank eration among Group companies. Overview The Group has the longest history in Japan as a financial institution engaged in the trust business, and is still the counDevelopment capabilities for innovative trust products try’s only financial group specialized in trust banking. The ability In order for the Group to provide total solutions unique to to think about finance based on the concept of trusts is one of a trust bank, in addition to each business and Group company the Group’s intangible strengths. In addition, our highly specialleveraging its own strengths and know-how, the Group focuses ized human resources with wide-ranging qualifications are the on promoting organization-wide initiatives that combine the driving force that sustains that strength. expertise of the various sections. To that end, we are building a product development system that conducts medium-term, Various functions brought together through collaboongoing research activities on difficult-to-categorize themes in ration within the Group each business and Group company area (for details, please see For the Group, which has a highly diversified financial busipages 78-79). (As of March 31, 2018) Vision ness portfolio, coordination among organizations is vital to Fellows of The Institute of making effective use of intellectual capital and maximizing Financial consultants 249 Actuaries of Japan 43 output. From this point of view, the Group encourages specific Real Estate Transaction collaborative activities by including contribution to earnings Certified FP* 5,318 Notaries 5,518 in other businesses in the evaluation of each business’s results *FP: Financial Planner Social and Relationship Capital High-quality, solid client base Corporate brand with a proven track record of history Business Strategy As Japan’s only financial group specialized in trust banking, The origins of Mitsui and Sumitomo date to the beginning the Group has an overwhelming client base in the trust business of the Edo Period. It is not simply because we bear the name and boasts the highest status domestically in asset management Mitsui or Sumitomo that the Group has been able to win the and administration services. The total loan balance is approxitrust of clients and conduct its business. Both of these names mately ¥28 trillion, and our corporate services client base is sechave a lengthy history of dedication to society and an unbroken ond only to megabanks in size. Meanwhile, looking at individual record of credibility going back 400 years, which have resulted client services, seniors in the 60-and-over age range, who have in an unmatched corporate brand. significant asset management needs, account for more than twothirds of all our clients, and our sales of investment trusts and Network of domestic and international partners Management Foundation discretionary investment management products are the highest Collaboration with various stakeholders is essential to the among domestic banks. This solid, high-quality client base is a advancement of our total solution model. Taking advantage of major strength of the Group (for details, please see page 5). our neutral position as an independent trust bank group, the SuMi TRUST Bank also carries out “With You” social contriGroup will expand alliances to further broaden our client base bution activities rooted in local areas in order to build strong and achieve efficient and speedy growth. We will also demonrelationships of trust with the members of the community (for strate leadership in the financial industry by participating in varidetails, please see page 49). ous initiatives in Japan and overseas in the field of sustainability. Client-oriented corporate culture based on the fiduAssets under management ¥87 trillion ciary spirit Assets under custody ¥285 trillion Trust banks have played an important social role, exemplified Top-ranked domestic financial institution by the loan trusts that contributed to post-war recovery, penFY2017 posts on “With You” branch blog 2,155 Corporate Information sion trusts that help provide employees with a stable livelihood Introducing “With You” activities at branch offices nationwide in old age, and guardianship system support trusts aimed at Founder of Mitsui family Founder of Sumitomo family conserving the assets of those with dementia or other issues. Takatoshi Mitsui Masatomo Sumitomo This is entirely due to our assuming the heavy responsibility (1622 – 1694) (1585 – 1652) placed on us as trustees. This fiduciary spirit is deeply embedded in the Group’s DNA. It is no exaggeration to say that being thoroughly client-oriented and aiming at becoming our clients’ “Best Partner” is the Group’s reason for existence. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 11 Top Message Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. Director, President Tetsuo Ohkubo 12 Top Message Business circumstances Looking back on the economic environment in the previous fiscal year, Overview conditions were strong both in Japan and overseas as corporate profits were sustained at a high level due to a recovery in overseas economies, leading to a continued moderate recovery in the domestic economy overall. Meanwhile, conditions in financial markets remained unstable, as major countries showed signs of moving toward an exit from monetary easing policies, including three hikes in the federal funds rate in the U.S., which caused a rise in U.S. long-term interest rates and dramatic fluctuations in the stock market. The global financial and economic environment is also becoming increasingly unpredictable and uncertain amid the emergence of trade friction due Vision to protectionism and heightened geopolitical risks. Japan is also seeing rapid advances in the declining birthrate and aging population as well as digitalization, in addition to the continuing low interest rate environment, and we are aware that ours is indeed an era of major changes in social, economic and financial environments both domestically and internationally. Looking Back on Fiscal Year 2017 Business Strategy We launched our midterm management plan, “Evolution of The Trust Fee Business Bank”—The Second Foundation—, covering the period from fiscal year Fee income from asset 2017 to fiscal year 2019, with the aim of realizing a business model that management/administration Management Foundation enables sustainable and stable growth immune to economic and market and real estate has increased volatilities, even in this economic and financial environment. 300 (Billions of Yen) Specifically, as Japan’s only financial group specialized in trust banking, we worked to (1) strengthen the fee business by providing a range of prod35.7 35.9 ucts and services corresponding to the stages of our clients’ lives as well as 200 52.6 53.8 growth stages, (2) increase profitability in the loan/investment business, and (3) enhance our corporate governance and promote fiduciary duties. Through these efforts, fee income from asset management/administra100 175.1 tion and real estate steadily increased, and income from the domestic loan167.0 Corporate Information deposit business was high, surpassing the level of the previous fiscal year, despite the prolonged low interest rate environment. 0 2016 2017 (Fiscal Year) As a result, both revenue and profit for fiscal year 2017 were up compared Stock transfer agency services to fiscal year 2016. We achieved our targets for both consolidated net busiReal estate ness profit and consolidated net income, and the midterm management Asset management/administration plan got off to a smooth start in its first year. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 13 Top Message Business Operations Going Forward In fiscal year 2018, the second year of the midterm management plan, we will achieve our business model transformation at an early stage by speeding up our work on various measures. At the same time, we aim to reach a level of growth that cannot be matched by other financial institutions in the business fields that are the Group’s strengths, such as asset management and asset administration. (1) Evolution of Total Solutions We believe that the Group’s strengths lie in our ability to promptly and accurately provide total solutions that leverage our banking, trust and real estate functions to meet the increasingly diverse needs of our clients. Total solutions are distinctive in focusing on the “client’s future vision, not just the present, and offering proposals that encompass the client’s assets and liabilities as a whole, not just in part.” The Group will continue to seek sustainable and stable growth by further refining our ability to provide the total solutions that are our strength, and earning even greater regard and support from our clients. Specifically, for individual clients, we will work to support asset formation and inheritance and asset succession through measures such as accurate consulting in accordance with the client’s life-stage, and enhancing our lineup of insurance, loan and real estate products, etc. to meet diverse needs. For corporate clients, in addition to appropriately meeting funding needs, we will provide total solutions to resolve a wide range of management issues, including enhancement of corporate governance, real estate, pension schemes, and company welfare. Furthermore, for all clients, individual or corporate, who are seeking profitable and diverse investments from a mediumto long-term viewpoint, we will make use of our group-wide functions to provide optimal investment opportunities in areas with economic potential and in growth fields. In particular, the new asset management company scheduled to be created in October 2018 by integrating the asset management business of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Co., Ltd. aims to be a nationally recognized brand among the top 20 asset managers. In addition, in the asset administration field, we will pursue various economies of scale and further bolster our securities management function through the management integration of SuMi TRUST Holdings’ consolidated subsidiary Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. with Mizuho Financial Group’s Trust & Custody Services Bank, Ltd. 14 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Top Message Overview Vision We will also accelerate alliances leveraging our trust and real estate funcNon-Performing Loan Ratio of Japanese Major Banks* tions and step up activities to contribute to regional revitalization, with the 2.0 (%) SuMi TRUST Bank Business Strategy aim of establishing a win-win relationship with regional financial institutions. Mega bank A Mega bank B 1.5 Mega bank C (2) Balancing Soundness and Profitability in Our Credit Portfolio The Group’s credit portfolio, which is composed mainly of loans to large 1.0 corporations and retail mortgage loans which have relatively low credit risk, 0.9 has a low non-performing loan ratio and maintains a high level of soundness. 0.7 0.5 0.5 Although profitability has been on a downward trend amid persistent low interest rates, the domestic loan-deposit margin is showing signs of botManagement Foundation 0.2 toming out as a result of a shift to high profitability loan assets and efforts to 0 March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, reduce funding costs. 2012 2014 2016 2018 We will continue to provide responses that fit our clients’ funding needs, *Mega banks: Sum of bank subsidiaries while striving for appropriate risk taking and credit portfolio management in Domestic Loan-Deposit Spread* light of the trend toward tighter financial regulations on a global level. 1.2 (%) Average yield on loans and bills discounted Average yield on deposits 1.0 Loan-deposit spread 0.8 0.70 Corporate Information 0.71 0.6 0.59 0.55 0.4 0.2 0.15 0.12 0 1H 2H 1H 2H 1H 2H 1H 2H 1H 2H 1H 2H 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal Year) *SuMi TRUST Bank Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 15 Top Message Number of Clients Visiting Branches/ (3) The Challenge of Creating New Businesses and Number of Branches New Services to Support Sustainable Growth Number of Clients Visiting Branches While thus steadily pursuing the evolution of our total solutions, etc., we will take on the challenge of creating new businesses and services in order (Thousand People) Remained at same level to achieve sustainable growth for the Group in the future. 1,500 Specifically, we will press ahead with establishing a framework of initiatives 1,000 in new fields and focus areas, and invest resources in business areas where we have a competitive advantage. At the same time, we plan to create new 500 value by flexibly making investments for growth with the aim of discovering 0 future earnings sources. 2012 2017 (Fiscal Year) In addition, we will continue to develop a workplace culture rich in enterNumber of Branches prising spirit, through an idea-gathering project that encourages employees to come up with new products and services on their own, and promoting (Branches) 24% reduction 150 future creation activities among the core employees who will support the Group in the future. 100 (4) Promoting Cost Structure Reform and 50 Productivity Improvement as a Source of Competitiveness Since the bank integration in 2012, the Group has actively promoted 0 March 31, 2012 March 31, 2018 management efficiencies, such as moving swiftly to consolidate duplicate branches, and has already reduced the number of branches by 24%. In addition, 90% of our branches specialize in retail business, and engage in consulting marketing face-to-face with clients in a layout centered on low counters. As a result, the number of clients visiting branches has remained mostly at the same level since the bank integration. 16 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Top Message Having numerous branches used to be the key to competitiveness in the Japanese banking industry. However, we believe that the Group’s efficient branch network focused on major urban areas and our marketing model Overview based on “face-to-face consulting unique to a trust bank” are suited to the current business environment and changing client needs. Further enhancement of operational efficiency will be required in order to continue providing solutions that are finely tailored to the diversifying needs of clients in future. The Group will achieve this by focusing on trends in digitalization and implementing a digitalization strategy under which we reinforced our system, such as by establishing the Digital Planning Department in November 2017, with the aim of reducing expenses in the mediumto long-term, etc. Specifically, for sales staff for individual clients, we have introduced Vision tablet-type portable devices that can process transactions from reception to approval and execution. In addition, we are working on efforts including demonstration experiments for AI operations at call centers for stock transfer agency services clients. We have already reduced administrative workloads at branch offices by 10% through the introduction of these tablet-type portable devices, and aim Business Strategy for a further reduction of 70% through development of additional functions, etc. in the future. In addition to these efforts to enhance management efficiency, we will improve convenience for clients by actively adopting advanced digital technologies, including reduction of administrative space in branch offices to create trust type next generation branch that provide space for clients to consult in comfort. We will also embrace the challenge of developing new products and services. Management Foundation (5) D  eveloping Human Resources to Achieve Business Model Transformation The Group considers diverse human resources with a wide range of qualities and skills to be the most important source of its own competitiveness. Accordingly, we strive to strengthen our efforts to nurture human resources by enhancing in-house training, etc. to increase comprehensive capabilities and expertise, based on our human resources development policies on Corporate Information growth and career formation for the employees who will create our future. In particular, we emphasize nurturing human resources which possess the broad perspective and experience needed to provide total solutions. Therefore, we strive to offer a human resources development program in which employees gain experience in multiple businesses during a certain period after joining the company. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 17 Top Message We have also made efforts to expand the range of participation of diverse human resources by establishing the Diversity & Inclusion Office in October 2017. In particular, greater participation by women is one of the most important initiatives in our human resources strategy, and we will continue to systematically nurture female employees and expand their promotion to management positions. In addition to the continued use of such human resources, we believe it is essential to achieve diverse work styles and work-life balance, and to promote both the mental and physical health of the employees who are its foundation. To that end, based on our “Declaration on Work Style Reform” established in May 2017, we are promoting working from home and mobile work, in addition to making active efforts to ensure intervals between work shifts and to reduce overtime. In February 2018, we were certified by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry as a “Certified Health and Productivity Management Organization (White 500)” for practicing outstanding health and productivity management. We recognize that “work style reform” and “health promotion management” improve productivity and reduce total work hours will be key issues for realizing sustainable growth for the Group going forward. We will develop a system that allows diverse human resources to fully express their abilities, and promote the active participation of each and every employee. (6) ESG Management Initiatives The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations comprise 17 goals and 169 targets that bring together global-scale priority issues that the world should unite to address toward 2030. Drawing widespread attention, the SDGs have made sustainability issues a universal language worldwide, and have presented companies with clear risks to consider and business opportunities to pursue. The role of “finance,” which provides funding while involving various stakeholders, is extremely important in realizing the SDGs. This thinking lies behind the rapid expansion of ESG (environmental, social and governance) investment in Japan and overseas in recent years. The Group has therefore further stepped up its ESG efforts at the top management level, and, in terms of framework, replaced the CSR Promotion Office with a Sustainability Promotion Office, and strengthened its functions. By strengthening our ESG investment efforts and providing total solutions through identifying client issues amid links and relation with SDGs, we aim to contribute to enhancement of long-term corporate value for our clients and to be the No. 1 ESG managed bank. 18 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Top Message In Conclusion We are now in an era of major changes in the environment both domestiOverview cally and internationally, and the needs of our clients, both individual and corporate, in relation to asset management, administration and succession are becoming even more diverse and complex. The Group will do its utmost to realize a business model that enables sustainable and stable growth and to become the financial group selected as “Best Partner” by our clients, by providing total solutions with greater accuracy and speed than ever in a world where change has become the norm. We sincerely ask for your continued support for our endeavors. July 2018 Vision Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. Director, President Business Strategy Management Foundation Corporate Information Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 19 Message from Officer in Charge of Finance Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Senior Managing Executive Officer in Charge of Finance Tadashi Nishimura 1. Looking Back on Fiscal Year 2017 (First Year of Midterm Management Plan) In May 2017, SuMi TRUST Holdings announced its midLooking back on fiscal year 2017, turning first to busiterm management plan, “Evolution of The Trust Bank” ness performance, both revenue and profit exceeded our – The Second Foundation –, covering the three years forecasts. This was due to growth in the fee businesses, beginning with fiscal year 2017. Under the plan, we are including asset management/asset administration and implementing various measures aimed at transformation real estate, where the trust business has a competitive to a business model that will enable us to achieve sustainadvantage, and improved profitability in the loan/investable and stable growth immune to economic and market ment business owing to replacement of assets and control volatilities as a financial group specialized in trust banking. of funding costs. On the financial front, we moved ahead FY2016 FY2017 FY2019 Change from Target KPIs Actual Plan Actual Against plan Midterm Plan (Billions of yen) FY2016 Net business profit 232.3 260.0 270.5 +38.1 +10.5 300.0 before credit costs Profit targets Net income attributable to 121.4 150.0 153.9 +32.5 + 3.9 180.0 owners of the parent Profitability Fee income ratio 62.3%*1 57.4% (4.9%) ― 55-60% Approx. 60% indicators Overhead ratio (OHR) 64.5% 62.0% 61.7% (3.1%) (0.3%) 55-60% Mid 50% level Financial Shareholder ROE*2 6.07% ― 7.40% +1.33% ― Approx. 8% 8% or more indicators Common equity Tier 1 ratio 11.19% ― 11.33% +0.14% ― Approx. 10% Approx. 10% *1 The fee income ratio increased due to a decrease in substantial gross business profit *2 Return on shareholders’ equity = [Net income attributable to owners of the parent / primarily owing to deterioration in market-related profit in fiscal year 2016. The fee (FY-start total shareholders’ equity + FY-end shareholders’ equity) / 2] × 100 income ratio averaged 55.1% from fiscal year 2012 to fiscal year 2015. 20 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Message from Officer in Charge of Finance to reduce financial risks such as stock price fluctuation risk ment across all profit targets, profitability indicators, and associated with strategic shareholdings and risk from the financial indicators toward the levels sought under the U.S. interest rate rise. Although there remain issues, such midterm management plan, and I believe that we have Overview as an increase in expenses mainly due to higher systems made favorable progress overall in the plan’s first year. costs at some subsidiaries, we are seeing steady improve2. Outlook for Fiscal Year 2018 In the business environment for fiscal year 2018, the tion in the asset management business and to launch a ultra-low interest rate environment is expected to continue joint venture with Mizuho Financial Group and others (manin Japan, while a turnaround in Europe’s monetary easing agement integration of Japan Trustee Services Bank and policy is expected to follow the hike in the federal funds Trust & Custody Services Bank) in the asset administration rate in the U.S. We therefore consider it necessary to exerbusiness. The financial units will support and promote such Vision cise greater caution in preparation for the risk of sudden strategic efforts to bolster competitiveness from a mediumchanges in financial markets. SuMi TRUST Holdings will to long-term perspective in each business. further accelerate various initiatives under the midterm We will also make investments aimed at enhancing management plan, that is, we will continue to strengthen operational efficiency and productivity and expanding the fee businesses mainly in Japan and make efforts to client contact. In terms of expenses, we of course take a control funding procurement costs in the loan/investment balanced approach to making investments, verifying that business. At the same time, we will seek to improve profitresources are being used effectively, and our plan is to Business Strategy ability in our credit operations by replacing assets, more reduce the overhead ratio through prompt achievement of selectively, and bearing in mind factors such as diversificainvestment results and improvements in productivity due tion of risks. to top-line expansion. In the fee businesses, which are a focus area, last Through the above measures, we will not only do our year’s joint venture in the insurance business with Cardif utmost to achieve our single-year earnings targets and Assurance Vie Japan began operations in April 2018, and plan but also steadily move ahead with efforts from a in October we are planning to carry out Group reorganizamediumto long-term perspective. Management Foundation 3. Financial Agendas Our top challenge with respect to finance is how to tightened, and improvements in soundness have been increase profitability and efficiency while maintaining required. Meanwhile, profitability in the loan/investment financial soundness. business has remained stagnant amid the continuing As a trust bank premised on long-term transactions environment of ultra-low interest rates and fierce competiwith clients, and as one of the Domestic Systemically tion. Furthermore, the capital regulatory reforms (finalized Important Banks (D-SIBs), we are required to maintain a Basel III) agreed upon by the Basel Committee on Banking Corporate Information high level of financial soundness. At the same time, we Supervision at the end of 2017 have raised capital requiremust increase profitability and efficiency in order to secure ments for credit operations and strategic shareholdings, funds for future growth and maintain financial soundness which are expected to put further downward pressure on in response to the trust placed in us by shareholders. the profitability of return on capital. Since the financial crisis in 2008, regulations on finanIn the resulting environment, SuMi TRUST Holdings will cial institutions, especially capital regulations, have been shift to a business structure and financial position that balSumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 21 Message from Officer in Charge of Finance ance soundness and profitability. To do that, we will aim for Ratio of strategic shareholdings to Common Equity Tier 1 capital* sustainable and stable growth based on the two strategies (Billions of yen) of further strengthening the fee businesses and improving 42% 39% 35% efficiency and profitability in the loan/investment business 694.5 666.2 630.4 as set out in the midterm management plan. As for strategic shareholdings, we will steadily decrease the balance in line with our reduction plan formulated in fiscal year 2016, “Aiming to cut the ratio of strategic shareholdings to Common Equity Tier 1 capital by 50% in 1,636.4 approximately five years.” Meanwhile, we will continue to 1,689.7 1,809.1 reduce the impact on our financial base through appropriMarch 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, ate use of hedge transactions aimed at maintaining eco2016 Actual 2017 Actual 2018 Actual 2021 Plan nomic value and improving capital stability. Common Equity Tier 1 capital (excluding valuation differences on available-for-sale securities) Stocks (Acquisition cost of stocks on a consolidated basis) Ratio of strategic shareholdings to Common Equity Tier 1 capital * Stocks (acquisition cost of stocks on a consolidated basis) ÷ Common Equity Tier 1 capital (excluding valuation differences on available-for-sale securities) 4. Capital Policy With regard to striking a balance between 1) adequacy shareholder returns, and our basic capital policy is based and efficiency of capital and 2) investment in profit growth equally on these three points. opportunities while 3) aiming to strengthen shareholder As for capital adequacy, in addition to the regulatory return in the medium term, SuMi TRUST Holdings considrequired levels, we have set a target of steadily securing ers each of these to be important factors in maximizing a Capital Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio of approximately 10%, 22 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Message from Officer in Charge of Finance reflecting the need to ensure a certain level of capital ratio of around 30%, while considering share repurchases in light of the characteristics of a trust bank group that based on the balance between profit growth opportuniprovides long-term services. As of March 31, 2018, we ties and improvement in capital efficiency. In the medium Overview have secured a CET1 ratio of 11.3%. However, we believe term, we shall aim to gradually raise the total payout ratio that it will be necessary to accumulate capital even more to approximately 40% to enhance shareholder returns. In steadily in light of the strengthened capital regulations the future, even after capital accumulation has reached (finalized Basel III reforms basis) expected to be phased a level that is prudently sufficient on a finalized Basel III in from March 31, 2022. reforms basis, we will review our growth prospects and However, the impact of moving to a finalized Basel III stock valuation, and consider the appropriate capital polireforms basis is not very different from the assumptions cy/shareholder return in light of the business environment. of the current midterm management plan announced in On top of bolstering shareholder distribution commensu2017, and will not have any immediate effect on our capital rate with earnings, share repurchases to improve capital policy or shareholder return policy. Therefore, we will press efficiency will be considered as well. Vision ahead with transformation to a business model for high profit growth and capital efficiency by steadily implementKPI* ing our midterm management plan. In doing so, we will FY2017 Actual FY2019 Midterm Plan Profit growth ¥153.9 billion ¥180.0 billion accumulate capital, while managing it with both pursuit Capital efficiency 7.40% Approximately 8% of growth opportunities and strengthening of shareholder Shareholder return 37.4% Approximately 40% return in accordance with profitability taken into account. Business Strategy *Profit growth: Net income attributable to owners of the parent As announced in 2017, our shareholder return policy is Capital efficiency: Shareholder ROE to return shareholders’ profits commensurate with earnShareholder return: Total payout ratio ings, and we will maintain a consolidated dividend payout Shareholder return Earnings per share (EPS) 500 (Yen) Management Foundation (Billions of yen) (%) 50 403 400 40 37.4 300 30 50.0 200 20 10 100 Corporate Information 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal year) (Fiscal year) Dividends (left) Share repurchases (left) Total payout ratio (right) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 23 Initiatives Related to Sustainability Approach to Sustainability of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group Promotion of materiality management to create shared value (please see pages 50-51) A A sustainability perspective is essential in order for the Group to create shared value and achieve growth with its stakeholders. The Group emphasizes ESG (environment, social and governance) as elements that form our management base, and promote materiality management incorporating the evaluation standards of long-term investors who expect sustainability in profit growth as well. Sustainability initiatives in our business (please see pages 46-47) B The Group seeks to build a sustainable society with its clients by leveraging the functions of a financial group specialized in trust banking to provide total solutions that address social issues faced by clients. We use the SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) as a standard to understand (verify the appropriateness of) the social value created by the products and services we provide. Providing value to the community (please see pages 48-49) C Providing value to the community that constitutes society is linked to maintaining a sound business foundation, and we therefore consider it to be a social license required in order to conduct business. From this point of view, the Group makes it a practice to provide value to the community in various forms while also bearing SDGs in mind. Basic Policy on the Social Responsibility of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group (Sustainability Policy) Helping address social and environmental By developing and marketing products and services that help address social and 1 B problems through business environmental problems, we aim to improve the Group’s performance as well. The trust we receive from clients is the basis of our corporate activities. We strive 2 Sincere response to clients to increase protection for clients and customer satisfaction, and to ensure the A safety of our products. We strive to reinforce the foundation of corporate value creation, including corpo3 Establishing the trust of society A rate governance, CSR, compliance with laws and regulations, and risk management. We make efforts to reduce our environmental burden with the aim of building a 4 Initiatives on environmental problems A society that coexists with nature and a recycling society. We place emphasis on the people who make up society. In addition, we create 5 Respect for the individual a workplace environment and conduct human resources development to allow A individuals to make the most of their skills. Participation in and contribution to local A sound local community supports a sound client base. We participate in and 6 C communities contribute to community activities through “With You” activities. Sustainability Promotion System of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group “Sustainable development of society and improveCommittee held as part of the Executive Committee, and ment of corporate value through proactive sustainabilsupervised by the Sustainability Promotion Office of the ity efforts” is clearly stated in the Group’s Basic Policy on Corporate Planning Department. With regard to issues Corporate Governance as the role of the Board of Directors. related to materiality, the Risk Committee and Business Risk Specific activities are based on the midterm policy and Management Committee function as advisory bodies to the fiscal year plan decided by the Sustainability Promotion Board of Directors and Executive Committee respectively. SuMi TRUST Holdings Board of Advisory Risk Committee SuMi TRUST Bank Head office departments, Directors Report Executive Committee branch offices (Issues related to materiality) (Sustainability Promotion Committee) (Sustainability officers) Advisory Business Risk ManageExecutive Committee (Sustainability Promotion Committee) Report ment Committee Group Sustainability Group companies Sustainability Promotion Office of Committee (Sustainability officers) the Corporate Planning Department 24 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Initiatives Related to Sustainability Main Sustainability Themes and SDGs in Our Business The Group engages in various sustainability efforts in its business. In particular, we are striving to expand our lineup of Overview products and services related to the five major priority themes, while also considering their relationship to SDGs. Contribution to achieving Super-aging Climate goals through provision society issues change issues of financial products and services Environmentally Five Major Sustainable friendly Priority Themes (ESG) property for Sustainability investment Using SDGs as a standard Natural capital to understand (verify the (biodiversity issues) appropriateness of) the social value we create Vision (Example) Relationship between environmentally friendly property and SDGs The Group has coined the word “Eco-Trustution” for envithe significance of environmentally friendly property from various ronmental financial businesses that offer solutions to ecological aspects, such as by linking conservation of green spaces on sites issues using our trust function, and is pursuing strategic efforts to biodiversity. This contribution to market creation is linked to Business Strategy from a long-term perspective. With regard to environmenaccumulation of know-how and network expansion for the Group tally friendly property, which is one of our five major themes, we itself, and helps improve total solution capabilities in the Real believe that financial incentives for property owners are essential. Estate Business. Eco-Trustution can be classed as an effort to We have therefore set a goal of creating a market mechanism “pursue shared value” that conthat reflects environmental considerations in real estate value, nects our contribution to solving and have taken steps to that end while involving stakeholders in social issues to profit growth for our efforts. We have also verified the social appropriateness of the Group. all these activities by tying them to SDGs, while also exploring Step ❶ Step ❷ Step ❸ Step ❹ Management Foundation Organized sustainable real Participated in the real Researched and Advocated theory of estate research group with estate working group of Led development of CASBEE published correlation environmental added experts invited from the United Nations for Real Estate* that can be between CASBEE value for real estate industry, government and Environment Programme acquired easily by those evaluation and building (2005) academia (2007) Finance Initiative (2007) involved in real estate (2013) rents (2015) Developed theory of Built network in Japan and overseas, and prepared the Following introduction of certification system (labeling), economic value that terrain for development of evaluation standards for published demonstration analysis of high correlation would be starting environmentally friendly property in accordance with between environmental friendliness level and rent point international standards (market effectiveness) Creation and expansion of environmentally friendly property Targets for environmenWide-ranging market Finding necessary Environmental elements included in Corporate Information tally friendly property collaboration to technologies CASBEE evaluation standards business activities promote activities * The comprehensive assessment system for built environment efficiency (CASBEE) certification is an environmental performance evaluation system for buildings being developed and promoted in Japan under the guidance of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. Promotion of environmentally Environmentally Consulting to support Support for “visualization” Improving total friendly property business friendly construction applications for “CASBEE for and development policies of solution capabilities in (product examples) consulting Real Estate” Certification smart towns and smart cities Real Estate Business Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 25 Business Strategy Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited President Masaru Hashimoto CONTENTS Retail Total Solution Services Business………………………………… 28 Wholesale Total Solution Services Business………………………… 32 Wholesale Asset Management Business……………………………… 35 Fiduciary Services Business…………………………………………… 36 Stock Transfer Agency Services Business…………………………… 40 Real Estate Business…………………………………………………… 42 Global Markets Business………………………………………………… 44 Sustainability Initiatives in Our Business……………………………… 46 Providing Values to the Community…………………………………… 48 26 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Continuing to Evolve as Our Clients’ “Best Partner” Overview The term “fiduciary duties” is currently garnering attention in the financial industry. Interpreted as “client-oriented business operations,” “fiduciary duties” is the fundamental concept at the root of trusts. Since the Group’s foundation in 1924, we have conducted business operations with this concept guiding our management principles. In order to put fiduciary duties into practice – that is, to seek the true benefit of clients – the most important requirements are significant expertise that our clients can rely on, and consulting that offers clients optimal options according to their individual needs. As the core company of a financial group specialized in trust banking, SuMi TRUST Bank leverages Vision the significant expertise and comprehensive capabilities cultivated by the Group to provide optimal total solutions with the aim of enhancing the security and satisfaction of clients, expanding its client base and achieving sustainable growth. A close focus on client needs is of primary importance in customer-oriented practices, and the solutions needed change with the times and with shifts in the economic environment. For example, to address the growing needs of individual clients to conduct their own asset formaBusiness Strategy tion, we take advantage of the advanced asset management know-how cultivated in the pension business to propose optimal portfolios, including investment trusts, fund wraps, and insurance products. In addition, in response to the advanced aging of society, we provide products and services that support the transfer of assets between generations through use of our trust function, and offer tailor-made consulting according to diverse client circumstances with respect to inheritance. As for corporate clients, while banking business transactions remain our base, we work together with clients to confront and offer solutions to the various issues they are facing. For example, we are expanding our services in non-financial areas, such as IR/SR consulting to enhance corporate govManagement Foundation ernance, providing investment education for employees to enrich corporate welfare programs, and proposing real estate uses to increase asset efficiency. Going forward, we will strive to lead the Group in practicing client-oriented business operations in order to establish our position as our clients’ “Best Partner.” We are also committed to making a significant contribution to society through the evolution of services in line with the times. July 2018 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited Corporate Information President Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 27 Retail Total Solution Services Business [Message from the Officer in charge] The Retail Total Solution Services Business uses the significant expertise we have cultivated as a trust bank and the varied products and services we can offer as a financial group specialized in trust banking to meet the diverse needs of individual clients. Through our comprehensive consulting services that take clients’ overall assets and liabilities into account based on the needs of clients of different generations, we work closely with our clients to offer trust and comfort over the long term as their “Best Partner.” Executive Officer, SuMi TRUST Holdings Tsuyoshi Saito Officer in charge of Retail Total Solution Services Business, SuMi TRUST Bank Business Outline [Percentage of Substantial Gross The Retail Total Solution Services Business, through our high-quality comprehensive consulting, Business Profit*] provides diverse products and services unique to a trust bank, including asset management, asset formation, inheritance and succession, and wealth management, to meet the wide-ranging needs of individual clients that vary with their life stages. 27% ¥193.7 billion (* FY2017 actual) We provide support for clients’ asset formation through various loan products such as mortgage loans, and various installment-type management products such as asset formation trusts, installment-type investment trusts, and Tsumitate NISA. We provide high-quality consulting services and a diverse product lineup to meet various asset manageAsset We use the SuMi TRUST Group’s ment needs, including bank deposFormation broad network to meet needs reAsset Real its (both yen and foreign currency), lated to real estate, such as purManagement Estate investment trusts, discretionary inchase, sale and effective use of vestment management products, property, and change of residence. lump-sum annuity insurance, and whole life insurance. Providing total solutions suited to different life stages Through our consulting services that We provide consulting services take into account clients’ assets and Inheritance drawing on our significant experliabilities at different life stages, we Insurance and tise and extensive products and provide insurance products such as Succession services related to lifetime donalevel premium whole life insurance tion and inheritance to meet and level premium insurance that enneeds for the smooth transfer of able clients to prepare for the future. assets to the next generation. Main Group Companies Core entity in the SuMi TRUST Group; provides services to meet wide-ranging needs of SuMi TRUST Bank individual clients (bank deposits, asset management, will trusts, mortgage loans, etc.) Provides specialized, tailor-made consulting services regarding asset inheritance and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Wealth Partners business succession to individual and corporate clients Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Club Sole issuer of Diners Club Cards in Japan. Uses its brand strengths to provide high-quality services Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Card Issues global brand credit cards, VISA and MasterCard Provides guarantee services for clients with mortgage loans, consumer loans, etc. provided by Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Guarantee SuMi TRUST Bank Internet-only bank that provides 24-hour yen savings accounts, real-time foreign currency deposits, SBI Sumishin Net Bank integration with SBI SECURITIES accounts, non-face-to-face mortgage loans and card loans, etc. Joint venture with BNP Paribas Cardif; provides insurance products through SuMi TRUST Bank and Cardif Assurance Vie Japan other Japanese financial institutions 28 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Retail Total Solution Services Business Target Business Model In Japan, while interest rates remain extremely low because that form the foundation of our consulting services, in accordance of the maintained negative interest rate policy, there is growing with our “Policies regarding the Fiduciary Duties of the Sumitomo uncertainty regarding the future of social security due to the rapidly Mitsui Trust Group.” aging society, declining birth rate, and shrinking population. As we We use our inter-generational transfer/generational linkage-based enter the era of “the 100-year life,” it is becoming essential for total solution marketing model to build a solid, stable revenue base people to prepare for the future through their own efforts, leveragin order to sustain the growth of the Retail Total Solution Services ing approximately ¥1,900 trillion in domestic individual financial Business, by expanding transactions with not only our material client Overview assets. There is also a growing need in Japan’s aging society for the base including the pre/post retirement generation and seniors, but smooth transfer and succession of assets to the next generation. also the asset formation generation through mortgage loans and In the midst of these changes in the macro environment and social inter-generation asset transfer support trust products. structure, the SuMi TRUST Group strives to use the significant We are also taking on the challenge of reforming our busiexpertise and diverse products and services unique to a financial ness models in order to achieve dramatic productivity improvegroup specialized in trust banking to provide comprehensive conments, and striving to increase the amount of time for face-to-face sulting services and accurate solutions based on the characteristics consulting services, which are our source of competitive power, of individual clients’ assets and liabilities and their corresponding and generate further added value through implementation of needs, which change along with different stages in their lives, with digital transformation to reduce backoffice work at branches, which the aim of becoming our clients’ “Best Partner.” now come in sight of 70% reduction. We will use FinTech and AI In order to become our clients’ “Best Partner,” we provide prodtechnology to rationalize our proposal processes, streamline our ucts and services suited to their true benefit, and strive to be combranches, and optimize our network, with the aim of increasing Vision pletely client-oriented and to further improve the specialist skills contact with clients while reducing costs. Total Solution Marketing Model for Individual Clients Expand stable revenue base Business Strategy Installment Need for investment financing Level premium Asset insurance retirement Asset Retirement Establish robust client base Mortgage management benefit loan Inheritance management Enhance Enhance and will Asset formation Pre/post retirement Seniors Management Foundation generation generation Mortgage loans clients, DC/company employees’ savings clients, Diners Club clients, etc. 10’s 20’s 30’s 40’s 50’s 60’s 70’s 80’s Gift/inheritance (Inter-generational transfer) Liability Corporate Information Strengthen core competence Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 29 Retail Total Solution Services Business Key Measures By leveraging the functions unique to a financial group specialized in trust banking, we aim to achieve sustainable growth by accurately capturing growth opportunities, including asset formation for a wide range of generations, and asset inheritance amid a mature economy. • Initiatives to stabilize income • Initiatives to expand client base Through client-oriented consulting services, we will support As asset management methods and client needs become increasclients in mediumto long-term asset formation and provide valuingly diverse, we will use our rich product lineup as a trust bank to able products. Through this, we will increase the asset under mancapture a broad spectrum of transaction opportunities with clients agement and raise the recurring fees ratio for revenue related to from a wide range of generations, helping solve clients’ problems. investment management consulting services, with the aim of creating a stable earnings structure. Financial Highlights Trend of Net Business Profit before Credit Costs Trend of Revenue related to Investment Management Consulting Services On a non-consolidated basis*1, net business profit before credit The recurring fees ratio for revenue related to investment mancosts decreased by ¥4.5 billion year on year to ¥11.1 billion due to agement consulting services rose to 52% in fiscal year 2017. We will the temporary fall in inheritance-related business revenue despite continue to increase the asset under management and raise the revenues from sales of investment trusts, insurance, etc. being recurring fees ratio through our comprehensive consulting services approximately equal to those of the previous fiscal year. On a confor clients. solidated basis*2, net business profit before credit costs decreased by ¥10.1 billion year on year to ¥23.4 billion due to a decrease in revenue of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Club. *1 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited (“SuMi TRUST Bank”) (non-consolidated) *2 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. (“SuMi TRUST Holdings”) (consolidated) 40.0 (Billions of Yen) 90.0 (Billions of Yen) 56% 30.0 66.5 60.0 23.4 20.0 11.1 30.0 10.0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal Year) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Fiscal Year) Actual Actual Actual Plan Midterm Plan Non-consolidated Consolidated Sales fees of investment trust Sales fees of insurance Administration fees Recurring fees ratio Trend of Will Trusts (Number of Wills under Custody) Trend of Level Premium Insurance Policies We responded to growing needs related to inheritance and sucThe number of level premium insurance policies rose approxicession through consulting services by financial consultants and mately four-fold over the two-year period from March 31, 2016 to other staff with significant expertise. As a result, the number of March 31, 2018. In June 2018, we began sales of “Lifecycle Plan,” a will trusts, which provide total support for will writing, storage and new product developed in collaboration with Cardif Assurance Vie execution, has been increasing. Japan, a joint venture insurance company established together with BNP Paribas. Through its simple and easy-to-understand product design, the product enables clients to assemble only the coverage truly necessary, thereby satisfying clients’ diverse needs. 30,757 30,000 (Contracts) 40,000 (clients) 30,000 20,000 20,000 10,000 10,000 0 0 March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March September March September March 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 31, 2016 30, 2016 31, 2017 30, 2017 31, 2018 Asset formation generation Pre/post retirement generation Seniors 30 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Retail Total Solution Services Business Future Refinements Trust Type Next Generation Branch • Trust type next generation branches and channels • Using digital technology to reduce backoffice work and improve We will open next generation branches, starting with the business operation flexibility opening of Consultation Plaza Chofu in September 2018, to [Phase 1] In fiscal year 2017, tablet-type portable devices were provide total solutions to clients. introduced in all branches, enabling staff that visit clients to handle Basic specifications of next generation branches procedures for major products such as time deposits and investment trusts on the spot when visiting clients. This has already proOverview Streamlined branches (no back offices) duced concrete results, such as reducing the burden of filling out Spacious consultation booths (regionally-appropriate concept booths forms for clients and reducing branch backoffice work by 10%. will also be installed) [Phase 2] Going forward, the functions of these devices will be furSupport for diverse needs of a wide range of generations (enhancement of weekend/holiday/off-hours operations, etc.) ther extended and other digital technologies will be used to reduce branch backoffice work by 50%, dramatically improving productivity. Enhanced communication functions [Phase 3] Over-the-counter, customer visit, and backoffice secFor financial institutions as a whole, the number of clients visittions will use tablet-type portable devices without borders, to ing branches is falling. SuMi TRUST Bank is working to maintain implement new work styles specifically tailored to consulting serthe number of branch visitors and to maximize consulting opporvices for clients while reducing branch backoffice work by 70%. tunities by conducting business in new ways at next generation branches and integrating with non-face-to-face channels. Introduction of client visit tablet-type devices (Thousand) Consultation Plaza Chofu <Phase 1> (10% backoffice work reduction) Vision 1,500 will be at the forefront of The number of branch visitors introducing next gener1,000 was kept at ation branch elements <Phase 2> Device function extension (50% backoffice work reduction) the same level such as streamlined de500 as five years ago sign, spacious consultation booths, and remote <Phase 3> Borderless work style (70% backoffice work reduction) 0 FY2012 FY2017 consultation systems. Cardif Assurance Vie Japan Collaborative product development by SuMi TRUST Bank and Cardif Assurance Vie Japan Business Strategy On April 3, 2018, SuMi TRUST Bank completed its acquisition plaints about insurance products that they have too many riders, of 20% of the shares in Cardif Assurance Vie Japan (“Cardif”) making their contents confusing, and that insurance procedures from BNP Paribas Cardif. One of Cardif’s strengths is its develare too complex. “Lifecycle Plan” offers the three features of opment of insurance products with a high level of affinity with being simple, easy, and economical, as indicated below. banking financial products. Through our insurance business 1. Simple insurance, providing only the coverage that clients need collaboration with Cardif, we will provide truly client-oriented (Enabling clients to prepare for the future without redundant financial services. insurance) The first product of our collaboration with Cardif was 2. Easy to apply for and manage, using a single application form to apply for and a single insurance policy document to contract “Lifecycle Plan,” which we began offering at all SuMi TRUST multiple types of coverage Bank branches on June 18, 2018. “Lifecycle Plan” is an assemManagement Foundation 3. The more combined coverage, the more economical premiums bly-type insurance product in which clients can choose from five types of base policies, selecting only the coverage they SuMi TRUST Bank aims to establish an “insurance business need. According to Cardif’s research, this is the first assemblymodel that is unique to trust banks” (trust bancassurance) that type life insurance* to be offered as a banking product in offers comprehensive proposals taking into consideration tax Japan. The product is designed to enable clients to freely add systems, social security systems, and pension systems, in order to or remove coverage as necessary according to different stages provide clients with comfort suited to different stages in their lives. in their lives. * Product that enables clients to combine multiple base policies, apply for them through “Lifecycle Plan” was developed in response to client coma single application form, and contract them under a single insurance policy document Lifecycle Plan Whole life Corporate Information insurance Cancer Prepare for the Term diagnosis future according insurance insurance “Lifecycle Plan” to life changes, without redundant The Lifecycle Plan symbol reflects its concept of “ties”: Ties between coverage in “Lifecycle Plan”; insurance Ties between clients and their loved family members; and Income Ties between people who support each other, the foundation on which insurance Medical was developed. insurance assurance insurance This symbol reflects our commitment to valuing many “ties” without interruption, like the flowing passage of time. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 31 Wholesale Total Solution Services Business [Message from the Officer in charge] In our Wholesale Total Solution Services Business, we contribute to the expansion of clients’ enterprise value and asset value and to their growth by providing one-stop total solutions that only a financial group specialized in trust banking can offer. Through the integration of our various functions with significant expertise including banking, asset management and administration, and real estate, we meet the needs of clients that increasingly advance and diversify into comprehensive fields including not only loan/investment transactions but also non-financial aspects and asset management and administration. Executive Officer, SuMi TRUST Holdings Yukihiro Kitano Officer in charge of Wholesale Total Solution Services Business, SuMi TRUST Bank Business Outline [Percentage of Substantial Gross In addition to the services under its supervision, such as loans and arrangement of various financBusiness Profit*] ing schemes, corporate consultations, and M&A advisory services, the Wholesale Total Solution Services Business also serves as a general point of contact for all transactions with corporate clients. By organically and flexibly coordinating with the various functions having significant expertise of the Real Estate Business, Fiduciary Services Business, Stock Transfer Agency Services Business, 26% ¥183.4 billion Wholesale Asset Management Business, Global Markets Business, and Retail Total Solution Services Business, in addition to overseas bases and the Group companies, we contribute to our (* FY2017 actual, total wholesale financial serclients’ development in a range of fields by providing speedy, one-stop solutions that are optimally vices including Wholesale Asset Management tailored to their needs and issues. Business) Overview of Wholesale Business Financial/Non-profit Organizations Corporations Business activity partner Joint establishment of High added value asset management company Contracted trust agency Real estate, company welfare, shareholder management, Investment products as point and other non-financial needs Provide a wide range of of entry solutions by optimal mix of Provide business resource and various functions of banking, know-how asset management and Build win-win relationship Investment products Loans administration, and real estate Wholesale Asset Management Wholesale Total Solution Services Product related businesses with wide-ranging significant expertise Main Group Companies General point of contact for all matters related to corporate transactions, SuMi TRUST Bank such as financing schemes, corporate consultations, and M&A advisory services Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Panasonic Finance Comprehensive finance company owned by Panasonic Corporation and SuMi TRUST Bank (Leasing business) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Loan & Finance Mortgage loan company wholly owned by SuMi TRUST Bank and focusing primarily on (Loan business) mortgage loans Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (Thai) (Banking business) Wholly owned overseas subsidiary of SuMi TRUST Bank that conducts banking services in Thailand Zijin Trust (Trust business) Trust company headquartered in Nanjing, China that is 19.9% owned by SuMi TRUST Bank Joint venture of Marubeni Corporation and the SuMi TRUST Bank Group engaged Midwest Railcar Corporation (Leasing business) in the freight railcar leasing business in North America BIDV-SuMi TRUST Leasing Company Leasing company jointly established by SuMi TRUST Bank and BIDV, which is one of (Leasing business) Vietnam’s top four state-owned commercial banks 32 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Wholesale Total Solution Services Business Target Business Model The needs of corporate clients are changing, driven by advances In the area of governance, there are growing needs for the in technological innovation, changes in the global political and review and revision of executive compensation systems and govereconomic environment, the aging society and declining birth rate, nance structures including operation of the board of directors, as social demands for enhanced corporate governance and improvewell as improvements to ROE. As for asset formation, there are also ments in the working environment, and persistent low interest expanding needs for investment education and employee welfare, rates. Assessment of how these changes in needs apply to each such as the introduction of employee savings systems. The issues client is the launch point from which we provide differentiated faced by corporate divisions, especially non-financial management Overview services and added value unique to a financial group specialized in challenges that do not involve loan/investment transactions, are trust banking. Through this, the Group seeks to improve its standgrowing, and one of the Group’s strengths is our ability to provide ing with clients, capture new business opportunities, and thereby one-stop support through the multiple points of contact we have transform its earnings structure by reinforcing revenue and increaswith companies’ corporate divisions. ing fee revenue. Our relationship managers serve as hubs and collaborate with Government initiatives such as those related to Corporate each of our businesses with significant expertise, through seamless Governance Codes and work style reform are contributing to major coordination and cooperation as a single entity, to offer speedy changes in the challenges faced by our corporate clients in such solutions that secure our position as our clients’ “Best Partner.” corporate divisions as corporate planning, corporate administration, human resources, and finance and accounting. Vision Societal and business changes and government initiatives Evolution of the total solution marketing model provide a boost to trust-related business Social and Multifaceted Products requiring Corporate non-financial needs information strengths significant expertise environmental changes Review and revision of Stock transfer One-stop coverage of complex management issues faced by corporate divisions governance structures Corporate agency services Business Strategy Enhancement of planning corporate Executive compensation systems Consulting services governance regarding governance, executive compensation, Operation of board of directors Corporate IR, SR, etc. administration Relationship manager Real estate ROE improvement Work style reform Real estate brokerage Effective use of real estate Real estate management Management Foundation Business clients Employee welfare Pensions and Measures aimed at shifting from company employees’ savings to savings Investment education asset formation Defined contribution Human pensions (DC) Introduction of resources Installment savings/installemployee savings systems ment investment trusts Negative Asset management Asset management interest rate Finance and administration Corporate Information and accounting Diverse asset Asset management support management solutions Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 33 Wholesale Total Solution Services Business Key Measures Improvement of credit portfolio profitability Strengthen product related loans We will reform credit portfolios through the reduction of lowprofitability assets centered on foreign currency-denominated Active investment in areas where we have expertise corporate loans and the improvement of margins, while making ▼ selective investments in product related assets, focusing on profitPlan to market these products to clients ability and safety (recovery rates and tenor ). Aircraft finance Real estate non-recourse loans Trend of Corporate Credit Portfolio Project finance Shipping finance Trade/commodity finance 31% 25 (Trillions of Yen) 29% 28% Evolution of total solutions The challenges faced by clients have become more advanced, shift20.49 20.02 20.04 20 ing from single-department issues to complex management issues. 2.88 This is creating an even greater rise in expectations for total solutions. 2.81 3.08 We will use the activity themes defined by each of our businesses 2.91 with significant expertise as launch points for maximizing the 15 2.94 3.22 added values we offer to clients while strengthening coordination between relationship managers and the individual businesses. 3.93 3.40 3.25 10 Real estate-themed activities 5 10.76 10.86 10.47 Stock transfer 0 Pension-themed agency servicesthemed activities activities March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2020 Actual Actual Plan Midterm Plan* Product related (Foreign currency) Product related (Yen) Corporate (Foreign currency) Corporate (Yen) Ratio of Product related We will further reinforce collaborations between our businesses * Foreign currency balance as of March 31, 2020 assumes same in order to provide optimal solutions for clients that span multiexchange rate as March 31, 2017 ple activity themes. Financial Highlights Trend of Net Business Profit before Credit Costs*1 Strengthening of product related loans Net business profit before credit costs increased by ¥10.5 billion As the investments and loans environment continues to be year on year to ¥89.1 billion on a non-consolidated basis* 2, and harsh amid factors including worldwide monetary easing, negative increased by ¥12.6 billion year on year to ¥116.6 billion on a coninterest rates in Japanese Yen, and rising foreign currency fundsolidated basis*3, due to the improvement of margins by reducing ing costs, we stepped up efforts aimed at high-profit assets with a low-profitability assets centered on foreign currencies, reduced forview to sustainable improvement of loan income and profitability. eign currency funding costs, and reinforcement of product related Discounting the effects of the strong yen, the balance of product loan initiatives. related loans (including asset finance for aircraft, etc., project *1 Total wholesale financial services finance, and real estate finance) grew steadily. *2 SuMi TRUST Bank (non-consolidated) *3 SuMi TRUST Holdings (consolidated) 120.0 (Billions of Yen) 116.6 6 (Trillions of Yen) 5.7 89.1 80.0 4 60.0 2 0 0 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal Year) March 31, March 31, March 31, 2016 2017 2018 Non-consolidated Consolidated 34 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Wholesale Asset Management Business [Message from the Officer in charge] Amid the asset management difficulties brought about by changes in the social structure and the financial environment such as a maturing economy and aging society, and the management challenges produced by these factors, the Wholesale Asset Management Business offers corporate clients total solutions unique to a financial group specialized in trust banking, encomOverview passing both assets and liabilities. Our goal is to leverage the diverse asset management and administration know-how and consulting capabilities cultivated by the Group in areas ranging from securities to real assets in this core field to become our clients’ “Best Partner.” Executive Officer, SuMi TRUST Holdings Kengo Noguchi Officer in charge of Wholesale Asset Management Business, SuMi TRUST Bank Business Outline and Target Business Model Amid changes in the social structure such as a maturing economy and asset management difficulties. In this way, we help achieve optimal shift to an aging and declining population, “client-oriented asset manasset management for each of our clients. Vision agement” has become an important role for financial institutions to play. We will fuse the Group’s diverse property administration and asset The Wholesale Asset Management Business leverages the diverse management functions, such as inheritance, succession, and real asset management and administration know-how and consulting estate, with the customer bases of our clients such as regional financapabilities cultivated by the Group in areas ranging from securities cial institutions, building win-win relationships. To achieve this, we to real estate, private equity, aircraft, and various projects, to offer will strive to strengthen our various alliances with the aim of creating comprehensive services from proposals to product development and mutual, sustainable business growth and expanding our contributions monitoring, mainly for financial and non-profit organizations facing to the community. The SuMi TRUST Group Inheritance/ Asset management Real estate succession Know-how and functionality acquired as a trust bank Changing needs of Growing needs for Growing needs for Growing needs for clients of regional asset management/ real estate manageinheritance/gift/ Business Strategy Investments Asset management Real estate Global markets financial institutions asset formation ment/disposal succession and loans and administration Consulting Provide optimal asset management based on investors’ needs 1) To enhance the ability to cope with the increasingly diverse needs of Needs of regional their clients financial institutions 2) To diversify profit channels to increase income other than loans and Sourcing Discern numerous risk-taking opportunities and asset classes securities investments Arrangement Utilize trust functions to modify investment risk profiles and Joint venture asset structures so that they are acceptable to the investor management companies Provision of will Support Risk management and monitoring support, Provision of real trusts/asset asset custody status reporting, and other follow-up Utilizing the SuMi estate solutions succession related TRUST Group’s Provision of services expertise consultation Offer comprehensive services from asset management proposals marketing know-how to product development and monitoring Support regional financial institutions’ business needs and diversificaClients tion of income streams Management Foundation Financial Highlights While the asset management needs of corporate clients became various alternative asset areas such as private equity, private investincreasingly sophisticated and diversified due to the persistently ment trusts that meet the needs of institutional investors, and joint low interest rate environment, we strengthened our broad lineup money trusts that provide stable asset management opportunities. of asset management products that meet the individual asset manAs a result, assets under management of the Wholesale Asset agement needs of clients, including asset management products in Management Business grew steadily. Trend of Private Investment Trusts/Alternative Assets AUM Trend of Joint Money Trusts for Financial Institutions Corporate Information 3 (Trillions of Yen) 2.8 1.5 (Trillions of Yen) 1.3 2 1.0 1 0.5 0 0 March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 35 Fiduciary Services Business [Message from the Officer in charge] In our Fiduciary Services Business, we provide the asset management and asset administration functions that are the core competencies of our trust business to clients in forms tailored to their needs. In the area of asset management business, one of our strengths is our ability to provide services that contribute to mediumto long-term asset formation, backed by our solid track record of the corporate pension business and other businesses. In the area of asset administration business, we have established a consistent reputation for our pension and investment trust asset management companies’ capabilities of meeting the diverse needs of clients. We will further refine and enhance these strengths while leading the growth of the Group’s fee business by diversifying and expanding our services and business base. Executive Officer, SuMi TRUST Holdings Masahiro Tsuchiya Officer in charge of Fiduciary Services Business, SuMi TRUST Bank Business Outline [Percentage of Substantial Gross The Fiduciary Services Business is made up of three businesses: the pension business, the asset Business Profit*] management business, and the asset administration business. Working with the SuMi TRUST Group as a whole and seamlessly combining our significant expertise and know-how, we provide client-oriented, high added value services ranging from design of pension systems to management and administration. 24% ¥169.7 billion (* FY2017 actual) Pensions As pension plan professionals, we propose optimal, tailor-made system designs for clients, including both defined-benefit (DB) corporate pension plans and defined-contribution (DC) pension plans. Asset Management Pensions We have a large number of experienced analysts and fund managers, whose significant expertise and comprehensive capabilities are brought together in our asset management consulting to respond, as well as through diverse products we provide, to the wide-ranging asset management needs of clients. Asset Administration Asset Asset Both in Japan and overseas, we provide a wide range of services for ever diversifying and advancing asset ManageAdministadministration, including the administration, settlement, and management of securities in which clients have ment ration invested, the preparation of reports regarding the status of custody of such securities, and securities lending. Main Group Companies Trust bank that performs marketing and planning of services including: design, operation, management, and SuMi TRUST Bank consulting of corporate pension-related systems; asset management primarily for institutional investors; and asset administration services such as investment trust mandates Company specializing in administration and computer systems for pension fund administration (joint venture Japan Pension Operation Service with Mizuho Trust & Banking) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset management company that leverages the comprehensive capabilities of the Group to perform investAsset Management ment trust management and high-quality marketing support Nikko Asset Management Unique asset management company that operates globally with a focus on Asia Base of asset management product mandates and sales and securities borrowing and lending transactions for Sumitomo Mitsui Trust International overseas investors Asset management company established as a joint venture with the Bank of Yokohama, Bank of Kyoto, Gunma Sky Ocean Asset Management Bank, and Tokyo Kiraboshi Financial Group JP Asset Management Asset management company jointly established with Japan Post Bank, Japan Post, and Nomura Holdings Japan Trustee Services Bank Trust bank specializing in asset administration services (joint venture with Resona Bank) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (U.S.A.) U.S. base for overseas security administration operations Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank European base for overseas security administration operations (Luxembourg) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust (UK) U.K. base for overseas security administration operations Sumitomo Mitsui Trust (Ireland) Central base for foreign-domiciled fund administration operations 36 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Fiduciary Services Business Target Business Model As a leading financial group in Japan, we will lead the trend “from savings to asset formation” and contribute to “formation of the people’s assets,” “sustainable growth of Japan’s economy and corporations,” and “diversification and advancement of Japanese investment chains,” while serving as an engine of the Group’s fee business growth. Pensions Asset Management Asset Administration Diversification of asset Changes in asset Diversification and sophistication Overview management needs due to management environment of asset management negative interest rate Environment Increase in asset Expansion of investment environment Increase in pension formation needs trust market system reform needs in the era of “the 100-year life” Revision of Stewardship Code Increasing shift to lower fees Strengthen asset management Strengthen comprehensive Cater to outsourcing needs capabilities support for pension systems, Pursue economies of scale Direction Enlarge provision base for asset pension asset management, and Rationalize and enhance management services company welfare programs service levels Enhance stewardship activities Vision Contribute to “formation of the people’s assets,” “sustainable growth of Japan’s economy and corporations,” and “diversification and advancement of Japanese investment chains” Business Strategy We will strengthen the asset management and asset administration functions that are the core competencies of our trust business with the aim of realizing our business model. We will expand active assets in asset management by the aggregation of resources and improving management of assets within the Group and pursue diversification of services in asset administration, while seeking to expand our balance of assets under management and custody, revenue, and client base. Strengthening of Asset Management/Asset Administration Functions Asset management Asset administration Asset class Services Management Foundation Illiquid assets Expand Asset under management “JABIS”* Diversify Assets under custody active assets and revenue growth middle services and revenue growth office Multioutsourcing assets Fund admin Smart β custody lending Current status of asset Current status of asset Traditional management business administration business assets active • Operation in cooperation Expand Investment • Operation based on solid Expand with the Group companies client base trusts domestic client base client base • Leverage the Group’s • Services provided by utilizing networks in Japan and Managed functions offered by the Index trusts Corporate Information overseas Group companies Client base Client base Domestic Overseas Domestic Overseas Pension Financial Institutional Retail PB*/ Asset management Financial funds/ Retail PB* Non-Japanese mutual aid institutions investors wealthy class companies institutions * PB: Private banking * JABIS: Outsourcing services for middle and back office for asset management companies Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 37 Fiduciary Services Business Key Measures We will pursue expansion of our client base, balance of assets administration; “become a multi-boutique asset management under management, and revenue by promoting the following group” by taking advantage of the unique characteristics of the themes: “become the main bank for support of company welfare various asset management companies within the SuMi TRUST programs” by leveraging the strengths of the SuMi TRUST Group Group; and “evolve our asset administration business model” by in seamlessly handling pension plans and asset management and providing diversified services and catering to outsourcing needs. Financial Highlights Pensions In our corporate pension business, we increased DB balance*1 The number of DC plan members increased by approximately and DC plan members*2 through timely proposals of plans and 510,000 in four years, among the highest in the industry, due to asset management, and also steadily grew the balance of corpoexpansion of large-scale DC pension plans entrusted to us and rate pension funds through timely response to the diverse needs expansion of DC pension plans entrusted to us as successors to of individuals and financial institutions for both asset management company employees’ pension funds (Kosei Nenkin Kikin), backed and asset administration. As a result, net business profit before by the high regard of our clients for our investment education, credit costs increased by ¥9.1 billion year on year to ¥59.1 billion. online services, call centers, and other services. *1 Balance of DB assets entrusted to SuMi TRUST Bank *2 Number of subscribers in SuMi TRUST Bank mandated DC pension plans Trend of Net Business Profit before Credit Costs Trend of DC Plan Members 60.0 (Billions of Yen) 59.1 1,500 (Thousand members) 1,310 40.0 35.9 1,000 20.0 500 0 0 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal Year) March 31, March 31, 2013 2017 SuMi TRUST Bank (non-consolidated) SuMi TRUST Holdings (consolidated) Asset Management Asset Administration With a balance of assets under management that has increased Our balance of domestic assets under custody increased by by approximately ¥23 trillion in five years, the SuMi TRUST Group approximately ¥63 trillion in five years, mainly in investment trusts boasts the No. 1 position in Japan. We steadily increased our balthat form the core of asset administration services, due to our ance by providing products to meet the diverse needs of a wide refinement of asset management methods and our diversification range of clients (pension funds, mutual aid associations, financial of the assets we manage. Our balance of overseas assets under institutions, individuals, overseas investors, etc.) while leveragcustody increased by approximately $105.0 billion in five years due ing the respective strengths of the asset management companies to continued enhancement of services for Japanese clients. within the SuMi TRUST Group. Trend of Assets under Management of the Group Trend of Assets under Custody of the Group (Billions of Dollars) (Trillions of Yen) 100 (Trillions of Yen) 600.0 141.4 150 87.2 400.0 389.1 100 50 200.0 50 0 0 0 March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, 2013 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 2013 2017 2018 Overseas Domestic 38 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Fiduciary Services Business Future Refinements Asset Management Business Strengthen asset management capabilities In October 2018, we will split the asset management busifund wraps, and index investment trusts. By concentrating manness of SuMi TRUST Bank, which possesses a great deal of agement resources and investing them in growth fields, we aim know-how and offers a high level of quality for corporate clients to strengthen asset management capabilities while providing and institutional investors, and integrate it with SuMi TRUST a rich lineup of products that meet a wide range of diversified Asset Management, which has sought to expand its business investment needs, maximizing clients’ profits by speedily meetOverview to individual clients, with a focus on products such as DC plans, ing their diverse needs. March 31, 2018 From October 2018 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust SuMi TRUST Bank Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Asset Management Assets under management ¥53.8 trillion ¥10.0 trillion Concentrate investment functions in Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management •Enhance investment capability by devising diverse investment ideas Features No.1 DC pension No.1 corporate pension •Foster corporate culture where investment professionals can thrive investment trust market market share in Japan Bolster coordination with SuMi TRUST Bank, which is in charge of client share in Japan relationships Robust foundations in doInvestment trust sales to mestic market, wide coverbranch retail network, DC •Swift product planning and enhancement of product development functions age from traditional to alplans, and financial institu•Strengthen marketing ability through agile offerings of proposals ternative assets. tions Expansion of service provision base Assets under Management Vision 109.0 We will provide mediumto long-term, stable asset man100.0 (Billions of Yen) agement services to a wide range of clients, such as regional 75.0 70.5 financial institutions, by providing the Group’s asset management know-how to Sky Ocean Asset Management and JP Asset 50.0 Management. 25.0 0 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Business Strategy Sky Ocean Asset Management JP Asset Management Asset Administration Business Pursue economies of scale In March 2018, we reached an in-principle agreement to merge the two companies. In October 2018, a new holding between the major shareholders of Japan Trustee Services company (JTC Holdings) will be established, with JTSB and Bank (JTSB: joint venture with Resona Bank), a prominent asset TCSB as wholly-owned subsidiaries. By 2021, the two comcustodian services company, and Trust & Custody Services panies and the holding company will be merged, creating an Management Foundation Bank (TCSB: joint venture with Mizuho Financial Group and life integrated company. The economies of scale will be leveraged insurance companies), a subsidiary of Mizuho Financial Group, to rationalize and enhance their service levels. March 31, 2018 From October 2018 JTSB TCSB JTC Holdings Bring together Concentrate the management resources and know-how of JTSB and TCSB Assets under custody* ¥309 trillion ¥384 trillion •Leverage significant expertise in a broad range of business fields •Refine business operations capabilities through the development of Major shareholders Mizuho Financial Group specialized personnel and specialist staff, etc. SuMi TRUST Holdings 54% Pursue economies of scale 66.6% Life insurance companies •Achieve stable, high high-quality operations Resona Bank 33.3% •Reinforce system development capabilities 46% * As of December 31, 2017 Corporate Information Cater to outsourcing needs Service provision concept We will enhance our fiduciary business system based on The SuMi TRUST Group Clients advances in managed asset diversification and asset manageAsset management Asset management Performance analysis ment methods while supplying asset administration services companies companies Risk analysis that provide even greater added value by combining the knowBanks Financial institutions, Custody, fund administration, etc. how the Group has developed through its asset management Asset administration reporting companies and banking operations. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 39 Stock Transfer Agency Services Business [Message from the Officer in charge] In light of evolving from “form” to “substance” corporate governance reform, we are addressing the demands for enhancement of initiatives focused on greater promotion of dialogue and provision of information between companies and institutional investors. The Stock Transfer Agency Services Business, as our clients’ “Best Partner,” provides a wide range of solutions to address the increasingly diverse and complex challenges of each company by leveraging our client base, the number one in the industry in terms of both the number of listed companies under management and the number of shareholders under administration. Managing Executive Officer, Executive Officer, SuMi TRUST Holdings Atsushi Kaibara Officer in charge of Stock Transfer Agency Services Business, SuMi TRUST Bank Business Outline [Percentage of Substantial Gross Our Stock Transfer Agency Services Business works as a “shareholder list manager” provided for Business Profit*] in the Companies Act and undertakes stock practices on behalf of clients. We offer shareholder list 5% management services that allow our clients to increase their administrative efficiency and rationalize their administration, and various comprehensive consulting services as follows. 1) “Consulting services for stock practices/gen3) “ Consulting services for investors/capital eral shareholders’ meeting practices” to supstrategies” to support clients’ investor strate¥35.9 billion port clients’ handling of stock practices gies, capital strategies, and public relations through our abundant practical experience activities (IR/SR) (* FY2017 actual) and significant expertise 4) “Consulting services for enhancing gover2) “ IPO consulting services” to provide practical nance” to support clients’ efforts to enhance support for clients pursuing initial public offerings initiatives related to governance The SuMi TRUST Group Consulting services for stock practices/ IPO consulting services general shareholders’ meeting practices Consulting for unlisted corporations planning IPOs, on Providing fine-tuned consulting services for a variety of matters such as preparing shareholders’ registries, issues related to stock practices and handling of general articles of incorporation and other company rules; meetings of shareholders, including reorganization capital increases, stock splits, and the introduction of strategies, review of institutional design, and stock options; the schedule and required procedures introduction of anti-takeover measures. leading up to the IPO; and handling of general meetings of shareholders after listing. Corporate Clients Consulting services for investors/capital strategies Providing solutions for various management issues in order to align the interests between the management team (directors and officers) and investors (shareholders) Consulting services for enhancing governance in pursuit of enhanced enterprise value. Providing various solutions for corporate governance IR/SR consulting services enhancement, including consulting on executive Providing services that take maximum advantage of compensation, support for evaluations of effectiveness proprietary know-how and distinctive features as a stock of the Board of Directors, consulting on integrated transfer agent. Beneficial shareholder surveys to identify reporting, consulting on institutional design and domestic and overseas institutional investors, provision transition, and support for directors and officers training. of various types of information, as well as practical and effective support including overseas SR support and assistance with events for individual shareholders. Main Group Companies SuMi TRUST Bank Shareholder list management services and consulting services related to IPO, governance, IR/SR, etc. Tokyo Securities Transfer Agent Shareholder list management services and consulting services related to IPO, governance, IR/SR, etc. Overall stock transfer agency services and securities services including administration and delivery Japan Securities Agents settlement of investment trusts and general bonds Sumitomo Mitsui Trust TA Solution Administration and system operations for the entire range of stock transfer agency services Japan Stockholders Data Service Undertaking administration of the shareholders’ registry and system development and operations 40 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Stock Transfer Agency Services Business Target Business Model We seek to be our clients’ “Best Partner,” offering solutions from talization through cooperation with regional financial institutions to a cross-business perspective in response to management issues for support IPOs by regional companies. We have achieved the top investors/capital strategies, which are becoming increasingly share of entrustments from newly listed companies for two consecimportant due to changes in the external environment, with the utive years as a result of these initiatives. strong relationship we have cultivated as our clients’ “Best Partner” By building further stronger relationships with our clients and for stock practices. establishing our position as their “Best Partner” through these The environment surrounding companies has changed consideractivities, we will achieve sustainable expansion of our client base ably since the establishment of the Stewardship Code and the and an unshakeable status as the leading company in the stock Overview Corporate Governance Code, and client needs are expanding transfer agency services market. beyond stock practices and support for general meetings of shareTarget Corporate Segment holders to include enhancement of governance, environmental, social and governance (ESG) measures, and consulting on incentive Mid-sized/emerging Large corporations Unlisted corporations corporations compensation. Furthermore, clients are asking for stronger initiatives to evolve from “form” to “substance” corporate governance Differentiation through high reform than in the past, and the related needs at each company are added value services One-stop services for becoming diverse and complex. Solution Governance/executive owner-managed companies, business compensation consulting covering both corporate The SuMi TRUST Group contributes to the further improvement and individual needs of clients’ enterprise value and market value by providing optimal, IR/SR consulting, etc. high-quality solutions to management issues for investors/capital strategies, which are becoming increasingly important due to Expansion of client base Expansion of comprehensive changes in the external environment. Important client base for Wholesale transactions with early Stock Vision In addition, we offer strong backup for the realization of IPOs Total Solution Services Business stage corporations transfer through measures such as providing corporate and individual soluagency tions for owner-managed companies as well as legal consulting serbusiness Further improvement of cost competitiveness vices to clients pursuing IPOs from the preparation stage. Capture of profit opportunities through offering high added value services We are also focusing on making a contribution to regional reviKey Measures Enhance solution marketing and needs by comparing the results of analyses of individual comGovernance survey/executive compensation survey panies against average initiative conditions in other companies, Business Strategy In fiscal year 2017, we used our client base, the number one in narrowed down by industry, company scale, or the like. We will use Japan, to conduct our first governance and executive compensathis to increase our consulting revenue by providing solutions taition surveys. We gathered some of the most extensive survey data lored to clients’ issues and needs. in Japan, and plan to continue these efforts in fiscal year 2018. This tremendous amount of survey data not only makes it posExpand transaction base sible to assess initiatives related to overall governance or executive We will further expand our solid client base to establish a firm posicompensation in listed companies, but also to identify client issues tion as a leading company in the stock transfer agency services market. One of the largest amounts Assess status of of survey data in Japan Promote operation efficiency improvements initiatives in companies We will expand the activity scope of RPA, which we introduced in Provide solutions Create statistical data for that help improve fiscal year 2017, and further promote operation efficiency improveindividual company types Management Foundation Assess issues enterprise value ments such as deploying AI in call centers, enhancing our competiUse scoring to analyze faced by individual tive power. Our call center AI will improve revenue by evolving to companies individual companies better analyze the contents of calls from individual shareholders. Financial Highlights Net business profit before credit costs increased by ¥0.4 billion year on year to ¥16.7 billion on a non-consolidated basis*1, and increased by ¥0.3 billion year on year to ¥17.4 billion on a consolidated basis*2, due to an increase in recurring fees and commissions received as a result of an increase in the number of shareholders under administration, as well as an increase in various consulting fees. *1 SuMi TRUST Bank (non-consolidated) *2 SuMi TRUST Holdings (consolidated) Industry Share of Stock Transfer Agency Services Business* (March 31, 2018) Trend of Net Business Profit before Credit Costs <Number of Listed Companies <Number of Shareholders Corporate Information under Management> under Administration> 20.0 (Billions of Yen) 17.4 No. 1 in No. 1 in 16.7 industry industry 10.0 41.8 43.6 % % 0 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal Year) Non-consolidated Consolidated * Total for SuMi TRUST Bank, Tokyo Securities Transfer Agent, and Japan Securities Agents Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 41 Real Estate Business [Message from the Officers in charge] Our Real Estate Business offers a full lineup of CRE (corporate real estate) strategies, brokerage for buying, selling, and leasing, development and construction consulting, and securitization trusts, etc. to meet the real estate needs of corporate and individual clients in Japan and overseas. By providing one-stop, optimized real estate solutions to the increasingly complex and diverse business issues faced by corporate clients and assisting with asset formation for individual clients, we continue to work closely with our clients as their “Best Partner.” Akihiko Shirayama Tadao Umezawa Senior Managing Executive Officer, Executive Officer Executive Officer SuMi TRUST Holdings SuMi TRUST Holdings Officer in charge of Real Estate Business Officer in charge of Real Estate Business SuMi TRUST Bank SuMi TRUST Bank Business Outline [Percentage of Substantial Gross In Japan, we are continuing to produce top class results in our real estate brokerage for corpoBusiness Profit*] rate clients, the core of our Real Estate Business. In addition to coordinating with our businesses 8% within the Group, we also make use of our external networks with regional financial institutions and overseas financial organizations for corporations to utilize real estate assets in line with their management issues and business strategies, and for clients whose core business is real estate investment to increase real estate revenue. ¥53.8 billion In our real estate brokerage for individuals, we continue to coordinate within the Group to improve our provision of real estate information aligned with the life stages and life events of cli(* FY2017 actual) ents and to maximize asset value for our clients. We also secure the top position in Japan in terms of both real estate securitization trusts and J-REIT business, and provide the important social infrastructure function of contributing to the growth of the real estate investment market. Our Real Estate Business has a large number of certified personnel, such as real estate brokers, real estate appraisers, and first-class registered architects and specialists such as leading experts in the environmentally friendly property field, providing a full line of solutions. Solution Functions Structure for Providing Solutions Buying and Brokerage services for buying and selling real estate including Point of contact with clients/ Various consulting services selling offices, houses, hotels, commercial and distribution facilities, etc. brokerage solutions and solutions Brokerage Brokerage services for leasing to tenants, including ofﬁces, Tokyo Leasing Real Estate Business Dept. Real Estate Business commercial and distribution facilities, etc. metropoliSolution Dept. I-V Advice related to CRE (corporate real estate), market research, tan area Real Estate Advisory Dept. CRE gathering of necessary information and data, and services to Chukyo Real Estate Business Dept., Real estate transaction support decision-making through various proposals area Nagoya Real Estate Custody services Corporate Business Dept. Consulting services related to effective use of idle and clients Real Estate Business Dept., Effective use Kinki area Real Estate Trust Business Consulting unutilized/underutilized land Osaka Dept. Construction Consulting services related to building construction Real Estate Business EnvironmenOther Network Promotion Dept., Real Estate Investment Consulting services for environmentally friendly real estate regions Real Estate Sections of Business Dept. tally friendly development and building construction Branches Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Real property Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Estate Investment Real estate manageArrangement of real estate securitization and creation of Individual clients Management Securitization arrangement Realty ment and administracollective investment schemes tion services Global Real Estate SUMITOMO MITSUI Asset management Real estate fund management services Overseas clients Business Planning and TRUST RESEARCH Real estate securitization Fiduciary services for real estate trusts in real estate securitizaPromotion Dept. INSTITUTE trusts tion, etc. Real estate infrastrucReal estate investment Asset storage, general administration ture services companies (accounting administration) Real estate administration services using delegation of Real estate administration administration and administrative trusts Overseas real estate Consulting on intermediation of overseas real estate, business market research, and overseas expansion strategies, etc. Other Real estate market Consulting on investment valuation and risk analysis regarding research structured real estate ﬁnance products Main Group Companies SuMi TRUST Bank Investment and business use real estate brokerage and consulting services, primarily for corporate clients Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Realty Transaction services such as residential, investment, and business use real estate brokerage, primarily for individual clients Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Research Institute Real estate market research and consulting services, primarily for corporate clients 42 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Real Estate Business Target Business Model Becoming a “Best Partner” Ongoing client base expansion Seamless solution provision aligned with real estate management cycles By providing total solutions that repeatWe will not only coordinate with our We will identify future profit opportuniedly meet clients’ needs, we will establish other businesses, but also leverage our netties through our deep understanding of the ongoing, multi-level contact with clients works with regional financial institutions and status and issues of individual real estate and become their “Best Partner.” overseas financial organizations to provide properties owned by clients, and through real estate services to new clients, expandour ongoing provision of optimal solutions Overview ing our client base. aligned with mediumto long-term real estate management cycles. Closeness Central management of real estate and need information Become a “Best Partner” Management and Strategy formulation Room for administration revenue growth Real estate management Expand cycle Current status client base Project management Transactions Vision Client base Key Measures Enhance coordination across businesses Multi-level approach • Assess and analyze the position of real estate in clients’ business Deliberation Review of Deliberation regarding Financial challenges and business strategies. business strategies and regarding diselimination/ strategies and posal of real introduction of account dormitories/ • Build multi-level contact with not only client corporate adminisproduction settlement estate due to company Business Strategy sites deterioration tration departments, but corporate planning, finance, and other housing departments as well. Corporate Corporate Human Clients planning Finance administration resources Provide total solutions P ro v i de to ta l so l u ti o n s • Comprehensively assess market real estate information and anaThe SuMi Wholesale Total Stock Transfer Fiduciary Services lyze in which industries and business types real estate transaction Real Estate TRUST Solution Services Agency Services Business Business Business (pension business) growth is expected. Group Business • Coordinate with our other businesses to enhance total solution Enhance coordination across businesses proposals that utilize real estate. Management Foundation Financial Highlights Trend of Net Business Profit before Credit Costs Trend of Trusts under Administration for Real Estate Infrastructure Services Net business profit before credit costs remained at the same The balance of assets under administration steadily grew for level as in the previous fiscal year on a non-consolidated basis*1, both real estate securitization trusts and investment companies’ but increased by ¥0.4 billion year on year to ¥29.8 billion on a conasset custody and general administration entrusted to us, and we solidated basis*2 primarily as the result of increased revenue from secured the top position in Japan in terms of the scale of our trusts brokerage for individual clients. as a result. *1 SuMi TRUST Bank (non-consolidated) *2 SuMi TRUST Holdings (consolidated) Corporate Information 30.0 (Billions of Yen) 29.8 15 (Trillions of Yen) 15.3 13.3 23.1 20.0 10 10.0 5 0 0 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal Year) 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal Year) Non-consolidated Consolidated Investment companies’ asset custody and general administration entrusted to us Real estate securitization trusts Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 43 Global Markets Business [Message from the Officer in charge] In the Global Markets Business, our experts who manage global financial market volatility draws on our domestic and overseas networks to provide optimal solutions that meet client needs for asset management and risk management regarding such matters as interest rate derivatives and foreign exchange related transactions. Executive Officer, SuMi TRUST Holdings Yoshinori Momose Officer in charge of Global Markets Business, SuMi TRUST Bank Business Outline [Percentage of Substantial Gross Our Global Markets Business includes three functions — client service functions, which underBusiness Profit*] take marketing operations and market-making operations; market functions, which handle investment operations and financial management operations; and administrative functions. We combine these functions and operations to leverage our significant expertise and comprehensive capabilities and provide services in a timely manner. 8% ¥54.4 billion (* FY2017 actual) Client Service Functions Market Functions • Marketing operations: We make use of functions within the SuMi • Investment operations: We invest in a wide variety of financial TRUST Group to offer market-based financial products and soluinstruments such as global bonds, foreign exchange-related tion services suited to client needs in a timely manner at a reasonproducts, and stocks to disperse risk while maximizing profit. able price. We also provide market analysis services, supporting • F inancial management operations: We analyze market enviclient decision-making regarding investments and risk hedging. ronments, measure the market risks the SuMi TRUST Group is • Market-making operations: Our market-making operations are exposed to and plan and execute market risk control in order to intermediary services to clients for various market-based transacsecure financial stability from a group-wide perspective. tions, including foreign exchange-related transactions and interest rate derivatives. Through these operations, we contribute to Administrative Functions greater market liquidity. We also work to supply high-quality, low• We provide high-quality administrative services to correctly propriced, market-based financial products by making full use of our cess complex and large-volume administration and settlement of financial technology. market-based transactions. Business Model of Global Markets Business Market Markets The SuMi TRUST Group Added value Clients Synergy between individual functions transactions Providing significant expertise Access to various markets Various Loans/ Marketing operations market-based Client Retail investments financial products Offering services service Market functions Market-making operations Foreign transactions Corporate exchange Solution services Investment operations Market Securities Financial Government functions risk management Loans/investments and Financial management operations securities settlement Settlement Derivatives Administrative Management and settlement services Overseas functions 44 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Global Markets Business Target Business Model Contribute to the management of market volatility for all cliby many years of experience in investment operations and finanents, both internal and external cial management operations. • The uncertainty surrounding the market is growing, due to factors including monetary policies of developed countries and economMarketing operations Financial ic trends in emerging countries, as well as the global political situMarket-making operations Investment operations management operations ation and geopolitical risks. Market risks also exist in clients’ asset holdings and balance sheets. We will protect clients’ asset value Volatility of Overview Market Market by providing solutions to appropriately manage market volatility. volatility volatility the Group’s financial position Utilizing • The optimal solutions we offer our clients make use of all the volknow-how atility management know-how of our group of experts, including Defending clients’ Defending Defending asset value market value financial value knowledge of marketing operations and market-making operations, as well as technologies such as market risk control backed Key Measures Expand foreign exchange and derivative transactions with (Example) “B to B to C” in foreign exchange transactions with Vision financial organizations regional financial institutions • The advance of globalization is stimulating overseas expansion, • Initiatives unique to the SuMi TRUST Group, free of corporate alliincluding M&As, by Japanese companies and foreign asset manageance restrictions ment by financial organizations, producing a rising need for appro• Able to build win-win relationships that mutually expand business priate hedging against interest rate and foreign exchange risks. • Our specialized market volatility management functions can be used Regional financial not only by the Group’s clients, but also for the enrichment of client Regional company (1) Proposals for hedging institution services offered by regional financial institutions through transactions foreign exchange risk BANK with the Group, mutually expanding business opportunities. Business Strategy Promote foreign currency deposits (2) Foreign exchange • In Japan, which depends on foreign countries for resources and transactions food, the price of imports soars when the yen weakens significantly, producing inflation. (3) Foreign exchange • From the perspective of protecting clients’ asset value (purchashedge transactions ing power), we propose to clients foreign currency deposits, The SuMi TRUST Group which are advantageous when the yen is weak, as a tool to hedge (build win-win relationship) their risks. Management Foundation Financial Highlights Trend of Net Business Profit before Credit Costs Trend of Value of Transactions with Financial Organizations In fiscal year 2016, net business profit before credit costs fell By maintaining a client-level perspective with respect to the significantly due to the posting of realized losses on sales of U.S. various hedge needs of financial organizations including regional treasuries, but in fiscal year 2017, net business profit before credit financial institutions, we steadily expanded our foreign exchange costs were ¥39.3 billion, primarily focused in client services such as and derivative transactions with financial organizations. marketing operations and market-making operations. 100.0 (Billions of Yen) 120 Corporate Information 80.0 111 110 60.0 40.0 39.3 100 20.0 90 0 (20.0) 80 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal Year) 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal Year) SuMi TRUST Bank (non-consolidated) (Actual results compared to FY2015 transaction value, set to 100) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 45 Sustainability Initiatives in Our Business Five Major Priority Themes Environmental and Social Challenges Examples of Products and Services Social Value Related SDGs • Materialization of transition risks • Renewable energy project finance • Reduction of greenhouse gas Climate change such as the exposure of corporaemissions through renewable en• Renewable energy funds issues tions and financial institutions to ergy and energy saving projects asset value volatility caused by • Leasing of micro-power generawithin investment and loan scope changes in technical innovations, tion in water supply systems policies, market trends, and rep• Promotion of corporate climate utation, etc., during the process • Leasing for energy service compachange countermeasures through of transitioning to a society with nies (ESCOs) engagement activities net zero carbon emissions • Addressing of climate change is• Materialization of physical risks sues through asset management such as extreme weather (tySee Climate Change phoons, floods, droughts, etc.), Report 2017 rising sea levels, and shifting climate patterns • Increasing resource procurement • Environmental rating loans with • Reduction of corporate procureNatural capital risks due to depletion and polluevaluation of natural capital presment risks resulting from natural (biodiversity tion of natural capital ervation capital-related issues issues) • Shortages or illegal trade in liv• Social contribution donation trusts • Promotion of corporate biodivering resources used for food, law and charitable trusts to make dosity conservation activities materials for pharmaceutical nations to ecosystem conservation activities • Ecosystem and biodiversity conproducts, etc. servation (especially in Japan) • Damage to biodiversity due to • Biodiversity companies support fund (investment trust) • Effective use of natural capital increasing numbers of rare and such as forests and prevention of endangered species • Addressing of natural capital isnatural capital devastation See Natural Capital sues through asset management Report 2017 • Forestry trust (in development) • Advance of global warming due • Environmentally friendly construc• Spread of high energy efficiency, Environmentally to energy consumption of buildtion consulting high resource efficiency cities friendly property ings, one of factors accelerating • Consulting to support applicaand buildings global warming tions for CASBEE for Real Estate • Enhancing value of environmen• Loss of biodiversity and other encertification tally friendly property vironmental destruction due to • Assistance for designing of • Spread of buildings that contriburban expansion “smart” towns/cities and visualute to improvement of producization of its benefits tion efficiency See Environmentally Friendly Property Report 2017 • Insufficient supply of risk money • ESG funds • Expansion of ESG investment Sustainable for building a sustainable society market • Stewardship activities (engageinvestment • Lack of capital market that enment, ESG integration, exercise • Increasing corporate consider(ESG investment) hances long-term enterprise value of voting rights) ation of the environment and soci(insufficiently developed informaety through stewardship activities tion disclosure rules) Initiatives of Stock Transfer Agency Services Business • ESG advisory services • Sophistication of corporate nonRelated to all 17 SDGs • Integrated report review services financial information disclosure See Stewardship • Integrated report preparation • Creating a healthy platform for support services dialog with investors Report 2017 • Vulnerability of socio-economic • Products that ensure the stability • Creating a regional society where Super-aging system due to advent of superof income and expenditures for the elderly can live in safety and society issues aging society senior generations security • Manifestation of various prob• Real estate services that ensure • Ensuring the safety of property lems caused by dementia residential stability administration for the elderly • Products that accommodate the • Secure succession of assets to decreases in judgment abilities the next generation produced by dementia, and introduction of adult guardians • Products that ensure the stability of the lives of family members • Support for secure succession of See ESG/CSR assets to the next generation Report 2017, page 29 46 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Sustainability Initiatives in Our Business We strive to create a sustainable society together with our clients by using the Group’s trust functions to provide clients with total solutions to the social problems they face. We use Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as standards for assessing the social value created by the products and services we offer (verifying their appropriateness). Overview The Group’s strengths Notable Initiatives and Product Examples Solutions that leverage our functions as a trust bank group Domestic renewable energy fund for institutional investors One of the strengths of trust bank groups is that they can offer a variety of finance SuMi TRUST Bank has established a trust fund for investing in solar power generamethods. The SuMi TRUST Group provides diverse finance methods, such as project tion projects and the like in operation in Japan. This fund is expected to produce a financing, funds, leasing, and home renovation loans to support, for example, the stable cash flow backed by long-term, stable revenue from sales of electric power expansion and popularization of renewable energy. through the feed-in tariff system. We see this as a solution that meets the asset We use these finance methods to propose optimized management needs of financial institutions and pensions. approaches that meet our clients’ needs. InformaScheme overview tion disclosure related to climate change will need to 6 to 8 projects PJSPC Limited liability partnership This fund become even more sophisticated in the future. The Anonymous partnership Anonymous partnership Anonymous partnership investment Trust Investors Group issues annual reports focused on this theme. investment investment envisioned PJSPC Anonymous partnership Anonymous partnership beneficiary Anonymous partnership investment investment rights investment SuMi TRUST Bank Leadership in the financial industry Environmental rating loans with evaluation of natural capital preservation SuMi TRUST Holdings takes various opportunities to communicate the state of globEfforts to address issues related to natural capital across the global supply chain are Vision al advances in efforts related to this theme, such as becoming an indispensable part of management strategy in order for a company to continue its a signatory in 2012 to the Natural Capital Declaration (now the business. SuMi TRUST Bank provides “environmental rating Natural Capital Finance Alliance), advocated by the United Naloans with evaluation of natural capital preservation,” which tions Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), and embed the concept of evaluating impacts on natural capiorganizing the Natural Capital Study Group (chaired by Masahiro tal and a company’s initiatives into the environmental-rating Sato, associate professor at Tohoku University) and introducing evaluation process that assesses its environmental measures. the Finance Sector Supplement to the Natural Capital Protocol This is the world’s first attempt to incorporate natural capital written by the National Capital Coalition, a global multi-stakeevaluation into loan criteria, and our efforts have been cited holder collaboration. (Shown at right: Introduction to Natural in government environmental white papers and European Capital, published in 2015 by the Natural Capital Study Group) Commission reports as an example of leading-edge practice. Leading role in the formation of an environmentally friendly property market Consulting to support applications for CASBEE for Real Estate certification Since announcing our theory about environmental added value of real estate in SuMi TRUST Bank engages in consulting services to support applications for the Business Strategy 2005, we have recognized the importance of gradually deepening awareness of the CASBEE for Real Estate (see page 25) certification. CASBEE accredited professioneconomic benefits of environmentally friendly property, and the SuMi TRUST Group als with proper qualification support the selection of real estate applying for cerhas played a leading role in the multistage formation of this market (see page 25). tification while also evaluating the environmental performance of real estate and Our relentless efforts have resulted in greater trust being placed in the Group, a supporting the submission of applications for certification to certifying bodies. tremendous asset in our business activities. Concept of environmental added value: Prices focused on the “profitability” of real estate Consulting examples Prices focused on the “profitability” of real estate Environmental added value Net income generated by real estate Price of real estate* Real estate capitalization rate * In the case of direct capitalization I Contribution to higher net income Environmentally Benefits of environmentally II Contribution to lower friendly measures friendly measures capitalization rates Isetan Shinjuku Osaka Nakanoshima Building IIF Kyotanabe Logistics Center Management Foundation A Japanese ESG investment pioneer MBIS®: Our non-financial metrics evaluation tool The Group has always been a pioneer, launching Japan’s first enIn order to closely assess the basis for sustainable growth at investee companies, we vironmental fund in 1999, followed by a full-fledged pension ESG collect, analyze, and evaluate non-financial information (ESG information) that canfund in 2003, becoming a signatory to the Principles for Responnot be expressed through financial information alone, such as the scale and sustainsible Investment (PRI) in 2006, and beginning ESG integration ability of value added by the products and services companies offer, the governance systems that support the provision of added value, and the impact on the society in 2015. Our current investment balance is over ¥25 trillion, one and environment, which serve as the foundation of sustainable growth. MBIS® is a of the largest in Japan. Our first Stewardship Report, published framework developed by SuMi TRUST Bank to be used as a tool to evaluate, based in 2017, details our basic philosophy as a long-term investor in on such non-financial information, the strengths of companies and the challenges investments including ESG investments. they face in achieving sustainable growth. MBIS® stands for “Management, Business franchise, Industry, Strategy.” “Management” includes the evaluation of corporate initiatives aimed at taking on ESG issues, and “Strategy” includes the evaluation of ESG commercialization and monetization. Use of trust functions to tackle super-aging society issues A diverse product lineup that meets dementia-related needs The Group leverages the functions and skills of a trust bank group to promote high The introduction of the adult guardianship system in 2000 established a system of added value solution business, ensure the safety of personal assets and assist with property administration for elderly people suffering from dementia. However, the Corporate Information reliable succession of assets to future generations, and contribute to the ensuring of adult guardianship system does not address all situations. Financial institutions housing that enables people to maintain their quality of life and lifestyle stability for are being called on to provide consulting services with new perspectives based on the elderly and their families. We strive to provide our know-how to clients, publishcurrent conditions from the points of view of products, services, and clients. SuMi ing Support Senior Generation Reports that summarize our expertise. TRUST Bank has a range of property administration services, the finest offered by any financial institution in Japan, for clients with dementia. For example, the Security Trust protects those with declining capacity for judgment against money transfer scams; and the Anshin Support Trust is designed for those worried that their property administration capacity will decline later in life to make pre-specified arrangements to pay sums covering necessary expenses. Housing and Living for Dementia-related the Senior Generation Problems Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 47 Providing Value to the Community Basic Philosophy Because providing value to the community that constitutes society helps maintain a sound business foundation, we believe this is a license required in order to conduct business. From this point of view, the SuMi TRUST Group practices providing value to the community in various forms, while also taking into consideration the perspective of SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals). * See ESG/CSR Report 2017 for details. Theme Specific Initiatives Value Provided Related SDGs Promotion of social • Engage in activities fostering employee • Participate in social activities of regionparticipation on themes set at each al communities, NGOs or NPOs, etc., contribution activities at Group company and provide various forms of support the Group companies • Promote “With You” activities at all SuMi • Communicate useful information for TRUST Bank branches the region through seminars and disSee ESG/CSR Report 2017, plays in branch lobbies Group companies freely set themes page 136 Support for • Cover all travel, stay, and school expens• Excellent students who are economies, etc. for students from overseas (one cally disadvantaged obtain an Internaeducation through each year) who participate in the UWC tional Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma, which UWC ISAK JAPAN ISAK JAPAN summer school qualifies them to pursue higher educa• Provide support in particular for students tion at universities worldwide from the Shanti Bhavan school attended • Support for the fostering of global by children who are the most disadvanleaders See ESG/CSR Report 2017, taged under the Hindu-based system of page 130 hereditary social stratification Promotion of activities to • Disseminate information and provide • Provide information necessary for the support underlying the foundation for livelderly to maintain their quality of life support senior generation ing to a prosperous old age for clients, (QOL) especially the elderly • Improve the abilities of the financial See ESG/CSR Report 2017, • Initiatives to improve awareness and underindustry to address dementia-related pages 33 and 37 standing of dementia (dementia literacy) problems Promotion of • Develop Education for Sustainable De• Teach the importance of the environvelopment (ESD) at schools across Japan ment and SDGs to children who will be ESD projects on themes such as local ecosystem presleaders of next generation ervation and SDGs • Raise environmental awareness in the • Carry out innovative lessons using educaregion through collaboration with variSee ESG/CSR Report 2017, tional videos in collaboration with Green ous stakeholders in the implementapage 132 TV and SDGs TV tion of projects Activities supporting • Provide various forms of support for activi• Provide various forms of protection for ties across Japan in cooperation with the trust land and contribute to the preserNational Trusts Association of National Trusts in Japan vation of Japan’s natural capital • Engage in diverse initiatives such as donations for funding purchases of National See ESG/CSR Report 2017, Trusts landholdings, volunteering, and page 134 ESD • Formulate environmental policy and pro• Reduce the Group’s own environmenEnvironmental mote the Group’s environmental mantal burden management agement • Participate in the Consortium for Sus• Formulate CSR procurement policy, and tainable Paper Use, contributing to pursue sustainability particularly in relaspreading the sustainable use of paper tion to procurement of paper products throughout society See ESG/CSR Report 2017, pages 106 and 109 Participation in • Actively participate in various partner• Contribute to the creation of a sustainships in Japan and overseas in which our able society by playing a leadership partnerships related to stakeholders are collaborating role in the financial industry and parsustainability ticipating actively in the activities of key partnerships See ESG/CSR Report 2017, page 149 48 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Providing Value to the Community “With You” Activities at SuMi TRUST Bank SuMi TRUST Bank carries out social contribution activities rooted defines activity targets under a standard point system that has been in local communities, known as “With You” activities, in order introduced for use as a guideline of the targets. It has also introOverview to build strong relationships of trust with community members. duced activity budget allocation and awards systems. In addition, it Through steady implementation, these activities are aimed at has created a “With You Branch Blog,” which frequently introduces establishing a greater presence within communities, developing “With You” activities being conducted by branch offices across closer relationships with clients, and contributing to the long-term Japan. The number of blog updates by each branch office is rising growth of its transaction base. year by year, and the blog has become In order to promote these activities, the Corporate Planning an important information communication Department’s Sustainability Promotion Office divides them into catsource that deepens relationships with egories, measures their degree of difficulty and effectiveness, and members of local communities. Standard point achievement rates Number of branch blog updates Website URL: https://branchblog.smtb.jp/ (%) 100 96 99 100 (Updates) 86 88 1,200 1,165 83 1,013 990 80 76 74 63 784 818 60 800 692 695 51 620 Vision 469 529 40 400 20 122 177 0 0 First half Second half First half Second half First half Second half First half Second half First half Second half First half Second half First half Second half First half Second half First half Second half First half Second half First half Second half of 2013 of 2013 of 2014 of 2014 of 2015 of 2015 of 2016 of 2016 of 2017 of 2017 of 2012 of 2012 of 2013 of 2013 of 2014 of 2014 of 2015 of 2015 of 2016 of 2016 of 2017 of 2017 Contributions to Enhancing the Abilities of the Financial Industry to Address Dementia-related Problems Dementia is a prominent illness among the elderly. Dementia, level decision-making abilities regarding complex issues. Financial such as Alzheimer’s disease, impairs brain functions, causing meminstitutions, which support peoples’ day-to-day lives and administer Business Strategy ory and judgment problems and interfering with peoples’ ability to their properties, play extremely important roles. The SuMi TRUST function in society and their interpersonal relationships. It has been Group not only implements efforts to address dementia-related announced that the number of people with dementia is expected problems on its own, but also sees it as an issue that affects the to exceed seven million by 2025. This will have a tremendous entire industry. We work with experts to carry out diverse activities impact on the financial sector, which requires clients to have highthat improve our abilities to address these problems. Fact-finding survey on dementia-related problems Workshop on Becoming a Support for People with Dementia In March 2017, SuMi TRUST Bank, with the cooperation of the In order to foster supporters for people with dementia, SuMi Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, sent questionnaires to all TRUST Bank holds Workshops on Becoming a Support for People with branch offices in Japan to investigate what kinds of dementia-related Dementia at its branch offices across Japan. The branch offices also issues they faced in their day-to-day business operations. It was conhold readings of the Practical Guide for Dementia Friendly Financial firmed that every single branch office had encountered some sort of Services for employees to acquire knowledge that is closely aligned Management Foundation dementia-related problems, such as frequent misplacement of passwith actual operations, and forge deeper collaboration with nearby books and requests for the issuing of new passbooks. comprehensive regional care support centers. Publication of a financial guidebook for handling dementia-related problems Symposiums on the Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century SuMi TRUST Bank collected dementia-related cases and parAs chair of the Community Support Working Group for the ticipated in the writing of a guidebook entitled “Practical Guide for “Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century*,” SuMi TRUST Dementia Friendly Financial Services,” published in September 2017 Bank convened two symposiums, one in 2015 and one in 2017, on the as part of the COLTEM* project led by the Kyoto Prefectural University theme of the role of financial institutions in responding to dementiaof Medicine. The guidebook categorizes the problems caused by related problems in regional communities. The key members of the dementia financial institutions are facing, and presents multifacCOLTEM project participated in discussions on the actual practice of eted recommendations by experts such as doctors, lawyers, and certiresponding to dementia in their daily operations based on the confied social workers on how to handle these tent in the financial guidebook. The symposiums also included lively problems. SuMi TRUST Bank has placed this debate on matters such as the state of property administration using guidebook in its branch offices throughout the adult guardianship system and Corporate Information Japan, and uses it to improve the dementrusts. (The full agendas are posted tia literacy of employees in concert with on the Principles for Financial Action Workshops on Becoming a Supporter for for the 21st Century website.) People with Dementia. * Principles with the aim of fostering con* The COLTEM project refers to “a development center crete action toward creating a sustainof social technologies integrating law, engineering able society, signed by over 250 financial and medicine that seamlessly support community institutions from various segments of life for the elderly from the period of sound health to Japan’s financial industry the onset of dementia,” subsidized by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 49 Management Foundation Materiality Management for Creating Shared Value Materiality (high priority issues) refers to events that have a material impact on a company’s value creation process. The SuMi TRUST Group promotes materiality management that identifies materiality issues that need to be addressed as priorities from a mediumto long-term perspective, and dealt with at the top level of management. Materiality is identified both in terms of impact on the Group’s One of the strengths of the Group is that we do not meremediumto long-term enterprise value, and in terms of the impact ly define materiality through slogans. Rather, the Sustainability of the Group on society through its relationships with stakeholders. Management Office of the Corporate Planning Department plays In this process, we consider themes related to our management the role of an “in-house quasi-investor,” and engages in dialogue foundation, including governance, social themes, including relawith related departments. This creates an opportunity for departtionships with employees and the community, and environmental ments that have little direct dialogue with external institutional themes that are directly related to resource and energy problems. investors and stakeholders to become aware of issues from an Accordingly, materiality is a concept that overlaps with ESG (enviinvestor perspective, and to examine specific measures to address ronmental, social, and governance). these issues. The SuMi TRUST Group’s Value Creation Process Sustained earnings growth and cash flow creation • Fee business growth, improvement of loan/investment business profitability • Strengthening of cost competitiveness Leveraging capital Providing value Conversion into capital Business model of Creating a financial group shared Financial capital Clients Financial capital Input specialized in Output Providing value trust banking products Human capital Human capital and services Shareholders and investors Solid management foundation Intellectual capital Intellectual capital supporting our business model Employees Manufactured capital Manufactured Economic and social environment capital • Rapidly aging population and • Government-private sector cooperation Communities Social and heightened asset inheritance needs toward regional revitalization • Sluggish domestic loan/investment demand • Expectation of corporate governance reform relationship capital Social and • Prolonged negative interest rate environment • Heightened need for client-oriented services relationship capital Identification and management of high priority issues (materiality) Materiality Map of the SuMi TRUST Group that impact the value creation process Highest materiality issues Corporate governance • Stability of the financial system Identified highest materiality issues Risk management and resilience • Personal privacy data protection Impact of the Group on society e • Safety of financial products tanc • Cyber attacks • Consideration of environmental and social po r impact of investment and financing targets Im Compliance • Fair trade considerations • Transactions with antisocial forces • Crime prevention Human capital Dialog with stakeholders Client satisfaction/fiduciary duties Impact on the Group’s enterprise value over the medium to long term 50 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Materiality Management for Creating Shared Value Materiality Identification and Practice STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP 4 STEP 5 Select materiality Input from Create a materiality map Conduct internal Initiatives for increasing enterissues stakeholders engagement prise value over the long term We emphasize the views of ESG The issues identified in STEP 1 are The point scores obtained in STEP 2 are From among the high materialiThe Board of Directors discussOverview investors who pursue enterprise evaluated from two perspectives: plotted on a scatter diagram (materiality ty issues, the Sustainability Manes the Group’s future direction value from a long-term perspec1) the impact on enterprise value map), using the two adopted perspecagement Office engages in diafrom a variety of perspectives, tive. Based on reporting guideover the mediumto long-term, tives as the horizontal and vertical axes. log (engagement) with relevant based on the findings of the Risk lines, such as GRI and SASB, we and 2) the impact on stakeholders The highest materiality issues, based on departments on the themes that Committee and the report on select bank materiality issues (each evaluated using a five-point the materiality map, are designated as the have the strongest investor ininternal engagement. This step emphasized by the major ESG scale). The former is evaluated by highest priority ESG issues. In 2015, the terest, and for which the Group’s is taken to address the “environresearch companies that proall of our external directors, exterGroup’s materiality issues were identified initiatives still face some issues. mental and social issues over vide information to investors nal auditors, and relevant internal at the Executive Committee, and then reThe Sustainability Management the sustainability” that should (MSCI, FTSE, SAM, etc.). departments, while the latter is ported to the Board of Directors. Starting Office reports to the Executive be addressed by the Board of evaluated by our external direcfrom 2017, the Risk Committee, an adviCommittee and the Board of DiDirectors, as prescribed in Artitors and external auditors, as well sory body to the Board of Directors, exrectors regarding the status of cle 3-4 of the Group’s Basic Polias external experts. amines the appropriateness of the materithe initiatives. cy on Corporate Governance. ality issues that are identified, and reports its findings to the Board of Directors. Vision Internal Engagement Main Discussions Regarding ESG initiatives at the Board of Directors Meeting Held in January 2018 Evaluation/engagement Financial (Non-financial matters are given lower priority) matters • Refinement of value creation processes in order to create greater Non-financial enterprise value matters Investors • Functions of the Risk Committee in materiality management Evaluation ESG research institutions •M  ateriality identification methods that reflect stakeholder perspectives Corporate Administration Department •E  nhancement of enterprise value-conscious internal engagement: its state, methodologies, and methods of sharing with decision-making bodies Business Strategy Human Resources Non-financial • Name of the department responsible for the effective promotion of Engagement matters Department ESG initiatives Sustainability Risk management-related • Roadmap for improving the initiative of individual employees and Management Office departments, etc. in-house quasi-investor increasing brand power Internal Engagement in FY2016-2017 Target Theme Engagement in FY2016 Results from FY2016/ Engagement in FY2017 Departments Relayed that investor interest in governance themes such as Provided evaluation results on the Group’s governance reCorporate Administration Corporate Board composition and director and executive officer comforms received from ESG research institutions, and relayed Department, governance pensation is extremely high, and provided information for recent items of interest among investors and the Group’s Corporate Secretariat Management Foundation strengthening governance systems issues from the perspective of investors Enhancing After engagement, prepared a map of the linkages beRelayed the growing calls for disclosure on linkages between tween HR policies and enterprise value, and disclosed the human capital, Human Resources HR policies and enterprise value, given elevated investor information in an integrated report; continuously disincreasing Department concerns regarding human capital, and discussed countercussed methods to enhance the level of disclosure of conenterprise value measures for the Group tent regarding human capital Relayed the status of growing investor interest in this After engagement, commenced an investigation of antiOverseas theme, amid stricter anti-bribery regulations in the US and bribery measures, including those in Japan; conducted risk Compliance Department anti-bribery other nations, and discussed the need to strengthen antiassessment, set policies, devised a prevention program, bribery initiatives and commenced operations Wholesale Business Relayed the rapidly growing interest among international finanShared awareness regarding the loan and investment risks Climate Planning Department, cial authorities, financial institutions, and institutional investors related to fossil fuels; engaged in in-depth discussions rechange Stewardship Development in climate change risks accompanying conclusion of the Paris garding project financing for coal-fired power generators Department Agreement, and discussed its impacts on our businesses (see page 77) Discussed the need for information disclosure on stewardStewardship Stewardship Development ship activities and ESG initiatives as fiduciary responsibili— Corporate Information report Department ties to investors; deliberated on preparation of the Stewardship Report, and published the completed report Shared information such as ESG evaluation agency assessImprovement of Customer Satisfaction — ments of CS activities, global disclosure trends in the bankclient satisfaction Promotion Department ing sector, and the direction to take when establishing KPI Long-term Held deliberations on the setting of long-term targets for Corporate Administration environmental — the reduction of CO2 emissions stemming from the Group’s Department goals business activities Discussed non-financial (ESG) information disclosure poliIntegrated Relevant Departments — cies with the relevant departments report (coordinated by the Sustainability Management Office) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 51 Corporate Governance As Japan’s only financial group specialized in trust banking, the SuMi TRUST Group is enhancing its corporate governance system in line with its business model. When changing into a “company with Three Committees” in June 2017, in addition to the statutory committees required by the Companies Act, SuMi TRUST Holdings established the Risk Committee and the Conflicts of Interest Committee, as advisory bodies to the Board of Directors. Furthermore, an external director serves as chairman of the Board of Directors, in order to increase the Group’s management transparency. 1. History of Enhancement of Corporate Governance As Japan’s only financial group specialized in trust banking, the introduction of the Corporate Governance Code in 2015, SuMi SuMi TRUST Group, which is formed around the core entities of TRUST Holdings set the ratio of external directors, in principle at SuMi TRUST Holdings and SuMi TRUST Bank, has worked to refine one-third or higher, and voluntarily established the Nominating and its business model, which provides unique added value, and to Compensation Committee and the Audit Committee, a majority of enhance profitability through collaboration among Group compathe members of each of which is comprised by external directors, nies, by swiftly and accurately providing comprehensive solutions as advisory bodies to the Board of Directors. for clients through the combination of its banking business, asset Having confirmed the effectiveness of these efforts, and in order management and administration business, and real estate business. to promote the further improvement of profitability and enhanced At the same time, the SuMi TRUST Group has continued its corporate governance in the future, while responding appropriefforts to strengthen its corporate governance, recognizing that in ately to rapid changes in the environment surrounding the financial order to establish the unwavering trust of our clients and society, industry, we consider it important to establish both management it is essential to adhere to the principles of sound management, capabilities to realize prompt business execution, and supervisory based on a high degree of self-discipline with the background of and restraining capabilities to ensure sound management. To this fiduciary spirit. end, as part of our measures to further strengthen its system, SuMi With regard to the system, two external directors, among ten TRUST Holdings changed to become a “company with Three directors, took office in June 2013. Subsequently, following the Committees” on June 29, 2017. (Statutory) Establishment of the Nominating Committee, the Compensation Committee, and the Audit Committee (Voluntary) (Voluntary) Establishment of the Nominating Establishment of the Risk Committee Number of external directors and the Conflicts of Interest Committee and Compensation Committee Number of external auditors and the Audit Committee Launch of Percentage of external directors 47% SuMi TRUST Holdings 33% 33% 20% 20% 0 4 0 4 2 4 2 4 3 2 3 3 7 A company with A company with a Board of Corporate Auditors Three Committees 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 52 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Corporate Governance 2. Basic Initiative Policy In order to adhere to the principles of sound management, Overview based on a high degree of self-discipline with the background of fiduciary spirit, and to establish strong credibility with society, SuMi TRUST Holdings commits itself to enhancing its corporate governance system in line with the following basic philosophy, with the objective of supporting sustainable growth and mediumto long-term enhancement of the enterprise value of the SuMi TRUST Group. In addition, the Board of Directors sets out and discloses the SuMi TRUST Group’s Management Principles (“Mission”), Ideal Model (“Vision”), and Codes of Conduct (“Value”) as the anchor for all of our activities, which is shared by all of the directors, officers, and employees of the SuMi TRUST Group. Vision Basic Philosophy • SuMi TRUST Holdings shall respect shareholder rights, and its Disclosure Policy, and endeavor to appropriately disclose endeavor to develop an environment in which shareholders can corporate information, including non-financial information, and exercise their rights appropriately and effectively, and to secure ensure the transparency of its corporate management. the effectively equal treatment of shareholders. • As the financial holding company that assumes the corporate • By recognizing the importance of its social responsibilities management function of the SuMi TRUST Group, SuMi TRUST and public mission, SuMi TRUST Holdings shall endeavor to Holdings adopted the institutional design of a “company with Business Strategy appropriately cooperate with its stakeholders, including shareThree Committees,” and, by separating the execution and holders, clients, employees, business partners, and local comsupervision of business, shall endeavor to ensure the Board of munities, and to establish a corporate culture and climate in Directors’ role of effective supervision. which it conducts sound business operations based on a high • SuMi TRUST Holdings shall engage in constructive dialogue degree of self-discipline. with its stakeholders in order to contribute to sustainable • In order to establish a basis for constructive dialogue with its growth, as well as the mediumto long-term enhancement of stakeholders, SuMi TRUST Holdings shall separately set out the enterprise value of SuMi TRUST Holdings. Management Foundation 3. Perspectives Regarding the Corporate Governance System SuMi TRUST Holdings is a financial holding company with subsidiaries such as SuMi TRUST Bank, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Research Institute, and Japan Trustee Services Bank, etc. and aims to be our clients’ “Best Partner,” by providing “Total Solutions” that combine our banking business, asset management and administration business, and Corporate Information real estate business, based on a fiduciary spirit, and by making full use of our significant expertise and creativity. In addition, in order to fulfill our principles and meet the expectations of stakeholders, SuMi TRUST Holdings endeavors to ensure the soundness and reliability of its business model and the transparency of the management of the SuMi TRUST Group, and further enhances the SuMi TRUST Group’s corporate governance. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 53 Corporate Governance 4. Board of Directors (1) Roles of the Board of Directors corporate management. SuMi TRUST Holdings strives to secure a The Board of Directors ensures the fairness and transparency board that is, as a whole, sufficiently balanced and diverse in terms of the SuMi TRUST Group’s corporate management as its central of knowledge, experience, and capability to properly supervise the role, by setting out the basic management policy of the SuMi wide range of business fields in which SuMi TRUST Holdings has TRUST Group and supervising the overall management of the dealings, as a trust bank group. Group. Thus, with the exception of matters that are required by law to be decided by the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors, Composition of the Board of Directors in principle, delegates decisions on the execution of business to executive officers, and supervises the execution of business by executive officers, etc. Meanwhile, the Board of Directors provides Chairand improves an environment in which external directors may propman erly supervise the execution of duties by the Board of Directors and the top management, as well as any conflicts of interest that may arise between SuMi TRUST Holdings and the management team, External directors Internal directors (7 directors) (8 directors) etc. from the standpoint of stakeholders, in order to support sustainable growth and the mediumto long-term enhancement of the Percentage of external directors 47% enterprise value of the SuMi TRUST Group. In light of the importance of environmental and social issues related to sustainability, Non-executive directors Executive directors the Board of Directors prescribes a basic policy regarding social (11 directors) (4 directors) responsibility that is to be implemented by each Group company Percentage of non-executive directors 73% (the “Sustainability Policy”) (see page 24). Under this Sustainability Policy, the Board of Directors enhances awareness among its offi ll seven external directors have been registered as independent officers with the A cers and employees, and promotes positive efforts to resolve these relevant financial instruments exchange. issues while taking its stakeholders into consideration, with the Breakdown of 15 directors: 14 men, 1 woman Since changing into a company with Three Committees, 12 Board of Directors aim of supporting the sustainable growth of society and increasmeetings were held during the period from June 29, 2017 to March 31, 2018. ing the enterprise value of the SuMi TRUST Group. Furthermore, The attendance rate for all 12 of these meetings was 100%. the Board of Directors establishes policies regarding the provision of products and services suitable for the true benefit of our clients (3) External Director Serving as Chairman of the Board of Directors (the “Policies regarding the Fiduciary Duties of the Sumitomo While a “company with Three Committees” is, in principle, able to Mitsui Trust Group”), acts to ensure client comfort and satisfaction delegate important business execution decisions to executive offiby sharing our “client-orientation” policy within the SuMi TRUST cers, the Board of Directors is required to exercise a greater superviGroup, and promotes the practice of fiduciary duties in the SuMi sory function. In light of the role expected of the Board of Directors, TRUST Group by supervising each Group company’s commitment SuMi TRUST Holdings has appointed Mr. Isao Matsushita, an external to its fiduciary duties. director, as chairman of the Board of Directors. In addition, SuMi TRUST Holdings has established the Corporate (2) Composition of the Board of Directors Secretariat as an organization that assists the chairman in fulfilling The Board of Directors of SuMi TRUST Holdings is comprised of his duties, and elected a full-time Audit Committee member who no more than 20 directors, which is the number of directors preis a non-executive director as the deputy chairman of the Board of scribed in the Articles of Incorporation, and includes the number of Directors, thereby providing various types of information, mainly directors that is necessary and appropriate to provide an effective regarding agendas for deliberation at the Board of Directors meetsupervisory system required of a financial holding company that ings, and offering assistance regarding matters such as the clarificaserves the corporate management function of the SuMi TRUST tion of points from the perspective of management and supervision. Group. Due consideration is also given to ensuring the diversity and expertise of the Board of Directors. Deputy chairman In light of the importance of the functions of external directors of the Board in corporate governance, as a general rule, at least one-third of of Directors Chairman the directors on the Board of Directors are independent exter(Assumed by a full-time nal directors. The Board of Directors establishes and discloses Audit Committee member of the Board who is a non-executive director) Independence Standards of Independent Directors. Assistance of Directors (Assumed by In determining candidates for directors, SuMi TRUST Holdings Corporate an external director) takes into consideration, among other factors, a balance between Secretariat individuals who are capable of exerting strength in the manage(Assisting the chairman, ment of specific business fields, and individuals who are suitable for coordinating with each committee) 54 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Corporate Governance (4) Results of the FY2017 Evaluation of the Board of Directors (3) Enhancement of Deliberations in Line with the Business Model SuMi TRUST Holdings conducts an annual evaluation of the of a Trust Bank Group effectiveness of the Board of Directors as a whole (the “Evaluation The Board of Directors deliberated regarding themes concerning of the Board of Directors”), and reviews and implements remedial the business model of a trust bank group and the employees who Overview measures for the challenges it recognizes, thereby implementing a advance it, including the “strategies and challenges faced by each PDCA cycle to improve the effectiveness of the Board of Directors. business,” the “status of business execution at major subsidiaries,” The key points of the FY2017 Evaluation of the Board of Directors and the “status of diversity & inclusion measures.” These themes are as indicated below. were identified by the Board of Directors and other bodies as areas Key Evaluation Points requiring further deliberation, based on the results of question(1) Leveraging of third party perspectives though interviews with naires administered for the Evaluation of the Board of Directors in external directors conducted by external experts the previous fiscal year. (2) Enhancement of evaluation items concerning the “Demonstration of supervisory functions” of the board of directors Based on the efforts described above, the FY2017 Evaluation (3) The board of directors’ evaluation of each committee, and of the Board of Directors checked the status of improvements for each committee’s self-evaluation each challenge, and confirmed that the conditions had improved (4) Extensive discussion conducted by the board of directors for all challenges, compared with conditions in fiscal year 2016. Vision based on the results of the evaluation (Discussion topics included the board of directors’ standpoint O  utline of the Results of the FY2017 Evaluation of the Board of as a supervisory body, the process of consultation/reporting Directors and Future Measures between the board of directors and each of the committees, Through the FY2017 Evaluation of the Board of Directors, SuMi creative improvements in operation, and areas for greater TRUST Holdings concluded that the Board of Directors and each focus in future deliberations) committee had been operated with a sense of their own purpose, in (5) E xchanges of opinions at the external directors’ meeting an effort to invigorate deliberation and enhance objectivity and transregarding matters including the results of the evaluation of the parency, and that they had maintained a certain level of effectiveness. board of directors On the other hand, through the FY2017 Evaluation, SuMi TRUST Holdings identified the following three challenges as requiring Business Strategy M  easures to Address the Challenges Recognized by the FY2016 improvement and enhancement by the Board of Directors and each Evaluation of the Board of Directors committee, and is working continuously to address these issues. The major measures implemented during fiscal year 2017 that (1) Refinement of the infrastructure for operation of the board of addressed the challenges recognized by the FY2016 Evaluation of directors to contribute to efficient and enhanced deliberation the Board of Directors are as follows. (2) F urther demonstration of supervisory functions over management (1) Operation that Contributes to the Demonstration of Functions matters important for promotion of the midterm management plan as the Board of Directors of a Holding Company (3) Enhancement of coordination between the board of directors Through revision of the criteria for submitting proposals/reportand each committee with a view toward ensuring the further ing to the Board of Directors, all decisions on business execution demonstration of their functions other than matters statutorily required to be decided by the Board Management Foundation of Directors were, in principle, delegated to executive officers, In its pursuit of sustainable growth and the mediumto longwith a view toward enhancing the status report on the execution term enhancement of enterprise value, SuMi TRUST Holdings is of duties regarding important management matters by executive committed to further enhancing the effectiveness of the Board of officers. At the same time, SuMi TRUST Holdings worked to materiDirectors and each committee, by continuously implementing the alize purposeful operation that contributes to the demonstration of PDCA cycle through the Evaluation of the Board of Directors. functions as the Board of Directors of a holding company, including selecting management priority issues as “management themes” from a mediumto long-term viewpoint, and initiating free discussions without the obligation to reach conclusions (see page 59). (2) Enhancement of an Infrastructure for the Operation of the Board of Directors Aimed at Efficient and Enhanced Deliberation The format of the materials for the Board of Directors was Corporate Information revised to ensure that the operation of the Board of Directors is based on clearer explanations of the key points for deliberation at the Board of Directors, the status of deliberation by preliminary deliberation bodies, and the risks and challenges involved in the matters being deliberated upon. Meanwhile, paperless meetings were introduced in order to improve both the visibility of materials and the efficiency of meetings. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 55 Corporate Governance 5. Committees In order to ensure the effectiveness of its corporate goverfor consultation regarding the election and dismissal of directors nance system and further enhance the soundness and reliability and corporate auditors from the Board of Directors of SuMi TRUST of its business model and the transparency of its management of Bank, and deliberates and makes reports regarding these matters. the SuMi TRUST Group, SuMi TRUST Holdings has established The Nominating Committee consists of three or more directors, and the Risk Committee and the Conflicts of Interest Committee as a majority of the members are independent external directors. The advisory bodies to the Board of Directors, in addition to the chairperson of the Nominating Committee is selected from the pool Nominating Committee, the Compensation Committee, and the of committee members who are independent external directors. Audit Committee, the establishment of which is required under the Companies Act. Independent external directors participate in the (2) Compensation Committee Risk Committee and the Conflicts of Interest Committee. The Compensation Committee prescribes policy regarding deciAs a financial group specialized in trust banking, we have estabsions on the content of compensation for individual executive lished the Conflicts of Interest Committee, which has supervisory officers and directors, and determines the content of compensation functions unparalleled in other financial groups. for individual executive officers and directors, in accordance with this policy. It receives requests for consultation regarding policies (1) Nominating Committee on decisions on the content of compensation for individual direcThe Nominating Committee determines the content of propostors, etc. from the Board of Directors of SuMi TRUST Bank, and als regarding the election and dismissal of directors to be submitdeliberates and makes reports on these matters. The Compensation ted to the General Meeting of Shareholders, receives requests Committee consists of three or more directors, and a majority of the for consultation regarding the election and dismissal of executive members are independent external directors. The chairperson of officers including the President, as well as the succession plan for the Compensation Committee is selected from the pool of committhe management team from the Board of Directors, and delibertee members who are independent external directors. ates and makes reports on these matters. It also receives requests Corporate Governance System General Meeting of Shareholders Supervisory body Board of Directors Statutory committee Supervision of the execution of duties of Voluntary committee directors and executive officers Nominating Committee Compensation Committee Audit Committee Determination of compensation for Audit of execution of duties of Election and dismissal of directors directors and executive officers directors and executive officers Risk Committee Conflicts of Interest Committee Enhancement of the conflict of Advice on risk governance interest management framework : Chairman Chairperson (Board of Directors) (Each Committee) : External : Internal/Non-executive : Internal/Executive Supervise Executive body Executive Committee Representative Executive Officers Executive Officers, etc. Individual Committees 56 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Corporate Governance (3) Audit Committee ment of the SuMi TRUST Group, and reviews and reports on their The Audit Committee audits the execution of duties by execuappropriateness. In principle, a majority of the members of the tive officers and directors, and prepares audit reports. It determines Risk Committee are independent external directors and external the content of proposals regarding the election and dismissal of experts. The chairperson of the Risk Committee is selected from Overview a financial auditor, and regarding refusals to reappoint a financial the pool of committee members who are directors with profesauditor that are submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders. sional knowledge and expertise in the concerned field. In order to fulfill its role and responsibilities, the Audit Committee appropriately exercises its authority to investigate the status of busi(5) Conflicts of Interest Committee ness and the assets of companies belonging to the SuMi TRUST The Conflicts of Interest Committee receives requests for conGroup. It appropriately utilizes the internal control system of the sultation from the Board of Directors on (i) matters concerning the SuMi TRUST Group, and systematically and efficiently conducts validity of the conflict of interest management framework of the audits by receiving reports from executive officers, directors, and a SuMi TRUST Group, (ii) matters concerning the effectiveness of financial auditor, and through communications with these individuconflict of interest management, client explanation management, als. The Audit Committee consists of three or more directors who and client support management of the SuMi TRUST Group, as well do not concurrently serve as executive officers, and a majority of its as the enhancement of associated systems, (iii) matters concerning members are independent external directors. The chairperson of Policies regarding the Fiduciary Duties of the SuMi TRUST Group Vision the Audit Committee is selected, in principle, from the pool of comand the action plans, etc. of each Group company, (iv) particularly mittee members who are independent external directors. important matters concerning the dissemination of conflict of interest management and fiduciary duties in the SuMi TRUST Group, (4) Risk Committee and other matters, and reviews and reports on their appropriateThe Risk Committee receives requests for consultation from the ness. In principle, a majority of the members of the Conflicts of Board of Directors on (i) matters concerning the business environInterest Committee are independent external directors and exterment surrounding the SuMi TRUST Group, top risks, and materialnal experts. The chairperson of the Conflicts of Interest Committee ity, and (ii) matters concerning the operation of its risk appetite is selected from the pool of committee members who are indepenframework, risk management, and monitoring of the effectiveness dent external directors or external experts with professional knowlof the internal control system related to compliance manageedge and expertise in the concerned field. Business Strategy Members of Committees ( : Chairperson, : Member (external), : Member (internal/non-executive), :Member (internal/executive)) Management Foundation Nominating Compensation Audit Risk Conflicts of Interest External Directors Isao Matsushita Soichi Shinohara ● ● Takeshi Suzuki ● ● ● ● Mikio Araki ● ● Shinichi Saito ● Takashi Yoshida ● Hiroko Kawamoto ● Experts Hideki Kanda* Haruyuki Toyama* ● Toshinori Kurihara* ● Corporate Information Akiko Hosokawa* ● Internal Tetsuo Ohkubo ● ● Masaru Hashimoto ● ● Yasuyuki Yagi ● Hiroshi Misawa ● Yutaka Nishida ● ● * Mr. Hideki Kanda is an external director of SuMi TRUST Bank. Mr. Haruyuki Toyama, Mr. Toshinori Kurihara, and Ms. Akiko Hosokawa are external experts. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 57 Corporate Governance 6. Compensation System for Directors and Executive Officers (1) Policy Regarding Decisions on the Content of Compensation (2) Overview of the Compensation System • Compensation for directors and executive officers is intended to In principle, compensation is paid via a combination of monthly function effectively as an incentive for the improvement of corpocompensation (fixed compensation and individual performance comrate performance and expansion of enterprise value. pensation), director/executive officer bonuses, and stock options. • Rather than focusing on a single-year performance evaluation in which short-term contributions to profit are emphasized, we <Reference> President’s Standard Compensation Table are building a compensation system with a balance of near-term The President’s standard compensation table specifies the comincentives and mediumto long-term incentives, with rewards position and range of the President’s compensation, as indicated based on a comprehensive evaluation that reflects earnings conbelow. This table is used for reference by the Compensation tributions over the medium to long term. Committee in determining individual compensation amounts. • We accurately assess the roles that directors and executive offi1) The ratio of “fixed compensation” to “individual performance cers of SuMi TRUST Holdings must perform in corporate mancompensation + director/executive officer bonus,” which agement, as well as the results of their efforts, in order for them reflects, and varies depending on, individual performance and to adequately discharge their supervisory duties over the Group corporate performance, shall be 50%:50%. companies, and determine individual compensation based on 2) T he “individual performance compensation” range shall be highly transparent, fair, and objective evaluations. between 70% and 160% of the standard amount. • The Compensation Committee forges deeper collaborations with 3) “Director/executive officer bonus” is determined when necessary, committees in order to build a higher accountability compensaand reflects corporate performance, such as consolidated net tion system, and engages in deliberations with the aim of operatbusiness profit before credit costs, consolidated net income, etc. ing a fair and balanced compensation system. 4) The number of stock options to be provided as compensation is determined when necessary, and reflects annual performance, etc. Individual performance compensation portion of Fixed compensation monthly compensation portion of monthly Total + President compensation Director/executive officer bonus Approx. 50% Approx. 50% 100% 7. Succession Plan In order to realize the sustainable growth of the Group and enhance its enterprise value, the Group has created succession plans Succession plans Succession plans for the top management of SuMi TRUST Holdings and its core subfor top personnel for top in each business management sidiary, SuMi TRUST Bank. We have also created management perTop sonnel development plans for the personnel that will be responsible management for the management of each business and corporate management. These plans identify important positions, define the ideals and Nextrequirements of personnel in these positions, and assist with the generation management and development of a pool of candidates that meet top management candidates these ideals and requirements. Highly specialized The status of the progress of succession plans and management personnel in each Pool of personnel development plans is reported regularly to the Nominating Second-tobusiness nextnext-generation generation Committee, which engages in consultations regarding the appropricandidates top management candidates ateness of this status, and reports to the Board of Directors. Main successors in Main successors in each corporate each business management department 58 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Corporate Governance 8. Initiatives for Enriching Agendas at Board of Directors Meetings The Board of Directors supervises the status of the execution of Through these initiatives, we utilize the expertise and perspecOverview duties by executive officers, etc., defines basic management policy, tives of the external directors regarding the major themes that form and selects business models and makes decisions regarding riskthe core of our corporate management. taking by formulating a management plan. In order to play this role, Implementation of FY2017 Management Themes the Board of Directors selects management themes, consisting of legal and regulatory requirements, priority management issues, July 2017 Personnel development and mediumto long-term themes, and freely discusses these August Personnel development themes in the Board of Directors meetings, without an obligation September Business model to reach conclusions. November Group corporate governance December Group corporate governance January 2018 ESG initiatives 9. Management Plan Formulation Process Vision When formulating a management plan, the Risk Committee Early Stage Participation in the Management Plan Formulation Process first discusses the top risks and materiality. Afterwards, the exterThe opinions of external directors are reflected in the management nal environment scenarios that will serve as the premises of the plan from the early stages of the formulation process management plan are considered, and the management plan is formulated based on these scenarios. In order to improve the Management plan formulation process effectiveness and objectivity of the management plan, we engage Risk Committee Board of Directors and Executive Committee in multiple management plan discussions with external directors Business Strategy Deliberations Scenario analysis before analyzing scenarios or formulating the management plan, Management plan regarding top risks Environmental finalization leveraging the knowledge of both external directors and external and materiality assumptions experts from the early stages of plan formulation. Reflection of the opinions of external directors Management plan discussions for external directors 10. External Directors’ Meetings Management Foundation In order to further improve the effectiveness of our corporate agendas, demonstration of functions, and results of the Evaluation governance, we hold external directors’ meetings, which are only of the Board of Directors. These meetings contribute to the greater attended by external directors. These directors engage in exchangobjectivity and independence of the Board of Directors. es of opinions based on the operation of the Board of Directors, 11. Dialog between External Directors and Investors In February 2018, we held “SuMi TRUST IR Day,” at which external director Mr. Isao Matsushita, who serves as chairman of the Corporate Information Board of Directors, provided an explanation of our corporate governance initiatives and conducted a Q&A session with the investors in attendance. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 59 External Director Discussion External Director External Director (Chairman of the Board of Directors) Hiroko Kawamoto Isao Matsushita July 1979 Joined All Nippon Airways Co., Ltd. (“ANA”) April 1970 Joined Nippon Mining Co., Ltd. April 2009 Appointed Senior Vice President, Inflight Services of ANA (currently JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation) April 2014 Appointed Executive Vice President of ANA Sep. 2002 Appointed Director of Nippon Mining Holdings, Inc. (currently JXTG Holdings, Inc.), in charge of finance April 2016 Appointed Executive Vice President, Member of the Board, Member of the Women Empowerment Promotion Committee, June 2004 Appointed Director (Senior Vice President and Executive Officer) Director for Promotion of ANA Group Diversity, Promotion of Japan Energy Corporation Officer for the Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games of ANA (currently JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation) June 2016 Appointed External Director of SuMi TRUST Bank June 2006 Appointed Representative Director and President of Japan Energy Corporation April 2017 Appointed Executive Vice President and COO of ANA Strategic (currently JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation) Research Institute Co., Ltd. (current position) June 2012 Appointed Representative Director and President June 2017 Appointed External Director of SuMi TRUST Holdings (President and Executive Officer) of JX Holdings, Inc. (current position) (currently JXTG Holdings, Inc.) June 2017 Appointed External Director of SuMi TRUST Holdings (current position) SuMi TRUST Holdings utilizes the knowledge and experience of external directors from various fields to enhance the functioning of the Board of Directors. External directors Mr. Isao Matsushita and Ms. Hiroko Kawamoto discussed topics such as our Board of Directors, reforms for corporate governance, and promotion of diversity & inclusion. THEME Areas to which Mr. Matsushita pays special attention in order 1 to fulfill his role as chairman of the Board of Directors Kawamoto Mr. Matsushita, since you were appointed as chairman Matsushita My primary focus is on serving as a facilitator, so that of the Board of Directors roughly one year ago, you’ve been at the the Board of Directors, itself can demonstrate the functions it is forefront of the SuMi TRUST Group’s corporate governance reforms. called on to provide. The “corporate governance principles for Your leadership as chairman has fostered a neutral environment banks,” defined by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, in which the members of the Board of Directors can feel free to states that the chairman is responsible for the effective overall funcspeak their minds, and your approach has been very effective in tioning of the Board of Directors, ensuring that board decisions are eliciting a variety of opinions from the board members. What do taken on a sound and well informed basis, and encouraging and you pay special attention to in running the Board of Directors? promoting critical discussion. Personally, I also believe that promot60 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report External Director Discussion ing discussion from a variety of perspectives based on adequate Board of Directors meeting to meet with the deputy chairman, information, and ensuring the quality of board discussions are who is a non-executive director, and the secretariat. We check each important duties for a chairman. agenda item from an external perspective, organize the key points Overview In order to put this into practice, it is vital that I, as chairman, for discussion, and, when necessary, issue instructions regarding deepen my own knowledge regarding a trust bank group’s operarevisions to materials, all before the meetings themselves are held. tions with wide ranging significant expertise, and I try to take the By making these preparations, I am working to draw out the time to make in depth preparations for board discussions. opinions of the participants of the Board of Directors meeting To accomplish this, I set aside a great deal of time before each regarding the key points of each agenda item. A facilitator who helps the Board of Directors demonstrate its functions Kawamoto The Board of Directors meetings have truly lively disMatsushita SuMi TRUST Holdings has directors with a wealth of cussions. By stimulating the discussion, you have made it easy for knowledge and experience in various fields. Vision all of the directors, both internal and external, to share their opinIn order to leverage that experience and knowledge to the ions. I would venture to say that the diverse comments from the utmost, as chairman I always try to promote sound discussion, includparticipants also enhances the functioning of the Board of Directors ing the sharing of critical opinions, while organizing the shared opinand improves accountability. The FY2017 Evaluation of the Board of ions and applying them to appropriate decision-making with the aim Directors included numerous comments, indicating that the objecof improving the enterprise value of the SuMi TRUST Group. tivity and transparency of the Board of Directors is improving. Business Strategy THEME 2 Evaluation of corporate governance reforms Kawamoto I believe that it’s important that the Board of Directors, out an even greater depth investigation than usual, by expanding which formulates management strategies and monitors the execuits coverage to include not only the Board of Directors’ operational tion of important business operations, is supervised independently matters, but also evaluation items related to the demonstration of from the management team, so that it puts pressure on manageits supervisory functions. Management Foundation ment, in a beneficial sense. At SuMi TRUST Holdings’ Board of In addition, the committees also carried out self-evaluation, conDirectors meetings, both external directors and internal non-execufirming a certain degree of effectiveness of the Board of Directors tive directors provide frequent input from a variety of perspectives, and the committees, and assessing future challenges. sometimes expressing critical views. Based on the results of the Evaluation of the Board of Directors, The Board of Directors is changing in very visible ways, thanks to we were able to discuss issues such as the deliberation perspecoperation-related measures such as selecting business issues with tives of the Board of Directors, the division of roles in the commitmediumto long-term perspectives, and deliberating such issues tees, and cooperation between the committees. In this manner, I as management themes. Through these initiatives, I believe that believe that we were able to obtain a deepened common awarethe corporate governance of SuMi TRUST Holdings appears to be ness regarding the demonstration of its supervisory functions. steadily improving. What is your impression? Kawamoto I believe that for a company with Three Committees, Corporate Information Matsushita As it has only been roughly one year since the change it is important not only for the Board of Directors to function to SuMi TRUST Holdings’ institutional design, it might still be too effectively, but for the committees do so, as well. In that sense, I early to make a comprehensive evaluation. However, I have seen think it has been very valuable that the scope of the Evaluation improvements to corporate governance in various areas. In addiof the Board of Directors has been extended to include the indition to the operational efforts of our Board of Directors, commitvidual committees. An external director or external auditor serves tees are also playing an important role in this regard. as the chairperson of each committee, and more than half of the In the FY2017 Evaluation of the Board of Directors, we carried committee members are external directors and external auditors. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 61 External Director Discussion Accordingly, in a certain sense, this evaluation looked at how effecdirectors participate, and valuable opinions were shared regarding tive the external directors and external auditors were in demonthe Board of Directors’ approach to consultations with the commitstrating their functions. tees, as well as how to ensure both committee independence and The results of the Evaluation of the Board of Directors were discooperation between the committees. I think it’s also important to cussed in the external directors’ meeting, in which only external have occasions like this. It is important to become accustomed to the new “home” created through corporate governance reforms Matsushita The month after the Board of Directors discussed ing increasingly important to engage in “offensive” governance, the results of the Evaluation of the Board of Directors, it discussed which is aimed at securing sustainable and stable revenue, rather which themes should be addressed in greater depth in the future, than “defensive” governance. taking into consideration its responsibilities as well as the SuMi This may be true for Japanese companies as a whole. However, TRUST Group’s business model. Through these activities, the Board the Board of Directors needs to go beyond merely putting on the of Directors has gradually come to discuss its role in greater depth brakes, and instead also ensure decision-making objectivity and — the “PLAN” step of the “PDCA” cycle. These initiatives were rationality, creating an environment in which the management team introduced after the institutional design change, and, I believe, feels confident in stepping on the accelerator. represent one of the improvements to the Group’s corporate govIt is important that the Board of Directors promote a sound ernance. Based on the series of discussions conducted through the entrepreneurial spirit by engaging in dialog with the management Evaluation of the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors must team, from perspectives such as whether risk taking is appropriate be deeply involved in contributing to the sustainable growth and and in accordance with plans, and whether it is possible for decimediumto long-term enhancement of the enterprise value of the sions to be made quickly and decisively, when necessary. SuMi TRUST Group. I often use the analogy of a home. There are different styles of Kawamoto I agree. The SuMi TRUST Group has released its new living, which are suited to different types of homes. Western styles midterm management plan, “The Second Foundation,” and is workof living are a good match for western homes, while Japanese ing hard to remake itself. I believe that as external directors, we are styles of living are a good match for Japanese-style homes. It called upon to think about these is important to develop a lifestyle that fits one’s home, and to issues together, and to be highly become accustomed to living in that home. involved in meeting the targets of Through its corporate governance reforms, SuMi TRUST Holdings the midterm management plan. has rebuilt its home and created new systems to match this new Matsushita The banking industry home. We are now making steady progress in line with these sysstill faces a harsh business environtems. I hope that after we have made more progress, we can look ment, as can be seen, for example, back on these reforms and evaluate them, and take the time to in the negative interest rate envideliberately discuss where further improvements should be made. ronment. Accordingly, it is becomTHEME 3 Initiatives to promote Diversity & inclusion Matsushita The SuMi TRUST Group has been implementing discussions on the theme of diversity & inclusion, or D&I. various initiatives aimed at becoming the “No. 1 financial group for Could you share your impressions of the SuMi TRUST Group’s human resource development.” We regard our employees’ abilities past D&I promotion initiatives? as a vital driving force for the business restructuring projects we Kawamoto Before becoming an external director, the Human have in progress, and the Board of Directors has also engaged in Resources Department and I exchanged opinions on D&I, and I 62 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report External Director Discussion discovered that the Group saw women as an important part of the Matsushita President Ohkubo of workforce. I remember pointing out that, from the standpoint of SuMi TRUST Holdings has said in diversity, this was just a starting point, and that the true goal would the past that “D&I is part of the Overview be the creation of an organization in which everyone could work SuMi TRUST Group’s DNA.” I also and thrive — not just women, but men, foreigners, persons with feel that it has developed a flexible disabilities, senior citizens, and young people. corporate culture with respect to Less than a year later, the Group issued its Declaration on Work diversity through the breadth of its Style Reform, and established the Diversity & Inclusion Office. operations and the wide variety of In addition, it has also recently formulated a Human Resources human resources it employs. Development Policy. The speed of these initiatives shows that The energetic work of employees with varied backgrounds makes the SuMi TRUST Group is making progress with respect to D&I, it possible to meet diverse needs and broadens our business capabilithrough its ability to take in external opinions and to immediately ties. Employees with different perspectives and experiences inspire put promising reforms into practice. each other, creating innovative concepts and creative workplaces. Vision Reflecting on our history, checking our growth, and moving forward into the future Kawamoto In a certain sense, increasing diversity involves stepenterprise value for the entire SuMi TRUST Group. We need to ping out of the current comfort zone and creating an uncomfortsettle in and implement these D&I initiatives over the medium to able state. When you move from talking with similar colleagues to long term. Business Strategy dealing with various opinions from diverse personnel with different Kawamoto Since D&I will look different for each company that perspectives, the speed and performance of decision-making may promotes it, I think that it’s important for us to avoid comparing temporarily decline. ourselves to other companies. Rather, we should take a long-term However, venturing into an uncomfortable state helps people to perspective, reflecting on our history, checking our own growth, develop the ability to reach conclusions that everyone can accept, and moving forward into the future. and to come up with new, creative ideas, contributing to the I think that one of the roles of external directors is to continuousgrowth of both individuals and the organization as a whole. ly ask companies what they can do to become stronger and better Matsushita That’s why we don’t look at the promotion of D&I as in the midst of the changing social environment. a transient measure, but as a key theme that contributes to greater Management Foundation Corporate Information Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 63 Board of Directors and Executive Officers*1*2 of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. (As of July 1, 2018) Directors Director, President Director, Director, (Representative Senior Managing Senior Managing Executive Officer) Executive Officer Executive Officer (Representative (Representative Tetsuo Ohkubo Executive Officer) Executive Officer) Jiro Araumi Toru Takakura Tetsuo Ohkubo has experience in positions for supporting part of Jiro Araumi has been in charge of the Asset Management Toru Takakura has been in charge of the Human Resources corporate management, as an Officer in charge of corporate manBusiness Planning Department as Director, Senior Managing Department as Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer of agement departments of SuMi TRUST Holdings, and assumed office Executive Officer of SuMi TRUST Holdings, and also served SuMi TRUST Holdings, and also served as the Deputy Officer in as President in April 2017. In addition, he has experience serving as as Officer in charge of the Fiduciary Services Business and the charge of the Retail Total Solution Services Business as Director, an Officer in charge of corporate management departments of SuMi Asset Management Business as Director, Senior Managing Senior Managing Executive Officer of SuMi TRUST Bank. TRUST Bank, as well as experience in diverse departments, such as Executive Officer of SuMi TRUST Bank. Therefore, he has exTherefore, he has extensive knowledge and experience with reOfficer in charge of the Wholesale Financial Services Business (curtensive knowledge and experience regarding the corporate gard to the corporate management and business operations of rently the Wholesale Total Solution Services Business). He served as management and business operations of a trust bank group. a trust bank group. SuMi TRUST Holdings expects that, based on Deputy President of SuMi TRUST Bank for 1 year from April 2016. SuMi TRUST Holdings expects that, based on the experience the experience accumulated thus far, he will play a leading role in SuMi TRUST Holdings expects that, by using the experience in coraccumulated thus far, he will play a leading role in achieving achieving the sustainable growth of the SuMi TRUST Group and porate management and business management accumulated thus the sustainable growth of the SuMi TRUST Group and the enthe enhancement of the Group’s enterprise value, in a position far, he will provide a contribution to the sustainable growth of the hancement of the Group’s enterprise value, in a position of of assisting the Group’s overall management. Accordingly, SuMi SuMi TRUST Group and the enhancement of the Group’s enterprise assisting the Group’s overall management. Accordingly, SuMi TRUST Holdings has selected him as a director. value, in the position of leading the Group’s overall management. TRUST Holdings has selected him as a director. Accordingly, SuMi TRUST Holdings has selected him as a director. Director, Director Director Executive Officer Kunitaro Kitamura Hitoshi Tsunekage Masaru Hashimoto Masaru Hashimoto has served as an Officer in charge of corKunitaro Kitamura served as President of SuMi TRUST Hitoshi Tsunekage has served as Chairman of SuMi TRUST porate management departments of SuMi TRUST Holdings, Holdings for 5 years from April 2012. Therefore, he has exHoldings since April 2011, and also served as President of and from October 2016 to March 2017 served as Deputy tensive knowledge and experience with regard to the overall SuMi TRUST Bank up to March 2017. Therefore, he has exPresident and Executive Officer, in a position of assisting the management of a trust bank group. SuMi TRUST Holdings tensive knowledge and experience with regard to the overall Group’s overall management. At SuMi TRUST Bank, he has expects that, by using the experience accumulated thus far, management of a trust bank group. SuMi TRUST Holdings been responsible for overall management since he took office he will continue to provide a contribution to the sustainable expects that, by using the experience accumulated thus far, as President in April 2017. SuMi TRUST Holdings expects that growth of the SuMi TRUST Group and the enhancement of the he will continue to provide a contribution to the sustainable he will continue to play a leading role in achieving the sustainGroup’s enterprise value. Accordingly, SuMi TRUST Holdings growth of the SuMi TRUST Group and the enhancement of the able growth of the SuMi TRUST Group and the enhancement has selected him as a director. Group’s enterprise value. Accordingly, SuMi TRUST Holdings of the Group’s enterprise value, in a position of conducting has selected him as a director. the Group’s overall management. Accordingly, SuMi TRUST Holdings has selected him as a director. Director Director Director (external) Yasuyuki Yagi Hiroshi Misawa Soichi Shinohara*1 Yasuyuki Yagi has experience serving as general manager of a After serving as a general manager of Fiduciary Services Business Being an economist specializing in international economcredit supervision department and president of a real estate lending departments and corporate management departments, Hiroshi ics and macroeconomics, Mr. Soichi Shinohara has extensive company, and also served as Officer in charge of the Kinki area as Misawa served as Managing Executive Officer of SuMi TRUST Bank. knowledge and deep insight regarding domestic and foreign Senior Managing Executive Officer of SuMi TRUST Bank. Therefore, Therefore, he has extensive knowledge and experience with regard economics. He has provided comments and advice based on he has extensive knowledge and experience with regard to business to the corporate management and business operations of a trust this experience during his term of office as an external direcoperations. In addition, he has served as a corporate auditor, director, bank group. In addition, he has served as a corporate auditor of SuMi tor of SuMi TRUST Holdings. In order to continue to make full and Audit Committee member of SuMi TRUST Holdings since June TRUST Bank and as a director and Audit Committee member of SuMi use of his knowledge and insight, SuMi TRUST Holdings has 2016, and has accumulated knowledge and experience regarding auTRUST Holdings since April 2016, and has accumulated knowledge selected him as an external director. diting of the overall status of the execution of business from a fair and and experience regarding auditing of the overall status of the exobjective viewpoint. Therefore, SuMi TRUST Holdings expects that ecution of business from a fair and objective viewpoint. Therefore, he will provide a contribution to enhancement of the soundness and SuMi TRUST Holdings expects that he will provide a contribution to transparency of management. Accordingly, SuMi TRUST Holdings has enhancement of the soundness and transparency of management. selected him as a director. Accordingly, SuMi TRUST Holdings has selected him as a director. 64 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Board of Directors and Executive Officers*1*2 of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. Director (external) Director (external) Director (external) Takeshi Suzuki*1 Mikio Araki*1 Isao Matsushita*1 Overview Mr. Takeshi Suzuki has extensive experience and knowlMr. Mikio Araki has extensive experience in bank manageMr. Isao Matsushita has extensive experience in the genedge in the fields of accounting, finance, affiliated company ment and policy-based finance, etc. as a former Representative eral management of companies, as a former Representative management, etc. as a former Senior Managing Director of Director and Deputy President of Development Bank of Japan Director and President of JX Holdings, Inc. (currently JXTG Toyota Motor Corporation, which is a leading global company Inc., and has extensive knowledge regarding domestic and Holdings, Inc.), which is a representative integrated energy, in Japan. After retiring from the office of Senior Managing foreign financial and economic circumstances as President of resources, and material enterprise group in Japan, and has Director of Toyota Motor Corporation, he has been involved the Japan Economic Research Institute. He has provided comserved as an external director of SuMi TRUST Holdings since in the management of companies operating finance related ments and advice based on this experience during his term of June 2017. He has provided comments and advice based on businesses, serving as Representative Director and President office as an external director of SuMi TRUST Holdings. In order this experience during his term of office as an external director Vision of Toyota Financial Services Corporation and Representative to continue to make full use of his knowledge and insight, SuMi of SuMi TRUST Holdings, and as the chairman of the Board of Director and Chairman of Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. TRUST Holdings has selected him as an external director. Directors, has done his utmost to improve the effectiveness He has provided comments and advice based on this experiof the Board of Directors. In order to continue to make full ence during his term of office as an external director of SuMi use of his knowledge and insight regarding business manageTRUST Holdings. In order to continue to make full use of his ment and corporate management, SuMi TRUST Holdings has knowledge and insight, SuMi TRUST Holdings has selected selected him as an external director. him as an external director. Director (external) Director (external) Director (external) Shinichi Saito* 1 Takashi Yoshida* 1 Hiroko Kawamoto*1 Business Strategy Mr. Shinichi Saito has extensive knowledge and experience Mr. Takashi Yoshida had been a member of a major audit Ms. Hiroko Kawamoto served as Executive Vice President in financial accounting as the Finance Executive Officer of Marfirm for many years, and has extensive knowledge and experiand Member of the Board of All Nippon Airways Co., Ltd., and ubeni Corporation. In addition to engaging in management at ence in financial accounting as a certified public accountant was responsible for the overall management of the company an investment company, he also has acquired deep insight as in charge of auditing financial institutions and operating comand promotion of women’s activities. In addition, since June a company executive. He also has global knowledge based on panies. In addition to experience as a certified public accoun2016 she has been an external director of SuMi TRUST Bank, his wide-ranging experience in international operations and tant, he has been engaged in management as a representative and since June 2017 has been an external director of SuMi overseas work experience at a major audit firm. He has propartner and managing director of an audit firm, and also has TRUST Holdings. She has provided comments and advice vided comments and advice based on this experience during global knowledge based on overseas work experience. He based on this experience during her term of office. In order to his term of office as an external auditor and external director has provided comments and advice based on this experience continue to make full use of her knowledge and insight, SuMi Management Foundation of SuMi TRUST Holdings since June 2013. In order to continue during his term of office as an external auditor and external TRUST Holdings has selected her as an external director. to make full use of his knowledge and insight, SuMi TRUST director of SuMi TRUST Holdings since June 2016. In order to Holdings has selected him as an external director. continue to make full use of his knowledge and insight, SuMi TRUST Holdings has selected him as an external director. *1 External director as prescribed in Article 2, item 15 of the Companies Act. Executive officers are defined in the Companies Act. Executive Officers Senior Managing Executive Officer, Managing Executive Officer, Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*2 Yukihiro Kitano Toshio Masui Yoshinori Momose Ahihiko Shirayama Atsushi Kaibara Executive Officer* 2 Executive Officer* 2 Executive Officer*2 Senior Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Tsuyoshi Saito Kazuya Oyama Takuji Marui Corporate Information Yoshiaki Koshimura Akira Yokota Executive Officer* 2 Executive Officer* 2 Executive Officer*2 Senior Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Tadao Umezawa Kazuhisa Koashi Atsushi Matsumoto Tadashi Nishimura Shigeki Tanaka Executive Officer* 2 Executive Officer* 2 Executive Officer*2 Senior Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Masahiro Tsuchiya Toshiaki Nakano Nobuhisa Takahashi Yutaka Nishida Hitoshi Sato Executive Officer* 2 Executive Officer* 2 Managing Executive Officer Executive Officer, Executive Officer*2 Kengo Noguchi Yoshio Hishida Yasumi Nose Kiyomitsu Asahi *2 Executive Officers as defined in our internal policy; unless otherwise annotated, Executive Officers are defined in the Companies Act. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 65 Risk Appetite Framework (RAF) 1. Positioning of the Risk Appetite Framework The Risk Appetite Framework (RAF) is a group-wide corporate er with the internal control system underpinning that process. management framework consisting of the process for determinThe Group’s RAF aims primarily to strengthen profitability and ing the type and level of risk (risk to be taken as a potential source enhance risk management, and promotes the realization of these of revenue, risk to be kept at or below a certain level, or risk to goals through environmental assumptions and risk awareness, be avoided as a rule) within the Group’s risk capacity, in order to increasing the transparency of risk taking process through the setting, achieve the management strategies formulated by management communication, and oversight of risk appetite, appropriate allocation based on the Group’s social role and management policies, togethof management resources, and monitoring of operational status. 2. Operation of Risk Appetite Determining Risk Appetite and implements countermeasures or revises the levels. The Group’s risk appetite is determined in accordance with the management plan, based on management strategies, risk culture, Risk Governance and verification through stress tests. The Group reviews its risk Risk governance, which forms a part of corporate governance, is appetite as necessary, at least once per year. a framework for identifying, measuring, managing, and controlling In setting risk appetite, the Group identifies the major risks risks, as well as ensuring appropriate risk taking, by clarifying and (risk characteristics), including credit risk, market risk, information monitoring risk appetite and risk limits. security risk, and conduct risk, to which each business is exposed The Group promotes the enhancement of risk governance, with according to the nature of its operations. the aim of achieving the sound development of the Group. SuMi TRUST Holdings strives to enhance the operation of risk Monitoring of Risk Appetite appetite through discussions at the Risk Committee and the The Group sets risk appetite indicators to clarify risk appetite, Conflicts of Interest Committee, etc. as part of its initiatives to and monitors them regularly. If the risk appetite indicators deviate enhance corporate governance. from the set levels, the Group analyzes the cause for the deviation 3. Fostering a Risk Culture that Takes Root across the SuMi TRUST Group The Group defines risk culture as a basic philosophy that prewe are endeavoring to share and disseminate information regardscribes the codes, attitudes, and conduct of the Group’s organizaing risk within the Group, through the delivery of messages from tions, as well as its directors, officers and employees, that flexibly top management, training and education, and other measures. carry out risk taking, risk management, and risk control based on an In addition, we have formulated a Risk Appetite Statement (RAS) appropriate assessment of risks, guided by a high degree of selfclearly stating our RAF, which is used in lively discussions concerndiscipline based on the fiduciary spirit. ing risk appetite within the Group. In order to foster a risk culture that takes root across the Group, 66 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Risk Appetite Framework (RAF) Outline of the Risk Appetite Framework Social role Risk culture Overview Management policies / Management strategies Business characteristics / Risk characteristics / Risk governance Environmental assumptions / Risk to be taken as a Risk to be kept at or Risk awareness potential source of revenue below a certain level Risk to be avoided as a rule Stress Risk capacity tests Management plans, etc. Risk appetite / Risk limits Vision Internal control system Risk Appetite Framework Operating System Business Strategy Supervision • Deciding on the RAS and basic matters related to the RAF Board of Directors • Supervising execution of business based on relevant decisions Audit Committee • Auditing execution of business based on basic matters related to the RAF • Deliberating RAF related matters and making recommendations to the Board of Directors Risk Committee • Deliberating the status of operation and execution related to the RAF SuMi TRUST Holdings Management Foundation Conflicts of • Verifying the appropriateness of the conflict of interest management framework and Interest Committee making recommendations to the Board of Directors Execution • Drafting the RAS and basic matters related to the RAF Executive Committee • Enhancing the RAF and executing business based on the RAF Business Risk • Monitoring the operating status of the RAF Management Committee • Enhancing the RAF and promoting execution of business based on the RAF Conflict of Interest • Developing and strengthening the conflict of interest management framework and Corporate Information Management Enhancement Committee checking the implementation status Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 67 Risk Management 1. Basic Policy on Risk Management In order to ensure sound management, secure revenue through validation for advancement, and review, based on the Group’s manrisk taking based on management strategies, and achieve susagement policy and basic policy on the internal control system. tainable growth, the Group follows a basic policy of accurately The Group’s risk management framework encompasses the Risk assessing risk conditions and implementing necessary risk-related Appetite Framework, and integrates it to function organically within measures through a series of risk management activities, including the Group. risk identification, evaluation, monitoring, control and mitigation, 2. The Group’s Risk Characteristics Based on a fiduciary spirit, and leveraging its significant expertise funding liquidity risk, and operational risk, which vary depending on and comprehensive capabilities, the Group, as a financial group the business characteristics of each of the Group’s businesses. With specialized in trust banking, strives to create distinct value through regard to trust business risks, SuMi TRUST Bank provides managea total solution business model that combines its banking, asset ment primarily in the operational risk category, particularly in terms management and administration, real estate businesses and others. of its duty of due care as a prudent manager, duty of loyalty, and The Group’s businesses consist of the Retail Total Solution duty to segregate property as a trustee. (TS) Services Business, the Wholesale Total Solution (TS) Services Reporting is regularly performed regarding whether the overall Business, the Wholesale Asset Management (AM) Business, the risk of the Group, combining the risks of each business, is within Fiduciary Services Business, the Stock Transfer Agency Services the limits of risk capacity (soundness and liquidity) that have been Business, the Real Estate Business, and the Global Markets Business. determined by the Board of Directors. The Group faces various risks, including credit risk, market risk, Risk Definition Risk Category Definition Risk that the Group may incur losses due to a decrease or impairment of the value of assets (including offbalance sheet assets), for reasons such as deterioration of the financial condition of obligors. In this regard, Credit Risk “country risk” in particular refers to the risk that the Group may incur losses on credit provided overseas, due to the foreign exchange, political, or economic conditions in the country of obligors. Risk that the Group may incur losses due to fluctuations in the value of assets/liabilities (including off-balance sheet assets/liabilities), or in the earnings generated from assets/liabilities, due to fluctuations in various market risk factors, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, stocks, commodities, and credit spreads. In Market Risk this regard, “market liquidity risk” in particular refers to the risk that the Group may incur losses due to a situation in which it becomes impossible to conduct transactions in the market, or becomes obligatory to trade at prices that are significantly more disadvantageous than usual, due to market turmoil. Risk that the Group may incur losses in a situation where it becomes impossible to secure necessary funds, or Funding Liquidity Risk becomes obligatory to raise funds at interest rates significantly higher than usual. Operational Risk Risk that the Group may incur losses due to inadequate or failed bussiness processes, the activities of execu(Below are “risk sub-categories” within Operational Risk) tives or employees, computer systems, or due to external events. Risk that the Group may incur losses due to inappropriate business procedures arising from executives or Business Processing Risk employees neglecting to engage in proper business activities, or other incidents such as accidents or fraud. Risk that the Group may incur losses due to reasons such as computer system failures, malfunctions, and deSystem Risk fects, as well as the risk that the Group may incur losses due to unauthorized computer usage. Risk that the Group may incur losses due to the improper management or maintenance of information asInformation Security Risk sets. This includes information leaks, information errors, and misuse of information, as well as an inability to use the information system. Risk that the Group may incur losses due to uncertainty regarding the legal aspects of transactions, or due to Legal & Compliance Risk insufficient compliance with laws, regulations, etc. Risk that the Group may incur losses due to personnel and labor management issues, such as unequal or Human Resource Risk unfair management of personnel, and harassment. Risk that the Group may incur losses due to external events that impair business, such as natural disasters, Event Risk crimes such as terrorism, damage to public infrastructure that prevents its functioning, and the spread of infectious diseases, or due to the inappropriate use or management of tangible assets. Risk that the Group may incur losses as a result of a deterioration of the reputation of SuMi TRUST Holdings Reputational Risk or its subsidiaries, due to reasons such as mass media reports, rumors, or speculation. 68 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Risk Management 3. Risk Governance System For the group-wide risk governance system, the Group has agement by the Risk Management Department and individual risk developed a Three Lines of Defense system consisting of risk manmanagement-related departments (second line of defense), and Overview agement by individual businesses (first line of defense), risk manvalidation by the Internal Audit Department (third line of defense). Risk Governance System General Meeting of Shareholders SuMi TRUST Holdings Reporting Board of Directors Statutory committees Reporting Supervisory Nominating Committee Compensation Committee Audit Committee Internal Audit Department Body Voluntary committees Risk Committee Conflicts of Interest Committee Vision Supervision Executive Committee Executive Body Conflict of Interest Management Business Risk Management Committee IT Committee Enhancement Committee Individual Department Conducting Risk Management Risk Management Department Businesses Consultation/ Internal Audit-related Departments (SuMi TRUST Bank, other Group companies) Reporting Human Corporate Legal Dept. / IT & Business Resources Administration Compliance Process Planning Dept. Auditing Retail TS Dept. Dept. Dept. Wholesale TS Wholesale AM Supervision/ Funding Business Human Legal & Business Strategy Guidance Risk Credit Market Operational System Information Event Reputational Fiduciary Services Risk Liquidity Processing Resource Compliance Categories Risk Risk Risk Security Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Stock Transfer Agency Services Real Estate Risk Management-related Departments Auditing Global Markets First Line Second Line Third Line of Defense of Defense of Defense First Line of Defense Third Line of Defense Each Group business identifies and gains an understanding of The Internal Audit Department verifies the effectiveness and Management Foundation the risk characteristics involved in carrying out its own business, appropriateness of the group-wide risk governance system and based on knowledge of the services and products in that business. processes from an independent standpoint. Each business engages in risk taking within the established range of risk appetite, and, when a risk materializes, promptly implements Executive Committee risk control at the on-site level. The Executive Committee is composed of representative executive officers and executive officers designated by the President. Second Line of Defense It makes decisions on matters concerning risk management The Risk Management Department performs overall risk manand undertakes preliminary discussions regarding matters to be agement, identifies and evaluates group-wide risks, creates a risk resolved by and reported to the Board of Directors. management process, and sets risk limits in accordance with the group-wide risk management policy determined by the Board of Board of Directors Corporate Information Directors. In addition, it formulates group-wide recovery strategies, The Board of Directors is composed of all of the directors. It in advance, to prepare for cases when risks materialize. decides on the Group’s management policy and strategic goals The Risk Management Department and risk management-related for risk taking, formulates a risk management policy, etc. that departments act as a restraint function for the risk taking of the first reflects these strategic goals based on a solid understanding of line of defense, and supervise and provide guidance regarding the the location and nature of risks, and develops an appropriate risk risk governance system. governance system and supervises its implementation. The Board The Risk Management Department reports on the status of risk of Directors has voluntarily established the Risk Committee and the management to the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors. Conflicts of Interest Committee, as advisory bodies, based on the business strategies and risk characteristics of the Group. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 69 Risk Management Risk Committee Conflicts of Interest Committee The Risk Committee receives requests for consultation from the The Conflicts of Interest Committee receives requests for conBoard of Directors on matters concerning the business circumstancsultation from the Board of Directors on matters concerning the es surrounding the Group and the effectiveness of its risk manageGroup’s fiduciary duties and conflict of interest management, ment, etc., reviews their appropriateness, and reports its findings. which are the foundation on which the Group seeks to become the “Best Partner” of its clients based on a fiduciary spirit, reviews their appropriateness, and reports its findings. 4. Risk Management Process In the Group, the Risk Management Department and indiare given to the Group’s businesses based on the risk conditions. vidual risk management-related departments act as the second Monitoring contents are reported and submitted to the Board of line of defense, performing risk management using the following Directors, the Executive Committee, and other bodies regularly or procedure. This risk management process, along with its associas needed. ated systems, undergoes regular auditing by the Internal Audit Department, which acts as the third line of defense. Risk predictor management for top risks, etc. Risk appetite indicators are defined for risks resulting from Risk Identification internal factors, based on the features of the Group’s busiThe risks faced by the Group are comprehensively identified, ness model and risk characteristics, and these management while ensuring the comprehensiveness of the Group’s operations, indicators are monitored. Regarding risks resulting from and the risks to be managed are identified based on the scale and external factors, the top risks (risks that have a high probcharacteristics of the identified risks. ability of occurrence and that would have a large impact on the Group) are selected, and risk predictors are monitored. Risk Evaluation Countermeasures are implemented based on the monitoring The risks identified as requiring management undergo analysis, results for all types of risks. assessment, and measurement in a manner appropriate for the Our top credit risks include “worsening of credit among business scale, characteristics, and risk profiles. major obligors,” our top market risks include “falling prices for When risks cannot be quantified, their impact is assessed to the strategic shareholdings, etc.,” and our top operational risks greatest extent possible, and they are managed through measures include “cyber-attacks.” such as implementing preventive measures based on the nature of the risks. Risk Control and Mitigation If any incidents that could have a significant impact on the Risk Monitoring soundness of management occur, such as the risk amounts exceedRisk conditions are monitored with appropriate frequency, given ing the risk limits, or the existence of concerns that it might do so, the conditions of the Group’s internal environment (risk profiles, appropriate reports are presented to the Board of Directors, the allocated capital usage status, etc.) and external environment Executive Committee, and other bodies, and the necessary coun(economy, markets, etc.). Recommendations, guidance, and advice termeasures are implemented. 5. Enterprise Risk Management (1) Enterprise Risk Management System (2) Capital Allocation Operations We manage risks by comprehensively grasping the risks faced For the purpose of the Group’s capital allocation operations, SuMi by the Group, which are evaluated on an individual risk category TRUST Holdings allocates capital to each business, including the basis, and comparing and contrasting them against our corporate Group companies, based on each risk category (credit risk, market strength (enterprise risk management). risk, and operational risk) in consideration of the external environAmong the risks we manage through our enterprise risk management, risk-return performance status, scenario analysis, and the ment, we combine the risk values for risks that can be quantitatively results of assessments of capital adequacy levels. The capital allocameasured using a single standard, such as VaR, and compare the tion plan is subject to the approval of the Board of Directors. Capital combined value against our corporate strength (capital position), allocation levels are determined based on the Group’s risk appetite. thereby managing risks (integrated risk management). Each business is operated within both the allocated amount of 70 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Risk Management risk capital and its risk appetite. The Risk Management Department stress tests (hypothetical scenario stress testing, historical scenario measures the risk amount on a monthly basis, and reports regularly stress testing, and examination of probability of occurrence) each on the risk conditions, compared to the allocated capital and risk time a capital allocation plan is formulated or reviewed, with the appetite, to the Board of Directors, and others. aim of ensuring capital adequacy from the standpoint of depositor Overview protection. Based on the results of these stress tests, it assesses (3) Stress Tests and Assessment of Capital Adequacy Level the level of capital adequacy, and reports to the Board of Directors, The Risk Management Department performs three types of and others. 6. Crisis Management The Group has developed systems to swiftly and approprihave created a response system in which, in the event of a crisis, an ately implement emergency and crisis response measures in the emergency response headquarters is created, which is headed by event of natural disasters, computer system failures, outbreaks the President. Vision of new infectious diseases, and the like, which are rooted in its For large-scale natural disasters such as earthquakes, which are public mission and social responsibilities as a financial institution, envisioned as having a significant impact, we are enhancing our and strives to disseminate information regarding these systems response system through the preparation of backup offices and throughout the organization. backup systems. We are also improving our system for responding Specifically, we have developed BCPs (business continuity plans) to cyber attacks, which are causing damage throughout society.* for continuing business in the event of a crisis, after securing * The SuMi TRUST Group monitors the computer systems of SuMi TRUST Bank around the clock. In addition, SuMi TRUST Holdings has established SuMiTRUST-CSIRT as an the safety of our clients, directors, officers, employees, and their internal organization for gathering information, conducting analysis, and implementing families. In order to ensure the effectiveness of our BCPs, we perimeasures concerning cyber attacks, and coordinates with external expert organizations. odically conduct exercises and revise their content. In addition, we 7. New Product and New Operation Examination System Business Strategy When introducing a new product or new operation, it is necProduct Examination Process (SuMi TRUST Bank) essary to develop various systems in order to continue offering the product or running the operation, including making an advance determination regarding the existence of any inherent Product Examination Departments in charge Office of risk checks risks and identifying their types, evaluating and managing such Management Foundation Fiduciary Duties Planning risks, and providing explanatory materials and methods to clients. Departments and Promotion Dept., in charge Customer Satisfaction To that end, we have developed a new product and new operation of product 1) Promotion Dept., Risk Management Dept., examination system. In the product examination process, mulmanagement Compliance Dept. Legal Dept., IT & Business Process tiple departments carry out verification from various angles, with an Planning Dept., emphasis on introducing products and operations that will earn the Planning and Coordination Dept., Financial Planning Dept., etc. trust of clients. We also conduct validation through regular monitoring after a new product or new operation has been introduced. Product examination request 2) Product examination referral Product Examination Committee * 3) Conflict of Interest Management Enhancement Committee Corporate Information Notification of examination results * Held jointly, as necessary to consider merchantability and the perspective of conflicts of interest Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 71 Compliance 1. Basic Initiative Policy The Codes of Conduct for pursuing the management principles Compliance System of SuMi TRUST Holdings of the Group include “strict compliance with applicable laws and Supervisory Board of Directors regulations,” positioning compliance as one of our most important body management issues. Risk Committee Conflicts of Interest Committee The Compliance Rules formulated by the Board of Directors define the Group’s overall basic policy, the specific standards that directors, officers and employees must follow, and the Group’s Executive Committee compliance organization structure, creating a compliance system Business Risk Management Conflict of Interest Management Executive befitting “The Trust Bank.” Committee Enhancement Committee body Compliance Department Discussion / Reporting Supervision / Guidance SuMi TRUST Bank Other Group companies 2. Group Compliance Framework Each fiscal year, the Board of Directors approves the Compliance SuMi TRUST Holdings has also created a compliance framework Program, which consists of specific practice plans for implementfor the entire Group, providing guidance to Group companies ing compliance within the Group, and every quarter the Board of regarding the formulation of their Compliance Programs, and delivDirectors receives reports on the progress, achievement status, and ering reports to the Board of Directors on the progress, achieveevaluation of the Compliance Program. ment status, and evaluation of these Compliance Programs. 3. Initiatives to Foster Compliance Awareness The Group has created a Compliance Manual containing explaing training materials and dispatching instructors for group trainnations of laws and regulations that must be followed and actions ing tailored to individual roles, etc., planning and implementing to be taken in the event of the discovery of compliance infracdiscussion-based study sessions, and implementing e-learning on tions, and employees throughout the organization are thoroughly specific themes. informed regarding its contents. Every fiscal year, we conduct an awareness survey regarding In addition, SuMi TRUST Holdings is also improving compliance compliance, and strive to identify and address actual issues. education in the entire Group, through activities such as provid4. Hotline System The Group has established a compliance hotline system through blowers, and strictly prohibits their adverse treatment. which all directors, officers and employees can report violations An accounting hotline system has also been established for the directly to the Compliance Department and an external attorney’s reporting of inappropriate accounting. office. This hotline system enforces the rigorous control of information and protection of privacy to ensure the protection of whistle72 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Compliance 5. Prevention of Money Laundering The Group has released its “Anti-Money Laundering Compliance finance terrorism, employees immediately report to the person Overview Policy,” and made clear its resoluteness in standing up to money in charge, who notifies the relevant authorities. Moreover, SuMi laundering. TRUST Bank has adopted an AML system, which verifies whether We have established our global guidelines on AML*1/CFT*2, any illicit transfers between accounts have taken place. in order to implement a unified approach to AML measures that We require employees at relevant branches and departments includes overseas bases, and the Group is working to enhance its to periodically receive training concerning AML, etc. In fiscal year approach toward client protection and the detection of suspicious 2017, such training was provided to all employees at the relevant transactions. Specifically, client management items are confirmed branches and departments. when handling transactions, and when coming across transactions *1 AML: Anti-Money Laundering suspected to be related to illegally obtained money or used to *2 CFT: Combating the Financing of Terrorism 6. Initiatives to Prevent Bribery Vision The Group has published its “Anti-Bribery and corruption The Group provides directors, officers and employees with Compliance Policy,” and under the supervision of the manageregular training every year, and implements periodic monitoring ment team, implements anti-bribery and anticorruption programs and testing. Moreover, we have fostered a close-knit collaboration that include regular assessment of risks related to bribery and between our overseas bases and local legal offices, especially in corruption, a prior approval system for client entertainment and countries where the risk of bribery and other forms of corruption gift-giving, central management of hiring and trainee acceptance, is high, and have striven to build systems for responding swiftly and making due diligence mandatory before contracts can be conand properly. Business Strategy cluded for some contract categories. 7. Response to Antisocial Forces The Group has declared, both internally and externally, its resoFrom January 2018, we have connected, via the Deposit lute stance against antisocial forces. We have incorporated a clause Insurance Corporation of Japan, to an organized crime group to exclude organized crime from all types of transactions, in order information database operated by the National Police Agency, and Management Foundation to prevent transactions by antisocial forces. In cases in which the check the database before providing new personal loans, etc. counterparty in a transaction is found to be an antisocial force after In fiscal year 2017, in order to strengthen awareness of, and systhe commencement of a transaction, we have developed a frametems for, dealing with antisocial forces, we provided directors, offiwork that allows us to take measures in close coordination with the cers and employees with training for the prevention of transactions police and other external expert organizations for the eventual canwith antisocial forces. cellation of such a transaction. 8. Other Initiatives Corporate Information The Group strictly manages insider information through its mation is classified and handled as important client information “Rules on Insider Information Management,” which mandate the under insider trading regulations. reporting of insider information that may be obtained during the In order to appropriately comply with revisions to laws and execution of working duties, and specifies the methods to be used regulations, the Compliance Department centrally manages the for its management. information on legal and regulatory revisions collected by individFurthermore, with regard to “important information” as defined ual head office departments, shares such information with related in the fair disclosure rules enacted in April 2018, we have defined a departments and Group companies, instructs them regarding the rule prescribing that in specific circumstances, such important inforproper response, and manages their response. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 73 Compliance with International Financial Regulations 1. Compliance with Finalized Basel III Reforms Triggered by the financial crises in 2008, the Basel Committee and comparability of regulations. This reform aims to prevent the on Banking Supervision (BCBS) made the agreement to implement undervaluation of risk-weighted assets based on internal models, new regulations, called “Basel III”. Basel III includes the implemenby constraining the use of internally-modelled approaches by tation of higher capital requirements, Leverage ratio (representing banks, while introducing the new capital floor based on the stanthe non-risk-based capital adequacy ratio) and liquidity requiredardized approaches. ments (capturing funding liquidity risk). In Japan, Basel III has been Given the phased manner of the implementation of new stanimplemented in phased manner from the end of March 2013. dards scheduled from 2022, the Group expects to fully comply After the implementation of Basel III, BCBS made the final agreewith the standards through the future accumulation of capital and ment in December 2017 to revise the risk-weighted assets (i.e., the other means. Meanwhile, as risk weights are expected to fluctuate denominator in the calculation of the capital adequacy ratio) meain individual credit transactions, the Group, accordingly, intends to surement approach to ensure appropriate risk sensitivity, simplicity promote appropriate profitability and portfolio management. Conceptual Diagram of Risk-weighted Assets Measurement Approach for Credit Risk Capital Floor Structure Current New Floor Exposures not applied Standards Standards Floor applied Standardized Equity SA add-on Approach Internal RWAs Model RWAs 72.5% of Financial Institution Foundation SA RWAs RWAs Internal Advanced Model IRB or RWAs Large corporate Approach Foundation Corporate Standardized Floor Internal Model Internal Model Small and medium-sized IRB Approach Advanced Approach(SA) (SA RWAs ×72.5%) RWAs Floor RWAs > Floor corporate or RWAs Specialized Lending Foundation (e.g.Real estate non-recourse loan) IRB Approach • In the case where 72.5%* of SA RWAs (Floor) is larger than internal model RWAs, Add-on RWAs are charged. • Standardized Approach: Supervisory risk weight according to external credit ratings • Foundation IRB Approach: Risk weight calculated based on banks' own estimates of prob*As for the applicable multiplier of the floor, starting at 50% in 2022, it will be raised ability of default (PD) by 5% each year to 72.5% in 2027. • Advanced IRB Approach: Risk weight calculated based on banks' own estimates of probability of default (PD) and loss given default (LGD) 2. Compliance with Other International Financial Regulations In addition to the above capital adequacy ratio and liquidFramework for Compliance with International Financial Regulations ity requirements, reforms of many of the international financial Corporate Planning Dept. regulations, including the strengthening of governance risk, marOverall supervision (Global Business Management Office) ket transaction restrictions, risk reduction of banks (Volcker Rule Capital adequacy ratio/ Risk Management Dept., and Ring-Fencing), and the “Too Big to Fail” theory, which began Liquidity requirements Financial Planning Dept. in response to the financial crises, are being introduced, and the Extra-territorial application of laws Compliance Dept. Group complies with these regulatory reforms, as necessary. Conduct regulations (Global Compliance Office) In the spirit of “Client-oriented” operations, the Group, as a Global Business Planning and Support for regulations for Coordination Dept.*, trust bank entrusted with the assets of our clients, intends to focus overseas bases Fiduciary Business Planning Dept.* on and comply with (1) conduct risk (improving bank’s risk culture), Risk Management Dept., (2) strengthening regulatory controls over fund and asset manageCybersecurity IT & Business Process Planning Dept. ment operators (shadow banking regulations), and (3) strengthen*SuMi TRUST Bank ing cybersecurity, as priority regulations going forward. 74 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Internal Auditing 1. Basic Initiative Policy The SuMi TRUST Group believes that establishing an efficient and the internal management system, SuMi TRUST Holdings and Overview and effective internal auditing system commensurate with the size its main Group companies have established internal auditing units and nature of its business, the content of laws and regulations that are independent of departments involved in business executhat apply to operations, and the type of risks is indispensable to tion and that adequately act as a restraint function. The internal achieve management targets, appropriate legal compliance, faciliauditing units verify the appropriateness and effectiveness of the tating financing, client protection, and risk management. business execution system and internal management system, proTherefore, with the aim of ensuring the soundness of managevide comments and recommendations for correcting problems, ment by improving and enhancing the business execution system and follow up on the status of improvement measures. 2. Internal Auditing Implementation System (1) SuMi TRUST Holdings supervising the Group’s internal auditing, receives consultations Vision 1) Organization from each Group company regarding the audit plan, and confirms In addition to establishing an Internal Audit Department indeits consistency with the basic policy. The Internal Audit Department pendent of departments involved in business execution under the carries out internal audits in collaboration with the internal auditBoard of Directors, SuMi TRUST Holdings has strengthened the ing unit of each Group company. The role of the Internal Audit supervisory and restraint capabilities (governance) with regard to Department also includes receiving reports of internal audit results management and business execution departments, by positioning from Group companies, assessing and verifying the internal auditthe Internal Audit Department in a direct instruction and reporting ing system and its implementation status at each Group company, relationship with the Audit Committee. and providing guidance as necessary. Business Strategy 2) Functions and Roles The Internal Audit Department formulates an internal audit (2) Group Companies plan, taking into account the basic policy on internal audits, which Internal auditing units that are independent of departments dictates the direction to be taken in the development of the involved in business execution have also been established at the SuMi TRUST Group’s internal auditing system, as well as sigmain Group companies including SuMi TRUST Bank, and conduct nificant group-wide risks. After receiving the consent of the Audit internal audits. Each Group company formulates an internal audit Committee, the plan is approved by the Board of Directors. The plan in line with the basic policy on internal audits set by the holdInternal Audit Department reports the results of the internal audit, ing company, which is approved by the Board of Directors after without delay to the President and the Audit Committee, while also consultation with the holding company. analyzing the internal audit results, including those for Group comResults of internal audits are reported, without delay to the presiManagement Foundation panies, and reporting regularly to the Board of Directors. dent and to the holding company, and are also reported regularly In addition, the Internal Audit Department, as the department to the Board of Directors and the holding company. The SuMi TRUST Group SuMi TRUST Holdings (holding company) Audit Committee Board of Directors (chaired by external director) Report/Discussion Approval/Instruction Corporate Information Report President Internal Audit Department Executive Officers (holding company) Internal audit Business Execution Departments Management/ Report/Discussion Supervision/Guidance Group Companies Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 75 Consideration of Environmental and Social Impact of Investment and Financing Targets 1. Framework of Our Initiatives (1) Basic Policy on Environmental and Social Considerations (2) Initiatives That Consider the Environmental and Social Impacts The SuMi TRUST Group identifies “consideration of environmenof Investments and Loans tal and social impact of investment and financing targets” as one of Signing of the Equator Principles and Initiatives its most important (materiality) issues from the standpoints of both SuMi TRUST Bank is a signatory to the Equator Principles, a the impact on the Group’s corporate value and the Group’s impact set of international guidelines for private financial institutions on society. that requires project proponents to give due consideration to the impact on the natural environment and the regional community Basic Policy on the Social Responsibility of the Sumitomo when approving project finance. Mitsui Trust Group (Sustainability Policy) When making decisions on loans, we review the environmental (See page 24) and social impact of the project and conduct a comprehensive risk assessment. Since becoming a signatory in February 2016, SuMi TRUST Bank has implemented 49 projects subject to the Equator Environmental Policy Human Rights Policy Principles as of March 2018. Action Guidelines for Environmental and Social Considerations in Asset Management Mitigating Climate Change SuMi TRUST Bank and Nikko Asset Management have become ESG Guidelines signatories to the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), which Action Guidelines for was established in 2006. The PRI calls on institutional investors to Preserving Biodiversity take into account environmental, social, and governance (ESG) facPlease refer to the SuMi TRUST Holdings’ website for further details, etc. of tors in their investment decision-making processes. each of the above policies. In accordance with the ESG guidelines, SuMi TRUST Bank is involved in numerous engagements (dialogue) with investee comUnder the “Basic Policy on the Social Responsibility of the panies regarding ESG issues. SuMi TRUST Bank carries out such Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group,” the Group provides products engagements through its analysts and the dedicated members and services that contribute to solving environmental probof the Stewardship Development Department, as well as joint lems through its business. The Group has also established the engagements with domestic and overseas organizations involving “Environmental Policy” to reduce the environmental burden arisspecific themes, such as palm oil and forest resources. ing from its business activities. Furthermore, it has established the “Action Guidelines for Mitigating Climate Change” and the Establishment of Policies for Specific Sectors “Action Guidelines for Preserving Biodiversity” to promote initiaThe Group has established policies for specific sectors that protives to address the two globally important environmental issues, mote business activities with significant environment and social and has been making efforts to engage in dialogue and cooperaimpacts and restricts loans and investments to companies and projtion with various stakeholders. In terms of social issues, with the aim ects with negative impact. of respecting each individual’s human rights and diverse values and In specific terms, SuMi TRUST Bank does not provide loans to rejecting unjustifiable acts of discrimination, the Group has estabcompanies that manufacture cluster bombs, regardless of whether lished the “Human Rights Policy” and gathers information regardthey are located in Japan or overseas. In asset management, ing how the investment and financing targets negatively impact we prohibit active investment, actively conduct engagements to human rights. In addition, the Policy provides that the Group takes demand the suspension of manufacturing of cluster bombs in pasnecessary countermeasures in cases where legal norms, etc. are sive investment, and publicize such engagements. violated. The Group also intends to establish a policy for sectors that are In asset management, the SuMi TRUST Bank, as a “responsible considered to be involved in the manufacture of palm oil and the institutional investor,” has established the “ESG guidelines.” These destruction of tropical rainforests during fiscal year 2018 (see page guidelines are based on the United Nations Global Compact, 77 for project financing for coal-fired power plants). a global corporate code of conduct, and articulate the Group’s expectations of investee companies, namely to minimize the impact on the environment, adhere to international labor rights, prohibit discrimination in employment, prohibit child labor, eradicate forced labor and avoid all forms of corruption including bribery and extortion, among others. 76 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Consideration of Environmental and Social Impact of Investment and Financing Targets 2. Initiatives Related to Climate Change Risks and Business Opportunities Associated with Climate Change Overview Risk Categories Outline of Risk Transition Risk • Risk that stricter regulations and technological innovations lead to value impairment of the Group’s loan assets and shares owned, etc. • Risk that economic measures such as climate-related taxation impact the business performance of our business affiliates • Risk that a low carbon-oriented market leads to volatility in supply-demand relationships for products and services, corporate earnings, etc. Physical Risk • Risk that natural disasters damage the assets of the Group or investment and financing targets and put business continuity at risk • Risk that climate change affects land use, resource procurement, the productivity of primary industries, etc. Business Opportunity Categories Outline of Business Opportunities Opportunities in • Increase in opportunities to offer financing to companies and projects that contribute to the mitigaVision Resource Efficiency, tion of climate change Energy Sources, Products • Increase in profit opportunities due to social infrastructure shifts, such as the spread of renewable energy and Services, Markets and • Increase in profit opportunities due to an enhanced social reputation as a company that contributes Resilience to climate change issues Please refer to the 2017 ESG/CSR Report for further details. https://www.smth.jp/en/csr/report/2017/CC-E-all.pdf (1) Risk Management in Relation to Climate Change SuMi TRUST Bank is also a member of Climate Action 100+, a fiveThe Company has established the Action Guidelines for year initiative to implement joint engagement for agreement on a Mitigating Climate Change, and fully carries out risk managelist of at least 100 of the world’s top greenhouse gas (GHG) emitters, Business Strategy ment in relation to climate change. We also support the through a global collaboration of institutional investors. This initiaRecommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial tive aims to encourage GHG emitters to reduce green-house gas Disclosures (TCFD) set forth by the Financial Stability Board, and emissions through engagement, disclose climate-related financial promote initiatives in line with these recommendations. information, and improve governance regarding climate change. By leveraging the experience and expertise acquired while serving on Action Guidelines for Mitigating Climate Change various PRI working groups, SuMi TRUST Bank has been playing an 1. Implementation of Initiatives and Support for Climate active role by accepting, for example, the role of lead manager not Change Mitigation, etc. only for Japanese companies but also for overseas companies. 2. Provision of Products and Services 3. Cooperation with Stakeholders (3) Project Finance for Coal-fired Power Generation Management Foundation 4. Education and Training Regarding the issue of climate change, which has become a 5. Information Disclosure major global issue, SuMi TRUST Bank has always made careful decisions regarding coal-fired power generation projects, which emit a relatively large amount of CO2, by setting certain internal criteria on (2) Dealing with Climate Change Issues in Asset Management factors including power generation efficiency and environmental As a “responsible institutional investor” that embraces Japan’s impact. As initiatives for realizing a low-carbon society are crucial Stewardship Code and a signatory to PRI, SuMi TRUST Bank conmanagement issues for financial institutions in the industrialized ducts engagements, calling on investee companies to disclose world, SuMi TRUST Bank has decided, in principle, not to engage information on climate change challenges and assess climatein new projects for the construction of coal-fired power plants. related risks. In Japan, the Bank has conducted engagements with However, in cases where exemptions are considered, lending decicompanies in the electric power, materials and machinery sectors, sions will be made carefully, with a comprehensive consideration which are large greenhouse gas emitters, primarily to address of backgrounds and characteristics undertaken on a case-by-case Corporate Information the issue of coal-fired power generation. Overseas, the Bank, for basis, under strict standards that address the environmental impact, example, voted for shareholder proposals that called on U.S.-based such as the OECD Guidelines and the energy efficiency of the speExxon Mobil to disclose information related to climate change and cific projects. also carried out activities urging U.S.-based Andarko Petroleum to disclose information related to climate change. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 77 Client-Oriented Initiatives 1. Providing Value to Clients The SuMi TRUST Group aims to accurately understand the information, the Group vigorously and comprehensively pursues needs of individual and corporate clients, and to provide total best practices, based on customer satisfaction (CS) and fiduciary solutions that offer a wide range of highly specialized products duties (FD). and services as the best way to address those needs. In an era of dramatic environmental change, the needs of both individual and Minimum Best practices standards corporate clients to build, manage, and review their assets and plan for succession are becoming increasingly complex, and their needs for trustworthy financial institutions are growing. The SuMi TRUST Client protection Fiduciary duties Client-oriented management Group, as the only independent financial group specializing in trust (FD) (compliance) banking in Japan, will leverage its comprehensive capabilities that combine trust and banking functions, as well as the various trust functions within the Group, under a stringent conflict of interest Customer management framework, with the aim of being the “Best Partner” Customer satisfaction (CS) satisfaction for providing the greatest value to clients. In addition to the thorough implementation of compliance, including protection of client 2. Enhancement of Customer Satisfaction Initiatives to Link the “Voice of Customers” to Enhanced Customer Satisfaction (1) SuMi TRUST Bank receives a large amount of feedback from (2) clients and many requests via our branch offices throughout Japan, CS (Customer Satisfaction) Analyzing as well as its telephone centers and the Group’s website, along with Promotion Cycle of client feedback the “Voice of Customers Questionnaires,” which are available at SuMi TRUST Bank every branch. (2) In order to realize customer satisfaction by utilizing the hundreds of thousands of cases of feedback we receive each year, we use the “CS Voice of Customers Portal,” which is a system to analyze client feedback. We are striving to meet our clients’ needs by making client feedback “visible,” so that we can better (1) (3) “recognize” such needs. (3) Furthermore, regarding opinions and Collecting Considering and requests received from clients, branches and the head office coopclient implementing feedback improvement measures erate to investigate and analyze the causes, and identify problems. Based on the results, we search for measures for improvement, and strive to provide better products and services. Product Development Capabilities Supporting Total Solutions In order to leverage the flexibility and expertise of its various simply using their strengths and know-how. In this manner, the financial and trust functions as a trust bank, and put together an SuMi TRUST Group is creating a product development system that extensive lineup of unique and sophisticated products and sercarries out medium-term, ongoing research activities on themes vices that are essential to providing total solutions, the SuMi TRUST that would be difficult to categorize within the domains of indiGroup focuses on promoting group-wide initiatives that combine vidual businesses or Group companies. the expertise of each business and Group company, rather than 78 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Client-Oriented Initiatives Specifically, SuMi TRUST Bank has established a product develamong executive officers and general managers, where regular opment department in each business, as well as the Business exchanges of opinion are held regarding product development, Research and Development Department, and a product developnot only at a practical working level, but also based on management off-site meeting as its product development organization. ment strategy from a mediumto long-term viewpoint. Overview The product development departments in each business analyze The SuMi TRUST Group also focuses its efforts on nurturing the client needs that have been collected in the course of business, human resources who are capable of flexible thinking that sustains and engage in improvement and development, mainly of products product development. At SuMi TRUST Bank, product development for immediate application, including reviews of existing products experience is included in the new employee training curriculum, and design of new products. In addition, the Business Research and and human resource development seminars on product developDevelopment Department, which was established as a dedicated ment are held twice each year for product development personnel unit primarily for the development of trust products, serves as the with little experience. At these seminars, groups engage in exhausengine that drives product development and provides developtive discussions on the topic of new products to satisfy target client ment support for each business, while carrying out planning, develneeds that are assigned in advance, with the goal of enabling paropment, and promotion of mediumto long-term development ticipants to acquire an understanding of breakthrough points and projects across businesses. Furthermore, the product development problem-solving methods in product development. offsite meeting has been established as a forum for discussion Vision Technologies to Support Total Solutions In order to provide total solutions to meet the increasingly comduced a system that registers client transactions directly in a host plex and sophisticated needs of clients, Digital Transformation computer from portable tablet devices, which allows sales staff who Departments have been established at SuMi TRUST Holdings and are responsible for visiting clients to spend more time on clientSuMi TRUST Bank, in order to accelerate research and demonstraoriented consulting. (Please see page 84.) tion experiments for IT utilization. For example, in 2017 we introBusiness Strategy Status of Initiatives Aimed at Becoming Our Clients’ “Best Partner” and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) The SuMi TRUST Group regularly makes public indicators that allow confirmation of the status of initiatives aimed at becoming our clients’ “Best Partner.” These indicators are revised periodically as we promote and enhance these activities. Initiatives in Connection with Financial Education Assisting Clients with Long-term Asset Formation and Literacy Improvement Number of Seminar Sessions Held Ratio of Dividend Distribution* to Balance of Investment Trusts Management Foundation 2,500 (sessions) 10 (%) 2,000 1,500 5 1,000 500 0 0 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal Year) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal Year) SuMi TRUST Bank Market average We are making efforts to hold seminars, such as the “Life Planning We propose products with low dividend frequency for clients’ long-term Corporate Information Seminar on Lifestyle and Money” and the “Inheritance Strategies asset formation needs. As a result, the ratio of dividend distribution to Seminar,” as opportunities to offer clients useful, specialized knowlthe balance of investment trusts is lower than the market average. edge in an easy to understand manner. * Dividend distribution refers to dividends distributed by publicly offered investment trusts for which SuMi TRUST Bank is the sales company. The market average is calculated based on statistics published by The Investment Trusts Association, Japan. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 79 Client-Oriented Initiatives Group-wide Development of Asset Management Improvement of Value of Investee Companies and Asset Administration Business Ratio of Market Capitalization of Companies where Engagement is Group Assets under Custody Implemented Compared to TOPIX Base Market Capitalization 100 (%) 200 (Trillions of Yen) (Billions of Dollars) 400.0 80 150 300.0 60 100 200.0 40 50 100.0 20 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal Year) March 31, 2015 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Domestic (left) Overseas (right) We are enhancing our engagement activities (“purposeful diaDue to the maintenance and improvement of the solidity and swiftlogue” with investee companies, conducted to encourage improveness of our asset administration services, as well as the increasing ment of corporate value and the sustainable growth of the investee sophistication of our social infrastructure, including administration company), both in terms of quality and quantity. and systems, Group assets under custody is on an upward trend, both domestically and overseas. 3. Initiatives Related to Fiduciary Duties (FD) Practicing Fiduciary Duties The aim of the SuMi TRUST Group to be the “Best Partner” for tice of fiduciary duties depends on “significant expertise” that our clients is based on our client-oriented spirit. While the SuMi TRUST clients can rely on, “consulting practice” that offers clients optimal Group has always striven to be completely client-oriented, with the options according to their individual needs, and “stringent conflict trust fiduciary spirit ingrained in our DNA, in September 2016, we of interest management.” The SuMi TRUST Group has established further enhanced our efforts by establishing and making public our an extensive organizational structure from the management level to “Policies regarding the Fiduciary Duties of the Sumitomo Mitsui the working level, and continuously strives to enhance its initiatives Trust Group” (hereinafter, the “Policies”). We believe that the pracin this area. Promoting/Supervising Structure of the Group Organization Initiatives SuMi TRUST Board of Conflicts of Interest • Supervise conflict of interest management Holdings Directors Committee for the Group, monitor FD progress Executive Conflicts of Interest • Discuss important cases Management • Guide the improvement of relevant Committee Enhancement Committee departments Fiduciary Duties Planning and • Promote FD within the organization SuMi TRUST Promotion Dept. Bank Department in charge Compliance Dept. • Enhance conflict of interest management Fiduciary Duties • Consult with external experts, Group-wide implement within the company Group companies Discussion Panel 80 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Client-Oriented Initiatives Conflict of Interest Management Framework Along with the various products and services provided by the Committee makes recommendations regarding the establishment, Group, in order to protect the interests of our clients from undue revision, or abolition of the guidelines for the exercise of voting harm, the Group carries out business operations based on the rights, decisions regarding whether to support a proposal not Overview appropriate management of transactions that have possible stipulated in these guidelines, the appropriateness of interpretaconflicts of interest, in accordance with our Management Policy tions of these guidelines for individual proposals, and verification Concerning Conflicts of Interest. To accurately carry out conflict of and improvement of the decision-making process on the exercise interest management at the group-wide level, we have established of voting rights on proposals in connection with which conflicts a system in which the Compliance Department, which is the departof interest may occur. The Officer in charge of Fiduciary Services ment that controls conflict of interest management independently Business, who is independent from the executive authority of other of sales divisions, regularly verifies the effectiveness of conflict of operations of SuMi TRUST Bank, assigns maximum value to the interest management across the Group, under the conflict of interrecommendations of the Advisory Committee, and makes decisions est management officer. The results are reported to the Conflicts on various matters. If any recommendations are received from the of Interest Management Enhancement Committee, the Executive Advisory Committee, the Officer in charge of Fiduciary Services Committee, and the Board of Directors, and improvement and Business shall immediately implement the necessary corrective and direction are carried out continuously, as needed. In addition, in an remedial measures. In terms of our exercise of voting rights, the Vision effort to enhance the effectiveness of the Group’s conflict of interAdvisory Committee discloses the numerical standards, etc. of the est management framework, the Board of Directors consults the guidelines in order to enhance the visibility of our judgment. The Conflicts of Interest Committee, the majority of which consists of Advisory Committee also discloses whether we voted for or against external experts, and receives verification of the appropriateness of each proposal, for each investee company, thereby enhancing the the conflict of interest management framework. visibility of exercise results. Through these efforts by the Advisory Furthermore, SuMi TRUST Bank has established the Committee to ensure the objectivity of the involved processes, and “Stewardship Activities Advisory Committee” (hereinafter, referred to enhance the visibility of both exercise judgment and results, we to as the “Advisory Committee”) regarding stewardship activities, are raising the transparency of our exercise of voting rights. the majority of which consists of external experts. The Advisory We will establish a similar framework after the split of the asset Committee is a body established to make recommendations for management function for integration with Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Business Strategy various activities, under Japan’s Stewardship Code. The Advisory Asset Management (scheduled for October 2018). Conflict of Interest Management Framework* SuMi TRUST Holdings Conflicts of Interest Inquiries Committee Members Board of Directors Conflicts of Interest Committee Management Foundation Chairperson: Hideki Kanda Answers External Director, Reporting, etc. Directions, etc. SuMi TRUST Bank Preliminary Professor, discussions Conflicts of Interest Management Law School at Gakushuin University Executive Committee Enhancement Committee Emeritus Professor, University of Tokyo Reporting, etc. Directions, etc. Client-oriented operations Member: Takeshi Suzuki Compliance Dept. promotion Fiduciary Duties Planning External Director, (Conflicts of interest management control department) and Promotion Dept. SuMi TRUST Holdings Member: Akiko Hosokawa Reporting Directions Partner, Baker & McKenzie Member: Yutaka Nishida Corporate Information SuMi TRUST Bank Other subsidiaries, etc. Senior Managing Executive Officer, SuMi TRUST Holdings * For the roles and responsibilities of each management structure and the main departments, please refer to page 80; for the specific role of the Conflicts of Interest Committee, please refer to pages 56-57. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 81 Client-Oriented Initiatives Stewardship Activities Promotion Framework (as of June 30, 2018) Officer in charge of Advice Stewardship Stewardship Activities Advisory Fiduciary Services Business (Authorized decision-maker) Recommendation Activities Advisory Committee Committee Members Report • Composed of three independent external Chairperson: Hiroshi Mitsunaga experts and one internal committee memExternal Director, SuMi TRUST Bank ber. A third-party committee, the majority Stewardship Meeting of which consists of outside members Member: Hidetaka Kawakita • Has the purpose of enhancing the indeEmeritus Professor, Kyoto University Engagement pendence and transparency of the exercise of voting rights and engagement acMember: Hideki Matsui Approval of policies on engagement tivities, as well as strengthening conflict of Attorney, Mori Hamada & Matsumoto and reports on activities interest management • Makes recommendations on the exercise Member: Hiroyuki Horii Exercise of voting rights of voting rights and engagements to the General Manager of the Stewardship Officer in charge of Fiduciary Services Development Department, Approval of policies on the exercise of Business, who is the authorized decivoting rights and reports on the results sion-maker SuMi TRUST Bank Responses to ESG and PRI (Principles for Responsible Investment) Report Approval of policies on ESG-related (Planning department) activities and reports on activities Stewardship Development Department Deliberation of policies on responses to Cooperation PRI assessments, etc. (Department implementing engagements Consideration of ESG-related matters in and exercising voting rights) the product management process Investment Research Department Formulation of Exercise of Disclosure of Process of We are taking the following measures to enhance standards for voting rights results of the exercise of the exercise of based on the exercise of the transparency of the exercise of voting rights. voting rights voting rights standards voting rights 1) Detailed disclosure of standards for the exercise of voting rights 2) Ensuring the objectivity of the exercise process of voting rights through measures such as the • Ensuring the objectivity of the process of the introduction of a third-party organization Issues for exercise of voting rights 3) Individual disclosure of voting records enhancing • “Visualization” of the process of the exercise of transparency voting rights (visualization of standards, visualization In terms of 1), a detailed disclosure of guidelines on the exercise of voting rights was conducted (clarified numerical of the exercise results) standards and exceptional matters, etc.) (February 2017). In terms of 2), the “Stewardship Activities Advisory Committee” was established as an advisory body for the Officer in charge of Fiduciary Services Business (January 2017). Detailed Establishment Individual Measures by In terms of 3), voting records for all proposals have been disclosure of of an Advisory disclosure of SuMi TRUST Bank individually disclosed since July 2017. standards 1) Committee 2) voting records 3) 4. Initiatives for Management of Client Protection, Etc. Basic Initiative Policy Amidst a growing number of financial products with ever more regards client protection as one of its most important management complex mechanisms and unique characteristics, there is a pressing issues. To respond to the expectations and trust that clients place need for financial institutions to properly and fully explain product in the Group, SuMi TRUST Holdings has established a basic policy mechanisms and risks to clients, and to gain their understanding. It in its Client Protection Management Rules, to enable each Group is also increasingly important for financial institutions to appropricompany to enhance client protection and convenience. In addiately respond to complaints and requests from clients, and proption, checking and promotion systems have also been developed, erly manage client information. Given these conditions, the Group to which the Group complies, carrying out business activities in a 82 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Client-Oriented Initiatives sincere and fair manner. By developing these systems, the Group ment, outsourcing management, and client support management is promoting various initiatives to appropriately address issues have also been established. These supervisory departments work and problems based on self-discipline. Group companies develop to ensure the appropriateness and sufficiency of client protection, appropriate client protection management systems, in accordance revise and update important rules as needed, and provide regular Overview with the characteristics of their own operations, based on the basic status reports to the Board of Directors, etc. In addition to managpolicy established by SuMi TRUST Holdings. Control departments ing the supervisory departments, the control departments oversee have been established at each Group company, which are responclient protection management as a whole, through the preparation sible for client protection management. Under this rubric, separate of internal company rules, guidance for related departments, and supervisory departments tasked with client explanation managetraining expansion and improvement. ment, conflict of interest management, client information manageSuMi TRUST Holdings Board of Directors Vision Executive Committee Compliance Department SuMi TRUST Bank Board of Directors Executive Committee Other subsidiaries Compliance Committee Compliance Department Business Strategy Compliance Department IT & Business Process Customer Satisfaction Planning Department Promotion Department Client Conflict of Client Outsourcing Client support explanation interest information management management management management management Client Information Management Management Foundation The Group has established the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group of properly maintaining and managing the Group’s information Privacy Policy as a policy to securely protect the personal informaassets. The department regularly evaluates the status and effectivetion of its clients. Furthermore, the Group manages client informaness of client information management execution, and provides tion appropriately, and when using client information jointly within regular status reports to the Board of Directors, etc. At branch the Group, each company complies with laws on personal informaoffices and head office departments, in addition to assigning gention protection, guidelines on personal information protection in eral managers the responsibility of managing and administering the financial industry, and other related laws and regulations, so as information, SuMi TRUST Bank requires all employees to submit to ensure the appropriate use of such information. a written affirmation of their duty of confidentiality, so that they At SuMi TRUST Bank, the IT & Business Process Planning clearly recognize the duty they have to keep important information, Department oversees client information management as a whole, including personal data they come across while working, confidenbased on information security risk management rules with the aim tial. Corporate Information Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 83 Digitalization Strategy As digitalization progresses at a rapid pace, the SuMi TRUST Group regards digital reform initiatives as one of our most important management strategies. We continually strive to improve client convenience and productivity and to develop a total solution model that is unique to a trust bank, using the latest digital technologies. Developing a Total Solution Model Our group companies have a wide range of business domains, ing a unique model for adding value, as a financial group specialand develop highly specialized businesses targeting a broad client ized in trust banking. base. Each business domain holds “Deep Data”: a variety of data デジタル技術の活用によるトータルソリューションモデルの進化 accumulated by leveraging the highly specialized know-how unique • Evolution of total solutions through use of digital technologies to the trust bank group. Deep Data accumulates data such as cliＤＥＥＰＤＡＴＡ トータルソリ Deep Data Digital technologies Totalューショ ン solutions ent attributes, assets, transactions, and events in each business デジタル技術 Retail TS 企業向け domain, as well as external data such as economic conditions, repFor corporations Wholesale TS 従業員向け resenting information that is both quantitatively and qualitatively Fiduciary (pensions) 投資家向け For employees unique to the trust bank group. Stock transfer agency For investors We analyze this information and convert it into a form that proReal estate vides high added value for our clients, and utilize digital technoloGlobal markets gies such as artificial intelligence (AI), blockchain, IoT, and the cloud HR/Accounting 信託銀行の多様な事業領域、 情報の複合、連鎖化による • 「信託ならでは」のプラットフォーム to determine the ideal timing to make proposals. 広範な事業基盤、 Accumulate 高度な専 information 情報価値向上 Increasing the value of • 「信託らし • Platform い」情報価値を活用し unique た to a trust bank based 門性に基づく 情報の蓄積 on the diverse information by 事業横断トータルソリ • Cross-business totalューショ ン solutions Our goal is to use digital technologies to offer information with business domains, broad combining and linking it using information value unique high added value to our clients, and to offer total solutions that business foundation, and to a trust bank high degree of specialization are unique to the trust bank group, and go beyond our business of a trust bank domains. Our digitalization strategy serves as foundation for buildPursuing Reform and Innovation in Client Services Using Technology In 2015, we launched the FinTech project teams. The activities of mining to develop AI solutions that automatically calculate sentiment these teams have since included verification experiments aimed at scores for large volumes of analyst reports, collect information more using new technologies such as the blockchain and AI, as well as efficiently, and make investment decisions on individual stocks. joint research with external partners. In November 2017, we created the Digital Transformation • Using digital technologies to offer a higher level of consulting Department at SuMi TRUST Holdings and SuMi TRUST Bank. This We use AI specialized for text analysis to discover hidden client department is accelerating digital innovation, and is engaged in needs, and perform verification experiments to enable optimal studies, research, and verification experiments regarding the use of consulting activities based on those needs. technologies to further the development of a total solution model, We perform a multifaceted analysis of a variety of information in particular. that we have accumulated using predictive analysis, and perform verification experiments to propose products and services to more • Use of AI in the asset management field effectively meet client needs. We use AI to build investment strategies, including utilizing text Improving Client Convenience Introduction and continued development of host DB linked client for time deposits, investment trusts, and other transactions on the visit tablet spot. We plan to expand the range of applicability of this system to We have introduced an IT system for marketing assistance. Sales support more types of transactions, including insurance products representatives for individual clients carry tablet devices during cliand discretionary investment products. ent visits, and are able to use this system to complete procedures 84 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Digitalization Strategy Introducing this new system has enabled us to spend more Before the New System time on client-focused consulting, as it reduces burdens on clients Client visit Branch office/backoffice center from filling out forms, while at the same time greatly reducing our Confirm Confirm administrative workload. Consulting Fill out transaction Backoffice backoffice Reflect transaction to forms processing the host computer details processing Overview In the future, we will improve client convenience and enhance our consulting by advancing the use of technology and digitalization in both over-the-counter transactions and internet banking After the New System using mobile devices. Client visit Branch office/backoffice center Confirm Confirm Reflect transaction to Consulting transaction backoffice the host computer details processing Initiatives to Improve Productivity Vision Full-scale introduction of RPA and AI, and promotion of digitalization Data collection • Using Robotic Process Automation (RPA) We are aiming to save 500,000 person-hours of labor over the Further Data entry enhancing next three years by using RPA to automate operations that have client service previously been performed by humans. Aggregation/ check We aim to further enhance client service by replacing data entry and other backoffice tasks with RPA, mainly at the head office, etc. RPA as a improving both operational efficiency and quality, and allowing a substitute Business Strategy shift of personnel from the head office to branch offices. • Introducing AI for call-center operations Our goal is to improve client service by making call-center operations more efficient and sophisticated, by using voice-recognition technology to automatically convert client telephone inquiries into text, and using text-mining technology to summarize such text. Management Foundation Initiatives at SBI Sumishin Net Bank, Ltd. Since its founding in September 2007, SBI Sumishin Net Bank, Ltd. review mortgage loans. This improves the accuracy of reviews, and has worked to achieve “the most user-friendly internet banking, offermakes operations more efficient and less labor-intensive. ing attractive products and services 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.” In addition, we have introduced an AI-based monitoring system In the FinTech business domain as well, it is actively using AI, APIs, to detect fraudulent wire transfers, expanding the applications of AI and other leading-edge technologies to develop products and servicto fields that help improve client security and comfort. es that help improve client convenience, led by its FinTech Business Planning Department and Big Data Department. • Example uses of APIs We offer a wide range of asset management services to clients, • Example uses of AI performing API integrations with operating companies that offer Corporate Information We have introduced a hybrid chat service on a trial basis. This automated savings services and Robo advisor (automated asset service handles client inquiries seamlessly, switching between an management service). AI chatbot and human responses. The AI chatbot provides 24/365 We help streamline wire transfer procedures and the capture of automated responses, while humans provide more detailed custom client balances and bank statements, through API integration with responses during business hours. cloud accounting software and other services. We have also introduced leading-edge methods that use AI to Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 85 Human Resources Strategy The SuMi TRUST Group is engaged in initiatives to enhance its human capital—one of the sources of value creation—and increase the total added value provided to our clients. Specifically, we aim to raise the level of our pool of human resources that can devise comprehensive solutions using the two wheels of ”bolstering human resources” and “maintaining workplace environments,” based on the principle of diversity & inclusion, and in accordance with our Basic Policy for Personnel Affairs Management. Highly Capable Human Capital Basic Policy for Personnel Affairs Management The SuMi TRUST Group provides a workplace in which individuals’ diversity and creativity are fully utilized as Bolster Human Resources Maintaining Workplace Environments value-added to the organization and they can have “Human Resources Development Policy (TRUST)” “Declaration on Work Style Reform” dreams and pride and feel motivation when working. Training and It also forms a group of personnel capable of providOptimize work styles Off-JT ing comprehensive solutions by making full use of Human their advanced expertise and comprehensive capabiliresource assignment and OJT ties and helps them to make successful achievements. Enhancing Fair evaluations A culture that Health fosters motivation leadership and treatment and job satisfaction management Obtain and Form a Diverse Pool of Human Resources Diversity & Inclusion Basic Policy for Personnel Affairs Management Status of the Group of Personnel that Provides Comprehensive Solutions Number of financial consultants Fellows (“SEI-KAIIN”) of the Institute Number of registered (number of female consultants shown in parentheses) of Actuaries of Japan real estate transaction agents March 31, 2017: March 31, 2018: March 31, 2017: March 31, 2018: March 31, 2017: March 31, 2018: 247 (10) 249 (9) 45 43 5,448 5,518 Bolster Human Resources Number of hours of training held Number of applicants for voluntary training Status of positions of female employees (March 31, 2017) Executives: Level of general Level of section FY2016: FY2017: FY2016: FY2017: manager: manager: 4,599 hours 6,033 hours 854 886 2 16 245 Maintaining Workplace Environments Results of employee awareness survey Supporting work-life balance Number of users Activity Satisfaction Childcare leave: Nursing care Male employees takof the internal job posting system leave: ing childcare leave: FY2016 61.2% 60.8% FY2016: FY2017: FY2017 62.1% 59.8% 358 84 305 (March 31, 2018) (cumulative total for FY2017) (cumulative total for FY2017) 378 445 (All figures are actual results of SuMi TRUST Bank) 86 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Human Resources Strategy 1. Diversity & Inclusion (2) Promoting active participation by women SuMi TRUST Bank KPIs Overview With regard to promoting women, SuMi TRUST Bank is securing 1) Female employees in management positions at a large number of women at the level of assistant manager, and is section manager level and above: 300 or more steadily promoting women to the levels of section manager and 2) Male employees taking childcare holidays: 100% general manager, and enhancing management skills by means such as job rotation and training. We will accelerate promotions into 3) Disabled person employment ratio: 2.0% or higher management in order to achieve our KPIs. In terms of expanding the roles of women, we are accelerating The SuMi TRUST Group holds the concept of Diversity & the promotion of female employees as financial consultants*, the Inclusion, in the sense of “utilizing the diversity and creativity of majority of whom are male employees. In addition, in order to creits employees in management,” as its management principles ate further opportunities for women to thrive, in fiscal year 2018, (“Mission”). We also hold fully utilizing individuals’ diversity and we created a new trust consultant position that undertakes duties creativity as value added to the organization as our Basic Policy for equivalent to those of a financial consultant, and two of the three Vision Personnel Affairs Management. The business model of a trust bank employees in the first round are female employees. is to offer added value to clients by leveraging the diversity of the * Expert staff who exemplify trust banking, using strong expertise and a wealth of experiorganization. While we have always believed in respecting diversity ence to accurately manage client assets, and propose meticulous plans for management and succession as an organization, we consider it to be vital to enhance the organization’s diversity, and to renew our understanding that our employNumber of Female Employees in Management Positions at SuMi TRUST Bank ees are the SuMi TRUST Group’s strength. In October 2017, SuMi TRUST Holdings followed SuMi TRUST March September March September March Bank in establishing a Diversity & Inclusion Office within the Human 31, 2016 30, 2016 31, 2017 30, 2017 31, 2018 Resources Department, in order to share the principles and goals 0 0 Director 0 1 1 of diversity & inclusion with the Group as a whole. (0%) (0%) Business Strategy Level of 2 2 (1) Employing diverse human resources executive 0 0 0 officer (5.6%) (5.7%) To practice our management principles (“Mission”) and Basic Policy for Personnel Affairs Management, it is first essential to hire Level of 14 16 diverse human resources. SuMi TRUST Bank is building a base for general 10 12 14 manager (2.4%) (2.7%) diverse employees to exercise leadership. More than half of SuMi TRUST Bank’s new recruits are women. In addition, we actively hire Level of 229 245 section 192 224 232 newly graduated foreign exchange students and local graduates manager (11.2%) (11.9%) overseas. As of March 31, 2018, our disabled person employment Level of 1,061 1,108 ratio was 2.09% for the Group as a whole, including in client relaassistant 1,080 1,022 1,069 Management Foundation tions roles such as lobby attendants. Hiring, retention, and increasmanager (31.6%) (32.7%) ing diversity remain our challenges, moving forward. * Numbers in parentheses are ratio of women The SuMi TRUST Group’s Human Rights Policy clearly prohibits * As of March 31, 2018, there is one female external director at SuMi TRUST Holdings discrimination against LGBT individuals. Nikko Asset Management has created an internal LGBT Working Group, which carries out education activities aimed at fostering an understanding of LGBT. In addition, in October 2017, SuMi TRUST Bank received a Gold medal, the highest rating available, in the “Pride Index,” which evaluates initiatives regarding LGBT. The Pride Index is operated by the organization work with Pride (wwP), which supports the promotion and establishment of LGBT-related diversity management. In fiscal year 2017, 100% of eligible male employees at SuMi Corporate Information TRUST Bank took childcare holidays. Human Rights Policy: https://www.smth.jp/en/csr/management/human_ rights_policy/index.html Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 87 Human Resources Strategy Highly Capable Human Ca 2. Bolstering Human Resource Bolster Human Resources Maintaining W “Human Resources Development Policy (TRUST)” “Declaration o Training and The SuMi TRUST Group Human Resources Development Policy Optimi Off-JT The SuMi TRUST Group will maintain its workplace environment and bolster its human resources based on a development spirit consistHuman ing of “TRUST,” for the growth and career development of the emresource assignment ployees who will create our future. and OJT Talent……………Talent (individuality) can blossom Enhancing Fair evaluations A culture that fosters motivatio Respect…………Respect each individual leadership and treatment and job satisfacti Uniqueness………Develop true professionals Support…………Make mutual teaching and support our motto (2) Enhancing Training and Other Off-JT* Try…………………Praise small, daily challenges The SuMi TRUST Obtain Group has Form a Diverse andestablished the SuMiTRUST Pool of Huma University, which offers group training with the objective of improvBased on the “fiduciary spirit of TRUST,” the SuMi TRUST Group ing employees’ operational skills and management Diversityabilities, and & Inclusion aims to contribute to our clients and the continuous development many opportunities for self-development to encourage employees of society through the growth of our employees, thereby maximizing the creation of shared value and becoming the corporate group to continue improving their skills. The Company’s President is the that is chosen by society. president of SuMiTRUST University, while the executive in charge of Human Resources Development and an outside expert serve as the university’s vice presidents.Basic Policy for Personnel The university is a group-wide Affairs Man We have been advancing measures to be the “No. 1 financial program that also receives advice regarding its management from group for human resource development” with the aim of “bolsterHitotsubashi University graduate school. ing human resources,” which is one of the two wheels for raising the * Off-the-job training: Uses workshops, training, and other methods to teach knowledge level of our group of personnel that provides comprehensive soluand other skills that cannot be learned through OJT. tions. Today, however, as digitization and other advances are changing business models at an ever-accelerating pace, we need to share (3) Enhancing Leadership concrete guidelines within the group and accelerate their promotion. SuMi TRUST Bank offers a program to develop next-generation It was for this reason that, in April 2018, we created our “Human executive candidates in cooperation with Hitotsubashi University’s Resources Development Policy” as the shared human resource Graduate Programs. Candidates receive instruction on the values, development slogan within the SuMi TRUST Group. Through this general liberal arts knowledge, and MBA elements they need for policy, we will strive to build a diverse group of personnel that management, and through sessions and courses, they complete shares a passion for “TRUST,” and maximize the creation of shared the program by presenting a proposal to senior executives. The value through the realization of “The Trust Bank.” bank also provides a leadership development program for female employees to step up to management with three phases of train(1) Skill-raising Human Resource Assignment and OJT* ing: training for candidates for promotion to general manager; The SuMi TRUST Group views OJT as the foundation for human training for employees promoted to general manager; and, training resource development. We also focus on assigning employees to for candidates for promotion to section manager. After the employroles that awaken their passion for growth and allow them to disees complete their training, operations are conducted such as proplay their abilities to the maximum extent. In fiscal year 2018, SuMi viding them with opportunities to practice what they have learned TRUST Bank introduced a program that enables younger employduring training in a variety of environments, primarily through proees to experience multiple work domains within a fixed period. We motion and job rotation. are also advancing initiatives such as a trust internship program aimed at developing human resources who possess a “high degree of expert knowledge in trust operations” and a “deep understanding of the fiduciary spirit.” * OJT: On the Job Training. OJT is a process whereby workplace supervisors and senior employees teach subordinates the knowledge, skills, and duties required of them via their daily tasks. 88 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Human Resources Strategy (4) Fair Evaluations and Treatment In order to fairly evaluate and treat diverse human resources, it is necessary for all employees to share and practice the goals of Purpose of Personnel Evaluation System the evaluation system, and in practice, objectivity is essential. For this reason, roughly every three years, SuMi TRUST Bank sends • To maximize our performance as an organization by Overview aligning the vectors of the Company and individual members of the Human Resources Department to each branch employees in the same direction and department to interview employees. Additionally, as a means of obtaining a multifaceted view of our personnel, we have intro• To ensure goal setting and issue identification, daily duced an anonymous survey for subordinates and others to rate communication, and face-to-face meetings to review performance, etc. lead to changes in behavior and the day-to-day management actions of line managers in the branch capacity development management ranks (general managers, deputy general managers, section managers, etc.). Further, we also promote management • To fairly evaluate the various achievements of action reform and encourage the cultivation of a climate of biemployees and the diverse capabilities they have Highly Capable Human Capital demonstrated to ensure they are assigned to approdirectional dialogue. priate jobs and treated justly Vision Bolster Human Resources 3. Upholding Positive Workplace Environments Maintaining Workplace Environments “Human Resources Development Policy (TRUST)” “Declaration on Work Style Reform” Training and Optimize work styles Off-JT Declaration on Work Style Reform Human to offer The SuMi TRUST Group hereby declares it a top commitment resource a workplace where the diversity and creativity of its assignment employees are Business Strategy andand more fully utilized to add value to the organization OJTwhere employees can have pride and be highly motivated in fulfilling their misA culture that sions. The Group as a whole will workEnhancing towards the followingFairgoals. evaluations fosters motivation Health leadership and treatment and job satisfaction management 1. Achieving diverse work styles and work-life balance 2. Supporting health improvement through measures such as boosting health awareness and appropriately (1) Optimizing Work Styles managing work hours Obtain and Form a Diverse Pool With the of Human aimof “achieving Resources diverse work styles and work-life balance,” SuMi TRUST Holdings actively establishes a workplace 3.  Providing opportunities for all employees to grow Diversity & Inclusion environment where employees can work while feeling at ease and while participating actively with motivation Management Foundation still maintain a good balance between work and their personal lives. Through the enthusiastic work of each individual employee, we willWith regard to childbirth and childcare, SuMi TRUST Bank offers continue to be a corporate group that contributes to the benefit of childcare leave that can also be taken by fathers, in addition to a sysclients and is useful to society. Basic Policy for Personnel Affairs tem of shorter workingManagement hours and the freedom to choose to refrain from working overtime or at night. These measures have allowed us to create an environment where parents can raise their children with “Maintaining workplace environments” is the second of our peace of mind. Moreover, for employees with family members who two wheels of measures for raising the level of the Group’s pool of require nursing care, we offer a system of nursing care days-off and human resources. To this end, in May 2017, the Group launched the nursing care leave, and a shortened workday system. “Work Style Reform Headquarters,” headed by the presidents of We have also set a target of reducing backoffice work by 70% SuMi TRUST Holdings and SuMi TRUST Bank, and established the over a period of roughly five years, by advancing business process “Declaration on Work Style Reform” as a top commitment. reforms and promoting branch strategies. The workforce created Corporate Information At SuMi TRUST Bank, initiatives based on this declaration have through these efforts will be used to enhance client support and generally raised ratings related to human resource strategy in the improve service by shifting resources to areas as face-to-face sales employee awareness survey conducted each year. and IT operations. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 89 Human Resources Strategy (3) A Culture That Fosters Motivation and Job Satisfaction Specific Initiatives We work to build a climate that supports challenges and learning • Set a ceiling on overtime for all employees, includand activates bi-directional dialogue toward “providing opportuniing managers ties for all employees to grow while participating actively with motivation.” The SuMi TRUST Group has always encouraged activities • Establish rules for taking intervals between work shifts that create opportunities for learning, such as seminars and learn• Invest in infrastructure for efficient operations ing circles formed by groups across branches and departments, • Develop good management practices that improve and has regularly held lectures by outside instructors. SuMi TRUST business productivity; reflect business productivity Bank encourages employees to independently and voluntarily in employee performance evaluations shape their own careers, by creating a system for changing from • Implement “business processes to enable employees to a career course limited to specific regions to one enabling nationfinish majority of work at 4 p.m.” at branch offices wide transfers, and an internal job-posting system that enables • Initiatives to shift to paperless meetings employees to take on new challenges by transferring into their desired jobs and businesses. In fiscal year 2018, we began promoting activities for employees (2) Health Management to shape their own futures towards creation of new businesses and For “supporting health improvement through measures such operations, in order to create new solutions by turning positive ambias boosting health awareness and appropriately managing work tions of the Group employees into new products and innovations, hours,” we have active initiatives in place that are aimed at prowhich has helped improve employee motivation. Additionally, in moting the physical and mental health of all Group employees, May 2018, we created the “Employee Integrated Report,” in order to including managing minimum interval between work-days, streamenhance employee understanding of the SuMi TRUST Group, and to lining operations, reducing working overtime, and prohibiting encourage employees to think about their own careers. smoking in all buildings. In recognition of these initiatives, the In order to spread and maintain this culture, it is essential to have SuMi TRUST Group was certified by the Ministry of Economy, good bi-directional dialogue between executives and employees, Trade and Industry (METI) as a “Certified Health and Productivity as well as among employees. SuMi TRUST Bank uses occasions Management Organization (White 500) ” in February 2018 for pracwhen employees gather, such as staff training by rank, as opporticing outstanding health and productivity management. tunities for discussion and questions about management policies, With regard to physical health, SuMi TRUST Bank provides health leadership, and other topics by the president and other executives. examinations every year and makes reexaminations mandatory. For communication among employees, we create and execute The Human Resources Department and others provide individualmeasures that reflect diverse views through active dialog with the ized follow-up to ensure that everyone who requires treatment at a employees’ union, and have created “The Trust Bank” discussions healthcare institution receives the necessary treatment. with the goal of fostering awareness in line with the fiduciary spirit With regard to mental health, SuMi TRUST Bank provides care and improving teamwork at the workplace. We create a workplace by line management, and also carries out stress checks once a year. where employees are highly motivated through free discussion Group results are provided to the employees’ union, and we disamong employees, regardless of their position or team, on specific cuss “improvement in workplace environments” and strive towards issues. As of March 31, 2018, 59% of all SuMi TRUST Bank employsuch improvement. ees are members of the employees’ union. A discussion 90 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Human Resources Strategy 4. Human Rights (1) Human Rights Management (2) Protecting Various Human Rights Overview Basic Philosophy Initiatives to Address Dowa and Foreign Residents Issues The SuMi TRUST Group’s human rights management is based The SuMi TRUST Group regards tackling discrimination against on the “Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights,” which the Dowa caste as a particularly important theme in the promotion was adopted by the United Nations Human Rights Council in June of human rights education, and has worked to completely eliminate 2011. We have established the Human Rights Policy along with the prejudiced or discriminatory views against the Dowa caste. With Basic Policy on the Social Responsibility of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust regard to foreign residents issues, we make all employees aware Group (Sustainability Policy) (see page 24) to respect the human of giving consideration to the human rights of foreign residents, rights of all stakeholders. including the handling of personal authentication documents and respecting privacy. Human Rights Management System Based on the Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights Prevention of Sexual Harassment and Power Harassment The SuMi TRUST Group works to improve the quality of its Actions such as sexual harassment and power harassment are Vision human rights management in a PDCA cycle, in order to foster a prohibited at the SuMi TRUST Group. In the event harassment corporate culture and workplace environment that respects the does occur, advice is sought and complaints are registered via the basic human rights of all stakeholders, by respecting individual Harassment Prevention Committee representative in each branch human rights and diverse values, while eliminating discrimination. and department, or directly by the Personnel Consultation Desk The SuMi TRUST Group has not had any cases of infringement of within the Human Resources Department. Stringent corrective meahuman rights in the past three years. sures or punishment are implemented against the perpetrators. Establishment of the Human Rights Initiatives to Prevent Discrimination Against LGBT People Commitment Policy. We strive to ensure thorough prevention of discrimination Once a year, the Human Rights Due against sexual minorities such as LGBT in hiring or performing their Business Strategy Diligence Self-check List*2 is distribwork. Our Personnel Consultation Desk (LGBT Consultation Desk) Implementation of human uted to all branches, departments, addresses this issue as an ally (supporter). rights due diligence*1 and affiliates both at home and abroad as a tool to check the status of respect for human rights at each unit. Investments and Loans Related to Cluster Bombs The SuMi TRUST Group refuses to provide loans to foreign or The Personnel Consultation Desk in Access to redress the Human Resources Department domestic companies that produce cluster bombs, which are recogserves as a contact point. nized as a weapon raising strong humanitarian concerns. *1 H uman rights due diligence refers to a series of initiatives to identify actual or potential impacts on human rights, resulting from the activities of the Group or related outside parties, to develop measures for the prevention or mitigation of such impacts, and to SuMi TRUST Bank is a member of the following Management Foundation continuously verify and disclose the effectiveness of such measures. organizations, with the goals of continuously collect*2 A check list serves to verify the progress in each department concerned with the ing information and acquiring knowledge on human Human Rights Management System, such as the status of implementation of human rights due diligence, compliance with the Human Rights Policy, and occurrence of rights, and reflecting this in the enlightenment and human rights violations. education of all of our employees, including those in Group companies. Human Rights Due Diligence Liaison Committee • Engages in investigating the status in addressing human rights • Global Compact Network Japan at all Group companies including overseas entities, derives tasks • The Industrial Federation for Human Rights, Tokyo to be addressed, and discusses and addresses measures for • Buraku Liberation and Human Rights Research Institute improvement. •K  orean Residents Minority Human-rights Research • Conducts annual investigations into the status of addressing Center of Japan Corporate Information human rights through use of the Human Rights Due Diligence Self-check List. • Higashi Nihon Buraku Freedom Institute • Based on discussions by the liaison committee, the Corporate Planning Department formulates objectives and plans for the development and reinforcement of the framework of initiatives, and the Human Resources Department and Human Rights Education Committee engage in the formulation and implementation of various training programs and education activities concerning human rights issues at all Group companies and branches. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 91 Communication with Shareholders and Investors 1. Basic Philosophy SuMi TRUST Holdings aims for highly transparent corporate Specifically, we endeavor to give our shareholders and investors management by striving for timely and appropriate disclosure a deeper understanding of SuMi TRUST Holdings’ performance, of corporate information, as well as through proactive IR activibusiness conditions, business strategies, etc., by holding informaties and constructive dialogue with shareholders and investors in tion meetings and other events in addition to disclosing corporate Japan and overseas. information in a timely, fair, and accurate manner. 2. Information Meetings for Investors Activities for Individual Investors investor meetings in Japan and overseas. In February 2018, we We strive to provide information that will allow individual invesheld SuMi TRUST IR Day, where the officers in charge of our busitors to better understand SuMi TRUST Holdings through measures nesses described the features and strengths of the Group’s main such as organizing information meetings, setting up a dedicated businesses, as well as our strategic direction. In addition, Mr. Isao website for individual investors, and distributing a newsletter for Matsushita, an external director and chairman of the Board of shareholders (“The Trust Newsletter – Business Report”). Directors, gave a presentation describing our governance. At an information meeting held in December 2017, we communicated the apSuMi TRUST IR Day held in February 2018 peal of SuMi TRUST Holdings to individual investors in an easy-to-understand manner, through a dialogue with Mr. Yasushi Miyosawa, an announcer with Asahi Broadcasting Group Holdings Corporation. For details, see “Information Meeting for Individual Investors” IR Activities Carried Out in FY2017 on our website (Japanese only). https://smth.jp/investors/individual_meeting/index.html Investor meetings on financial results for analysts and 2 times institutional investors Activities for Institutional Investors Overseas IR events 8 times Investor meetings on financial results aimed mainly at analysts One-on-one meetings with Number of companies: 411 and institutional investors are held twice a year, for the full-year institutional investors in Japan (including 205 overseas investors) and interim results. We also conduct briefings on our management and overseas strategy and financial position, etc. by participating in conferences Information meetings for Number of participants: 498 organized by securities companies and by holding one-on-one individual investors 3. General Meeting of Shareholders In addition to promptly sending out the convocation notice for post an English translation of the convocation notice on our webthe General Meeting of Shareholders held in June of each year, we site at the same time as the Japanese version, before it is sent out, post the notice on stock exchange websites and our own website in an effort to increase the convenience of overseas investors. one week before it is sent out. We are also striving to improve the Notices of resolutions and voting results are posted on our voting environment by making it possible to exercise voting rights website immediately after the conclusion of the General Meeting online or by cell phone (including smartphones), and by participatof Shareholders. ing in a platform for the exercise of voting rights. Furthermore, we 92 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Initiatives to Facilitate Financing • Dealing with Facilitation of Financing tem that includes New York, London, Singapore, Hong Kong, Shanghai and Thailand. These branches offer financial services The SuMi TRUST Group considers the facilitation of financing to such as loans, deposits, foreign exchange, and derivatives to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and individuals seekJapanese client companies who are expanding overseas. In ing mortgage loans as one of its most important social missions. addition to developing our own offices, we are making efforts Overview SuMi TRUST Bank took steps to further enhance its financial to address the growing need for financial services denominatintermediary function and established a basic policy on the ed in local currencies through partnerships with leading banks facilitation of financing. This was to ensure prompt and approin Asian countries. In Indonesia through “DBSI – SuMi TRUST priate responses to requests from SMEs and mortgage loan cliJapanese Business Services” established within PT Bank DBS ents for various consultations, restructuring of loan repayment Indonesia, a local subsidiary of DBS Bank Ltd. which is a major conditions, etc. bank based in Singapore, and in Vietnam through Bank for The bank facilitates financing operations through a system at Investment and Development of Vietnam (hereinafter “BIDV”) branch offices to provide prompt and appropriate responses to which SuMi TRUST Bank has a partnership with and a leasing clients’ consultations about, or requests for, the restructuring of joint venture company with BIDV (BIDV-SuMi TRUST Leasing loan repayment conditions and other matters and a system at Company, Ltd.), we are enhancing our financial services geared the head office to fully grasp the branch office support activitoward Japanese companies expanding into each country. ties. The bank also responds to clients’ requests for consulta2) Initiatives related to support for business succession tion and complaints through a dedicated telephone number as In April 2013, SuMi TRUST Bank consolidated branch supwell as at branch offices. port functions for services in inheritance, asset inheritance, The Act concerning Temporary Measures to Facilitate and business succession in its Private Banking Department. Financing for SMEs, etc. expired on March 31, 2013. Even so, We offer fine-tuned proposals and prompt information to Vision the SuMi TRUST Group will continue providing appropriate and meet the diverse asset inheritance and business succession proactive financial intermediary services to facilitate the busineeds of both our corporate and individual clients. In colness activities of SMEs and to help mortgage loan clients enjoy laboration with an affiliate, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Wealth a stable lifestyle. Also, when there are consultations about, or Partners Co., Ltd., we provide tailor-made services for the requests for, the restructuring of loan repayment conditions, needs of our company-owner and property-owner clients. etc. from clients who have been directly or indirectly affected In addition, we have assigned financial consultants to by the Great East Japan Earthquake or the 2016 Kumamoto branches nationwide as an easily accessible channel for our Earthquake, the SuMi TRUST Group endeavors to respond in a company-owner clients to consult about inheritance and flexible and appropriate manner, taking into account each clibusiness succession concerns and challenges. Our financial ent’s circumstances. consultants draw on the expertise they have accumulated Business Strategy In addition, SuMi TRUST Bank has a system under which through a rich, wide-ranging set of experiences to consult it respects and abides by the “Guidelines for Management with clients from the perspectives of “inheritance/asset Guarantee,” and discloses the utilization status of the guidelines inheritance and business succession,” “asset management on our website. The bank has reorganized its system for receivand asset administration” and other factors. ing inquiries related to the “Guidelines on Arrangement for Furthermore, we cooperate with our tax accountant corVictims of Natural Disaster,” which was adopted in April 2016, porate partner to hold seminars for business owners on the and appropriately responds to client’s requests for consultation. inheritance and business succession tax system and business succession measures that make use of trusts. These events • Status of Initiatives to Improve SME Business Operations serve as opportunities to make SuMi TRUST Bank’s consultand to Revitalize Regions ing function more broadly known among people who have never had dealings with a trust bank. (1) Policy on Management Support Measures for SMEs 3) Initiatives related to “Densai” (electronically recorded monManagement Foundation SuMi TRUST Bank assists SMEs with efforts to improve and etary claims) revitalize their business operations by considering their conIn order to facilitate fundraising for SMEs, SuMi TRUST Bank ditions and providing business consultations, management has offered “Densai Services” since February 2012. The service guidance and support for formulating business reconstruction is based on the Zengin Electronic Monetary Claims Recording strategies, and other support services. Network, in which financial institutions nationwide are members. We also provide “Densai lump-sum factoring services.” (2) Framework of Management Support for SMEs In order to carry out management support for SMEs, SuMi (3) Status of Management Support Initiatives for SMEs and of TRUST Bank has established “Financing Facilitation Promotion Regional Revitalization Initiatives Offices” in the Wholesale Business Planning Department and in SuMi TRUST Bank has branches throughout the country. the Personal Loan Business Promotion Department, to prepare Although it is not engaged in initiatives for the revitalization of a framework to deal appropriately and satisfactorily with various specific regions, it carries out initiatives focused on support to consultations and requests from clients. improve the business operations of clients at each branch accordIn terms of specific measures related to management support ing to their individual circumstances and business dealings. Corporate Information for SMEs, branch offices and the head office are engaged in efforts such as support for formulating business reconstruction plans tailored to individual circumstances, and assistance aimed Examples of Specific Initiatives at making progress with business reconstruction plans, taking • Introduced prospective buyers of idle real estate (buildinto account the industry conditions and the business dealings ings for rent and other properties) of clients and brokered of individual SMEs. Furthermore, SuMi TRUST Bank prepares to the sale of such assets. Contributed to reducing interestsupport clients in overseas expansion and business succession as bearing debt of the clients. well as in electronically recorded monetary claims. • Carried out sales mediation services (real estate surveys) 1) Initiatives related to support for overseas expansion for clients to other clients, and contributed to increasing SuMi TRUST Bank has the five-branch one-subsidiary systheir sales. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 93 Corporate Information History of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group 2011 • Established Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. (“SuMi TRUST Holdings”) 1924 1962 2000 Established Established Merged to become The Mitsui Trust The Chuo Trust & The Chuo Mitsui Trust Company, Limited Banking Co., Ltd. and Banking Company, Limited 2009 Acquired Nikko Asset Management Co., Ltd. 1925 Established 2000 Sumitomo Trust Co., Ltd. Established Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 2012 • Established Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited 1986 (“SuMi TRUST Bank”) Established Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Co., Ltd. History of Finance and Trusts 1923 2008 2012 Enforcement of the Trust Act and the Trust Business Act The collapse of Started handling designated Lehman Brothers donation trusts 1952 Enforcement of the Loan Trust Act Started handling legal guardianship 2004 2010 1966 Started handling employees’ pension system support trusts fund trust Enforcement of the revised The European Trust Business Act debt crisis 1972 Started handling asset formation trusts 1975 Started handling special donation trusts 2007 2011 1977 Started handling charitable trusts Enforcement of the revised The Great East Japan Trust Act and the Trust Earthquake 1984 Started handling land trusts Business Act 94 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report History of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group 2018 (scheduled) October Overview • Integrate the asset management function of SuMi TRUST Bank and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management 2014 • Establish JTC Holdings, Ltd., a wholly owning parent SuMi TRUST Bank company of Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. and Trust & • Complete integration of systems Custody Services Bank, Ltd. 2016 • Developed the Policies regarding the Fiduciary Duties of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group Vision Towards “The Trust Bank” 2013 2015 2017 Business Strategy SuMi TRUST Bank SuMi TRUST Bank • Shifted to a company with • Started handling • Started handling the Marriage and Three Committees the Tuition Fund Child-rearing Support Trust (also referred Endowment Trust to as “A Link between Generations”) (also referred to as • Started handling Security Trust “Thinking of Our Management Foundation • Launched the operations of Grandchildren”) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (Thai) Public Company Limited • Acquired Citi Cards Japan, Inc. changed its name to Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Club Co., Ltd. 2013 2015 2017 Started handling the Tuition Fund Started handling the Marriage and Inauguration of the Trump Endowment Trust Child-rearing Support Trust administration in the U.S. Corporate Information 2014 2016 The government The Bank of Japan introduced launched NISA the negative interest rate policy Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 95 What is a Trust? 1. Basic Trust Mechanism Under the trust system, settlors, who are holders of money, real estate or other property, enact trust activities, such as trust agreements and wills, to transfer their property (trust property) to a trustee who the settlors can rely on. The trustee then administers the trust property for the beneficiaries in accordance with aims defined by the settlors. The law imposes various duties on trustees to live up to the trust placed in them. Monitoring, Trust agreement, will supervision rights The following are typical duties of trustees. Defining the Trustee Distribution of Duty of due care of a prudent Duty to segregate property purpose of the trust, income from manager The trustee must administer transferring property trust assets The trustee must exercise the property belonging to trust Duty of due care of due care of a prudent manager assets separately from its own when administering the trust. property (property owned by Settlor a prudent manager Beneficiaries the trustee itself) and from Administration Duty of loyalty Duty to segregate Duty of loyalty property belonging to other property, etc. The trustee must faithfully trust assets. administer the trust for the beneficiary. Duty of fairness Trust assets For trusts with multiple beneficiaries, the trustee must carry out their duties fairly for the beneficiaries. 2. Purpose and Functions of Trusts Purpose of a Trust The purpose of a trust is the goal that the settlor intends to achieve by establishing the trust, and which serves as a guideline for the actions of the trustee. Main Functions of a Trust Property administration function The right to administer the property is granted to the trustee. (At the same time, the trustee is subject to various duties.) Bankruptcy isolation function Trust assets are not affected by bankruptcy of the settlor or trustee. Conversion functions When property is entrusted, it is converted into rights known as trust beneficiary rights, and can be converted in line with the purpose of the trust. • Conversion in quality (the property can be converted to beneficiary rights (securitization)) • Conversion in number (small amounts of money can be gathered into a large amount and managed together) • Conversion in time (property can be donated in fixed amounts at fixed intervals even after one’s death) • Conversion of skill (management can be delegated to a specialist) 96 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report What is a Trust? 3. Range of Trust Bank Operations A trust bank is a bank that engages in both banking business and trust business. Trust banks are banks under the Banking Act that are granted permission based on the Act on Engagement in Trust Business Activities by Overview Financial Institutions* to also conduct trust business. *Act on Engagement in Trust Business Activities by Financial Institutions, Article 1, Paragraph 1 (excerpt) A bank or any other financial institution may, notwithstanding the provisions of other Acts, engage in trust business activities as defined in Article 2, paragraph (1) of the Trust Business Act and the following business activities with the authorization of the Prime Minister. Trust business (broad definition) Banking business Trust business (narrow definition) Concurrent business • Deposit business • Pension trust business • Real estate-related business • Lending business • Securities trust business (brokerage, appraisal, etc.) • Foreign exchange business (entrustment of • Stock transfer agency business investment trusts, etc.) (administration of • Associated businesses shareholder registry, etc.) (Trading in securities, • Asset securitization business derivatives transactions, etc.) (monetary claim, real estate, etc.) • Inheritance-related business Vision • Other operations (execution of wills, • Other operations estate settlement, etc.) • Other operations Operations related to Provision of various services for Ordinary banking operations underwriting of trusts administration, etc. of assets Main Trust Products, etc. • Examples of products Asset management • Investment trusts Business Strategy • Pension trusts Guardianship System Support Trust • Money trusts The Guardianship System Support Trust is a trust designed to protect the assets of the ward and contribute to the stability of his or and administration her living into the future. The money placed in trust is paid out as a specified sum paid regularly to the ward, under a special provision established in accordance with a written instruction of the family court. A request for releasing lump sum payments of money entrusted will not be accepted, except in cases where such request is made based on a written instruction of the family court. Submission of an application form, etc. Money entrusted Ward of adult guardianship (trustor and beneficiary) Designated money trust with Asset inheritance • Will trusts, estate settlement Management Related guardian/professional guardian special provision attached • Family Consideration Trust (legal representative) of money • Tuition Fund Money disbursed according to and transfer Report Instructions written instructions of Management Foundation Endowment Trust family court • Marriage and Child-rearing Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Family court (trustee) Support Trust Discretionary Guardianship System Support Trust Financial solutions • Securitization trusts Discretionary guardianship system support trust is a trust designed to support the discretionary guardian system by managing (monetary claim, real estate) property of the system’s users in trust. After the discretionary guardian contract has taken effect, the supervisor of the discretionary guardian must consent in cases where the discretionary guardian undertakes procedures for releasing funds from money trusts. As a result, the system works to safely and reliably protect the system’s users. In addition, the system’s users can regularly release funds for corporations from money trusts necessary for everyday living expenses and other purposes. The discretionary guardianship system support trust thus reduces the burden of property management born by the discretionary guardian. Customer Discretionary guardian Wish to use (user) (discretionary guardian nominee) Wish the related discretionary parties entrust the Corporate Information guardianship system guardianship with a • Charitable trusts Public interest and with a sense of sense of security. security. • Designated donation trusts Discretionary guardian contract Wish to • Special donation trusts Wish to receive the Wish to manage have a system to Wish to manage amount necessary receive the amount several bank • Guardianship system welfare promotion property on my own for everyday living necessary for monthly accounts while I am healthy. support trust on a regular basis. living expenses on a regular basis. collectively. • Discretionary guardianship system support trust * Besides the above, we also provide various financial services, including provision of a special bank account in the name of the trustee, for private trusts designed to manage property among relatives. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 97 Financial Review Terms with an asterisk are explained in “Glossary” on page 99. In the consolidated financial results for fiscal year 2017, net business profit before credit costs increased by ¥38.1 billion year on year to ¥270.5 billion, due to an increase in gross business profit, resulting mainly from non-recurrence of the previous fiscal year’s fall in marketrelated profit in SuMi TRUST Bank. Net income attributable to owners of the parent increased by ¥32.5 billion from the previous fiscal year to ¥153.9 billion. Both net business profit before credit costs and net income attributable to owners of the parent achieved the full-year plan and progressed smoothly (the plan achievement rate: 104% for net business profit before credit costs and 103% for net income attributable to owners of the parent). • Overview of the Financial Results in FY2017 <Consolidated> SuMi TRUST Holdings (Consolidated) Billions of Yen (Unless specified otherwise) FY2017 (A) FY2016 (B) Change (A)–(B) Rate of change Net Business Profit before Credit Costs* 270.5 232.3 38.1 16.4% Ordinary Profit 232.6 196.3 36.2 18.5% Net Income Attributable to Owners of the Parent 153.9 121.4 32.5 26.8% Total Credit Costs* 2.9 (28.5) 31.5 — Return on Equity 7.40% 6.07% 1.33% — Net Income per Common Shares (EPS) (Yen)* 403.92 317.24 86.68 27.3% Net Assets per Common Shares (BPS) (Yen)* 6,897.36 6,437.58 459.78 7.1% * SuMi TRUST Holdings implemented a share consolidation as of October 1, 2016 where one share was exchanged for each ten shares of common stock owned. The above EPS and BPS figures were calculated on the assumption the aforementioned share consolidation was carried out on April 1, 2016, the start of fiscal year 2016. <Non-consolidated> SuMi TRUST Bank (Non-consolidated) Billions of Yen (Unless specified otherwise) FY2017 (A) FY2016 (B) Change (A)–(B) Rate of change Net Business Profit before Credit Costs* 189.7 150.5 39.2 26.0% Net Interest Income and Related Profit* 176.5 216.7 (40.1) (18.5%) Net Fees and Commissions and Related Profit* 190.2 196.9 (6.6) (3.4%) Net Trading Profit 10.4 17.0 (6.6) (38.8%) Net Other Operating Profit 49.5 (47.3) 96.9 — General and Administrative Expenses (237.0) (232.7) (4.3) 1.8% Net Non-recurring Profit, etc. (16.7) (33.2) 16.4 (49.5%) Ordinary Profit 172.9 117.3 55.6 47.4% Extraordinary Profit (8.3) (5.9) (2.3) 38.9% Net Income 117.9 77.6 40.3 51.9% Total Credit Costs* 7.0 (24.9) 31.9 — (Note) Amounts less than ¥100 million are rounded down. <Dividends> FY2017 (A) FY2016 (B) Change (A)–(B) Dividend per Share on Common Share (Yen) 130.00 130.00 — (Note) SuMi TRUST Holdings implemented a share consolidation as of October 1, 2016 where one share was exchanged for each ten shares of common stock owned. The dividend per share (DPS) above was calculated on the assumption the aforementioned share consolidation was carried out on April 1, 2016, the start of fiscal year 2016. 98 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Financial Review Terms with an asterisk are explained in “Glossary” below. Status of Profit and Loss • Net Business Profit before Credit Costs* • Net Interest Income and Related Profit* Overview (Billions of Yen) (Billions of Yen) 400.0 300.0 257.6 318.3 246.8 300.0 223.9 216.7 270.5 208.2 249.1 200.0 232.3 176.5 200.0 189.7 150.5 100.0 100.0 0 0 Vision 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal Year) 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal Year) Non-consolidated Consolidated Non-consolidated Consolidated Net business profit before credit costs increased by ¥38.1 billion Although domestic loan-deposit income improved, net interest from the previous fiscal year to ¥270.5 billion, primarily due to a nonincome and related profit fell by ¥38.6 billion year on year to ¥208.2 bilrecurrence of the fall in market-related income in fiscal year 2016 in lion, due to a non-recurrence of profit from unwinding of asset swaps SuMi TRUST Bank. (hedge accounting), which was a temporary factor in fiscal year 2016. • Net Fees and Commissions and Related Profit* • Net Income Attributable to Owners of the Parent Business Strategy (Billions of Yen) (Billions of Yen) 400.0 408.3 405.4 200.0 381.5 166.9 153.9 300.0 150.0 143.1 121.4 117.9 200.0 199.9 196.9 190.2 100.0 77.6 100.0 50.0 Management Foundation 0 0 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal Year) 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal Year) Non-consolidated Consolidated Non-consolidated Consolidated While real estate brokerage fees and revenue from asset manageNet income attributable to owners of the parent increased by ¥32.5 ment and administration grew steadily from the previous fiscal year, net billion year on year to ¥153.9 billion, mainly due to the increase in net fees and commissions and related profit decreased by ¥2.8 billion year business profit before credit costs, indicating the steady progress of the on year to ¥405.4 billion, due to a non-recurrence of an inheritancemidterm management plan, exceeding the planned target of ¥150.0 bilrelated temporary factor in the previous fiscal year. lion in its first year. Glossary Net Business Profit before Credit Costs Corporate Information Substantial profit of a bank’s core businesses, calculated by eliminating the effects of non-recurring factors, such as total credit costs and net gains on stock from ordinary profit. Total Credit Costs Costs incurred in posting allowances for losses on loans and writing off loans. Net Interest Income and Related Profit Net revenues after subtracting interest paid on deposits, etc., from revenues on loans and securities investment. Net Fees and Commissions and Related Profit Net profit of the sales fees of investment trusts, real estate brokerage fees, and trust fees for assets under management, etc. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 99 Financial Review Terms with an asterisk are explained in “Glossary” below. Financial Status • Loans and Deposits (Non-consolidated) • Problem Assets Based on the Financial Reconstruction Act* (Non-consolidated) 40 (Trillions of Yen) 150.0 (Billions of Yen) (%) 3.0 33.4 32.9 34.4 30 28.2 28.2 27.1 100.0 2.0 90.1 20 71.2 56.7 50.0 1.0 10 0.3 0.2 0 0 0.2 0 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Loans Deposits, Trust Principal Problem Assets Based on the Financial Reconstruction Act (Left) Ratio to Total Loan Balance (Right) Loans and bills discounted amounted to ¥28.2 trillion, unchanged The total balance of problem assets based on the Financial Reconstruction from the end of the previous fiscal year, due to a steady increase in Act decreased by ¥14.5 billion from the end of the previous fiscal year to ¥56.7 loans to individuals in Japan, despite a decrease in loans overseas. billion, despite an increase in loans in bankrupt and practically bankrupt, due Deposits, etc.,* increased by ¥1.5 trillion from the end of the previous to a decrease in doubtful loans and substandard loans. As a result, the ratio to fiscal year to ¥34.4 trillion, as the decrease in time deposits was more total loan balance was at 0.2%, unchanged from the end of the previous fiscal than offset by the increase in liquid deposits and trust principal. year. As for the ratio of problem assets covered by collateral and the allow* Deposits, etc., include the principal guaranteed trust account (loan trusts and jointly ance for loan losses, the coverage ratio came to 92% for doubtful loans and operated money trusts), but exclude negotiable certificates of deposit. 97% for substandard loans, indicating that a sufficient level was secured. • Capital Adequacy Ratio, etc.* (Consolidated) Glossary 20 (%) Problem Assets Based on the Financial Reconstruction Act Assets for which disclosure is required by the Financial Reconstruction Act, and which are classified as follows. These are 16.42 16.31 generally used in referring to “non-performing loans.” 15 13.54 13.74 Bankrupt and Practically Bankrupt 11.04 11.33 Minimum Assets to debtors who are legally bankrupt (due to bankruptcy, 10 Capital corporate reorganization or rehabilitation proceedings, etc.), or Minimum Capital Requirements virtually bankrupt. Minimum 10.25 Capital Requirements Requirements 8.25 Doubtful 5 6.75 Assets to debtors who are not legally bankrupt, but whose financial conditions and business results have deteriorated, with a high likelihood that the lender will not be able to collect the principal or receive interest in accordance with the contract. 0 Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Total Capital Ratio Substandard Tier 1 Capital Ratio Ratio Assets more than three months past due and assets whose terms March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 have been modified to support debtors through such means as interest reductions or exemptions. The Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio increased by 0.29 percentCapital Adequacy Ratio, etc. age points from the end of the previous fiscal year to 11.33%, despite an Basel III* defines the composition of capital in three steps: Common increase in risk-weighted assets, due to accumulation of net income. As a Equity Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 capital and total capital. The ratios result, the Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio, the Tier 1 capital ratio, and obtained by dividing them by risk-weighted assets refer to Common the total capital ratio remained well above regulatory required levels. Equity Tier 1 ratio, Tier 1 ratio and total capital ratio, respectively. Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Common Equity Tier 1 capital is composed of core capital, consisting primarily of the capital stock, capital surplus and retained earnings. * Basel III: Basel III is a new capital regulatory standard that was announced by the Basel  Tier 1 Capital Committee on Banking Supervision in December 2010. Basel III, intended to Tier 1 capital is composed of Common Equity Tier 1 plus enhance the soundness of internationally active banks, has been adopted in Additional Tier 1 capital, which includes preferred shares, etc. Japan as of the end of March 2013 in a phased manner. Basel III newly defines “Common Equity Tier 1,” which is comprised of capital components that can be  Total Capital used to cover unexpected losses and do not need to be repaid, such as common equity and retained earnings, and requires that the ratio of those capital Total capital is the total amount of capital, composed of Tier 1 components to risk-weighted assets, such as investments and loans, (“Common capital and Tier 2 capital, which includes debt capital such as subEquity Tier 1 ratio”) must be kept higher than a prescribed level. ordinated debt and subordinated loans. 100 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report Corporate Information (as of March 31, 2018) Registered Trade Name: Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. Headquarters Location: 1-4-1 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8233, Japan Date of Establishment: February 1, 2002 (Change of trade name: April 1, 2011) Main Business: With trust banking at its core, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc., will focus on the management of business operations, as the holding company of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group, and sets the following (1) (6) as its key functions: (1) Formulating group management strategy Overview (2) Monitoring administration of business activities (3) Allocation of management resources (4) Supervising risk management (5) Supervising compliance management (6) Managing internal auditing Capital: 261,608,725,000 Yen Stock Exchange Listings: Tokyo, Nagoya Stock Exchanges Tokyo (1st Section), Nagoya (1st Section) Securities Code: 8309 Vision Rating Information (as of June 30, 2018) Long-term Outlook Short-term Financial JCR AAStable — — Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings R&I A Stable — — S&P A Stable A-1 — Moody’s A1 Stable P-1 — Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Fitch AStable F1 a-* Business Strategy JCR AAStable — — R&I A+ Stable a-1 — * Viability Rating Website Please go to our website for specifics on our Group. Management Foundation About The Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group IR Library Sustainability https://www.smth.jp/en/about_us/index.html https://www.smth.jp/en/ir/index.html in The Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group Corporate Information https://www.smth.jp/en/csr/index.html Contact: IR Department Telephone: +81 (3) 3286-8354 Facsimile: +81 (3) 3286-4654 e-mail: ir@smth.jp URL: https://www.smth.jp/en/ir/index.html Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 101 This integrated report was printed with vegetable-based ink on FSC-certified paper.
