UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS AARHUS KØBENHAVN OSLO Mariane Thomsens Gade 1 Njalsgade 17a Bryggegata 7 DK 8000 Aarhus C DK 2300 Kbh. S NO 0250 Oslo +45 8730 3286 +45 8730 3286 +47 2310 3900 aart@aart.dk aart@aart.dk aart@aart.dk TABLE OF CONTENTS 4 AART architects 4 Opportunity makers 7 Global Compact 7 Transparency 8 Sustainia Living 10 Documenting the social Impact of architecture 12 Impact through architecture 14 People, planet and profit 17 Projects with perspectives AART ARCHITECTS AART architects is an award-winning architectural firm with Danish roots and Nordic reach. From our offices in Aarhus, Copenhagen and Oslo we provide highly specialised advice on architecture of every conceivable scale, from buildings and public spaces to entire master plans – always based on close dialogue with developers, users and business associates. OPPORTUNITY MAKERS We strongly believe that architecture is all about exploring, challenging and developing the environment we all share, so it can provide us with the opportunity to live healthier, smarter and more connected lives. This is the essence of everything we do. We, thus, make a virtue of exploring how contemporary life constantly evolves and changes – always with a view on combining the unexpected and spotting the unseen opportunities that deliver beyond people’s expectations. So, rather than being architects, we work as opportunity makers across traditional disciplines. We keep challenging everything we know and shape this insight into architectural solutions that provide people with the opportunities to live healthier, smarter and more connected lives. Torben Skovbjerg Larsen Partner / CEO 4 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT 5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT 6 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT GLOBAL COMPACT In our desire to provide people with the people with the opportunities to live healthier, smarter and more connected lives, we have joined the UN Global Compact, which is the largest voluntary corporate social responsibility initiative in the world. As a member, we are proud to commit our strategies and operations with the UN principles in the areas of human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption. By doing this and promoting the principles within our sphere of influence, we take part in improving the quality of life and the health of the environment. In this Communication on Progress report, we express our continuing commitment to supporting advances in the building industry in ways that benefit everyday life, the economy and the environment. The purpose of this report is thus to give our stakeholders and the wider community an insight into how we promote and have implemented corporate social responsibility in our core business. Torben Skovbjerg Larsen Partner / CEO TRANSPARENCY We joined the UN Global Compact in 2008 to be part of the partnership between the UN with the objective of promoting transparency and social commitment in the global business community. This is our sixth Communication on Progress report in which we commit ourselves to all four areas of the Global Compact: Human Rights, Labour Rights, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Our Communication on Progress report 2016 is uploaded to the website of the UN Global Compact. It will also be available on our own website, just like it will be a natural part of how we present our company. We attach great importance to communicate our sustainable ambitions to all our stakeholders – employees, developers, business associates and the wider building industry. 7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT SUSTAINIA LIVING We are proud to be one of the leading partners and lifestyle pioneers in Sustainia Living: a global movement whose mission is to turn Denmark into a global lab exploring how a nation can turn the 17 UN Global Sustainable Development Goals into a new model for the world of tomorrow and of how sustainability can reinvent what competitiveness is all about. Sustainia Living was launched the 8th of February 2017 in the Royal Danish Opera House. At the launch, we and other lifestyle pioneers shared our stories of how sustainable innovations create new opportunities and Royal Danish Opera House business ventures. These stories all have one thing in Sustainia Living / 8th of February common: they highlight how some of the biggest global risks can be turned into sustainable lifestyle opportunities. 8 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT SUSTAINIA Architecture can provide new perspectives on how to build better lives and make the UN Sustainable Development Goals relevant for the average consumer, according to Anders Tyrrestrup, partner and CIO. — What does commitment to sustainability mean to AART architects, and how does it create value? Anders Tyrrestrup Sustainability is more than just a commitment, it Partner / CIO is an integral part of our business, as we strongly believe buildings and public spaces should pro— Towards 2030 what will be the biggest vide people with the opportunities to live healthsustainability challenges for AART architects ier and more sustainable lives. This is at the heart and the sector you operate in? of everything we do. We work with architecture to provide new perspectives on how to build betDeveloping 360-degree sustainable solutions ter lives – all with a focus on showing that buildand documenting their impact is our main goal – ings and public spaces can benefit the young and and an ongoing key challenge. We continuously elderly alike, while at the same time reducing our strive to make sustainability attractive and accesenvironmental impact. Thus, we want to show sible for everyone, from our clients or the actual that sustainability is not about making comprousers of our buildings and public spaces, and to mises; it's about enriching people's lives. This is succeed with this we must constantly strive to how we create value for our stakeholders and develop projects that bring together the “hard” society in general. economic values with the “soft” social and environmental values. — How can AART architects help the 17 Sustainable Development Goals to become — How can Denmark become the global “a people’s agenda”? frontrunner in sustainable quality of life and lifestyle products? Many take for granted the impact architecture has in our lives – but, in reality, nearly every moFor many years, Denmark has been known as ment of every day is influenced by it. We are an innovation leader within several industries constantly inside and surrounded by buildings. that have a significant sustainable impact. HowAlongside this, we should consider that buildings ever, ongoing globalization and digitalization account for about 40% of the energy used globcontinue to disrupt many traditional industries. ally. Thus, architecture offers a unique opportuThus, to stay in front, Denmark must promote nity to help the Sustainable Development Goals new kinds of partnerships and new ways of become relevant for the average consumer. sharing knowledge – and Sustainia Living is an Architecture is all about setting the stage for our excellent example of how to transcend tradilives. It is about building the world we want to tional barriers and give like-minded partners a see for ourselves and for our children – socially, common setting for exploring the sustainable sustainably, and aesthetically. opportunities of tomorrow. 9 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT DOCUMENTING THE SOCIAL IMPACT OF ARCHITECTURE Our work with architecture goes far beyond designing buildings. For us, it is equally important to document the impact we make through our architecture. We, therefore, visit our completed buildings. We do this in collaboration with anthropologists and organisation analysts, among others from the Danish Alexandra Institute, who over the years have documented our work. With projects such as Musholm, we have strengthened the quality of life for people with disabilities. The Culture Yard revitalised Helsingør's waterfront and VUC Syd gives unskilled young adults a chance to get back into education. Common to all these projects is how we have created opportunities with added value – both socially and economically. 0 02 On-site 01 On-line research We gather insights fro We gather quantitative Vision meeting insights from various sources We identify the essential goal of the project 10 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT Musholm The Culture Yard Korsør / Denmark Elsinore / Denmark 05 04 Story telling 3 Insight matching We unify our insights into a productive narrative We study and compare survey our insigths qualitative m the users Togther with the Danish Alexandra Institute and subsided by the Danish Agency for Science and Higher Education, we have developed a method for documenting the impact of our projects. Based on this methodical foundation, we revisit of completed projects. 11 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT IMPACT THROUGH ARCHITECTURE CASE / BACK INTO EDUCATION The idea behind the design of the education centre for VUC Syd in Haderslev, Denmark, was to provide unskilled young adults with the courage, desire and skills to further their education. By challenging the traditional notion of a school, the ambition was to give VUC Syd the best possible setting for giving young adults a new and far more positive approach to learning – all with the focus on creating value for each individual and society in a broader sense. 12 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT “We expected good results, but it has really surprised us that they are this amazing.” This quote is from a Danish Broadcasting Corporation Even more impressive is that the number of students (DR) news feature in which the VUC Syd developwho, after final exams, go on to university or the like ment manager, Vinnie Lerche, talks about the eduhas increased by no less than 200 per cent. This corcation centre’s success – a success that has captured responds to an extra 1,000+ young people – and if the the interest of both Danish and international media, education centre moves just 30 per cent of them from as the figures tell their own tale. Since its opening, social security to employment, society gains 62 million the education centre has increased its number of Danish kroner. Not to forget the renewed quality of life students by 53 per cent, while the dropout rate is it gives each individual young person. This increased significantly reduced. value creation and renewed quality of life is an example of how to drive change and create impact through architecture – for people and society in general. DOCUMENTATION Imagine if VUC Syd moves just 30 per cent of the increased 62m number of students from social DKK security to employment, then society gains 62 million Danish kroner each year. The figures are based partly on surveys of the Danish Economic Council of the Labour Movement and partly on studies conducted by VUC Syd and AART architects together with the Danish Alexandra Institute, focusing on documenting the extent to which new teaching methods and innovative learning settings affect students’ well-being, ability to learn and desire to embrace further education. 13 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT PEOPLE, PLANET AND PROFIT We support all four areas of the UN Global Compact: Human Rights, Labour Rights, Environment and Anti-Corruption. However, we have interpreted these four areas and combined them into the triple bottom line: People, Planet and Profit. The first (People) includes Human Rights and Labour Rights and focuses on our socially responsible approach to developing buildings and public spaces. The second (Planet) includes Environment and focuses on our environmentally approach, while the third (Profit) includes Anti-Corruption and focuses on our aim to lead the development of a more transparent and economically sustainable building industry. PEOPLE We believe that buildings and public spaces should empower people to live healthier, smarter Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect and more connected lives. Therefore, we support the protection of internationally prothe UN universal principles concerning human claimed human rights. and labour rights. Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective rec-ognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our design for the holiday centre Musholm received the 2016 IAUD Award, acknowledging the world's most socially sustainable places. 14 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT PLANET We believe that buildings and public spaces should have a positive impact on the environPrinciple 7 Businesses should support a precaument. The environment is the field where we as tionary approach to environmental architects can make the greatest difference, since challenges. the energy consumption of buildings is responsible for 40 percent of global energy consumption. Principle 8 Therefore, we support the UN universal principles Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental concerning the environment. responsibility. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our winning proposal for the new Aarhsus University Campus shows how adaptive reuse can reduce the material consumption in architetcure. PROFIT We believe that investments and enterprises should be powerful forces for good. Therefore, Principle 10 Businesses should work against corwe support the UN Convention Against Corruption in all its forms, including extorruption and its universal principle concerning tion and bribery. anti-corruption, just like an open and respectful relationship to developers, business associates and the wider community is at the heart of everything we do. We provide architectural advice on how businesses can be financially successful while creating social impact. 15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT THE WATERFRONT / STAVANGER CAMPUS FOR AARHUS UNIVERSITY / AARHUS THE CULTURE YARD / HELSINGØR VUC SYD / HADERSLEV HINDSGAVL NATURE CENTER / MIDDELFART OLD BERGEN MUSEUM / BERGEN MUSHOLM / KORSØR INSPIRIA SCIENCE CENTER / GRAALUM HOME FOR LIFE / AARHUS THE WAREHOUSES / AARHUS VIKING AGE MUSEUM/ OSLO NICOLINEHUS / AARHUS PROJECTS WITH PERSPECTIVES On the following pages, we have gathered some of our latest projects that encapsulate our sustainable ambitions in their very own ways – ranging from a terraced building landscape in the new port district of Aarhus, Denmark, to a new national rowing stadium at Bagsværd Lake, Denmark. 17 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT ON THE DRAWING BOARD DENMARK’S ROWING STADIUM Denmark’s Rowing Stadium at Bagsværd Lake will fulfil the vision of creating a rowing stadium in an international league of its own. Here, in a location poised between the lake and the forest, the sporting elite will meet the broader public, and the classic discipline of rowing will interact with other forms of sport. The rowing stadium is a major milestone in a FACTS shared and long-held desire for new, unique LOCATION Bagsværd / Denmark facilities that cater for both grassroots and SIZE 110,000 m² elite sporting environments here on Bagsværd STATUS 2017 / Winning proposal Lake. It is a wonderful project that reaches out DEVELOPER Fonden Danmarks Rostadion to the entire capital region. ARCHITECT AART architects LANDSCAPE LIW Planning Frank Jensen / Lord Mayor of Copenhagen and Chairman of Team Denmark 20 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT VRÅ PUBLIC SCHOOL Vrå Public School provides new perspectives on how to stimulate children's ability and desire to learn. This is done by combining learning and landscape so that children can play and learn in a complete ecosystem that changes over time – during the day and year and over time. The winning proposal is based on a FACTS groundbreaking concept where the forest LOCATION Hjørring / Denmark becomes the school. It is sustainable SIZE 10,000 m² in every aspect and implements STATUS 2017 / Winning proposal sustainability completely into the DEVELOPER Hjørring Municipality / Idrætscenter Vendsyssel pedagogical use of the school. ARCHITECTS AART architects JAJA Arhcitects Excerpt from the jury report 21 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT THE UNIVERSITY TOWN The development plan paves the way for new prospects, which will transform Aarhus Municipal Hospital into a new campus for Aarhus University named the University Town. With the new campus Aarhus University will interact with urban life and the local business community in brand-new ways. In architectural terms, the new University FACTS Town will come across as one of Denmark’s LOCATION Aahus / Denmark most significant urban areas. SIZE 110,000 m² Tom Nielsen / STATUS 2017 / Winning proposal Professor at Aarhus School of Architecture DEVELOPER FEAS ARCHITECT AART architects LANDSCAPE Møller & Grønborg 22 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT NICOLINEHUS Nicolinehus is a mixed-use development in the heart of the new port district in Aarhus, shaped by the pulse of the city centre and merging with life on the waterfront. It mixes conventional ingredients such as living, leisure, working, parking and shopping, all with a view to injecting life into the new port district. It is astounding. In all my 20 years in the FACTS industry I have never seen anything like it. LOCATION Aahus / Denmark The reason that several hundred people SIZE 40,000 m² have already signed up for a freehold flat is STATUS 2016 / Winning proposal their interest in Nicolinehus’ unique location, DEVELOPER Bricks inspiring architecture and quality materials. ARCHITECT AART architects LANDSCAPE Schønherr Martin Busk / CEO and co-owner of Bricks 23 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT AWARD-WINNING PROJECTS THE WAREHOUSES The Warehouses are a new and unusual residential-cum-commercial development on Aarhus Island. It is based on the concept of community and created to buzz with life from early morning until late evening, seven days a week. We have now taken over the first stage of the FACTS office building of the future in the shape of LOCATION Aarhus / Denmark the Warehouses. With this type of high quality SIZE 35,000 m² building, we will enhance the profile of Aarhus STATUS 2016 / First phase completed as a commercial city, while pension-savers will DEVELOPER Kilden & Hindby / Domis / PFA get a good return. ARCHITECTS AART architects AWARD DGNB Gold Certification Michael Bruhn / CEO of PFA Properties 26 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT THE SCHOOL AT DUEVEJ The extension of the School at Duevej meets Frederiksberg Municipality’s ambitions to create a public school that will be an asset not only for the pupils but the whole community. Thus, the extension adds new features and experiences to the school based on the idea of creating a close interaction with local associations and leisure activities. FACTS LOCATION Frederiksberg / Denmark SIZE 1,150 m² STATUS 2016 / Completed DEVELOPER Frederiksberg Municipality ARCHITECTS AART architects AWARDS DGNB Certification 27 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT MUSHOLM The new and extended Musholm challenges the traditional notion of accessible architecture with a view to becoming the preferred sports and holiday resort for people with any type of handicap – both in Denmark and abroad. This amazing place shows clearly that FACTS there is no problem in making handicap LOCATION Korsør / Denmark friendly buildings that are beautiful. SIZE 3,200 m² You simply long to be here. STATUS 2015 / Completed DEVELOPER The Musholm Foundation Mette Bock / ARCHITECTS AART architects Danish Minister of Culture AWARD IUAD Award / IOC Award / IPC Award 28 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT INSPIRIA SCIENCE CENTER Inspiria Science Center combines learning and architecture into an eventful venue with a high educative value. Designed with school children in mind, the venue inspires and educates through 70 interactive exhibitions. It is impressive, what Inspiria Science Center FACTS has accomplished. LOCATION Graalum / Norway Jens Stoltenberg SIZE 7,000 m² / Former Prime Minister of Norway STATUS 2011 / Completed DEVELOPER Inspiria Eiendom ARCHITECTS AART architects AWARDS Iconic Award / Prime Property Award / Arnstein Arneberg Award / Østfold Universal Design Award 29 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT PHOTO CREDITS Adam Mørk André Helene Høyer Mikkelsen Jens Markus Lindhe Kirstine Mengel Torben Eskerod
