ANNUAL REPORT 2017 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 2 CONTENTS 2 About this report 93 Governance 94 Corporate governance statement 2017 in brief 106 Risk management and major risks 3 CEO’s Review 111 Remuneration statement 5 2017 Highlights 118 Board of Directors 119 Executive board 7 Strategy 120 Information for the shareholders 8 About Finnair 9 Operational environment 122 Sustainability 10 Megatrends impacting Finnair 123 Materiality analysis 11 Value creation and strategy 125 Reporting principles 17 Stakeholder engagement 127 Management principles 18 Commitment to Sustainable 133 Economic responsibility development 136 Social responsibility 20 Key Performance Indicators 146 Environmental responsibility About this report and value creation, as well as a review of stakeholder 155 Global Compact content index This report’s intended audience consists of shareholders, e­ ngagement and megatrends. In addition, the Annual 21 Finance 156 GRI G4 content index investors, analysts, media, customers, employees, other Report includes a tax footprint statement. The sustainabi22 Key figures 160 Independent Practitioners’ interested stakeholders and the general public. Finnair lity section describes Finnair’s management principles and 24 Report of the Board of Directors Limited Assurance Report Group’s core business consists of the airline business. The its materiality analysis process, and the resulting reporting purpose of the Annual Report, including its sustainability aspects, indicators and data in more detail. 37 Financial Statements 85 Calculation of key ratios 161 Contact information section prepared under the GRI G4 reporting framework, 86 Board of Directors’ is to account for the company’s financial, economic, social Finnair has made efforts to facilitate reading its financial and environmental impacts, and to explain their strategic proposal on the dividend statements and to clarify the overall picture that can be ­business significance. 87 Auditor’s report derived from them. 91 Tax footprint • The notes of Finnair’s financial statements have been Finnair considers sustainability a critical and strategic combined to business related sections. Each section aspect of business performance. Thus, sustainability reporsets out the accounting principles applied in producing ting is an integral part of its annual reporting framework. these notes together with any critical accounting estiThe report describes Finnair’s material activities in 2017 mates and sources of uncertainty. across all its units. Non-financial reporting required by The • Interesting figures have been highlighted by circling Finnish Accounting Act for the first time for the year 2017 them, and these as well as other highlights are is included in the Report of the Board of Directors in the explained in a text box marked with a star. Finance section of this Annual Report. • Illustrating charts have been inserted in various sections of the financial statements so as to facilitate The Annual Report contains highlights in Finnair’s business understanding the figures. units in 2017, a statement by the CEO, a section on s­ trategy FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 3 CEO’S REVIEW 2017 was an excellent year for Finnair. We succeeded in accelerating growth while improving our result. The turnaround we have achieved in our operations we have succeeded in developing our products and and financial performance is a shared accomplishservices in the right way. Additional revenue, cargo and ment by everyone at Finnair. For this, I wish to thank travel services all saw significant growth. I am especially our personnel who have made an excellent contribution delighted by how Aurinkomatkat Suntours was able to during this period of growth and transformation and improve its operations during the past couple of years, also during the past hard times. There are one thousand transforming into the largest tour operator in Finland more people working at Finnair now than at the beginwhen measured by number of passengers. The recovery ning of 2017. I also wish to thank our customers for their in demand for cargo services was also visible as load continuing trust and support. factors and cargo unit revenue both improved. Our COOL Nordic Cargo terminal, which is partly using own solar The overall favourable market environment in 2017 power, was opened at the end of the year, giving us the supported our growth. Also well-timed increases in possibility to increase cargo volumes and the handling of capacity, the right decisions concerning routes and the special cargo. growth in air travel demand all positively contributed to our passenger traffic. Measured by passenger numbers In 2017, we focused on digitalisation. We have built a and increases in capacity, we were able to outgrow our strong digitalisation team and we have made a good competition in Asian traffic and increase our market start in the transformation of our business. New technoshare. Competition remained intense on routes to logies and digital transformation offer us wonderful new Europe and North America. We opened five new longopportunities to develop our customer service, to make haul routes in 2017 and added flights to many Asian our operations more efficient and to transform the way and European destinations. Finland is experiencing we work for the better. However, we have just scratched significant growth in tourism, which is why we strongly the surface here. I strongly believe that in the future, increased the number of flights to Lapland. Lapland digitalisation will provide us with completely new busiwill remain the number one destination for our Asian ness opportunities. passengers in the winter of 2018, as it was in 2017. NEW TECHNOLOGIES OFFER US WONDERFUL We also continued the modernisation of our fleet and we Despite the growth in capacity, it was extremely pleasing now have eleven A350 aircraft. The A350 aircraft have NEW OPPORTUNITIES TO DEVELOP OUR that our aircraft were full throughout the year. Record proven to be reliable and have been very well received CUSTOMER SERVICE, TO MAKE OUR passenger numbers, an increase in the passenger load by customers. They have also contributed to an increase factor and improvement in the Net Promoter Score, in fuel efficiency as expected: fuel consumption per OPERATIONS MORE EFFICIENT AND which indicates customer satisfaction, all tell us that available seat kilometre was reduced by 3.2 per cent TO TRANSFORM THE WAY WE WORK. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 4 THIS TRANSFORMATION HAS ALLOWED PROFITABLE GROWTH TO REALLY TAKE OFF AND WE PLAN TO CONTINUE IN THE SAME WAY. ABOVE ALL, GROWTH IS GENERATED FROM OUR CORE BUSINESS, BUT WE ARE ALSO LOOKING FOR NEW AVENUES FOR GROWTH. last year, and consumption as well as CO2 emissions per remained strong despite major investments in our fleet. available tonne kilometre were reduced by as much as Our efforts could also be seen in the trust shown by 6.7 per cent. the stock market in our performance: our share price increased 218 per cent during 2017, and we reached In addition to reducing emissions, we also work actithe large companies class on the Nasdaq Helsinki stock vely in other fields of sustainability. Finnair is deeply exchange at the beginning of 2018. involved in the international work on sustainability in the aviation industry. Our industry has actively pursued This transformation has allowed profitable growth to the realisation of the goals for sustainable development really take off and we plan to continue in the same way. set by the UN and made use of these goals in supporAbove all, growth is generated from our core business, ting work in sustainable development. The Air Transport but we are also looking for new avenues for growth. Action Group (ATAG), which represents the whole field Last year, we introduced the Finnair Holidays product in of commercial aviation, published the Flying in FormaFinland and Sweden, and we are continuing the detertion report last year to clarify the importance of these mined development of new products. Interest in the sustainable development goals for our industry, and to Nordic Countries is a rising trend, which is why we are highlight how our industry can make it possible to reach making a strong effort to market the unique Nordic these goals. We were actively involved in the drafting of experience. I believe in the strong growth of air traffic this report because we believe that further cooperation and in the new business opportunities made possible by will help us reach our goals and support our committhe global travel ecosystem and digitalisation. ment to the UN’s Global Compact initiative.1 Our renewal and growth will continue, and at the beginWe have also been recognised for our work in sustainaning of 2018, at a faster pace than ever before. bility. You can read more about this work in the review by our Director of Corporate Sustainability and in the Sustainability section of this annual report. Pekka Vauramo President and CEO The excellent work done by everyone at Finnair was @pekkavau mirrored in the positive development of our finances last year. Our revenue grew by nearly 11 per cent to 2.6 billion euros. Our comparable result more than tripled, reaching 170 million euros, and our balance sheet 1 https://gcnordic.net/about-the-nordic-network/countries/finland/ FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 5 2017 HIGHLIGHTS New digital services taken in use Approximately one quarter of Finnair sales come through the company’s digital platform – company internet pages, mobile application and in-flight entertainment system – and Finnair continued to develop these platform. Finnair also took into use new digital services. On Finnair’s flights to and from China, Finnair took into use the popular Alipay mobile payment solution, and also started ticket sales in China through its WeChat account and enabled WePay payments. Finnair took into use a new SkyPay sales system for its inflight Record number of passengers sales, which makes it easier to pay purchases and Finnair increased its passenger numbers by over enables contactless payments. Finnair also took one million, and flew almost 12 million passeninto use ApplePay in its mobile application and on gers in 2017. In summer 2017, Finnair reached a its internet pages. Finnair made available mobile new record, when the number of daily passengers applica­tions for its aircraft maintenance emploincreased to over 40,000. Finnair also reached new yees, and decided to provide all Finnair employees monthly passenger records several times during with iPhones for their work. Growth continued the year. In line with Finnair’s strategy of accelerated growth, 2017 was a period of intense growth for the company. Finnair completed the first phase of its long-haul fleet renewal, when four new Airbus 350 aircraft joined the Over 1,000 new employees joined Finnair fleet during the year, increasing the number of A350s in Finnair’s fleet to eleven. Finnair also received Finnair seven new leased Airbus A321 aircraft. Finnair’s personnel increased by 1,080 employees during the year, when Finnair recruited new cabin crew members, pilots, digital professionals New routes and frequencies and other professionals to build the company’s Finnair opened new routes to Goa, Havanna, Puerto Plata, Puerto growth. In connection with the changes made in Vallarta, San Francisco and Reykjavik during the year, and added new Finnair’s catering, the staff of LSG Finland consisfrequencies to popular destinations such as Hong Kong and Tokyo, and ting of approximately 500 employees joined Finnair several European destinations. Finnair also announced it will open a Kitchen. route to Nanjing, its seventh destination in Greater China, in the spring In 2017, Finnair was rated as the most popular of 2018, and it will also launch year-round routes to Lisbon and Stutemployer by business students in Finland in a tgart. Finnair’s network now covers 19 destinations in Asia, seven in ranking published by Universum, a company North America and over 100 destinations in Europe. specialized in employee branding. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 6 Record year also in financial performance Awards for excellence Finnair’s comparable operating result more than tripled and reached Finnair received several awards during the year: Skytrax World Airline its all-time high at 170.4 million euros. Despite the investments in Awards named Finnair the Best Airline in Northern Europe for the growth, Finnair’s balance sheet remained strong and at year-end, the eighth year in a row, and the company was named the best European company had almost one billion euros in cash for future growth and airline in China for the second year in a row at the TTG China Travel investment. Good financial performance was reflected in the share Awards. Finnair received a rating of Four Star Global Airline in APEX price, that increased by 218 per cent during the year to 12.82 euros. (Airline Passenger Experience Association) airline evaluation, and Finnair was transferred to the Large Cap segment at the Nasdaq received a Future Travel Experience Ancillary Gold Award recognition Helsinki stock exchange at the beginning of 2018. for its ancillary services. Increasing customer loyalty Finnair continued to invest into its customer experience, with strong focus on excellent personal customer service, the best long-haul busi­ ness class, a competitive ancillary offering and reliable operations. The net promoter score for Finnair peaked at 52 during the year, and the NPS for the whole year was 47. Finnair updated its selection of ancillary services that enable customers to tailor their journey, renewed its lounges at Helsinki Airport and chose Fazer as its lounge partner, and showcased Finnish cuisine on its long-haul flights. Investing in people Recognition for sustainability Competent, committed and happy personnel build an excellent Finnair was recognized for its sustainability efforts. Aurinkomatkat-Suntours was again named Finland’s most customer experience, and Finnair invested into resourcing, leadership sustainable travel service company in the Sustainable Brands Index, which is the largest brand study focused development, and into developing ways of working and well-being. on sustainability and corporate responsibility in the Nordics. Finnair was also named “responsible company of The employee satisfaction index rose during the year. Finnair the year” by the Association of Finnish Travel Agents. invested 10 million euro into training, and training hours amounted The German ESG rating company oekom research AG confirmed its analysis of Finnair’s responsibility, and to 370,000. Investments in well-being were seen in lower sickness the ESG rating was affirmed as C+, the highest rating in its peer group. In CDP reporting (Carbon Disclosure absences and lower injury rates. In December, Finnair announced that it Project), that is closely followed by investors, Finnair scored B. Companies at level B are taking further steps will reward all its employees with an extra reward of up to 2,000 euros to effectively reduce emissions and thus indicating more advanced environmental stewardship. per employee for the company’s turnaround. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 7 STRATEGY Our roadmap towards a Unique Nordic Experience FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 8 ABOUT FINNAIR Finnair is a network airline that specialises in passenger Finnair as an investment Key revenue sources and split and cargo traffic between Asia and Europe. Finnair also Finnair has a stable position in the domestic market and offers package tours under its Aurinkomatkat-Suntours it is poised to benefit from expected growth in Asian 78.7% and Finnair Holidays brands. markets. Finnair aims at delivering value to its sharePassenger revenue holders by focusing on its core business and businesses Finnair’s vision is to offer its passengers a unique Nordic close to it, and by investing in its competitiveness and experience. Finnair’s mission is to offer the smoothest, growth. Its strategic focus areas are growth, customer 5.6% Ancillary and fastest connections in the northern hemisphere via experience, people experience and transformation. retail revenue Helsinki and the best network to the world from its home EUR 2,568.4 markets. Helsinki’s geographical location gives Finnair Finnair has a clear strategy for reaching its goals. The million (2017) 7.7% a competitive advantage, since the fastest connections foundation for the strategy is seen in the high quality of Cargo between many European destinations and Asian megaciits operations, Helsinki’s favourable geographic position, ties fly over Finland. growing focus markets, clear goals to increase revenue, modern fuel-efficient fleet as well as a strong balance 8.0% Finnair is the only Nordic network airline with a 4-star sheet. Travel services Skytrax ranking and a member of the oneworld alliance. In 2017, Finnair’s revenues amounted to EUR 2,568.4 million and it had personnel of over 5,900 at the year-end. Finnair shares are quoted on the Nasdaq Helsinki Stock Exchange. Finnair’s strategic goals: • To double its Asian traffic from the level of 2010 in 2018 • To nearly double its 2016 ancillary revenues by 2020 • 20 million passengers in 2030 MISSION Long-term financial goals: • Comparable operating profit of at least 6% of the turnover and comparable VISION UNIQUE THE SMOOTHEST AND FASTEST EBITDAR of at least 17% of the turnover over the cycle • Adjusted gearing rate of less than 175% • Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) at least 7% NORDIC CONNECTIONS EXPERIENCE IN THE NORTHERN HEMISPHERE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 9 OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENT EXTERNAL FACTORS The airline business is cyclical by nature and heavily With the growth of the industry, competitors have not influenced by external factors. Typically, revenues are just changed, but also multiplied. Finnair’s competitive INFLUENCING AIRLINES high during economic upswings and considerably lower landscape can be roughly divided into two parts; short during periods of economic downturn. For individual haul point-to-point traffic in Europe and long haul tranairlines, the yield also fluctuates on the basis of the sfer traffic between Asia and Europe. In short haul pointCHANGES IN CONSUMER PREFERENCES, holiday and business seasons. to-point traffic, airlines with the lowest cost structures EXPECTATIONS, PURCHASING PATTERNS typically have the strongest competitive positions, and AND DEMOGRAPHICS Airlines must make decisions on significant fleet competition is mainly driven by price. On the long haul investments years before price-and-quality conscious transfer traffic scene, the significance of a comprehentravellers make their purchase decisions. Aircraft delisive network, comfort of travel, customer service and PRICE OF GLOBAL very times may take years, which means that airlines smooth transfers is highlighted. Network and low-cost JET FUEL ECONOMIC CYCLES have to plan their business for the long term, often at carriers have started revising their operating models least 10 years ahead, especially in long-haul traffic. This with a convergence trend, which results in more compeincludes, among other things, a plan for future destinatition. tions and network, the type of aircraft required and the regulations they must comply with. It is often very diffiIntense competition has led to more consolidation, SEASONALITY EXCHANGE cult to foresee how the market will change between the alliances and joint ventures in the industry, with the aim IN LEISURE AND RATES order and delivery of an aircraft. of improving capacity discipline and profitability. Just BUSINESS TRAVEL as the role of alliances evolves, individual airlines also With the high competition, the low margins in the airline pursue cooperation opportunities outside their respecbusiness, high fixed costs and the high capital expenditive alliances to strengthen their positions. ture needed to operate an airline, it is crucial to optimise WEATHER, all aspects of business operations to succeed. It is also For more information on industry development, POLITICAL NATURAL DISASTERS, crucial to build resilience and flexibility for unexpected please visit: ENVIRONMENT PANDEMICS AND OTHER changes in the market environment. http://www.icao.int/ AND REGULATION EXTERNAL SHOCKS http://www.iata.org/ Competitive, growing industry https:www.airbus.com Based on ICAO statistics, revenue passenger kilometres have doubled every 15 years.1 Air travel is expected to continue to grow faster than the economy, 4.4 per cent per year globally for the next 20 years. A growing middle class supports the growth particularly in Asia. China is expected to surpass the United States by passenger volume as the world’s largest market during this period.2 1 https://www.icao.int/airnavigation/Documents/GANP-2016-interactive.pdf 2 http://www.airbus.com/aircraft/market/global-market-forecast.html FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 10 MEGATRENDS IMPACTING FINNAIR Shift in economic and political focus from online, and immediate feedback. Digitalisation is a Megatrend Impact on the industry and Finnair Our response the United States and Europe to developing natural part of companies’ operations, and it creates The shift in • Traffic between Asia and Europe grows •R  enewal of the new generation long-haul economic and • Intense competition continues fleet from 2015 onwards countries service development opportunities. Consumers want political power • Increased importance of understanding • New Asian destinations, additional flights The gradual shift in economic and political focus from and expect network connections everywhere they go. to Asia Asian markets • Increasing Finnair’s understanding of Asian markets the United States and Europe to developing countries, Social media spread news rapidly and require businesses Urbanisation • New markets are created • Good stakeholder relations and Asia in particular, is the strongest of the megatrends to react quickly. • Intensifying competition • Fastest route between Asia and Europe affecting the aviation industry. Asian corporations are Technological • Increasing significance of online services and • Developing online services becoming globalised and their significance on the world Airlines must anticipate changes, adapt to them and development network connections •D  eveloping inflight entertainment systems • New opportunities for serving customers • Developing the service experience market is growing. The middle class is growing rapidly in provide opportunities for buying, using services and •U  nique Nordic customer experience many Asian countries. sending feedback online. Consumers want network Sustainability • Increase in regulation and reporting • S ustainability is an integral part of the access before, during and after their flights. They requirements company’s strategy. • Increasing significance of open •M  ore environmentally friendly and efficient Asian travel will increase, and competition will intensify, increasingly want digital entertainment services during communication fleet and operations as Asian airlines expand their operations to interconflights. More advanced customer identification will also •M  onitoring the supply chain and collaboration in sustainability issues tinental flights. At the same time, airlines and governallow airlines to offer tailored services and a persona• E nsuring equality, accessibility and human ments will also have to negotiate for more traffic rights. lised customer experience. However, different groups rights in processes and product development •P  articipating in joint sustainability projects in Asian customers determine the expected standard of of customers must be taken into account in the digital the industry quality for service and products, and non-Asian airlines development, and the availability of services for •D  eveloping our reporting and stakeholder communications related to responsibility must increase their understanding of Asian culture and everyone must be ensured. customers. Increasing significance of sustainability Urbanisation Consumers, political decision-makers and other stakeMigration flows from rural areas to cities continue to holders require businesses to operate more responsibly accelerate, particularly in China and other developing and transparently. Regulation and reporting obligations countries. In Asia in particular, the number of cities will increase, and businesses are required to be more with more than five million inhabitants will grow, as will diligent in monitoring the ethical dimensions of their the number of connections between such cities. New supply chains. Consumers monitor the responsibility markets will be created for airlines as traffic between of a company’s operations and give feedback on social these megacities grows. Competition will intensify as media. regional airlines begin to operate on these routes. The airline industry will face stricter regulations on Technological progress, increase in the emissions and noise, with increased regulation resulting significance of network connections and in added costs such as tax-like payments. Airlines must digitalisation increasingly cooperate on issues related to safety, emisTechnological progress is leading to changes in purchasions, noise, accessibility and other passenger rights as sing behaviour, the comparability of prices and services well as equality. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 11 VALUE CREATION AND STRATEGY The cornerstone of Finnair’s growth strategy is Finnair’s competitive geographical advantage, which enables the fastest connections in the growing market of air traffic between Asia and Europe. Finnair creates value for its shareholders and other Helsinki are more than two hours shorter on average stakeholders by offering air travel and cargo services compared to one-stop flights via European hubs, and and by operating and growing its route network resource more than four hours shorter compared to flights via efficiently and profitably. Additionally, value is created hubs located in the Middle East. Helsinki Airport also by the way Finnair engages and cares for its customers, supports the growth of traffic between Asia and Europe: employees and other stakeholders, and by Finnair’s its three runways, connection times as short as 40 ability to take environmental and other external impacts minutes, and uncongested airspace make the airport of its operations into consideration. The ultimate ideal for connecting flights. factors in the value creation are the effectiveness of the processes used at Finnair, and the ability of Finnair’s Finnair’s objective for the accelerated growth stramanagement to develop the company and manage the tegy is to double its Asian traffic by 2018 compared to risks associated with its operations. 2010 base. In 2017, the growth in passenger numbers, available seat kilometres and revenue passenger kiloHelsinki’s geographical location provides Finnair with a metres, was the fastest in Finnair’s history. Finnair structural competitive advantage, which allows the shoroperated flights to 18 Asian destinations, seven destinatest and most direct connections to the growing Asian tions in the Americas and more than 100 destinations markets. Finnair is the only European airline that can in Europe. Finnair’s destinations include business travel operate flights to most Asian destinations on a 24-hour and leisure travel destinations. The growth will continue aircraft rotation, which means that the routes can be in 2018, and Finnair’s network will further expand to operated as round trips within 24 hours at regular times include flights to Nanjing, Stuttgart and Lyon. Similarly using a single aircraft. This enables a record-high utilisato 2017, the network will grow strongly with added flight tion rate in long-haul traffic, reduces the need for addifrequencies for currently served destinations and with ­ assengers, baggage and cargo to connecting flights is p tional crews in compliance with flight time restrictions, Reykjavik and Lisbon becoming Finnair year-round destiensured through efficient processes and cooperation and decreases fuel consumption and emissions due to nations. with airport authorities. shorter flight times. Finnair’s ability to operate its network safely and puncOur membership in the oneworld alliance increases the Helsinki’s location on the flight path from Central Europe tually from one of the world’s northernmost air traffic size of our global network to more than one thousand to North-eastern Asia means that travel times via hubs is integral to value creation. The transfer of destinations in more than 160 countries. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 12 Close cooperation with alliance partners particularly responsible world citizen, Finnair aims at minimising the in North American and Japanese traffic is a priority negative environmental impacts of its operations and at for Finnair. Membership in the oneworld alliance and maximising the social and economic value that it creates joint businesses strengthen Finnair’s market position for the stakeholders and society at large. and reduce the risks related to growth. For customers, they provide an even broader choice of destinations as More information on Finnair’s corporate responsibility: well as more flexible routing and pricing options. For https://company.finnair.com/en airlines, joint businesses are a way to gain benefits typically associated with consolidation in a highly compeA more detailed overview of Finnair’s corporate respontitive industry without actual mergers, acquisitions or sibility is included in the Sustainability section of this equity transfers between partners. Alliance partnerships report. and joint businesses have a significant contribution to Finnair’s revenue. Our vision is to offer a Unique Nordic Experience More information about Finnair’s destinations: To follow its vision, Finnair aims at offering its customers https://www.finnair.com/fi/fi/destinations a unique Nordic experience. This vision gives direction to all Finnair’s employees and partners in customer service More information about oneworld: and flight operations as well as in developing operations https://www.finnair.com/FI/FI/destinations/oneworld and services. A stable position in the domestic market Finnair’s route network connects Asia, North America and in Asian traffic and the northern regions of Europe through its hub at Finnair holds a strong position in Finnish air traffic, but Helsinki Airport. The operations are based on quality, due to the small size of its domestic market, the focus of reliability, safety and design inspired by Nordic pure the company’s growth has, for several decades, been on nature. The vision is expressed for example in easy-to-use Asian traffic. Asia has been one of the fastest-growing digital services and in the enhancement of services. The air traffic markets in recent years, and its importance is goal is to provide outstanding service at the airport, in expected to increase further in the short and medium lounges and onboard to enable customers to arrive at terms. The share of Asian traffic is higher at Finnair than their destinations relaxed and with peace of mind. at its competitors, which puts the company in an ideal position to benefit from these growing markets. Asian Finnair’s strategic focus areas traffic accounts for a little over 50 per cent of Finnair’s In summer 2017, Finnair’s Board of Directors confirmed traffic. the strategic focus areas for 2016–2018 that it had adopted earlier, namely profitable growth, customer Responsibility in all areas experience, people experience, and transformation. Responsibility is an integral part of all Finnair’s operations. Finnair is committed to acting towards a cleaner, Growth more caring and more collaborative future. ResponThe backbone of Finnair’s growth strategy is the renewal sible business is the foundation of future growth. As a of its wide-body fleet. In 2017, the first stage of the fleet FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 13 renewal was accomplished: now Finnair has 11 Airbus A350 aircraft. In 2018-2023, Finnair will receive a further eight A350s, and thus the entire wide-body fleet will grow from 19 to 27 aircraft by 2022. The accelerated growth strategy in 2016–2018 has given Finnair the ability to rebound and grow even faster than the market after years of no or low growth. The fastest growth takes place in the winter season 2017/2018 and the capacity compound annual growth rate (CAGR) is forecast to be 8–10% in 2016–2018. Accelerated growth will also improve Finnair’s cost position by decreasing its unit costs. Finnair will leverage its competitive advantage in selected global markets by focusing on 30 cities and their catchment areas. Asia will be the focus area in network development and growth. China continues to provide the highest long-term potential, but also other countries in Northeast Asia and Southeast Asia offer new growth opportunities. Finnair will also develop its business in North America and aims to maintain the current relative ratios of its Asian and North American markets. As the long-haul network grows, capacity in short haul feeder traffic must equally grow. In 2017, Finnair’s narrow-body fleet increased by six new aircraft. Increasing the average narrow-body aircraft size and adding more seats to current narrow-body fleet support capacity growth, unit cost improvement and higher productivity. The direct sales channels will be the most important sales channels in enabling sales of various ancillary services in the future. Ancillary services enable the THE DIRECT SALES CHANNELS WILL BE THE MOST custom-tailored service according to customers’ needs. IMPORTANT SALES CHANNELS IN ENABLING SALES Ancillary and retail business is the fastest growing revenue line and the growth is expected to continue. OF VARIOUS ANCILLARY SERVICES IN THE FUTURE. Finnair aims to almost double ancillary sales by 2020 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 14 as compared to 2016 and increase ancillary sales per Finnair aims at growth also in selling travel products. In strategy to grow successfully. The introduction of new passenger by 46% (from 10.2 euro to 14.9 euro) by 2018. 2017, the tour operator Aurinkomatkat-Suntours, a part A350s that started in 2015 and our focus and investment of Finnair Group, became the biggest tour operator in into customised personal service and digital soluAir Cargo is also a significant factor in Finnair’s success. Finland based on the number of travellers. Finnair also tions have already improved customer experience in The shift away from bulk to speciality cargo is the launched a new product called Finnair Holidays in the both business and economy classes. This is seen in the key margin driver in a highly competitive market. In Finnish and Swedish markets. Finnair Holidays brings improved Net Promoter Score (47 in 2017 versus 43 in 2017, Finnair opened a new Finnair COOL Nordic Cargo together the best sides of both independent travel and 2016). More improvements and enhancements are being Terminal that enables the state of-the-art hub logispackage tours. implemented to further uplift customer experience and tics for speciality cargo like pharmaceuticals and perisdifferentiate from competitors. Finnair has set itself the hables, and reduces cargo unit costs. Customer Experience target to deliver the best long-haul business class expeThe focus on customer experience is central to Finnair’s rience among all European airlines. The economy class product is also continuously enhanced, for example by providing customers new opportunities to further personalise their experience at various stages. An integral part of the customer journey is the airport experience. Helsinki Airport will go through major expansion during the coming years, supporting the longterm growth of Finnair. We strive to ensure that future customer needs are met in the design of the airport. Improving customer service is a key priority for us. We develop customer service at the airport, inflight and on the phone as well as in social media channels. New digital services and automation will further smoothen the customer journey. Customer analytics will be more widely used to provide increasingly personalised services. Finnair pays special attention to developing its processes to strengthen the trust and customer satisfaction also during service disruptions. People Experience Well-motivated employees are behind the execution of a unique Nordic experience and value creation at Finnair. Excellent employee experience is a prerequisite for customer experience. To strengthen and support people experience, Finnair focuses on resourcing, leadership, competence development and strengthening of the change capacity. Wellbeing of people is in turn a key FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 15 element in ensuring engaged and inspired personnel. facing digital services such as Finnair.com, Mobile App In this respect, Finnair renewed its wellbeing services and Nordic Sky. Finnair also started the digitalisation to reduce the number of sick leaves and to strengthen programs for its operations and customer experience employee resilience. units. In 2017, Finnair built its own digital team comprising 70 employees and continued to develop digital Leadership has a major impact on engagement and products and services. Customers see clear improvemotivation, and Finnair focuses on leadership devements in the usability of Finnair’s mobile solutions. A lopment by training, coaching and facilitating internal new SkyPay solution was introduced for the cabin crew rotation. Finnair develops key competencies in service and a new mobile maintenance solution was made management and digitalization that are central in straavailable for line maintenance, and these solutions tegy implementation. clearly improved efficiency. The digitalisation skills of the entire personnel have also been continuously deveFinnair employees are well educated, skilled and expeloped. rienced. Finnair needs to further focus on attracting, developing and retaining the right people to ensure that Finnair has a vision of creating the Best Intelligent Travel the right skills are available for its strategy implementaEcosystem. The aim is to take an active role in the travel tion. Strategic personnel planning ensures the impleecosystem as it evolves. With this vision statement, mentation of accelerated growth. Finnair continues its digital journey towards 2020. Finnair’s personnel, wellbeing at work and key projects Creating value for society affecting personnel are described in the Sustainability Finnair’s current route network and its future expansion section of this report. ensure that Finland will have more direct flight connections to other parts of the world than domestic demand Transformation alone could support. This has a significant impact on the The world and the airline industry are increasingly travel opportunities of Finns and on the Finnish business digital, with clients spending more and more time buying sector. In addition, aviation sector is a major job creator tickets and ancillaries online and consuming an increain the Finnish society. According to a research conducted sing number of digital services and products as they in the autumn 2017 by ETLA, the Research Institute of travel. At the same time, Finnair employees require the Finnish Economy, Finnair is the 16th most signifimodern tools and ways of working. Finnair’s partners cant company for the Finnish economy in terms of Gross and the stakeholders in the ecosystem increasingly look Domestic Product, with a contribution of 587.6 million for business opportunities as new technologies mature. euros. We are facing a new paradigm with technologies like AI (Artificial Intelligence), IoT (Internet of Things), VR (Virtual Reality) and wearable devices. EXCELLENT EMPLOYEE EXPERIENCE Finnair is progressing well in its transformation journey IS A PREREQUISITE FOR CUSTOMER – in 2015/2016 the company invested in its Digital Finnair program which designed and implemented customer EXPERIENCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 16 Value creation at Finnair Inputs / Business Model Value created Key capitals and impacts Our vision, mission, strategy Human capital 5,526 personnel, training hours Fastest connections 57/employee, expertise Our governance between Europe and Asia Financial Customer value Adjusted interest-bearing debt Our values Customer satisfaction NPS 47 EUR 737.1 million Equity capital EUR 1,015.7 million Financial Operating result EUR 224.8 million, Immaterial Business processes: Products/outputs taxes, traffic charges, return on equity Traffic rights, overflight rights, and debt investments customer data, quality certifications, • Production process • Passenger transportation route network, brand and (network, fleet and traffic (11.9 million passengers) Natural customer preferences planning, resource • Cargo transportation Flight emissions 2,902,787 tonnes allocation, ground services, (157 million tonnes) CO2, noise, waste Natural flying, procurement) • Travel packages 921,520 tonnes of jet fuel • Customer process • Customer experience Social • Commercial process and service Traffic connections, Social and partnerships • Other direct and indirect employment, Suppliers and partners, AJB/SJB joint employee experience 3.78/5, business distribution network, alliance added value to partners, brand value, cooperation, public affairs innovative and sustainable products Fleet and infra Support processes Nearly 80 aircraft Digital transformation, Strategy and Business Development, Finance, People & Culture, Legal, Communications and Sustainability FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 17 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT How Finnair communicates and cooperates with its stakeholders Subjects Channels Customers Travel experience, customer service issues, product quality, on-time performance, emissions and noise Surveys, research, written feedback, Finnair website, social media, customer events, customer service reduction, safety, recycling, responsible sourcing, responsible tourism, corporate responsibility projects via encounters at every stage of the journey, messages to Finnair Plus customers, Finnair mobile app, Blue Wings Finnair Plus. inflight magazine. Personnel Occupational health and wellbeing at work, target setting, Code of Conduct and ethical issues, safety Intranet, internal blogs, theme weeks, Yammer, personnel events, We Together @FinnairWellbeing At Work and security, changes to improve profitability, values and business practises, increasing trust, reducing survey, occupational health services, performance evaluation and development planning, discussions with environmental impact on the job, corporate responsibility in partnerships, changes affecting personnel. labour organisations, Leadership forum, Career Gate Shareholders and investors Market environment and competitive landscape, the company’s operations, corporate responsibility, goals, Stock exchange bulletins under periodic and on-going disclosure obligation; interim reports, financial reporting, strategy and financial position. statements, report of the Board of Directors, Corporate Governance Statement. Annual General Meeting; investor, analyst and media meetings and events; corporate website; Carbon Disclosure Project. Aviation sector Safety, emissions and noise, reduction, emissions reduction schemes, air traffic management, biofuel and Membership in IATA and A4E; cooperation forum for sustainable tourism; membership in oneworld alliance; supply chain development, sustainable tourism, economic impacts of the sector. Joint Businesses; cooperation with Finavia and other airport operators; sector seminars and working groups; manufacturers. Authorities and government Competitiveness, market access, safety, emissions trading and reduction schemes, air traffic management, Dialogue with local, national, EU-level authorities and governments; dialogue with governments and supply chain responsibility, reporting, economic contribution of aviation, impact of operations on environment authorities in destination and overflight countries, events and other cooperation with Finnish Consumer and noise, disruptions and irregularities, biofuels, employee relations, the Transport Code. Agency, Flight Safety Authority (TraFi), embassies and other relevant Finnish and foreign actors. NGOs Greenhouse gas emissions and environmental impact reduction, public health measures, human rights, Cooperation with Finnish Association for Nature Conservation, UNICEF, Finnish Red Cross, Cancer Society of disaster relief, wildlife protection, common interest projects for sustainability and development cooperation, Finland and other NGOs. Membership in the Carbon Disclosure Project and in Climate Leadership coaltion, supply chain responsibility. Commitment 2050 -cooperation. Suppliers Cooperation efforts to reduce emissions and other environmental impacts, monitoring of responsibility and Contractual cooperation, Finnair procurement guidelines and Supplier Code of Conduct. business ethics everywhere in the value chain. Media Company strategy and business, Finnair products and network, daily operations, irregularities, investments, P ­ ress releases, press conferences, visits by reporters, press trips, interviews, Finnair media desk calls and emissions reduction, personnel relations, financial sustainability, economic contribution of aviation, ethics, emails, websites, social media, Blue Wings magazine. cooperation projects with NGOs, trends in travel and traffic, biofuels, emissions trading and reduction schemes, noise, impact of aviation on local economy and mobility. General public Customer service, product quality, labour relations, economic contribution of aviation, ethics, emissions Communications via media, websites, e-mail and lectures; social media including blogs, Facebook, Twitter and reduction, presence in local economies, cooperation projects with NGOs, corporate citizenship. Sina Weibo. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 18 “IF SOMEONE HAPPENS TO ENTER YOUR HOME, BE POLITE AND WELCOME THEM” The Moomins, who are the world-famous fairy tale characters, make a brilliant example of a Nordic family. These Nordic characters believe in equality and responsibility, in caring for each other and for the surrounding world. The Moomins also remember to live joyfully. These very Finnish and, at the same time, Nordic values capture well the work on responsibility in Finnair. We do our best to minimise our environmental impacts and to maximise all positive aspects of our social and economic contribution. In our work at Finnair, Nordic values also show in how we combine our care for the world and the joy of travel to make everybody’s experience unique. The Finnish Government supports strongly such work with its Society’s Commitment to Sustainable Development for 2050, which is a long-term initiative for businesses, communities, and individuals to ensure the future of Finland. The idea is simple: concrete actions and measurable results. Such commitment across the entire society is a true testimonial to the Nordic way of thinking – we all share responsibility for our future. Last year, Finnair added to this global initiative by publishing its commitment to “Equality and Non-Discrimination Both in the Air and on the Ground”. This commitment also implements UN’s Agenda 2030 and its 17 goals of Global Sustainable Development. All female crew from Helsinki to New York in August 2017 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 19 We are committed to building a cleaner, more caring We develop customer service continuously and in and more collaborative future. We are also strongly cooperation with a wide range of stakeholders to get committed to implementing, reporting, and promoa reliable understanding of the needs and expectating further equality and diversity in our operations, tions of all passenger groups. Our digital experts use a customer relations, and occupational groups across the design-for-all approach in delivering reliable solutions entire organisation. that work. Last year, we introduced inflight videos in sign language as well as updated our booking process All of us at Finnair believe that investing in employee to collect information about types of assistance that well-being and equality improves profitability and our passengers may require. It is our genuine desire to competitiveness, employer branding, employee retenimplement non-discrimination principles at all stages of tion and advocacy. Our care for customers results in a passenger’s journey. many positive customer experiences, which are important for customer well-being, trust in Finnair, loyalty, and Continuing such work together is crucial. The commitultimately profitability. ment of Finnish society to Sustainable Development 2050 makes sustainable goals part of everyday life. Finnair staff are a notable example of diversity: there Every business, every community and every individual, are people from different educational backgrounds, we can all commit and strive towards a better and more age-groups and nationalities. A slight majority of our sustainable future. Organisations can be very imporstaff are women. Yet of course there are several occutant in advancing such commitments, as their emplopational groups with a much less balanced gender ratio. yees can adopt the goals of sustainable development as Our aim is to bring more diversity into each occupational personal goals too. Such is easier in organisations with a group – for example by encouraging more male emplostrong culture of employee empowerment, letting every yees to customer service tasks and attracting more member see how important their contribution for global female applicants to become pilots or technicians. Such sustainable development is. support for diversity is present in all sectors of our organisations, enabled by active communication and career As the Moomins would say: “Life has plenty of miracles coaching. A recent example of this is our commitment to for those who are ready to take a step forward.” ”WE CAN ALL COMMIT AND STRIVE the Diversity Charter of the Finnish Business & Society association. Kati Ihamäki TOWARDS A BETTER AND MORE Director, Corporate Sustainability, Finnair SUSTAINABLE FUTURE.” FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 20 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Key Performance Indicators (KPI) Actions taken in 2017 Performance in 2017 Financial targets Profitability, return on investment Comparable operating result at least 6% of revenue Business and revenue growth, continuing the long-haul fleet renewal/ √ Comparable operating result 6.6% of revenue and indebtedness A350 aircraft with new technology, development of digital sales Comparable EBITDAR at least 17% of revenue channels, 20-million euro cost savings program, aircraft financing √ Comparable EBITDAR 17.0% of revenue arrangements. Read more from the Report of the Board of Directors, Return on capital employed (ROCE) at least 7% p. 24. √ ROCE 13.6% Adjusted gearing no more than 175% √ Adjusted gearing 69.9% Dividend To pay, on average, at least one-third of the earnings per share as Earnings per share EUR 1.23.The Board of Directors proposes that a a dividend during an economic cycle taking into account company’s dividend of EUR 0.30 share be paid for 2017. earnings outlook, financial situation and capital needs for any given period Business and sustainability targets Growth Capacity growth (ASK), of 8–10% on average, revenue growth, increase Introduction of 4 Airbus A350 aircraft and 7 A321 aircraft, route √ Capacity (ASK) +8.9% of ancillary and retail revenue per passenger network expansion with new destinations and added frequencies to old √ Revenue +10.9% destinations, development of digital sales channels, introduction of new √ Ancillary and retail revenue per passenger +5,2% ancillary services and products. Customer Experience Customer satisfaction, NPS* increase on the previous year, punctuality Improving customer service in all encounters, the improvement of √ Customer satisfaction, NPS 47, (43 in 2016) at least 89% business-class experience, the development of ancillary services x Punctuality 83.2% People Experience Personnel Experience overall grade of at least 3.75, absences due to Wellness programs, conditions of employment, education and training, √ Personnel Experience overall grade 3.78 illness decrease from the previous year, less than 14.8 work related OSH, gender equality policy and plan, the development of managers’ √ Absences due to illness 4.6% (-0.5%-points from 2016) accidents (LTIF).** skills in occupational safety, implementation of the safety monitoring x LTIF 15,6*** process, updating the reporting tool. Transformation Growth of sales through digital touch-points >15%, Commercial digitalisation project, spearhead projects in digitalization √ Ticket sales through digital touch-points +18% productivity improvement in selected areas of at least 10% of core processes, Finnair Technical Services in particular, Digital Vision √ Ancillary sales through digital touch-points +19%. 2020 and strategy work, Digital Maturity Index survey. Environment 17% carbon dioxide emission reduction per RTK 2013-2020, Efficient route planning, Weight Watchers program, a single engine √ CO2 emissions, tonnes / RTK -9.4% from 2013, 1.5% efficiency improvement annually, carbon neutral growth in 2020 taxiing, APU engines, CDA landings √ CO2 emissions, tonnes / RTK -6.7% from 2016, and beyond. √ CO2 emissions, tonnes / ASK -3.2% from 2016 * NPS = Net Promoter Score ** LTIF = Lost Time Injury Frequence. Refers to the number of workplace accidents per million working hours. *** Includes Finnair Kitchen from May 2017 onward. LTIF excluding Finnair Kitchen 13.6 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 21 FINANCE Comparable operating result over tripled to 170.4 million euros. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 22 KEY FIGURES 1 Revenue from non-core businesses is reclassified from revenue to other operating income. Comparative periods have been restated accordingly from the beginning of 2015 onwards. 2 Comparative figures for 2013 have been restated due to change in accounting principles related to treatment of overhauls. Revenue Result before taxes Capital expenditure and net cash flow from Revenue by traffic area operations € million € million € million € million 3,000 250 600 3,000 211.1 2,568.4 519.0 2,568 200 2,500 2,500 500 2,317 150 382.3 2,000 2,000 400 100 1,500 50 300 1,500 0 1,000 1,000 200 -50 500 100 500 -100 0 -150 0 0 13 14 151 16 17 13 2 14 15 16 17 13 2 14 15 16 17 2016 2017 1 Revenue from non-core businesses is reclassified 2 Comparative figures for 2013 have been restated due Gross investments Asia Domestic from revenue to other operating income. Comparative to change in accounting principles related to treatment Net cash flow from operations North Atlantic Unallocated periods have been restated accordingly from the of overhauls. beginning of 2015 onwards. Europe Comparable operating result* Distribution of revenue and costs by currency Revenue by product Distribution of operating expenses in 2017 € 2,475.0 million € million € million % % % 18 100 24 2,568 200 170.4 8 19 -14 6.6 205 150 6 80 100 4 60 50 2 40 2,317 0 0 20 -50 -2 0 20 ue ue o s s* 20 13 2 14 15 16 17 Distribution of Distribution of costs 16 en en rg ce ie 17 Ca vi nc ev ev revenue by currency by currency rr il r ls er la ge ge ta Tr av Tr en re e av % of revenue EUR CNY Other ss d an e Fuel costs 19.1% Ground handling & catering Pa * Comparable operating result excluding changes in USD KRW la ry Staff costs 17.1% 10.2% c il the fair values of derivates and in the value of foreign JPY SEK An Leasing, maintenance, Other expenses 11.5% currency denominated fleet maintenance reserves and * Revenue of travel agencies has decreased due to sale of depreciation & Other rents 6.4% items affecting comparability. subsidiaries in 2015 and 2016. After October 2016 Finnair does impairments 17.4% Sales and marketing 3.5% not have any travel agency operations after these disposals. Traffic charges 10.8% Expenses for tour operations 4.1% FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 23 2 Comparative figures for 2013 have been restated due to a change in accounting principles related to treatment of overhauls. Interest-bearing liabilities and liquid funds Return on equity (ROE) and return on capital Equity ratio, gearing and adjusted gearing Composition of adjusted interest-bearing employed (ROCE) net debt € million % % € million 983.2 18.1 1,000 20 120 956 983 13.6 100 718.6 15 800 80 69.9 10 60 600 5 35.2 40 20 737 710 400 0 0 -5 200 -20 -10 -24.2 -40 0 -15 -60 13 14 15 16 17 13 2 14 15 16 17 13 2 14 15 16 17 Interest-bearing liabilities Return on equity (ROE) Equity ratio Adjusted interestCash funds Liquid funds Return on capital employed (ROCE) Gearing bearing liabilities Adjusted interest-bearing Adjusted gearing 7x aircraft leases net debt Number of persons employed by Finnair at Number of passengers Available seat kilometres (ASK) and revenue Available tonne kilometres (ATK) and year-end passenger kilometres (RPK) revenue tonne kilometres (RTK) million 11,905 8,000 12,000 40,000 6,000 36,922 5,518.7 35,000 10,000 30,750 5,000 5,918 6,000 30,000 3,721.1 8,000 4,000 25,000 4,000 6,000 20,000 3,000 15,000 2,000 4,000 2,000 10,000 2,000 1,000 5,000 0 0 0 0 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 Available seat kilometres (ASK) Available tonne kilometres (ATK) Revenue passenger kilometres (RPK) Revenue tonne kilometres (RTK) FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 24 THE REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2017 Business environment against the euro. With regard to key income currencies, the Japanese yen was 5.1 per cent weaker against The overall business environment was favourable in 2017 and traffic continued to grow in Finnair’s main the euro than in 2016. The Chinese yuan depreciated by 8.7 per cent against the euro. The market price of jet markets. Measured in available seat kilometres, scheduled market capacity between Helsinki and Finnair’s fuel was 24.1 per cent higher in 2017 than in 2016. Finnair hedges its fuel purchases and key foreign currency European destinations increased by 5.3 per cent in 2017, and Finnair’s market share decreased slightly in items; hence market fluctuations are not reflected directly in its result. European traffic. The direct market capacity between Finnair’s Asian and European destinations grew by 4.7 per cent. Strategy implementation and significant events in 2017 Competition in Asian traffic developed in two different directions, with capacity growth being primarily Finnair continued during 2017 to implement its strategy in the four focus areas which were confirmed in the focused on routes between China and Europe. On routes between Japan and Europe, Finnair was the only spring of 2016, namely growth, customer experience, people experience and transformation. In conjuncairline to significantly increase its capacity, while many competitors scaled back their capacity compared to tion with its annual strategy review, Finnair's Board of Directors specified the company’s strategic targets the previous year. Finnair’s market share in traffic between Europe and Asia increased to 5.9 per cent (5.6).1 in June 2017 as follows: Finnair aims to double its 2010 level of Asian traffic in 2018, two years earlier than Demand developed favorably in 2017. Traffic from Asia to Europe began to return to normal early in the the previous target of 2020. Additionally, Finnair will continue to focus on the customer experience and aims year, after the safety concerns that emerged in 2016 began to dissipate. Demand grew across the network to nearly double its 2016 ancillary revenues by 2020. As a new goal, Finnair aims to increase the number of and throughout the year, for almost all destinations. Travel from Japan and China to Europe increased in passengers it carries annually to 20 million by 2030, with a focus on Asian traffic. particular. Traffic to Nordic destinations also continued to grow. In the first quarter, both Helsinki and Lapland During the year, Finnair made several monthly records of numbers of passengers, passenger load factor saw better-than-average growth. Improved connections also resulted in increased travel from North America and capacity growth. In its entirety, this year saw the achievement of a new record for the number of passento Europe and Russia. Overall, both corporate sales and the materialisation rate of group travel were clearly gers as it increased by over one million passengers – all in all Finnair carried 11.9 million passengers in 2017. stronger in 2017 than in the previous year. The investments, recruitments and trainings necessitated by the strategy implementation continued during Finnair’s operations were affected by labour actions by third parties at Helsinki Airport in March and a ban the year. At the same time, corporate responsibility perspectives were embedded even deeper in the group on overtime by the Finnish Aviation Union in December. Finnair’s operations also suffered from very difficult strategy and the Finnair brand, as outlined in Finnair’s sustainable development strategy, that was revised in winter and wind conditions in December. 2016. Finnair’s capital expenditure was mainly directed to fleet renewal, adding additional seating capacity Boosted by Finnair’s capacity growth and strong passenger demand, the Siberian Joint Business focused in most of its Airbus narrow-body fleet, the WiFi instalments on its A330 fleet, the development of digital on flights between Europe and Japan increased its market share in 2017. High demand from North America to tools and services to customers and personnel, the new COOL Nordic Cargo Terminal, and the development of Europe benefited the Atlantic Joint Business which, like in the previous years, nevertheless suffered from the Finnair's people experience. overcapacity and tight competition in transatlantic traffic. The customer experience development was focused on four factors: excellent personal customer service, The demand for package tours remained strong in 2017. The supply of package tours by tour operators best long haul business class journey, competitive ancillary offering and reliability of operations. Finnair’s NPS active in Finland exceeded demand early in the year, particularly for long haul destinations. However, the was 47 in 2017.2 balance between demand and supply was restored towards the summer as the overall supply for the summer In transformation, the goal of 2017 was to create a foundation for a mobile and digital Finnair organization. season was reduced by a decrease in tours to Turkey. Due to poor weather and the improved economic situThe focus was on improving the user experience in Finnair’s services, on modernizing technical infrastructure ation in Finland, package tour demand and load factors were very high in the third quarter. The supply of and on improving cyber security. package tours will increase by approximately 5 per cent from the previous year in the 2017/2018 winter Recruitments focused heavily on flight crew and building a new digital team for Finnair. Finnair personnel season. In 2017, tour operators aimed at shifting from a quota-based operating model towards a more also increased by some 500 employees in connection with the migration of the catering services back to dynamic production model. Finnair under the Finnair Kitchen name in April. In people experience, the development was focused on The air cargo market continued its strong growth during the year and globally all regions made a posiresourcing, leadership, learning, ways of working and well-being at work. tive contribution to the annual growth. Market capacity growth levelled out and, as a result, together with To support growth, in the autumn of 2016, a 20-million euro program to improve cost-effectiveness was favorable demand, cargo load factors and yields developed positively in 2017. started and that program was finalised successfully in the first half of 2017. After the conclusion of that The US dollar, the most significant expense currency for Finnair after the euro, depreciated by 2.0 per cent program, Finnair will improve efficiency through continuous development. 1 2 Based on external sources (capacity data from SRS Analyser and market share data based on DDS passenger volume estimates for JanuNPS = Net Promoter Score ary-November). The basis for calculation is Finnair’s non-seasonal destination destinations. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 25 Other events In Asian traffic, ASKs grew 11.7 per cent in 2017. This reflected the introduction of A350 aircraft in Asian traffic In April, Finnair announced the signing of an agreement with LSG Sky Chefs based on which the catering and additional frequencies especially on the Tokyo and Hong Kong routes during the summer and especially company operating at Helsinki Airport, LSG Sky Chefs Finland Oy, returned to Finnair’s control. The arrangeon the routes to Bangkok, Hong Kong and Singapore during the winter. In 2017, RPKs increased by 18.3 per ment became effective as of 21 April, when the preparation and development of inflight meals became part of cent, and the PLF in Asian traffic rose by 4.9 percentage points to 86.7 per cent. Finnair’s operations once again. The current Finnair Kitchen Oy is a part of Finnair’s Customer Experience unit The capacity in North Atlantic traffic increased by 3.1 per cent. RPKs in North Atlantic traffic increased by and employs approximately 500 people. The change did not have significant effect on Finnair’s financial position 8.0 per cent and the PLF rose by 3.8 percentage points to 83.3 per cent. or results. In European traffic, ASKs increased by 6.8 and RPKs increased by 9.7 per cent as the PLF rose by 2.1 Finnair announced in October that it will acquire 60 per cent of Nordic Regional Airlines AB (Norra) from percentage points to 80.7 per cent. Capacity grew thanks to the addition of new A321 aircraft, the introduction Staffpoint Holding Oy and Kilco Oy. Finnair owned 40 per cent of the company prior the transaction, that was of new destinations, and added frequencies particularly on the Northern European routes. closed in November. Norra transferred to the full ownership of Finnair on an interim basis, and Finnair aims to Domestic capacity increased by 6.5 per cent and traffic by 3.9 per cent. Traffic growth was heavily concenfind a new, industrial partner to develop Norra’s business further with Finnair. The transaction had no impact on trated on the beginning and end of the year (winter seasons), when capacity was added to Lapland to meet Norra’s operations or personnel. It also did not have a significant effect on Finnair’s financial position or results. the growing tourist demand for Northern Finland. In the summer, the largest domestic destination, Oulu, was closed throughout July due to runway renovations, and traffic restrictions at the airport continued in August, Financial performance in 2017 which was reflected in the PLF. During 2017, the PLF declined by 1.7 percentage points to 67.4. Revenue Customers spent more money on ancillary services in 2017. Ancillary and retail revenue increased by 15.2 Finnair revenue grew by 10.9 per cent to 2,568.4 million euros (2,316.8). All continuing business categories per cent and amounted to 144.6 million euros (125.5), or 12.1 euros per passenger (11.5 euros). There was grew in 2017. Unit revenue (RASK) increased by 1.8 per cent and amounted to 6.96 euro cents (6.83). growth particularly in advance seat reservations, travel class upgrades and retail sales. Passenger traffic capacity measured in Available Seat Kilometres (ASK) grew by 8.9 per cent overall during Available cargo tonne kilometres increased by 6.5 per cent, and revenue cargo tonne kilometres increased 2017 – the growth rate was 0.1 per cent in Q1, 6.8 per cent in Q2, 11.1 per cent in Q3 and 17.2 per cent in Q4. by 11.0 per cent. The volume of cargo carried increased by 8.6 per cent to 157,028 tonnes (144,596). Average Traffic measured in Revenue Passenger Kilometres (RPK) grew by 13.6 per cent; the passenger load factor cargo yields increased by 2.3 per cent. Cargo revenue increased by 13.5 per cent to 197.4 million euros (173.8). (PLF) improved clearly in all traffic areas except Domestic, which saw a decline. The number of passengers Revenue from the tour operating business (Aurinkomatkat Suntours and Finnair Holidays) increased by carried increased by 9.6 per cent to 11.9 million. 9.7 per cent to 205.6 million euro (187.5). The number of Aurinkomatkat Suntours travellers increased by 5.8 per cent to 214,411 customers and Aurinkomatkat became the largest tour operator in Finland measured by the number of customers. The load factor in Suntours’ fixed seat allotment was 96.6 per cent. Finnair HoliRevenue by product days, a new leisure travel concept targeted towards the growing, non-traditional, leisure travel segment, EUR million 2017 2016 Change, % was launched in Finland (end of Q2/2017) and Sweden (Q4/2017). The decrease in travel agencies’ revenue is Passenger revenue 2,020.8 1,816.1 11.3 attributable to the divestment of SMT, which was completed in November 2016. Ancillary and retail revenue 144.6 125.5 15.2 Cargo 197.4 173.8 13.5 Cost development and result Travel services 205.6 187.5 9.7 Travel agencies 13.8 n/a Finnair’s operating expenses in 2017 increased by 5.9 per cent to 2,475.0 million euros (2,337.1). Unit cost Total 2,568.4 2,316.8 10.9 (CASK) decreased by 2.6 per cent and totalled 6.49 euro cents (6.67). CASK ex fuel at constant currency increased by 0.3 per cent. Operating expenses excluding fuel increased by 8.5 per cent to 2,002.9 million euros (1,845.6). Fuel Passenger revenue and traffic data by area, 1–12/2017 costs, including hedging results and emissions trading costs, decreased by 3.9 per cent to 472.2 million Ticket revenue ASK RPK PLF euros (491.5). Fuel efficiency as measured by fuel consumption per ASK improved by 3.2 per cent primarily Change, Traffic area EUR mill. Change, % Mill. km Change, % Mill. km Change, % % %-point reflecting the introduction of the more fuel-efficient A350s. Fuel consumption per RTK, which also accounts Asia 881.7 19.2 18,355.0 11.7 15,911.3 18.3 86.7 4.9 for improvements in the passenger and cargo load factors, improved even more, by 6.7 per cent, as a result of North Atlantic 118.8 2.7 2,776.1 3.1 2,311.5 8.0 83.3 3.8 the A350s and improved load factors. Europe 839.0 10.2 14,152.0 6.8 11,421.6 9.7 80.7 2.1 Staff costs increased to 423.3 million euros (362.5). The growth is explained by an increase in the number of Finland 174.1 5.5 1,638.9 6.5 1,105.2 3.9 67.4 -1.7 personnel, the acquisition of Finnair Kitchen, extensive training of flight crew and provisions made for incenUnallocated 7.2 -79.3 tive schemes and a 6.7 million, profit-based contribution to the personnel fund. Personnel costs also include Total 2,020.8 11.3 36,922.0 8.9 30,749.7 13.6 83.3 3.5 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 26 a 13-million euro extra reward to personnel. Fleet growth and renewal increased depreciations, aircraft lease The company’s liquidity was strong during the year. The Group’s cash funds at period-end amounted to payments and maintenance costs. Other expenses increased to 285.1 million euros (266.6). Due to the imple983.2 million euros (797.3). Finnair has an entirely unused 175-million-euro unsecured syndicated credit mentation of IFRS 9, which was effective 1 January 2017, the impacts of currency hedging are now allocated, to facility, intended for use as reserve funding. The arrangement has a maturity of three years from June 2016 the relevant expense rows (fuel costs, lease payments for aircraft, maintenance and traffic charges). with an optional two-year extension. In March, Finnair issued a 200-million-euro senior unsecured bond and The 20-million euro cost-efficiency program announced in the autumn of 2016 was successfully completed redeemed 85 million euros of its existing senior unsecured bond. in full and on schedule during 2017. After the conclusion of that program, Finnair will improve efficiency Finnair has a 200-million-euro short-term commercial paper program, which was unused at the end of the through continuous development, without separate programs. review period. Net cash flow from financing in 2017 amounted to 40.8 million euros (200.5). Financial income Finnair’s comparable EBITDAR increased to 436.2 million euros (270.4). The comparable operating result, was -0.3 million euros (1.0) due to negative interest rates, while financial expenses were -13.4 million euros or operating result excluding items affecting comparability, capital gains and changes in the fair value of (-11.5). derivatives and in the value of foreign currency-denominated fleet maintenance reserves, improved to its all-time high at 170.4 million euros (55.2). Capital expenditure The change in the fair value of derivatives and in the value of foreign-currency-denominated fleet mainDuring 2017, capital expenditure excluding advance payments totalled 519.0 million euros (518.9) and was tenance reserves amounted to 11.1 million euros (32.0). The items affecting comparability amounted to 43.3 primarily related to fleet investments. million euros (29.0) including a gain on the sale of an A350 aircraft and one-time expenses related to an A340 Cash flow from investments totalled -397.4 million euros, including advance payments. Divestments of fixed aircraft sold to Airbus. The operating result was 224.8 million euros (116.2), the result before taxes was 211.1 assets amounted to 156.9 million euros, and related mainly to the sale and leaseback agreement for the A350 million euros (105.8) and the result after taxes was 169.4 million euros (85.1). aircraft delivered in April 2017. Net change in financial assets maturing after more than three months totalled 82.9 million. Net Cash flow from investments amounted to -157.5 million euros. Balance sheet on 31 December 2017 During 2017–2018, Finnair is adding additional seating capacity to the majority of its fleet of Airbus narrowThe Group’s balance sheet totalled 2,887.1 million euros at year-end (2,528.7). Non-current assets increased by body aircraft by modifying galley areas in the front and rear of the aircraft. Finnair will also introduce WiFi 257,1 million euros primarily due to aircraft investments. Assets held for sale decreased by 122.6 million euros, connectivity to the majority of its current narrow-body fleet during 2017–2018. All of Finnair’s wide-body as four A340 aircraft were sold to Airbus in accordance with a previous agreement. The remaining payment aircraft already has WiFi connectivity. from this transaction, approximately 100 million euros, will be received in 2018 and is shown as an increase In addition to fleet investments, Finnair has constructed a modern cargo terminal, which was phased into in trade and other receivables totaling 319.8 million euros. Shareholders’ equity was 1,015.7 million euros use in Q4 2017 and which will carry out all cargo activities from January 2018 onward. It is the most modern (857.0), or 7.95 euros per share (6.73). cargo terminal in Europe at the time of its commissioning. Shareholders’ equity includes a fair value reserve that is affected by changes in the fair values of jet fuel The current favourable state of the credit markets and Finnair’s good debt capacity support the financing and currency derivatives used for hedging as well as actuarial gains and losses related to pilots’ defined of future fixed-asset investments on competitive terms. The company has 36 unencumbered aircraft, which benefit plans according to IAS 19. The value of the item at the end of December 2017 was 63.0 million euros account for approximately 65 per cent of the balance sheet value of the entire fleet of 1,155 million euros3. (33.9) after deferred taxes. In 2017, it was reduced by changes in the fair value of the hedging instruments mentioned above, but this impact was offset by a change in accounting principles and actuarial gains. Fleet Cash flow and financial position Fleet operated by Finnair Finnair has a strong financial position, which supports business development and future investments. In 2017, Finnair’s fleet is managed by Finnair Aircraft Finance Oy, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Finnair. At the end net cash flow from operating activities amounted to 382.3 million euros (219.7). The increase in cash flow of 2017, Finnair itself operated 55 aircraft, of which 19 were wide-body and 36 narrow-body aircraft. Of the was primarily attributable to the growth of the comparable operating result. Net cash flow from investments aircraft, 25 were owned by Finnair Aircraft Finance Oy, 23 were on operating leases and seven on finance amounted to -157.5 million euros (-499.6) and was particularly attributable to aircraft investments and divestleases. ments as well as the maturity of money market investments with maturities exceeding three months used as At year-end, the average age of the fleet operated by Finnair was 8.9 years. part of the Group's liquidity management. The equity ratio on 31 December 2017 stood at 35.2 per cent (33.9) and gearing was negative at -24.2 per cent (-11.2). Adjusted gearing was 69.9 per cent (78.3). At year-end, adjusted interest-bearing debt amounted to 737.1 million euros (701.5) and interest-bearing net debt was negative at -246.0 million euros (-95.8). 3 €42.6 million of the balance sheet value of the fleet relates to long-term lease contracts, which are reported on the balance sheet. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 27 Fleet operated by Finnair on 31 December 2017* Fleet operated by Norra on 31 December 2017* Leased Change Aircraft Leased** Average Change from owned by (Operating age from (Operating (Finance Average age Seats # 31.12.2016 Finnair lease) 31.12.2017 Ordered Seats # 31.12.2016 Own** lease) lease) 31.12.2017 Ordered ATR 72 68-72 12 6 6 8.4 Narrow-body fleet Embraer 190 100 12 9 3 9.5 Airbus A319 138 8 -1 7 1 16.6 Total 24 0 15 9 9.0 Airbus A320 165/174 10 7 1 2 15.4 * Nordic Regional Airlines Oy’s Air Operator Certificate (AOC). Airbus A321 209/196 18 7 4 12 2 6.9 ** Aircraft owned by Finnair Aircraft Finance include one JOLCO-financed E190 aircraft. Wide-body fleet Airbus A330 289/263 8 5 3 8.2 Airbus A340 263/257 0 -4 Air traffic services and products Airbus A350 297/336 11 4 7 4 1.3 8 Total 55 6 25 23 7 8.9 8 Route network and alliances The number of Finnair flights to Asia increased in 2017. The maximum weekly number of flights to Asia will * Finnair’s Air Operator Certificate (AOC). be 89 in the winter season 2017/2018 (78 in the winter season 2016/2017) and it totalled 87 in the summer ** Includes JOLCO-financed (Japanese Operating Lease with Call Option) A350 aircraft. season 2017 (97 in the summer season 2018, 80 in summer season 2016). In Finnair’s route network, new summer destinations in 2017 were San Francisco, Alicante, Ibiza, Korfu, Menorca and Reykjavik. Finnair also Fleet renewal added capacity to Tokyo, Hong Kong, Copenhagen, Berlin and St. Petersburg. For winter 2017/2018, Finnair By the end of September 2017, Finnair had taken delivery of all four Airbus A350 XWB aircraft scheduled for announced several new leisure-focused destinations, including Havana, Puerto Vallarta, Puerto Plata and delivery in 2017 and thus completed the first phase of its long-haul fleet renewal. Of the original 11 aircraft Goa. orders, three were delivered in 2015 and four in 2016. Following the successful delivery of the A350s, Finnair's As an answer to growing demand for international travel to Finland and especially Lapland, Finnair Airbus A340 aircraft left the fleet and were sold back to Airbus as agreed in the trade agreement signed in increased capacity for winter season 2017/2018 from Helsinki to Finnish Lapland by more than 20 per cent. It ­­ 2014. also started direct flights to Finnish Lapland from London, Paris and Zurich in Q4 2017. According to the current delivery schedule, Finnair will receive eight A350 aircraft during 2018–2022. Finnair is part of the oneworld alliance and it also engages in closer cooperation with certain oneworld Finnair’s investment commitments for property, plant and equipment, totalling 1.013 million euros4 , include partners through participation in joint businesses, namely the Siberian Joint Business and the Atlantic Joint the upcoming investments in the wide-body fleet. Businesses. The joint businesses are agreements covering revenue sharing and coordination of prices and Finnair added seven new Airbus A321 narrow-body aircraft to its fleet in 2017, all on operating lease agreecapacity for the route areas in question. ments. In 2017, one Airbus A319 aircraft left the fleet when its lease contract expired. Finnair has the possibility to adjust the size of its fleet based on outlook due to the staggered maturities of Other renewals and services its lease agreements. In 2017, Finnair placed particular development focus on services related to booking and buying flight tickets and paying for tickets and ancillary services. Fleet operated by Norra (purchased traffic) In January, Finnair was the first airline in the world to pilot Alipay on board as a payment method, which is Nordic Regional Airlines (Norra) operates a fleet of 24 aircraft for Finnair on a contract flying basis. All aircraft widely used by Chinese customers. The Alipay system was rolled out on all China routes during 2017. In June, are leased from Finnair Aircraft Finance Oy. the sales system used on all Finnair flights was also replaced by a new user-friendly SkyPay system, which speeds up inflight purchasing and enables the use of contactless payment by customers. In October, Finnair started a collaboration with JD.com, also known as Jingdong, one of the leading e-commerce companies in China. Finnair will be the first non-Chinese airline to open a flagship store for online flight bookings on the JD Travel platform, in the beginning of 2018. Finnair also was the first European airline to launch flight ticket sales directly via its official WeChat account in China. Finnair customers can search for Finnair flight tickets, book their flights and complete their purchase with WeChat Pay, all directly through 4 Finnair's official WeChat account. The seats and inflight entertainment systems for aircraft numbers 15–19 are under estimation and thus not reported as committed investments. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 28 In December, Finnair enabled customers to pay via Apple Pay. Finnair customers can use Apple Pay for the Finnair mobile app, as well as through the Nordic Sky Wi-Fi portal available on Finnair’s long haul flights. ticket and ancillary purchases on Finnair’s mobile website and using the Finnair mobile application. Apple Pay In November, Finnair’s mobile app won the German Design Award for Excellent Communications Design. The is available for Finnair customers using iOS mobile devices globally in those markets where Apple has implejury stated that the app provides Finnair passengers with invaluable support and information. mented the payment method. In September, Finnair was awarded a Four Star Global Airline rating by the Airline Passenger Experience Customers have been able to book Finnair flights and ancillary services through the Skyscanner website Association (APEX). The APEX 2018 assessment covered 470 airlines worldwide, and its rating was also based since March 2017. Finnair has also streamlined and smoothened the distribution and sales of its flights and on verified feedback given by customers. flight related services both in its own and in partners’ distribution channels in partnership with Amadeus, In January 2018, OAG’s Punctuality League publication ranked Finnair’s arrival punctuality in 2017 as the the IT service provider specialised in solutions for the global travel industry. In June, Finnair introduced a fifteenth-highest among mainline airlines in the world. In January, FlightStats recognised the oneworld allicompletely new mobile flight booking experience for its customers. ance as the most punctual airline alliance in 2017. The WiFi installation for Finnair's A330 fleet was completed in Q2 ensuring that the entire Finnair wideFinnair was also recognised for its sustainability efforts. In March, Aurinkomatkat-Suntours was again body fleet now has WiFi connectivity. New A350 aircraft are delivered WiFi-capable. Installations on the Airbus named Finland’s most sustainable travel service company in the Sustainable Brands Index, which is the narrow-body fleet began in 2017 and will continue in 2018. largest brand study focused on sustainability and corporate responsibility in the Nordics. The study is made The investments made in digital tools and channels were reflected in the number of passengers using annually by interviewing consumers in four Nordic countries and the Netherlands. The survey is based on the these services and the sales created through these channels. During 2017, Finnair had on average 1.8 million 10 principles of the UN Global Compact initiative. In September, Finnair was named “responsible company visitors/month on its internet site (finnair.com), which is 17 per cent more than the prior year. In June, of the year” by the Association of Finnish Travel Agents in acknowledgement of Finnair’s longstanding and Finnair.com had a record number of visitors/month, 2.5 million. At year-end, the number of active Finnair comprehensive work in sustainable development. mobile app users totalled 210,000, representing an 87 per cent increase year-on-year. Also during 2017, sales Also, in spring the German ESG rating company oekom research AG confirmed its analysis of Finnair’s through digital channels increased by 18 per cent and represented 24 per cent of total ticket sales. Of ancilresponsibility, and the ESG rating was affirmed as C+, the highest rating in the category, comprising 69 lary sales, 30 per cent was created through digital channels. companies in the transport and logistics sector. Finnair kept its Prime status indicating the suitability of Finnair also made other improvements to its products and services during 2017. The expansion of Finnair’s Finnair’s securities for responsible investors. In CDP reporting (Carbon Disclosure Project), that is closely hub, Helsinki Airport, is proceeding and the new south wing of Terminal 2 has been inaugurated. In addifollowed by investors, Finnair scored B, which is a Management level score. The average score for the aviation tion, the Finnair lounge in the Schengen area was refurbished and Fazer was introduced as the new service industry is C. Companies at Management level (B) are taking further steps to effectively reduce emissions and provider in mid-summer. In the fourth quarter, Finnair announced several product renewals, which include thus indicating more advanced environmental stewardship. This achievement signals that Finnair is measnew inflight meal concepts as well as a new business class service concept and a new family concept with uring and managing its environmental impact and has developed a policy and strategic framework within Moomins, both to be launched during 2018. The inflight meal offering has been developed in-house since April which to take action and reduce negative climate change impacts. 2017, when catering services, now Finnair Kitchen, returned under Finnair's control. In the travel services business, Finnair launched a new product called Finnair Holidays, in June. Finnair Changes in senior management Holidays combines the best of independent travelling and package holidays. Customers can tailor their There were no changes in senior management during 2017. holiday by choosing suitable Finnair and oneworld flights, a hotel and experiences selected by travel professionals. Finnair Holidays can be designed and purchased on Finnair's website (https://holidays.finnair.com). Personnel Finnair employed an average of 5,526 (4,908)5 people during 2017, which is 12.6 per cent more than during the Awards comparison period. The number of personnel in continuing operations grew by 5.2 per cent. Finnair performed well in several quality and customer satisfaction surveys conducted within the industry or The number of employees on 31 December 2017 was 5,918 (4,838). During 2017, the number of personnel among passengers during 2017. increased by 1,080. The change was due to the migration of LSG Finland personnel (approximately 500) to In March, Finnair was named the best European airline operating in China at the TTG China Travel Awards Finnair Kitchen Ltd, and growth in the number of cabin crew and pilots, in particular. In 2017, over 600 cabin for the second consecutive year. The award was based on votes cast by the readers of TTG’s publications. In crew members and pilots were recruited. June, the Skytrax World Airline Awards chose Finnair as the best airline in Northern Europe for the eighth Terms of employment agreed between Finnair as represented by Service Sector Employers PALTA and consecutive year. The award was based on an independent Skytrax survey conducted between August 2016 office personnel, customer service personnel and technical personnel, represented by the trade union FINTO, and May 2017 in 105 countries. Also in June, Finnair was awarded with the Future Travel Experience Ancilthe trade union PRO and the Finnish Aviation Union IAU respectively, on terms of employment in line with the lary Gold Award for its ancillary offering and makings its ancillary offering available for customers across its national competitiveness pact, took effect in spring 2017. The collective labour agreement with IAU repredigital channels. Finnair ancillary services can be bought through its booking engine at Finnair.com, through 5 The principle of calculating the number of personnel was revised as of the beginning of 2017 so that personnel in basic training are not yet included. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 29 senting ground customer service, ground handling, cargo, technical services and Finnair Kitchen employees Own shares was renewed in the end of 2017 and it is effective until mid-January 2020. Negotiation results for the extenIn 2017, Finnair did not exercise the authorisation granted by the AGM to acquire its own shares. sion of collective labour agreements of white collar workers and technical white-collar workers until the end During the year Finnair transferred, using the authorisation granted by the AGM, a total of 355,597 own of January 2020 were reached with PRO. These require still the approval of respective unions. It is possible to shares as incentives to the participants of the FlyShare employee share savings plan and as a reward to the extend all aforementioned agreements by one year by separately agreeing on the salaries on the third agreekey personnel included in Finnair’s share-based incentive scheme 2014–2016. ment year. Collective bargaining for upper white-collar workers is under way with FINTO; the current collecOn 31 December 2017, Finnair held a total of 433,367 of its own shares (788,964), representing 0.34 per tive agreement expires at the end of February 2018. Collective labour agreement with the pilots’ union SLL cent of the total share capital. was renewed in February 2017 and it is effective until the end of March 2020. Collective labour agreement Acquisition and delivery of own shares and returns of shares with the cabin crew union SLSY was renewed in autumn 2016 and it is effective until the end of January 2019. Period Number of shares Acquisition value, EUR Average price, EUR The collective agreement between PALTA and Transport Workers’ Union AKT concerning travel agencies and 01/01/2013 410,187 3,179,335.94 7.75 applicable to Aurinkomatkat – Suntours is in force until the end of January 2020 and it is possible to extend its 2013 600,000 1,684,650.10 2.81 validity between the unions. 2013 -731,019 -4,055,744.86 5.55 The company invested in people development more than ever. Finnair sees that excellent customer experi2014 33,864 85,801.22 2.53 ence is generated by competent, committed and healthy personnel. Thus, the employee experience develop2014 -940 -2,334.40 2.48 ment is focused on the resourcing, leadership, learning, ways of working and well-being at work. 2015 14,893 37,734.40 2.53 In 2017, the employee experience index increased compared to the previous year. Finnair spent 10 million 2015 -1,780 -6,764.00 3.80 euros on personnel development and employees spent 370,000 hours in learning altogether. Investments in 2016 800,000 4,327,860.54 5.41 well-being were seen in lower sickness absences and lower injury rates measured by LTIF (Lost Time Injury 2016 -336,241 -975,326.55 2.90 Frequency). 2017 -355,597 -1,962,443.86 5.52 Employee experience in Finnair is about working together. The SkyPay application and line management 31/12/2017 433,367 2,312,768.53 5.34 application was developed and implemented together with employees with the help of change agents. In addition, 750 employees were able to influence the development of their own work space and ways of working. Flagging notifications Shares and shareholders No flagging notices were issued in 2017. Shares and share capital Shareholder agreements On 31 December 2017, the number of Finnair shares entered in the Trade Register was 128,136,115 and the Finnair is not aware of any shareholder agreements pertaining to share ownership or the use of voting rights. registered share capital was 75,442,904.30 euros. The company’s shares are quoted on Nasdaq Helsinki. Each share has one vote at the General Meeting. Change of control provisions in material agreements Some of Finnair’s financing agreements include a change of control clause under which the financier shall be Government ownership entitled to request prepayment of the existing loan or to cancel the availability of a loan facility in the event At the end of 2017, the Finnish Government owned 55.8 per cent of Finnair’s shares and votes. According to that a person other than the Finnish state acquires control of Finnair either through a majority of the voting the decision made by the Finnish Parliament on 20 June 1994, the Government must own more than half of rights or otherwise. Finnair Plc’s shares. Decreasing the ownership below this level would require revision of the Parliament’s decision. Share-based incentive schemes Share ownership by management Employee share savings plan FlyShare On 31 December 2017, members of the company’s Board of Directors did not own any Finnair shares, while In December, Finnair’s Board of Directors decided to launch a new 12-month savings period under the the CEO owned 122,562 shares. Members of the Executive Board, including the CEO, owned a total of 340,654 FlyShare Employee Share Plan. The objective of the plan, which was established in 2013 is to encourage shares, representing 0.27 per cent of all shares and votes. employees to become shareholders in the company, and thereby strengthen the employees’ interest in the development of Finnair’s shareholder value and to reward them over the long-term. The share savings plan is FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 30 Shareholders by type at 31 December 2017 described in a stock exchange release issued on 20 December 2017, in the Remuneration Statement 2017 and Number of shares % Number of shareholders % on the company’s website. Public bodies 83,873,372 65.5 11 0.1 Households 13,406,075 10.5 15,762 97.1 Share-based incentive plan for key personnel Private companies 4,898,415 3.8 358 2.2 In December, the Board of Directors of Finnair also approved a new individual performance share plan Financial institutions 893,528 0.7 16 0.1 covering the years 2018–2020. Within the plan, the participants have the opportunity to earn Finnair shares Associations 463,759 0.4 33 0.2 as a long-term incentive reward, if the performance targets set by the Board of Directors for the plan are Finnish shareholders, total 103,535,149 80.8 16,180 99.6 achieved. The potential share rewards will be delivered to the participants in the spring of 2021. The plan applies to some 70 people, and it is described in a stock exchange release issued on 20 December 2017, in the Registered in the name of a nominee 24,391,027 19.0 10 0.1 Remuneration Statement 2017 and on the company’s website. Outside Finland 193,083 0.2 49 0.3 Nominee registered and foreign shareholders, total 24,584,110 19.2 59 0.4 Finnair Plc largest shareholders as at 31 December 2017 Number of shares % Changes 2017 Not converted into the book entry system 16,856 0.0 1 State of Finland; Office Counsil Of State 71,515,426 55.8 0 Total 128,136,115 100.0 16,239 100.0 2 KEVA 6,200,875 4.8 0 3 Kyöstilä Heikki 3,070,000 2.4 120,000 4 Tiiviste-Group Oy 2,200,000 1.7 0 5 State Pension Fund 2,100,000 1.6 0 Shareholding by number of shares owned Shareholding by type 6 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 1,967,271 1.5 -734,119 7 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 1,111,053 0.9 -2,242,949 % % 8 Etra Invest Oy 1,000,000 0.8 0 9 Veritas Pension Insurance Company 731,048 0.6 -319,103 10 Laakkonen Mikko 640,000 0.5 140,000 Nominee registered 24,391,027 19.0 13,364,168 Others 13,209,415 10.3 Total 128,136,115 100.0 Breakdown of shares at 31 December 2017 Number of shares % Number of shareholders % 1–200 721,111 0.6 9,373 57.7 201–1,000 2,459,641 1.9 4,844 29.8 1–1 000 2.5% Public bodies 65.5% Registered in the name 1,001–10,000 5,026,656 3.9 1,879 11.6 of a nominee 19.0% 1 001–10 000 3.9% Households 10.5% 10,001–100,000 2,841,101 2.2 111 0.7 Outside Finland 0.2% 10 001–100 000 2.2% Private companies 3.8% 100,001–1,000,000 4,515,098 3.5 15 0.1 100 001–1 000 000 3.5% Financial institutions 0.7% 1,000,001–10,000,000 16,649,199 13.0 6 0.0 1 000 001–10 000 000 13.0% Associations 0.4% 10,000,001– 71,515,426 55.8 1 0.0 10 000 001– 55.8% Registered in the name of nominee 24,391,027 19.0 10 0.1 Registered in the name of a nominee 19.0% Not converted into the book entry system 16,856 0.0 Total 128,136,115 100.0 16,239 100.0 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 31 Number of shares and share prices EUR mill. 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Responsible Finnair Reporting of Non-Financial Information Number of shares, end of Finnair is a network airline specializing in passenger and cargo traffic between Asia and Europe. Finnair’s the financial year pcs 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 vision is to offer its passengers a unique Nordic experience, and its mission is to offer the smoothest, fastest Trading price highest EUR 13.52 5.92 5.50 3.01 3.25 connections in the northern hemisphere via Helsinki and the best network to the world from its home Trading price lowest EUR 3.98 3.80 2.49 2.30 2.40 markets. Market value of share The creation of value for Finnair’s shareholders and other stakeholders is based on the company’s capital Dec. 31 EUR mill. 1,643 516 695 318 355 • ability to operate and grow its route network resource efficiently and profitably, No. of shares traded pcs 44,333,288 28,099,932 25,456,779 10,750,318 26,024,070 • the way it treats customers, employees and other stakeholders and gains their commitment to the No. of shares traded as % of average no. of shares % 34.60% 21.93% 19.87% 8.39% 20.31 company, and • the ability to take environmental and other external impacts of operations into consideration. Share price development and trading Finnair’s market capitalisation increased by 218 per cent in 2017 to 1,642.7 million euros at year-end (516.4). Corporate responsibility is integral to all of Finnair’s operations. Finnair’s responsibility strategy is outlined The closing price of the share on 31 December 2017 was 12.82 euros (4.03). In 2017, the highest price for the in its Corporate Responsibility Policy and its aim is to reduce Finnair’s environmental impacts and generate Finnair Plc share on the Nasdaq Helsinki was 13.52 euros, the lowest price 3.98 euros and the average price financial and social utility for society. The key areas of corporate responsibility and sustainability strategy 8.79 euros. Some 44.3 million company shares, with a total value of 389.4 million euros, were traded. fall under the following themes: cleaner, caring and collaborative, and its measures are geared to contribute to cost containment and risk mitigation, as well as value creation. Finnair’s most significant environmental Dividend policy and the Board’s proposal for the distribution of profit aspects are the combustion of fuel, energy usage in corporate facilities and aircraft noise. The most important The aim of Finnair’s dividend policy is to pay, on average, at least one-third of the earnings per share as a divisocial responsibility areas concern safety, personnel and customers as well as ethical business conduct and dend during an economic cycle. The aim is to take into account the company’s earnings trend and outlook, responsible sourcing. financial situation and capital needs in the distribution of dividends. In 2017, earnings per share was 1.23 euros (0.55). Finnair Plc’s distributable equity amounted to 424,036,052.14 euros on 31 December 2017. The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of 0.30 euros per share be distributed for 2017. Finnair share 2013–2017 Comparison European Airlines Comparison Nasdaq Helsinki EUR 14 600 600 12 500 500 10 400 400 8 300 300 6 200 200 4 2 100 100 0 0 0 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 Average price Finnair Finnair Bloomberg Europe Airline Index Nasdaq Helsinki FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 32 In 2013, Finnair signed the United Nation’s Global Compact initiative and undertook to comply with the fleet has been significantly reduced thanks to the on-going fleet modernization and operational measures, Global Compact’s ten principles of corporate responsibility. Finnair has been reporting on its corporate such as CDA (Continuous Descent Approach) landings. responsibility pursuant to the GRI G4 reporting guidelines since 2015. By joining a nation-wide energy efficiency agreement in the service sector, Finnair has committed to reduce its properties’ energy consumption by 7 per cent from the 2016 level by 2025. In pursuit of this goal, Finnair Key non-financial performance indicators has deployed solar power in its new COOL Nordic Cargo Terminal building and various other technological Performance Performance 2017 2016 improvements in its facilities. 17% reduction in CO² emissions/RTK 2013–2020, cumulative compared to year 2013 -9,4% -3.0% Reduction of CO² emissions/ASK, change compared to previous year -3.2% -1.7% Social and employee matters Arrival punctuality at least 89.5% 83.2% 85.3% As Finnair is a significant employer, social responsibility is mainly related to the company’s personnel and Customer satisfaction/NPS* 60 by the year 2020 47 43 working conditions. A key risk relating to personnel is Finnair’s inability to execute its strategy in the event of We Together @Finnair Personnel Experience overall grade of at least 3.75 (scale 1–5) 3.78 3.69 inadequate quality, commitment or resourcing of human capital. Absences due to illness decrease from the previous year, % 4.1% 4.6% Finnair’s personnel action plans and policies cover all aspects of social responsibility that have been identiLTIF (Lost-time injury frequency) of less than 14.8** 15.6 16.6 fied as material and Finnair’s annual employee survey, We Together @Finnair, helps the company decide upon Code of Conduct awareness grade in We Together ­@Finnair survey at least 4 (scale 1–5)*** 4.22 n/a developments in this area. Risks and effects on society are also identified and assessed bi-annually by the people and culture, corporate responsibility and risk management services as a part of the company’s general * NPS = Net Promoter Score ** 2017 LTIF includes Finnair Kitchen, that was acquired in spring 2017. In 2016 figures Finnair Kitchen is excluded. 2017 LTIF without Finnair risk management process. Kitchen was 13.8. *** Code of Conduct awareness was first measured in 2017 and 2016 data is therefore not available. Employee Safety and well-being During 2017, Finnair has continued the development of a holistic management system for strategic workaEnvironmental matters bility, occupational safety and general wellbeing of its employees. The management system is expected to be Estimating the impacts of regulatory changes on airline’s operational activities and/or costs is difficult, and fully in use by the end of 2018. The We Together @Finnair Personnel Experience overall grade includes measkey risks relate to regulatory changes in the areas of market-based emission reduction schemes, noise regulaures for the overall wellbeing of Finnair’s personnel. tion and other environmental regulations and their impact on cost competitiveness. In occupational safety, Finnair’s long-term target is zero accidents both in its own operations as well as its Finnair’s environmental and energy efficiency policy lays out the targets for environmental management. partners and contractors’ operations. The Finnair Group level Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) rate for 2017 Finnair’s environmental responsibility is managed with the company’s environmental management system, was 15.6, with steady improvement compared to previous years. Without Finnair Kitchen LTIF in 2017 was 13.8. IATA Environmental Assessment (IEnvA) program, which complies with ISO 14001:2005. In this management To enhance Finnair’s strategic workability management, we have built processes to support workability system, Finnair has identified the most significant environmental factors and risks relevant to its operations. and offer the best possible means to rehabilitate employees back to their prior work, to find a new profession Finnair’s IEnvA program observes two perspectives: emissions from flight operations and energy usage in within Finnair or to provide training and a new career outside of Finnair. Finnair’s focus is on prevention and, corporate facilities. It is assessed by third-party auditors authorized by IATA who are qualified to perform to support that focus, Finnair decided to take the Sports ePassi into use for all employees in Finland from the audits of environmental management systems. beginning of year 2018. Finnair’s most significant environmental action has been investing in a modern fleet that is more energy Finnair has zero tolerance for bullying and any kind of harassment. In 2017 operating methods and proceefficient and quieter than previous-generation aircraft. Finnair now has 11 new Airbus A350 aircraft, and in dures agreed upon together with the personnel to control harassment and inappropriate treatment were 2017 seven new Airbus A321 joined the fleet. To further improve its fuel efficiency, in 2017 Finnair adopted highlighted and efforts were made to enhance communication about these issues. new software that provides flight and aircraft specific fuel consumption information. Finnair is committed to the aviation sector’s common goals of carbon-neutral growth from 2020 onwards, and cutting emissions from Diversity, equality and non-discrimination the 2005 level in half by 2050. On top of that Finnair has set an its own target to cut 17% of carbon dioxide Finnair does not discriminate based on gender, age, ethnic or national origin, nationality, language, religion, emissions by year 2020 from year 2013 level. conviction, opinion, health, disability, sexual orientation or other personal attributes or circumstances. Aircraft noise has an impact on the areas surrounding airports and under takeoff and approach flight paths. In 2017 Finnair signed the Finnish Government's Society's Commitment to Sustainable Development. Advances in aerodynamics and engine technology help mitigate aircraft noise. The noise level of the Finnair Finnair committed to emphasize equality and diversity in its own activities, to promote equality and non-disFINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 33 crimination in customer processes and to promote diversity in different occupational groups. Finnair’s mented the SEDEX supplier auditing tool, chosen together with the oneworld alliance, into its purchasing Working Group for Equality reviewed and further defined the scope of the Equality Plan published in 2016 and processes in order to improve risk management, the evaluation of social impacts and traceability in the more detailed questions related to non-discrimination and equality were added to the We Together @Finnair supply chain. Finnair is actively involved with work of IOM (International Organisation for Migration) and IATA -survey in order to better detect possible issues. in order to combat and prevent human trafficking and advance human rights in the aviation sector. In 2017, Finnair also took measures to better accommodate different needs of passengers by changing its booking Finnair launched a campaign to raise its flight crews’ awareness of trafficking. process and developing the Inflight Entertainment system to make services more accessible. In 2017, Finnair continued the implementation of the SEDEX system by taking into use Maplecroft risk assessment instruments. Finnair also chose an external auditing partner for further, risk-based supplier Customer experience audits from the responsible sourcing perspective. Finnair aims to bring its new suppliers to the SEDEX system The second material theme for social responsibility at Finnair relates to our customers, and covers topics such already during the purchasing process and will continue to work with the oneworld alliance to expand the as passenger well-being and safety, customer satisfaction and punctuality. The key risks in this area relate to coverage of the SEDEX certification in the supply chain. Finnair being unable to ensure customer safety and well-being and drive increased customer satisfaction. Finnair’s Safety Management System (SMS) covers all aspects of flight safety: safety policy, operational risk Anti-Corruption and Bribery management, safety training and communications, safety assurance including continuous auditing of operaAnti-corruption policies are outlined in Finnair’s Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct as well as in tions and the assessment of the potential impact of changes in the operating environment. Official regulations the Group Guidelines for Anti-Bribery, Corporate Hospitality and Hosting of Public Officials. Finnair’s Code of and standards set the minimum requirements, which the company aims to exceed in all areas. Conduct includes an anti-corruption section, and the receiving and giving of bribes is strictly prohibited. A strong safety culture, objective monitoring of the company’s own operations, continuous improvement Finnair requires that its suppliers comply with ethical standards essentially similar to those which Finnair and implementing corrective measures, as well as open dialogue with the authorities, guarantee safe and complies with in its own operations. Finnair’s Supplier Code of Conduct provides clear principles to ensure high-quality airline operations. In 2017, new high-level objectives were set to improve even further Finnair’s ethical purchasing, including zero tolerance for corruption. Finnair’s Responsible Sourcing Manual compleflight safety, operational risk management and safety culture. In 2017, Finnair conducted an extensive internal ments the Code as internal instructions for implementation. Finnair’s Supplier Code of Conduct was renewed safety promotion campaign Their safety. Our Priority. during 2017, and Finnair aims to include the renewed Supplier Code of Conduct in all new supply and subconFinnair collects customer satisfaction feedback continuously. Survey results and other customer feedback tracting agreements, as well as to existing contracts as these are renewed. are reported to the unit concerned at least once per month. In 2017, Finnair’s Net Promoter Score was 47. In Finnair does not support any political parties or persons. 2017, customer feedback was utilized e.g., in defining the customer experience strategic targets and roadThe identification and assessment of risks related to corruption are part of the general risk assessment of maps for development. the company and its business units, and Finnair’s business units conduct an analysis of risks related to corrupFinnair’s long-term goal for flight punctuality is 89 per cent. In 2017, Finnair’s flight punctuality was 83.2 tion as part of the company’s general risk survey. per cent. The OAG Punctuality League publication released in January 2018 ranked Finnair’s arrival punctuAlthough, based on these assessments, Finnair’s own operations and services are not viewed as high risk ality in 2017 as the 15th highest in the world among mainline airlines. from the perspective of corruption, Finnair aims to include responsible business practices in all elements of its operations. Preventing corruption is the responsibility of everyone at Finnair, including the heads of busiHuman Rights and Responsible Sourcing ness operations, compliance and the internal audit. Finnair’s own operations involve no significant direct human rights risks or impacts. However, indirect risks During 2017, 4,360 Finnair employees participated in online training on Finnair’s Code of Conduct. In addiand implications may exist in relation to the supply chain and outsourced operations. In line with Finnair’s tion, members of Finnair leadership teams and Finnair managers were educated on Finnair's Code of Conduct endorsement of the Global Compact, Finnair aims to prevent any violations of human rights and the use of in interactive workshops. In the 2017 personnel survey (We Together @Finnair), the score for knowing and forced or child labor both within its own operations and its supply chain. Finnair has its own ethical guidefollowing the Finnair’s Code of Conduct was on a good level at 4.22/5. lines for suppliers. All partners and subcontractors, moreover, are obliged to comply with the principles of the During 2017, no incidents of corruption were notified through Finnair Ethics Helpline nor were there any UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights as well as local legislation. Finnair’s Supplier Code of Conduct was investigations on-going in the company. renewed during 2017, including its human rights aspects. Finnair’s Responsible Sourcing Manual complements the Supplier Code of Conduct as internal instructions for implementation. Significant near-term risks and uncertainties Finnair cooperates with several partners in order to improve assessment of risks and the realization of Aviation is an industry that is sensitive to global economic cycles and reacts quickly to external disruptions, social responsibility and human rights in Finnair’s operations and in the supply chain. Finnair has impleseasonal variation and economic trends. In the implementation of its strategy, Finnair is faced with various FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 34 risks and opportunities. Finnair has a comprehensive risk management process to ensure that risks are idenprotectionism in the political environment may also hinder the market access required for the implementatified and mitigated as much as possible, although many risks are not within the company’s full control. To tion of Finnair’s growth plan. exploit value creation opportunities, Finnair is also prepared to take and manage risks within the limits of its The construction work associated with the extension of Helsinki Airport, which will continue until 2020, risk-bearing capacity. may cause traffic disruptions. Finnair is engaged in close cooperation with Finavia to minimize the negaThe risks and uncertainties described below are considered as potentially having a significant impact on tive impacts of the expansion project on Finnair’s operations. The expansion will facilitate the increase of the Finnair’s business, financial result and future outlook within the next 12 months. This list is not intended to be airport’s annual passenger volume and enable the implementation of Finnair’s growth strategy. exhaustive. Finnair’s risk management and risks related to the company’s operations are described in more detail on Exceptional variations in fuel price and how these are passed on to customers via ticket prices, or affect the company’s website at https://investors.finnair.com/en/governance/risk-management. capacity growth in Finnair’s main markets, pose a risk to Finnair’s revenue development, as do sudden adverse changes in foreign exchange rates and slowing growth in demand. Seasonal variation and sensitivities in business operations Capacity increases and product improvements among Finnair’s existing or new competitors may have an Due to the seasonal variation of the airline business, the Group’s revenue and profit are generally at their impact on the demand for, and yield of, Finnair’s services. In addition, joint operations involving closer cooplowest in the first quarter and at their highest in the third quarter of the year. The growing proportional share eration than airline alliances and joint businesses are expected to develop further. of Asian traffic increases seasonal fluctuation due to destination-specific seasons in Asian leisure and busiThe achievement of the additional revenue and efficiency improvements sought through Finnair’s digital ness travel. business transformation and new services involves risks as does the implementation of Finnair’s strategy and In addition to operational activities and market conditions, fuel price development has a key impact on fleet renewal. Finnair’s growth plan and its resourcing could generate further cost pressure and operational Finnair’s result, as fuel costs are the company’s most significant expense item. Finnair’s foreign exchange risk challenges in the short term. arises primarily from fuel and aircraft purchases, divestments of aircraft, aircraft lease payments, aircraft The aviation industry is affected by a number of regulatory projects at the EU and international levels. Estimaintenance, overflight royalties and foreign currency revenue. Significant dollar-denominated expense mating the impacts of the regulatory changes on airlines’ operational activities and/or costs in advance is items are fuel costs and aircraft lease payments. The largest investments, namely the acquisition of aircraft difficult. Examples of such regulatory projects include international regulation related to emission trading, and their spare parts, are also mainly denominated in US dollars. The most significant income currencies after noise regulation and other environmental regulation, EU regulations on privacy protection and the decithe euro are the Japanese yen, the Chinese yuan and the Swedish krona. sion made by the Court of Justice of the European Union in October 2012 regarding flight passengers’ rights. The company hedges its currency, interest rate and jet fuel exposure using a variety of derivative instruInterpretation of these decisions involves risks, for example relating to the injunction sought by the Finnish ments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options, in compliance with the risk management policy Consumer Ombudsman in September regarding Finnair’s compensation practices. In addition, regulations approved annually by the Board of Directors. Fuel purchases are hedged for 24 months forward on a rolling on the reporting of non-financial information (corporate responsibility) and other stakeholder requirements basis, and the degree of hedging decreases towards the end of the hedging period. The higher and lower have increased substantially. limits of the degree of hedging are 90 and 60 per cent for the following six months. Geopolitical uncertainty, the elevated threat of terrorism and other potential external disruptions may, if they materialize, significantly affect the demand for air travel and Finnair’s operations. Potentially increasing FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 35 Sensitivities in business operations, impact on comparable operating profit (rolling 12 months from date of financial statements) Events after the review period 1 percentage Finnair has decided to reschedule the delivery of one A350 aircraft from 2023 to 2019, which means that the (point)change remaining eight A350s will be delivered to Finnair between 2018–2022. Passenger load factor (PLF, %) EUR 24 million Average yield of passenger traffic EUR 23 million Outlook Unit cost (CASK ex. fuel) EUR 22 million Global airline traffic is expected to grow strongly in 2018. Finnair expects increased competition as existing and new operators increase capacity, particularly on routes linking Europe with Asia and with North America. Fuel sensitivities (rolling 12 months from date of financial statements) Finnair plans on increasing its capacity by more than 15 per cent in 2018, with most of this growth coming 10% change, in the first half of the year. Passenger volume is expected to grow broadly in line with capacity while revenue 10% change taking hedging Hedging ratio without hedging into account H1/2018 H2/2018 growth is expected to be slightly lower. Fuel EUR 54 million EUR 21 million 74% 53% In line with its disclosure policy, Finnair will issue guidance on its full year comparable operating result as part of its half-year report in July. Currency distribution % Finnair Plc Hedging ratio for Currency sensitivities USD and JPY operational cash flows Board of Directors (rolling 12 months from date of (rolling 12 months financial statements for operational from date of financial 2017 2016 cash flows) statements) Sales currencies 10% change 10% change, without hedging taking hedging into account EUR 55 56 USD* 4 4 see below see below see below JPY 10 9 EUR 19 mill. EUR 8 mill. 66% CNY 7 7 KRW 3 3 SEK 4 5 Other 17 16 Purchase currencies EUR 57 54 USD* 35 38 EUR 57 mill. EUR 21 mill. 67% Other 7 8 * Hedging ratio for and sensitivity analysis for USD basket, which consists of net cash flows in USD CNY and HKD. The sensitivity analysis assumes that the correlation of the Chinese yuan and the Hong Kong dollar with the US dollar is strong. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 36 Key figures 2013–2017 REVENUE AND RESULT 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Revenue* EUR mill. 2,568 2,317 2,255 2,284 2,400 17% reduction in CO² emissions/RTK 2013–2020, cumulative compared to year 2013, % -9.4 -3.0 -0.8 -1.0 change from previous year % 10.9 2.8 -1.3 -4.8 -2.0 Reduction of CO² emissions/ASK, change compared to Comparable operating result EUR mill. 170 55 24 -36 12 previous year, % -3.2 -1.7 -0.6 +0.4 in relation to revenue % 6.6 2.4 1.1 -1.6 0.5 Arrival punctuality at least 89.5% 83.2 85.3 89.5 88.3 89.0 Operating result EUR mill. 225 116 122 -72 8 Customer satisfaction/NPS*** 60 by the year 2020 47 43 39 Comparable EBITDAR EUR mill. 436 270 231 177 210 We Together @Finnair Personnel Experience overall Net result EUR mill. 169 85 90 -83 23 grade of at least 3.75 (scale 1–5)*** 3.78 3.69 3.65 Absences due to illness decrease from the previous year, % 4.1 4.6 4.8 4.6 4.6 BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 LTIF (Lost-time injury frequency) of less than 14.8**** 15.6 16.6 18 13 10 Gross capital expenditure EUR mill. 519 519 330 82 77 Code of Conduct awareness grade in We Together in relation to revenue % 20.2 22.4 14.6 3.6 3.2 ­@ Finnair survey at least 4 (scale 1–5)***** 4.22 Average capital employed EUR mill. 1,654 1,324 1,008 1,106 1,295 Dividend for the financial year** EUR mill. 38 13 0 0 0 * Revenue from non-core businesses, is reclassified from revenue to other operating income from 2015 onwards. Interest-bearing liabilities EUR mill. 719 718 346 428 593 ** The dividend for year 2017 is a proposal of the Board of Directors to the Annual General Meeting. *** NPS = Net Promoter Score. NPS and Personnel Experience were first measured in 2015, another measurement before that. Liquid funds EUR mill. 983 797 708 426 459 **** 2017 LTIF includes Finnair Kitchen, that was acquired in spring 2017. Finnair Kitchen is excluded in 2013–2016 figures. ­2017 LTIF Interest-bearing net debt EUR mill. -246 -96 -362 1 134 ­without Finnair Kitchen was 13.8. Adjusted interest-bearing net debt EUR mill. 710 671 333 553 537 ***** Comparison figures are not available. Code of Conduct awareness was first measured in 2017. Net cash flow from operating activities EUR mill. 382 220 171 24 142 KEY FIGURES 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Finnair's long-term financial targets were met Year 2017 was a success. Finnair's comparable operating result reached its long-term target level of 6% and EBITDAR its long-term ­target Basic and diluted earnings per share EUR 1.23 0.55 0.57 -0.71 0.11 level of 17%. Financial position is strong and adjusted gearing remained at a low level 69.9%, clearly below the maximum 175% set by Equity/share EUR 7.95 6.73 5.69 4.02 5.30 the Board of Directors. Return on capital employed 13.6% exceeded clearly the set target level of 7%. Dividend/share** EUR 0.30 0.10 0.00 0.00 0.00 The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of 0.30 euros per share be distributed on the p ­ rofit Dividend/earnings** % 24.4 18.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 for the period. Dividend yield** % 2.3 2.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 Cash flow from operating activities/share EUR 3.00 1.73 1.34 0.19 1.12 P/E ratio 10.43 7.32 9.46 -3.47 25.02 Adjusted net debt / Comparable EBITDAR 1.6 2.5 1.4 3.1 2.6 Gearing Equity ratio % 35.2 33.9 35.5 27.3 32.0 Net debt-to-equity (Gearing) % -24.2 -11.2 -49.8 0.3 19.9 € million % 1,016 1,000 956 983 140 Adjusted gearing % 69.9 78.3 45.8 107.5 79.2 Return on equity (ROE) % 18.1 10.7 14.4 -13.8 3.2 800 737 100 Return on capital employed (ROCE) % 13.6 8.9 12.2 -6.5 3.6 600 69.9% 60 400 20 -24.2% 200 -20 PERSONNEL 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 0 -60 Average number of employees 5,526 4,908 4,906 5,172 5,859 13 14 15 16 17 Aircraft lease payments, 12m rolling x 7y Adjusted Interest-bearing liabilities Gearing Cash funds Equity Adjusted gearing = Highlights FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 37 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 JANUARY–31 DECEMBER 2017 How to read Finnair Financial Statements? Contents Finnair has made efforts to facilitate reading these financial statements Consolidated income statement.......................................................................................38 3 Capital structure and financing costs..............................................................56 and to clarify the overall picture that can derived from them. The notes Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.............................................38 3.1 Financial income and expenses.................................................................................56 of Finnair’s financial statements have been combined to business related sections in order to give a more relevant and less complex picture of Consolidated balance sheet.................................................................................................39 3.2 Financial assets.................................................................................................................... 57 the whole. Each section sets out the accounting principles applied in proConsolidated cash flow statement..................................................................................40 3.2.1 Other current financial assets................................................................................ 57 ducing these notes together with any critical accounting estimates and Consolidated statement of changes in equity.......................................................... 41 3.2.2 Cash and cash equivalents........................................................................................ 57 sources of uncertainty. Secondly, interesting figures have been highlightNotes to the consolidated financial statements.................................................... 42 3.3 Financial liabilities.............................................................................................................58 ed by circling them, and these as well as other highlights are explained 3.4 Contingent liabilities........................................................................................................59 in a text box marked with a star. Thirdly, illustrating charts have been inserted in various sections of the financial statements so as to facilitate 1 Segments and operating result............................................................................ 43 3.5 Management of financial risks...................................................................................59 understanding the figures. 1.1 Segment information....................................................................................................... 43 3.6 Classification of financial assets and liabilities...............................................62 1.2 Operating income............................................................................................................... 44 3.7 Offsetting financial assets and liabilities............................................................ 63 Notes to the financial statement have been combined into sections based 1.2.1 Revenue by product and traffic area.................................................................. 44 3.8 Derivatives............................................................................................................................. 64 on their context. The aim is to give a more relevant picture of the Finnair 1.2.2 Revenue by currency................................................................................................... 45 3.9 Equity-related information...........................................................................................65 Group and its business. The content of each section is described and explained in the beginning of that section and marked with . 1.2.3 Trade and other receivables................................................................................... 45 1.3 Operating expenses.......................................................................................................... 46 4 Consolidation........................................................................................................................ 67 Specific accounting principles are attached to the relevant note. The 1.3.1 Operational expenses by currency...................................................................... 46 4.1 General consolidation principles.............................................................................. 67 accounting principles can be recognised from character . 1.3.2 Leasing expenses........................................................................................................... 46 4.2 Subsidiaries............................................................................................................................ 67 1.3.3 Other expenses................................................................................................................ 46 4.3 Acquisitions and disposals........................................................................................... 67 Critical accounting estimates and sources of uncertainty have been presented together with the relevant note and specified with character . 1.3.4 Other liabilities................................................................................................................ 46 4.4 Investments in associates and joint ventures................................................. 68 1.3.5 Provisions.............................................................................................................................47 4.5 Assets and liabilities held for sale.......................................................................... 69 Highlights related to the section are explained in a separate text box 1.3.6 Items excluded from comparable operating result..................................47 4.6 Related party transactions.......................................................................................... 70 to underline significant matters. 1.3.7 Employee benefits......................................................................................................... 48 4.7 Changes in accounting principless.......................................................................... 70 1.3.7.1 Employee benefit expenses and share-based payments................... 48 Interesting figures have been highlighed with circle and explained in the highlights text box as described above. 1.3.7.2 Pensions............................................................................................................................ 50 5 Other notes............................................................................................................................. 72 5.1 Income taxes.......................................................................................................................... 72 2 Aircraft and other intangible and 5.2 Disputes and litigation.................................................................................................... 73 tangible assets and leasing arrangements..................................................... 53 5.3 Events after the closing date...................................................................................... 73 2.1 Tangible assets...................................................................................................................... 53 2.2 Leasing arrangements..................................................................................................... 55 6 Parent company financial statements............................................................ 75 2.3 Intangible assets.................................................................................................................56 Calculation of key ratios........................................................................................................ 84 Board of Directors’ proposal on the dividend..........................................................85 Auditor’s Report.......................................................................................................................... 86 Tax footprint................................................................................................................................... 91 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 38 Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income EUR mill. Note 2017 2016 EUR mill. Note 2017 2016 Revenue 1.1, 1.2 2,568.4 2.316.8 Result for the financial year 169.4 85.1 Other operating income 77.0 75.5 Other comprehensive income items Operating expenses Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods Staff costs 1.3.7 -423.3 -362.5 Change in fair value of hedging instruments -18.5 145.2 Fuel costs -472.2 -491.5 Tax effect 3.7 -29.0 Other rents 1.3.2 -157.9 -167.4 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods Aircraft materials and overhaul -165.7 -147.3 Actuarial gains and losses from defined benefit plans 1.3.7.2 35.9 -18.1 Traffic charges -266.5 -262.8 Tax effect -7.2 3.6 Ground handling and catering expenses -252.2 -258.9 Other comprehensive income items total 14.0 101.7 Expenses for tour operations -100.5 -87.8 Comprehensive income for the financial year 183.4 186.9 Sales and marketing expenses -85.8 -76.9 Other expenses 1.3.3 -285.1 -266.6 Attributable to Comparable EBITDAR 436.2 270.4 Owners of the parent company 183.4 186.9 Lease payments for aircraft 1.3.2 -136.6 -109.5 Depreciation and impairment 2.1, 2.3 -129.2 -105.8 Comparable operating result 170.4 55.2 Fair value changes in derivatives and Change in comparable operating result 2017 changes in exchange rates of fleet overhauls 1.3.6 11.1 32.0 Items affecting comparability 1.3.6 43.3 29.0 € million Operating result 224.8 116.2 1.5 -60.8 Financial income 3.1 -0.3 1.0 300 9.5 -18.4 19.4 6.7 -12.7 -3.7 -9.0 Financial expenses 3.1 -13.4 -11.5 250 -27.1 Result before taxes 211.1 105.8 204.7 -23.4 200 -18.4 Income taxes 5.1 -41.7 -20.6 170.4 Result for the financial year 169.4 85.1 150 Attributable to 100 23.5 Owners of the parent company 169.4 85.1 55.2 19.1 4.3 50 Earnings per share attributable to 1.23 0.55 0 shareholders of the parent company. EUR (basic and diluted) 20 nu e e sts ts ts l au ge s ha s ns s se ft nt se s 20 c a n dli n 16 om co os en rh tio ra me en 17 ve ar en ir c nc aff lc rr ve ch te r g ra xp a ir xp Re gi Fu he do in g a n pe ra t in St e Ot ffic ex d ro ge fo mp re ra an Tr pe t in ts di he ls a ns ou Ot pe r ia nd e rt ke en an Excellent year with a record-high result 170.4 (55.2) ay ro fo ar io n he ate ou es dm m Gr ep ia t Ot tm ns an ec 2017 was a year of profitable growth. Revenue grew by almost 11% to 2.6 billion euros, exceeding the 9% capacity growth. Unit costs af rcr Ex pe le s as Le De pr Sa declined thanks to fuel hedges and the weakening of the USD, and Finnair made a record-high comparable operating result, 170 milAi lion euros, for 2017. Passenger revenue Cargo Ancillary and retail revenue Travel services and travel agencies Operating expenses = Highlights FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 39 Consolidated balance sheet EUR mill. Note 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 EUR mill. Note 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 ASSETS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Intangible assets O 2.3 15.5 12.4 Share capital E 75.4 75.4 Tangible assets O 2.1 1,422.1 1,166.5 Other equity E 940.3 781.6 Investments in associates and joint ventures O 4.4 2.5 2.5 Equity total 1,015.7 857.0 Loan and other receivables O 5.6 7.4 Non-current assets total 1,445.7 1,188.7 Deferred tax liabilities O 5.1 73.9 32.7 Interest-bearing liabilities IL 3.3 586.2 617.3 Inventories O 17.2 14.9 Pension obligations O 1.3.7.2 6.4 31.9 Trade and other receivables O 1.2.3 319.8 211.9 Provisions O 1.3.5 79.0 63.6 Derivative financial instruments O/IA* 3.8 104.5 176.6 Other liabilities O 3.3 1.1 4.9 Other financial assets IA 3.2.1 833.0 727.9 Non-current liabilities total 746.7 750.4 Cash and cash equivalents IA 3.2.2 150.2 69.4 Current assets total 1,424.6 1,200.7 Provisions O 1.3.5 21.1 22.2 Assets held for sale O 4.5 16.7 139.3 Interest-bearing liabilities IL 3.3 132.4 100.4 Trade payables O 90.7 94.4 Assets total 2,887.1 2,528.7 Derivative financial instruments O/IL* 3.8 81.3 25.2 Deferred income and advances received O 1.2.4 475.3 424.6 Liabilities related to employee benefits O 1.3.7.1 139.2 93.4 Fleet renewal advances – four new A350s, three on own balance sheet Other liabilities O 1.3.4 173.4 161.1 In 2017, Finnair completed the first phase of its long-haul fleet renewal, when the last four A350 XWB aircraft of the original 11 aircraft Current liabilities total 1,113.4 921.3 order were delivered. Three were purchased onto own balance sheet and one was sold and leased back. A350s replaced the Airbus Liabilities related to assets held for sale O 4.5 11.2 0.0 A340 wide-body aircraft, that had lower seat capacity. A340s were sold back to Airbus as agreed in the trade agreement signed in 2014. Balance sheet Liabilities total 1,871.4 1,671.7 € million Assets Equity and liabilities Equity and liabilities total 2,887.1 2,528.7 3,000 2,887.1 2,887.1 16.7 11.2 Finnair reports its interest-bearing debt, net debt and adjusted gearing to give an overview of Finnair’s financial position. 2,528.7 2,528.7 Balance sheet items included in interest-bearing net debt are marked with an “IA” or “IL”. The calculation of capital employed includes 2,500 139.3 718.6 983.2 items marked with an “E” or “IL”. Other items are marked with an “O”. 717.7 2,000 797.3 385.2 Additional information to Balance Sheet: 449.6 348.5 1,500 656.3 Interest-bearing net debt and adjusted gearing 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 413.2 166.8 519.7 Interest-bearing liabilities 718.6 717.7 130.1 100.0 1,000 85.8 Cross currency Interest rate swaps* 18.5 -16.1 1,048.7 1,270.8 Adjusted interest-bearing liabilities 737.1 701.5 500 1,015.7 857.0 Other financial assets -833.0 -727.9 0 Cash and cash equivalents -150.2 -69.4 16 17 17 16 Interest-bearing net debt -246.0 -95.8 Lease payments for aircraft for the last twelve months (LTM) * 7 956.4 766.4 Aircraft including advances paid Cash and cash equivalents Equity Deferred revenue on and currency hedging of aircraft and other financial assets ticket sales Adjusted interest-bearing net debt 710.3 670.6 Provisions acquisitions Equity total 1,015.7 857.0 Assets held for sale Other liabilities Interest-bearing Other fixed assets liabilities Adjusted gearing, % 69.9 % 78.3% Other assets Liabilities related to * Cross-currency interest rate swaps are used for hedging the currency and interest rate risk of interest-bearing loans, but hedge accountassets held for sale ing is not applied. Changes in fair net value correlate with changes in the fair value of interest-bearing liabilities. Therefore, the fair net value of cross-currency interest rate swaps recognised in derivative assets/liabilities and reported in Note 3.8 Derivatives, is considered an inter= Highlights est-bearing liability in the net debt calculation. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 40 Consolidated cash flow statement Notes to consolidated cash flow statement EUR mill. 2017 2016 Cash flow from operating activities * Non-cash transactions Result for the financial year 169.4 85.1 EUR mill. 2017 2016 Depreciation and impairment 129.2 102.9 Employee benefits 14.5 15.1 Other adjustments to result for the financial year Fair value changes in derivatives -0.3 -34.0 Financial income and expenses 13.6 10.5 Other adjustments 19.1 -0.6 Income taxes 41.7 20.6 Total 33.4 -19.6 EBITDA 353.9 219.2 Other adjustments mainly include changes in maintenance and other provisions. Gains and losses on aircraft and other transactions -44.1 -30.4 ** Liquid funds Non-cash transactions * 33.4 -19.6 EUR mill. 2017 2016 Changes in working capital 56.8 55.5 Other financial assets 833.0 727.9 Financial expenses paid, net -17.1 -5.0 Cash and cash equivalents 150.2 69.4 Income taxes paid -0.7 0.0 Liquid funds in balance sheet 983.2 797.3 Net cash flow from operating activities 382.3 219.7 Maturing after more than three months -339.2 -418.9 Total 643.9 378.4 Cash flow from investing activities Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities, including both changes arising from cash flows and non-cash changes, Investments in intangible assets -11.3 -10.3 are disclosed in the note 3.3 Financial liabilities. Investments in tangible assets -393.6 -475.7 Investments in group shares 7.5 0.0 Strong financing position supports development of operations and financing of fleet transition Divestments of fixed assets and group shares 156.9 153.2 Finnair's liquidity improved despite heavy investments and the cash funds at year-end amounted to 983.2 million euros (797.3). Strong Net change in financial assets maturing after more than three months 82.9 -168.4 cash position was boosted by strengthened operating cash flow driven by profit improvement, one sale-and-leaseback of A350 and isChange in non-current receivables 0.0 1.6 suance of a new 200-million euro senior unsecured bond. Finnair redeemed 85 million euros of its existing bond and purchased three Net cash flow from investing activities -157.5 -499,6 new A350 aircraft to its own balance sheet. Cash flow from financing activities Cash Flow change 2017, 265.5 € million Proceeds from loans 199.3 377.4 Net cash flow from Net cash flow from Net cash flow from € million Loan repayments and changes -130.0 -115.1 operating activities, +382.3 investing activities, -157.5 financing activities, +40.8 Hybrid bond repayments 0.0 -38.3 1,000 Hybrid bond interests and expenses -15.8 -19.1 900 199.3 56.8 800 353.9 Purchase of own shares 0.0 -4.3 -28.4 700 643.9 Dividends paid -12.8 0.0 82.9 -130.0 -15.8 -12.8 600 156.9 Net cash flow from financing activities 40.8 200.5 500 378.4 400 Change in cash flows 265.5 -79,3 -397.4 300 200 Liquid funds, at beginning 378.4 457.7 100 Change in cash flows 265.5 -79.3 0 in g ITD al s ts es Liquid funds, at end ** 643.9 378.4 pit ie s et se ns ts ts aid nd in n A vit ss as iti lo a en es dp ee EB ca c ti fa tiv pa er eg in g of ac m ym in t en th eb ga no al f ro v id at rk tio ng re nd th wo t in os s ti ds bo Di sh at ra isi sp ee an Ca in pe qu Di ve Lo id sh r in oc br ge ro Ac Pr = Highlights Ca an Ch he he Ot Hy Ot FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 41 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Hedging reserve Share Other and other Unrestricted Retained Hybrid Equity EUR mill. capital restricted funds OCI items equity funds earnings bond total Equity 31 Dec 2016 75.4 168.1 33.9 248.6 132.8 198.2 857.0 Change in accounting principles (IFRS 9) 15.2 -16.1 -0.9 Equity 1 Jan 2017 75.4 168.1 49.0 248.6 116.6 198.2 856.1 Result for the financial year 169.4 169.4 Change in fair value of hedging instruments -14.8 -14.8 Actuarial gains and losses from defined benefit plans 28.7 28.7 Comprehensive income for the financial year 0.0 0.0 14.0 0.0 169.4 0.0 183.4 Hybrid bond interests and expenses -12.6 -12.6 Dividend -12.8 -12.8 Share-based payments 1.6 1.6 Equity 31 Dec 2017 75.4 168.1 63.0 250.3 260.7 198.2 1,015.7 Hedging reserve Share Other and other Unrestricted Retained Hybrid Equity EUR mill. capital restricted funds OCI items equity funds earnings bond total Equity 1 Jan 2016 75.4 168.1 -67.9 248.1 67.6 236.2 727.5 Result for the financial year 85.1 85.1 Change in fair value of hedging instruments 116.2 116.2 Actuarial gains and losses from defined benefit plans -14.4 -14.4 Comprehensive income for the financial year 0.0 0.0 101.7 0.0 85.1 0.0 186.9 Hybrid bond repayments -38.3 -38.3 Hybrid bond interests and expenses -15.7 0.3 -15.3 Purchase of own shares -4.3 -4.3 Share-based payments 0.6 0.6 Equity 31 Dec 2016 75.4 168.1 33.9 248.6 132.8 198.2 857.0 During 2016, Finnair repaid the old hybrid bond of 38.3 million euros issued in 2012. Positive result strengthened equity. Equity ratio at 35.2% (33.9%). Finnair’s equity strengthened during the period from 857 million euro to 1,016 million euro primarily due to the profit for the period (169.4). Retained earnings was adjusted due to implementation of IFRS 9 Financial instruments -standard. Under IFRS 9, Finnair can apply hedge accounting more widely. Due to the change, fair value changes of derivatives previously excluded from hedge accounting were reclassified from retained earnings to hedging reserve. = Highlights FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Accounting principles Description of the company The Finnair Group engages in worldwide air transport operations and supporting services. The Group’s parent company is Finnair Plc, which is domiciled in Helsinki at the registered address Tietotie 9, Vantaa. The parent company is listed on the NASHow should the Finnair’s accounting principles be read? DAQ OMX Helsinki Stock Exchange. The Board of Directors of Finnair Plc has approved these financial statements for publiFinnair describes the accounting principles in conjunction with each note in the aim of providing enhanced understanding of each accation at its meeting on 15 February 2018. Under Finland’s Limited Liability Companies Act, shareholders have the option to counting area. Basis of preparation is described as part of this note (accounting principles), while the ones more directly related to a speaccept, change or reject the financial statements in the Annual General meeting of the shareholders, which will be held after cific note are attached to the corresponding note. The Group focuses on describing the accounting choices made within the framework of the publication of the financial statements. the prevailing IFRS policy and avoids repeating the actual text of the standard, unless Finnair considers it particularly important to the understanding of the note’s content. Refer to the table below to see which notes, accounting principles and IFRS standards are related. Basis of preparation Finnair Plc’s consolidated financial statements for 2017 have been prepared according to the International Financial R ­ eporting Standards (IFRS) and IFRIC interpretations in effect on 31 December 2017 and as adopted by the European Union. The notes to the consolidated financial statements also comply with Finnish accounting and corporate law. New and amended standards applied in 2017 and future periods are described in the Note 4.7 Application of new and amended IFRS standards and IFRIC Accounting principle Note Nr. IFRS interpretations. Segment reporting Segment information 1.1 IFRS 8 The 2017 consolidated financial statements have been prepared based on original acquisition costs, except for financial asRevenue recognition, other income and trade Operating income 1.2 IAS 18, IFRS 9, IFRS 7 sets recognised through profit and loss at fair value, financial assets available-for-sale, and derivative contracts, which have receivables been measured at fair value. Financial statement data is presented in millions of euros, rounded to the nearest one hundred Provisions and contingent liabilities Provisions 1.3.5 IAS 37 thousand euro. This means that the sum of the individual figures may differ from the total shown. Employee benefits and share-based payments Employee benefits 1.3.7 IAS 19, IFRS 2 Pensions Pensions 1.3.7.2 IAS 19 Presentation of Consolidated Income Statement and Balance Sheet Tangible assets Tangible assets 2.1 IAS 16, IAS 36 IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements standard does not define ‘operating result’. The Group has defined it as net amount of operating income and expenses, including revenue and other operating income, less operating expenses, such as employOperating and finance lease arrangements Leasing arrangements 2.2 IAS 17 ee benefits, fuel costs, maintenance expenses, lease payments for aircraft and depreciations. Exchange rate differences and Intangible assets Intangible assets 2.3 IAS 38 realised changes in fair values of derivatives are included in operating result if they arise from items related to business operInterest income and expenses Financial income and expenses 3.1 IFRS 7, IAS 18, IAS 32 ations; otherwise they are recognised in financial items. Operating result excludes financial items, share of results from assoFinancial assets and impairment of financial Financial assets 3.2 IFRS 9, IFRS 7 ciates and joint ventures and income taxes. assets Consolidated income statement includes, in addition to operating result, comparable operating result and EBITDAR which Cash and cash equivalents Financial assets 3.2 IFRS 9, IFRS 7 are presented to better reflect the Group’s business performance when comparing results to previous periods. Comparable Financial liabilities Financial liabilities 3.3 IFRS 9, IFRS 7 operating result does not include capital gains and losses, changes in the value of foreign currency denominated fleet mainteDerivative contracts and hedge accounting Derivatives 3.8 IFRS 9, IFRS 7 nance reserves, changes in the unrealised fair value of derivatives or restructuring costs. Comparable EBITDAR is a common Equity, dividend and treasury shares Equity-related information 3.9 IAS 32, IAS 33 measure in airline business which aims to reflect comparable operating result excluding capital cost, independent of whethConsolidation principles of subsidiaries Subsidiaries 4.2 IFRS 10 er aircraft are owned or leased. Therefore, comparable EBITDAR is calculated by excluding depreciations and operating lease payments for aircraft from comparable operating result. Non-controlling interests and transactions Subsidiaries 4.2 IFRS 10 with non-controlling interests In Consolidated balance sheet, assets and liabilities are classified as current when they are expected to realise within 12 months or when they are classified as liquid funds or financial assets or liabilities classified at fair value through profit or loss. Investments in associates and joint ventures Investments in associates and joint ventures 4.4 IFRS 11 Other assets and liabilities are classified as non-current assets or liabilities. Interest-bearing liabilities include bonds, loans Assets held for sale Assets and liabilities held for sale 4.5 IFRS 5 taken for aircraft financing (JOLCO-loans), bank loans, finance lease liabilities, commercial papers and loans from internal bank Income and deferred taxes Income taxes 5.1 IAS 12 (“huoltokonttori”). Interest-bearing net debt is the net amount of interest-bearing assets and liabilities and cross-currency interest rate swaps that are used for hedging the currency and interest rate risk of interest-bearing loans. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 43 Presentation of alternative performance measures 1 Operating result Finnair uses alternative performance measures referred to in the European Securities Markets Authority (ESMA) Guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures to describe its operational and financial performance, to provide a comparable view of its Operating result include notes related to revenue and operating result from the point of view of income statement and balance sheet. business and to enable better comparability relative to its industry peers. The alternative performance measures do not replace IFRS indicators. Finnair's main alternative performance measures are comparable operating result and EBITDAR (defined above) 1.1 Segment information and adjusted net debt and gearing. Comparable operating result is reconciled in the note 1.3.6 Items excluded from comparable operating result. Adjusted gearing is used to measure Finnair's indebtedness. In addition to interest-bearing loans, adjusted Segment reporting gearing also takes into account off-balance sheet lease commitments to better reflect Finnair's financial position. Finnair recOperating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker. onciles the calculation of interest-bearing net debt and adjusted gearing by giving additional information to the balance sheet. The chief operating decision maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, Use of estimates has been identified as the Group’s Executive Board. Segments are defined based on Group’s business areas. Group has one business and reporting segment: Airline business. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS standards requires Group management to make certain estimates and judgements in applying the accounting principles. Information about the judgement exercised by management in applying the Group’s accounting principles and the areas where estimates and judgements have biggest impact in the financial Finnair Executive Board, defined as the chief operative decision maker according to IFRS 8 Segment reporting, considers the statements are presented in the following paragraph Critical accounting estimates and sources of uncertainty. business as one operating segment. Therefore, segment information is not reported. The revenue by product and geographical area is presented in the note 1.2.1 Revenue by product and traffic area. The diCritical accounting estimates and sources of uncertainty vision is based on the destination of the Finnair flight. Finnair operates international and domestic routes, but the assets are The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions relating to the future, and the actualmost solely owned in Finland. The fleet composes major part of the non-current assets (see note 2.1 Tangible assets). Fleet is al outcome may differ from the estimates and assumptions made. In addition, discretion has to be exercised in applying the owned or leased by Finnair’s Finnish subsidiary and the aircraft are operated flexibly across different traffic (geographical) areaccounting principles of the financial statements. Estimates are based on management’s best estimate at the balance sheet as. More details about fleet management and ownership can be found in the management report in the section “Fleet”. date. Changes in estimates and assumptions effect the financial statements in the period the changes occur, and in all the subFinnair transported 11.9 million passengers in 2017. Due to the large number of customers and nature of business, sales to sequent financial periods. any individual customer is not material compared to Finnair’s total revenue. The identified main critical estimates and sources of uncertainty are presented in connection to the items considered to be affected, attached to the corresponding note. The table below shows where to find more information about those presentations. Revenue and comparable operating result Revenue by traffic area Revenue and comparable operating result (unaudited) Revenue by traffic area (unaudited) € million +6.6%* € million Critical accounting estimates and sources of uncertainty Note number Note € million +6.6%* € million Finnair Plus Customer Loyalty Program 1.2 Operating income 800 3,000 800 735 3,000 Maintenance reserves of the fleet 1.3.5 Provisions 700 735 2,568 700 641 633 645 2,500 2,317 2,568 Pension obligations 1.3.7.2 Pensions 641 633 645 2,500 600 570 570 554 2,317 600 536 570 570 554 Impairment testing 2.1 Tangible assets 536 2,000 500 2,000 Judgements of classifying lease arrangements 2.2 Leasing arrangements 500 400 1,500 400 1,500 300 300 1,000 200 149 170 1,000 200 96 149 170 62 500 100 37 53 54 55 96 500 100 53 54 55 62 37 0 0 0Q1 Q1 20 20 16 16 0 2016 2017 2016 2017 Q2 Q2 20 20 Q3 Q3 16 16 20 20 Q4 Q4 16 16 20 20 Q1 Q1 16 16 20 20 17 17 Q2 Q2 20 20 Q3 Q317 17 20 20 17 17 Asia Domestic Q4 Q4 20 20 17 17 Passenger revenue Travel services Asia Domestic Passenger revenue Travel services North Atlantic Unallocated Ancillary and retail Travel agencies North Atlantic Unallocated Ancillary and retail Travel agencies Europe revenue Comparable operating result for Europe revenue Comparable operating result for Cargo the last 12 months = Critical accounting estimates Cargo the last 12 months = Content of the section * Comparable operating result -% * Comparable operating result -% = Accounting principles FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 44 1.2 Operating income 1.2.1 Revenue by product and traffic area Operating income section includes both income statement and balance sheet notes that relate to revenue. The aim is to provide more 2017 coherent picture of income related items effecting Finnair’s result and financial position. Trade receivables and deferred income containing Share, % of North revenue by mainly prepaid flight tickets and travel tour services are presented in connection with this section, because those are an essential part in revEUR mill. Asia Atlantic Europe Domestic Unallocated Total product enue recognition. Passenger revenue 881.7 118.8 839.0 174.1 7.2 2,020.8 78.7 Ancillary and retail revenue 34.9 5.6 41.4 4.4 58.3 144.6 5.6 Revenue recognition Cargo 147.1 10.9 31.0 1.8 6.5 197.4 7.7 Revenue is recognised when goods or services are delivered. Revenue is measured at fair value of the consideration received or receivTravel services 34.7 13.0 159.3 0.5 -1.9 205.6 8.0 able, net of discounts and indirect taxes. Total 1,098.4 148.3 1,070.7 180.8 70.2 2,568.4 Passenger revenue includes sale of flight tickets, and is recognised as revenue when the flight is flown in accordance with the flight Share, % of revenue 42.8 5.8 41.7 7.0 2.7 traffic program. Unused tickets are recognised as revenue when the ticket expires and Finnair has no obligation to return the considby traffic area eration to customer. Passenger revenue is deducted with the costs resulting from Finnair Plus’ Customer Loyalty Program. Finnair loyalty customers can The division of revenue by traffic area is based on the destination of the Finnair flight. At the end of 2016 Finnair sold a travel earn Finnair Plus Points from tickets or services purchased, and use the earned points to buy services and products offered by Finnair agency and a subsidiary, SMT Oy, after which Finnair does not have any travel agency operations. or its cooperation partners. The points earned are fair valued according to IFRIC 13, and recognised as a decrease of revenue and debt at the time when the points-earning event (for example, flight is flown) is recognised as revenue. Fair value is measured by taking into account the fair value of those awards that can be purchased with the points and the customer selection between different awards based 2016 on historical customer behaviour. In addition, the fair valuation takes into account the expiring of the points. The debt is derecognised Share, % of North revenue by when the points are used to buy a service or a good (awards). EUR mill. Asia Atlantic Europe Domestic Unallocated Total product Ancillary revenue includes sale of ticket related services, like advance seat reservations, additional baggage fees as well as different Passenger revenue 739.5 115.7 761.0 165.1 34.9 1‚816.1 78.4 service fees, and sale of goods in the aircraft. The service revenue is recognised when the service has been performed and the sale of Ancillary and retail revenue 27.5 4.6 35.8 3.5 54.1 125.5 5.4 goods when the goods are delivered to the customer. Cargo revenue is recognised when the cargo has been delivered to the customer. Cargo 134.5 11.1 15.8 4.0 8.4 173.8 7.5 Tour operations revenue includes sale of travel packages and is recognised as revenue at the date of the departure. Travel services 35.5 11.4 139.2 0.5 1.0 187.5 8.1 Travel agencies 13.8 13.8 0.6 Trade receivables Total 937.0 142.7 951.8 173.0 112.2 2‚316.8 Finnair Group recognises impairment provisions based on lifetime expected credit losses from trade receivables in accordance with Share, % of revenue 40.4 6.2 41.1 7.5 4.8 IFRS 9. Finnair has chosen to apply a simplified credit loss matrix for trade receivables as trade receivables do not have a significant fiby traffic area nancing component. Accordingly, the credit loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses. The expected credit loss model is forward-looking, and expected default rates are based on historical realised credit losses. The lifetime expected credit loss allowance is calculated using the gross carrying amount of outstanding trade receivables in each aging bucket and an expected default rate. The changes in expected credit losses are recognised in other operating expenses. Finnair Plus Customer Loyalty Program Valuation and revenue recognition related to Finnair Plus debt requires management judgment especially related to fair valuation of points and timing of revenue recognition related to points expected to expire. The fair value of the point is defined by allocating the point to award selection based on historical behaviour of customers, after which the fair value of each award is defined. The liability is calculated by taking the total amount of points earned by customers, decreased with the expected expiring of the points. These points are then fair valued as described above, and the result is recognised as liability at balance sheet. = Content of the section = Accounting principles = Critical accounting estimates FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 45 1.2.2 Revenue by currency Trade receivables by currency EUR mill. 2017 2016 EUR mill. 2017 2016 EUR 1,404.8 1,308.0 EUR 74.1 60.5 JPY 245.5 202.0 USD 107.7 5.5 CNY 181.9 158.5 JPY 6.2 5.1 USD 105.3 101.6 CNY 5.3 4.3 SEK 104.8 123.4 SEK 4.2 3,3 KRW 80.7 63.5 KRW 2.8 2,0 Other currencies 445.4 359.6 Other currencies 24.6 17,8 Total 2,568.4 2,316.8 Total 225.0 98.6 Hedging policies of currency are described in the note 3.5 Management of financial risks. Revenue by product Revenue by traffic area Revenue by product Revenue by traffic area € million € million 1.2.3 Trade and other receivables € million € million 119 8 18 119 8 24 18 2,568 2,568 EUR mill. 2017 2016 19 24 -14 2,568 -42 2,568 205 19 -14 -42 Trade receivables 225.0 98.6 205 6 161 6 Prepaid expenses, accrued income and other receivables total 94.8 113.4 161 Accrued income 43.6 55.8 Employee benefit related receivables 7.5 5.0 Prepaid aircraft operating leases 5.8 6.6 2,317 2,317 VAT receivables 3.2 4.2 2,317 2,317 Interest and other financial items 1.0 5.7 Other items 33.7 36.1 Total 319.8 211.9 C Ca Eu Eu Pa Pa Tr Tra arg rgo 20 20 A A N o N o s ia s ia ro ro pe pe 20 20 An An sse sse 20 201 av ve o el l s s e er 16 16 rt rt Do Do 17 17 cil cil ng ng 16 6 Tr Tra r vic vice m m The fair value of trade receivables do not materially differ from balance sheet value. Trade receivables have increased mainly av ve e h h At At es es Un Un tic tic la la r e r e r el l a s s al al r y y r re a g ge en nc la la lo lo ca ca due to four Airbus A340 aircraft, which were redelivered to Airbus during 2017 in accordance with a previous agreement. The a n a n eve ve cie ie s nt nt te te d d r nu nu s* * ic ic d d remaining payment from this transaction, approximately 100 million euros, will be received in 2018. re e t e e 20 201 t a ai 17 7 il r l r ev eve en nu ue e 2017 2016 * *R  Revenue agencieshave travelagencies evenue ofoftravel has decreased due to sale of subsidiaries. Finnair does not have any travel agency operations after these subsidiaries *disposals. in 2015agencies Revenue of travel and 2016. After has Octoberdue decreased sale of does to Finnair 2016 Expected not have anyintravel subsidiaries 2015agency operations and 2016. after these After October 2016disposals. Finnair does Trade receivables, Probability of uncollectible, Aging analysis of trade receivables EUR mill. not collecting, % EUR mill. EUR mill. 1.2.4not have any travel Deferred income operations agencyand after these advances disposals. received Not overdue 215.1 0.4 % 0.8 91.3 EUR mill. 2017 2016 Overdue less than 60 days 5.5 1.4 % 0.1 5.6 Deferred revenue on ticket sales 385.2 348.5 Overdue more than 60 days 4.5 2.5 % 0.1 1.7 Loyalty program Finnair Plus 40.6 33.4 Total 225.0 0.4 % 1.0 98.6 Advances received for tour operations 36.0 30.4 The Group has recognised total 1.2 million euros (1.3) of credit losses from trade receivables during the financial year. Trade Other items 13.5 12.4 receivables do not contain significant credit risk because of diversity in customer basis. The maximum exposure to credit risk Total 475.3 424.6 at the reporting date is the carrying amount of trade receivables. The Group does not hold any collateral as security related to trade receivables. Deferred income and advances received includes prepaid, yet unflown flight tickets and package tours, whose departure date is in the future. Finnair Plus liability is related to Finnair’s customer loyalty program, and equals to the fair value of the earned unused Finnair Plus points. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 46 1.3 Operating expenses 1.3.2 Leasing expenses Operating expenses section includes the income statement and balance sheet notes related to operating expenses, aiming to provide betEUR mill. 2017 2016 ter overview of business operations and related expenses. Maintenance provisions of leased aircraft that inherently relate to aircraft overhaul Leasing payments for cargo capacity 9.9 10.3 costs are included in this operating expenses section. Accrued expenses, like liabilities related to jet fuel and traffic charges, are also presentPayments for purchase traffic and wet leases 113.0 123.2 ed in this section. All the income statement and balance sheet items related to employee benefits are also presented at the end of this section Office and other rents 35.0 34.0 as a separate note. Employee benefits include the different forms of benefits, like share-based payments and pensions as well as their effect to staff costs and balance sheet, as well as information on management remuneration. Other rents total (included in operational EBITDAR) 157.9 167.4 Lease payments for aircraft (dry leases) 136.6 109.5 1.3.1 Operational expenses by currency Total 294.6 276.9 EUR mill. 2017 2016 1.3.3 Other expenses EUR 1 414.0 1 270.4 USD 878.1 892.7 EUR mill. 2017 2016 Other currencies 183.0 173.9 IT expenses and booking fees 112.7 107.5 Total 2 475.0 2 337.1 Realised currency hedging 0.0 -13.8 Hedging policies of currency are described in the note 3.5 Management of financial risks. Other items 172.4 172.9 Total 285.1 266.6 Currency hedging of operating cash flow, which was previously excluded from hedge accounting, is qualified for hedge accounting according to IFRS 9 adopted in the Group at the beginning of 2017. Therefore realised fair value changes are recognised in revenue and different cost categories from 2017 onwards. Operational expenses Operational expenses by currency Audit fees in other expenses Operational expenses by currency EUR mill. 2017 2016 € million % % PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy 3,000 Auditor's fees 0.3 0.2 2,475.0 Tax advising 0.1 0.1 2,500 2,337.1 Other fees 0.3 0.2 2,000 Total 0.7 0.5 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy has provided non-audit services to entities of Finnair Group in total 380 000 euros during the 1,500 financial year 2017. These services included auditors's statements (62 000 euros) and other services (318 000 euros). 1,000 1.3.4 Other liabilities 500 EUR mill. 2017 2016 0 Jet fuels and traffic charges 74.7 67.8 16 17 Liabilities for tour operations 13.2 11.2 EUR 57% Aircraft materials and overhaul 8.2 15.3 Staff costs, change 17% Expenses for tour operations, EUR USD 57% 35% change 14% USD Interest and other financial items 8.2 5.4 Fuel costs, change -4% Other35% currencies 7% Other rents, change -6% Sales and marketing Other currencies 7% Other items 69.2 61.5 expenses, change 12% Total 173.4 161.1 Aircraft materials and overhaul, change 13% Other expenses, change 7% Traffic charges, change 1% Lease payments for aircraft, Other items consists of several items, none of which are individually significant. change 25% Ground handling and catering expenses, change -3% Depreciation and impairment, change 22% FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 47 1.3.5 Provisions 1.3.6 Items excluded from comparable operating result Provisions Comparable operating result aims to provide a comparable view on business development between periods. Therefore, unrealProvisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as the result of a past event, the fulfilment of ised exchange rate differences of foreign currency denominated aircraft maintenance provisions are not included in the comthe payment obligation is probable, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. The amount to be recognised parable operating result. The maintenance provisions realise during a long period of time in the future, at the time of mainteas provision corresponds to the management’s best estimate of the expenses that will be necessary to meet the obligation at the end nance event or redelivery of the aircraft. Aircraft overhaul costs are mainly denominated in US dollars. The maintenance proof the reporting period. vision changes due to fluctuation of US dollar, but the changes are not included in the comparable operating result until the The Group is obliged to return leased aircraft and their engines according to the redelivery condition set in the lease agreement. If at maintenance event or redelivery occurs and the exchange rate differences realise. the time of redelivery, the condition of the aircraft and its engines differs from the agreed redelivery condition, Finnair needs to either Further, unrealised fair value changes of derivatives where hedge accounting is not applied, are not included in the compamaintain the aircraft so that it meets the agreed redelivery condition or settle the difference in cash to the lessor. To fulfil these mainrable operating result, as the business transactions which they are hedging are recognised to the comparable operating result tenance obligations, the Group has recognised airframe heavy maintenance, engine performance maintenance and engine life limited only when they occur. The treatment of realised gains and losses on these derivatives is described in the note 3.8 Derivatives. part provisions. The provision is defined as the difference between the current condition and redelivery condition of these maintenance After implementing IFRS 9 Financial Instruments -standard in 2017 hedge accounting can be applied more widely and therecomponents. The provision is accrued based on flight hours flown until the next maintenance event or the redelivery and recognised fore the amount in 2017 is minor. in the aircraft overhaul costs in the income statement. The provision is reversed at the maintenance event or redelivery. The price for In addition to above, items affecting comparability are not included in the comparable operating result. These items affectthe flight hour depends on the market price development of the maintenance costs. Estimated future cash flows are discounted to the ing comparability are divided into three categories: gains and losses on aircraft transactions, gains and losses on other transpresent value. The maintenance market prices are mainly denominated in US dollars, which is why the amount of maintenance provision actions, and restructuring costs. Gains and losses on transactions include sales gains and losses as well as other items that can changes due to currency fluctuation of the dollar. The unrealised changes in currencies are recognised in items affecting comparability be considered to be directly related the sale of the asset. For example, a write-down that might occur when an asset is classiin the Fair value changes in derivatives and changes in exchange rates of fleet overhauls. fied as “Assets held for sale” in accordance with IFRS 5, is included in gains and losses on the transactions. Restructuring costs Restructuring provisions are recognised when the Group has prepared a detailed restructuring plan and has begun to implement include termination benefits and other costs that directly related to the restructuring of operations. the plan or has announced it. EUR mill. 2017 2016 Unrealised changes in foreign currencies of fleet overhaul provisions 10.9 -2.0 Aircraft maintenance provision The measurement of aircraft maintenance provision requires management judgement especially related to timing of maintenance Fair value changes of derivatives where hedge accounting is not applied 0.3 34.0 events and valuation of maintenance costs occurring in the future. The future maintenance costs and their timing are dependent on, Fair value changes in derivatives and changes in exchange rates of fleet for example, how future traffic plans actually realise, market price development of maintenance costs and the actual condition of the overhauls 11.1 32.0 aircraft at the time of maintenance event. Gains and losses on aircraft transactions 41.0 26.6 Aircraft Aircraft Gains and losses on other transactions 3.1 3.8 maintenance Other maintenance Other Restructuring costs -0.9 -1.4 EUR mill. provision provisions 2017 provision provisions 2016 Items affecting comparability 43.3 29.0 Provision at the beginning of period 81.6 4.2 85.8 86.8 7.1 94.0 Provision for the period 45.8 0.8 46.6 42.5 1.0 43.5 Provision used -20.8 -2.3 -23.2 -50.4 -3.9 -54.3 Unwinding of discount 1.7 1.7 0.7 0.7 Exchange rate differences -10.9 -10.9 2.0 2.0 Total 97.3 2.7 100.0 81.6 4.2 85.8 Of which non-current 78.0 1.0 79.0 61.5 2.1 63.6 Of which current 19.4 1.7 21.1 20.1 2.1 22.2 Total 97.3 2.7 100.0 81.6 4.2 85.8 Non-current aircraft maintenance provisions are expected to be used by 2029. Other provisions include items related to group’s restructurings. = Accounting principles = Critical accounting estimates FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 48 1.3.7 Employee benefits Transfer to Personnel Fund Finnair has a Personnel Fund that is owned and controlled by the personnel. A share of Finnair’s profits is allocated to the fund. 1.3.7.1 Employee benefit expenses and share-based payments The share of profit allocated to the fund is determined based on the targets set by the Board of Directors. The participants of the performance share plan (LTI) are not members of the Personnel Fund. Personnel Fund is obliged to invest part of the bonus in Finnair Plc’s shares. In 2017, the comparable operating result exceeded the limit set by the board of directors. Therefore Share-based payments Finnair has recognised 6.7 million euro to the staff costs and liability, to be transferred to the personnel fund. In 2016 0.5 milFinnair provides a number of share-based compensation plans for its employees, under which the Group receives services from emlion euros were allocated to the fund. ployees as consideration for share-based payments. Regarding share-based incentive plans for key personnel and pilots, the awards are paid only if performance criteria set by the Board of Directors is met. Share-based savings plan for employees (FlyShare) requires the employees to remain in Finnair’s service for the defined period, but payment does not depend on any performance criteria. Liabilities related to employee benefits The total expense for share-based payments is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied. The portion of the earned reward that the participants receive in shares is accounted for as an EUR mill. 2017 2016 equity settled transaction, and the portion of the earned reward settled in cash covering the tax and other charges, is accounted for as Holiday payments 70.0 62.0 cash settled transaction. The equity-settled share awards are valued based on the market price of the Finnair share as of the grant date, Other employee related accrued expenses 69.2 31.4 and recognised as an employee benefit expense over the vesting period with corresponding entry in the equity. The liability resulting Liabilities related to employee benefits 139.2 93.4 from the cash-settled transactions is measured based on the market price of the Finnair share at the balance sheet date and accrued as an employee benefit expense for service period with corresponding entry in the liabilities until the settlement date. Other employee related accrued expenses mainly include witholding tax and accrued expenses related to social security costs and remunerations. The increase mainly relates to remunerations, such as transfer to personnel fund and extra reward to be Termination benefits paid to personnel. In addition, restructuring provisions related to termination benefits (see note 1.3.5 Provisions) amounted Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an to 2.0 million euros (3.5). employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to a termination. Group is demonstrably committed when it has a detailed formal plan to terminate the employManagement remuneration ment of current employees without possibility of withdrawal. In the case of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy, the The President and CEO and Executive Board remuneration termination benefits are measured based on the number of employees expected to accept the offer. President President Accounting principles related to pension benefits are described in the note 1.3.7.2 Pensions. and CEO and CEO Pekka Executive Total Pekka Executive Total Thousand euros Vauramo Board 2017 Vauramo Board 2016 Fixed pay 649 1,677 2,326 649 1,687 2,336 Staff costs Short-term incentives 294 809 1,103 196 552 748 Fringe benefits 3 73 76 2 79 82 EUR mill. 2017 2016 Termination benefits 0 0 0 360 360 Wages and salaries 331.0 281.2 Share-based payments 358 988 1,347 172 222 394 Pension expenses 70.1 61.0 Pensions (statutory)** 160 444 604 159 410 570 Defined contribution schemes 59.2 50.6 Pensions (voluntary, defined contribution) 124 57 180 124 93 217 Defined-benefit schemes 10.9 10.4 Total 1,588 4,048 5,636 1,303 3,404 4,707 Other social expenses 22.2 20.3 Total 423.3 362.5 * S hort-term incentives for the financial year 2017 are estimates as at the balance sheet date the final review of targes has not been done. Staff costs included in items affecting comparability 0.8 1.7 Short-term incentives for 2016 realised as presented in 2016 financial statements. Total staff costs in income statement 424.2 364.2 ** Statutory pensions include Finnair’s share of the payment to Finnish statutory “Tyel”-pension plan. In Finnair, the total salary of personnel consists of fixed pay, allowances, short-and long-term incentives, fringe benefits and other personnel benefits. The total amount of short-term incentives excluding social security costs recognised for 2017 were Management remuneration is presented on an accrual basis. Share-based payments include LTI-plans and employee share sav12.1 million euro (7.1). In addition, salaries include a special reward of 9.9 million euros (13 million euros including social secuings plans and are recognised over the vesting period until the end of lock-up period, according to IFRS 2. Therefore the costs rity costs), related to Finnair's recent turnaround that is to be paid for the personnel. accrued and recognised for the financial year include effects from several share-based payment plans independent of when the Items affecting comparability include personnel related restructuring costs of 0.8 million euros (1.7) as agreed in the Group’s shares are delivered. Management has not been provided any other long-term incentives in addition to share-based payments. statutory employer-employee negotiations. Including items affecting comparability, total staff costs amounted to 424.2 milThe voluntary pension plans of the CEO and two members of the Executive Board have been arranged through Finnish penlion euros (364.2). sion insurance company. For the CEO, the retirement age is the earliest possible statutory retirement age, and for the two members of the Executive Board it is 63. The plans are defined contribution plans. = Accounting principles FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 49 More information on share-based payment schemes can be found later in this note and in a separate Remuneration stateparticipants’ free disposal after delivery. The members of Finnair’s Executive Board are expected to accumulate their share ment. Remuneration statement also includes information on remuneration policies and structures and compensation paid to ownership in Finnair until it corresponds to their annual gross base salary and thereafter retain it for as long as they are memsenior management. bers of the Executive Board. The potential reward will be delivered in Finnair shares. The shares are delivered to the participants during the year folRemuneration paid to Board of Directors lowing the performance period. The payout opportunity is defined in the beginning of each plan in relation to the participants annual base salary. For the plans commencing during 2013–2016, the payout opportunity is defined in a fixed euro amount. In Compensation paid for board service, Total Fixed Meeting Fringe Total EUR 2017 remuneration compensation benefits 2016 the plan commencing in 2017, the payout opportunity is defined as a fixed share amount and therefore changes in the share price during the performance period impacts the value of the payout opportunity. If the performance criteria set for the plan Board of Directors 375,497 249,600 106,200 19,697 422,895 are met at the target level, the incentive paid in Finnair shares to the President and CEO or other member of the Executive Barrington Colm, from 16 March 2017 onwards 40,234 22,800 15,600 1,834 Board participating in the plans will be 30% of his or her annual base salary in the plans commencing 2013–2016 and 20% in Du Mengmeng, from 16 March 2017 onwards 44,839 22,500 19,200 3,139 the plan commencing in 2017. If the performance criteria set for the plan are met at the maximum level, the incentive paid in Friman Maija-Liisa 52,260 33,750 9,600 8,910 Finnair shares will be 60% of the participant’s annual base salary. The maximum level for incentives for other key personnel Itävuori Jussi 47,412 33,750 13,200 462 is 25–50% of the person's annual base salary. Karvinen Jouko 72,756 54,000 15,600 3,156 According to the rules of the 2017–2019 share plan, the maximum combined value of all variable compensation paid to an Mårtensson Jonas, from 16 March 2017 33,900 22,500 11,400 0 individual participant in any given calendar year may not exceed 120 per cent of the participant’s annual gross base salary. The onwards amounts of shares paid are stated before tax. The number of shares delivered will be deducted by an amount corresponding Tuominen Jaana 39,608 30,000 7,800 1,808 to the income tax and transfer tax payable for the incentive at the time of payment. Heinemann Klaus, until 16th of March 2017 20,100 15,300 4,800 0 The performance criteria applied to the plans 2014–2016, 2015–2017 and 2016–2018 are Return on Capital Employed (ROCE, 50% weight) and Total Shareholder Return (TSR, 50 % weight). The performance criteria applied to the plan 2017–2019 are Kronman Gunvor, until 16th of March 2017 9,689 7,500 1,800 389 earnings per share (EPS, 50% weight) and revenue growth (50% weight). The target levels and maximum levels set for the criTurner Nigel, until 16th of March 2017 14,700 7,500 7,200 0 teria are based on the long-term strategic objectives set by the company’s Board of Directors. Criteria are monitored against the performance on a quarterly basis. The performance criteria of the plan for 2014–2016 were met at 118% level while the The compensation paid to the members of the Board of Directors include annual remuneration and meeting compensation. target was at 100% and the maximum earning level at 200%. In the comparison period, the performance criteria applied to The members of the Board of Directors are entitled to a compensation for travel expenses in accordance with Finnair’s generthe 2013–2015 plan was met at 54% level. al travel rules. In addition, the members of the Board of Directors and their spouses have a limited right to use staff tickets in The total expense for the share-based payments is recognised over the vesting period, which is 4–6 years in the plans comaccordance with Finnair’s staff ticket rules. Under the rules, the Directors and their spouses are entitled to four return or eight mencing 2013–2016 and 3 years in the plan commencing 2017. For the plans commencing 2013–2016, the compensation is one-way tickets on Finnair flights per calendar year in Economy or Business Class. The fare of these tickets is zero, exclusive of any airport taxes, fees and charges, which are payable by the Directors and their spouses. These tickets constitute taxable Finnair share-based payment plans income in Finland and are reported as fringe benefits in the table above. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Share-based payments LTI 2013–2015 The note below provides description and information on effects of the Group's share-based incentive schemes. More information on share-based personnel bonus schemes can be found in Remuneration statement. LTI 2014–2016 LTI 2015–2017 Performance share plan for key personnel (LTI) from 2013 onwards LTI 2016–2018 Finnair's share based incentive plan is a performance-based, annually commencing long-term incentive (LTI) arrangement, and the commencement of each new plan is subject to a separate decision made by Finnair’s Board of Directors. The purpose LTI 2017–2019 of these plans is to encourage the management to work to increase long-term shareholder value. The Finnish Government's guidance regarding the remuneration of executive management and key individuals have been taken into consideration when Pilots’ share plan designing the plans. Plans launched during 2013–2016 are four-six-year share plans and there are four plans ongoing (2013–2015, 2014–2016, 2015–2017, 2016–2018). Each LTI plan contains a three-year performance period which is followed by a restriction period, durFly Share 2013 ing which the participant may not sell or transfer the shares received as a reward. The restriction period is three years for the Fly Share 2014 members of Finnair’s Executive Board and one year for other participants. In addition, the President and CEO, and members Fly Share 2015 of Finnair’s Executive Board are required to accumulate and, once achieved, to maintain, a share ownership in Finnair corresponding to his or her annual base salary as long as he or she holds a position as a member of Finnair’s Executive Board. Fly Share 2016 In 2017, a new LTI arrangement was launched. The first plan from this arrangement covers the years 2017–2019. In the reFly Share 2017 vised structure the annually commencing performance share plans include a three-year performance period like before. The potential share rewards will be delivered to the participants in one tranche after the performance period and they are at the Earnings / savings period Lock-up period for Cash reward Lock-up period Executive Board Share delivery FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 50 measured during performance period in cash, and only after performance period at grant date translated into shares. ThereLong-term incentive plan for pilots fore the whole cost effect is recognised as debt until the end of performance period (grant date), and the debt is divided into The Finnair Board of Directors approved in 2014 a long-term incentive plan for Finnair pilots as part of the savings agreement equity settled and cash settled part only at grant date. At the same time, the equity settled part is recognised in equity. In the between Finnair and the Finnish Air Line Pilots’ Association (SLL). The plan period is 2015–2018 and the prerequisite for re2017–2019 plan the grant date is at the beginning of performance period and the compensation is measured in shares. The exwarding pilots based on this plan is the materialisation of the agreed cost savings over this time period. In addition, the compense recognised for 2017 amounted to 3.1 million euros (1.2). pany share price must at least be 4 euros at the end of the incentive plan. If these conditions are met, the pilots are entitled to a cash payment based on the Finnair share price. The total reward to pilots amounts to 12 million euros if the share price is 4 2013–2015 2014–2016 2015–2017 2016–2018 2017–2019 Total euros or a maximum of 24 million euros, if the share price reaches at least 8 euros. Finnair has hedged against the additional Maximum earning, million euros 3.4 2.5 2.8 3.3 7.9* 19.8 cost effects above the 4 euro share price with a market-based call option. Maximum earning, million shares 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.6* 1.5 The plan is considered as cash-settled share-based arrangement. The cost effects are accrued over the vesting period from Target earning, million euros 1.7 1.2 1.4 1.6 3.2 9.1 grant date onwards (2014–2018), and the corresponding liability is fair valued at each reporting date. The 2017 closing rate of Target earning, million shares 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.7 Finnair's share (12.82 euro) was above the minimum required level (4 euro). The liability accrued by the end of 2017 amounted Expenses recognised for the financial year, LTI’s otal 0.1 -0.1 0.7 0.7 1.7 3.1 to 17.5 million euro (6.1). Finnair has hedged against the cost effects above 4 euro share price. The cost recognised in compa(million euros) rable operating result for 2017, net of hedging effects, amounted to 2.9 million euro (2.9). of which share-settled (recognised as debt 0.3 0.3 0.4 1.0 until grant date for plans beginning between 1.3.7.2 Pensions 2013–2016) of which cash-settled -0.1 0.5 0.4 1.3 2.1 Liability related to LTI’s at closing the date 0.0 0.7 0.5 1.3 2.5 Defined benefit and defined contribution plans Pension plans are classified as defined benefit and defined contribution plans. Payments made into defined contribution pension plans Shares granted, million shares** 0.3 0.6 0.9 are recognised in the income statement in the period to which the payment applies. Typically defined benefit plans define an amount * Maximum earnings for 2017-2019 plan are capped at 120% of participants' annual base salary. of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service **At the end of the performance period of 2014–2016 plan, the vested euros were translated into shares, and granted and delivered. In and compensation. Current service cost is the present value of the post employment benefit, which is earned by the employees during 2017–2019 program shares are earned during vesting period, from the beginning of the program. the year and it is recognised as staff cost. The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation FlyShare employee share savings plan 2013 onwards is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obliFinnair offers an annually commencing share savings plan for its employees. Commencing of each plan is subject to the decigations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are desion of Finnair’s Board of Directors. First plan commenced in 2013, and for the time being there are three plans ongoing. The nominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related objective of the plan is to encourage employees to become shareholders in the company, and to thereby strengthen the empension obligation. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged ployees’ interest in the development of Finnair’s shareholder value and reward them in the long-term. or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. Each plan consists of one year savings period followed by two year lock-up period. Through the plan, each eligible Finnair employee is offered the opportunity to save part of his or her salary to be invested in Finnair shares. The maximum monthly savings are 8 per cent and the minimum 2 per cent of each participant’s gross base salary per month. Shares are purchased with the accumulated savings at the market price quarterly, after the release of Finnair’s interim reports. The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a Finnair awards 20 bonus shares to each employee that participates in the plan for the first time, and continues savings at number of assumptions. Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of pension obligations. The note below inleast the first three months of the plan. The bonus shares are delivered in October each year, and the effect is recognised as cludes a description of exposure to most significant risks and a sensitivity analysis on impacts of changes in actuarial assumptions. expense for the period. The plan lasts for three years, and Finnair awards each participating employee with one share for each two shares purchased and held at the end of three-year period. The awarded bonus and additional shares are taxable income Description of pension plans in Finnair for the recipient. The cost related to additional shares delivered is recognised as expense during vesting period. The statutory pension cover of the employees of the Group’s Finnish companies has been arranged in a Finnish pension insurance company. The statutory pension cover is a defined-contribution plan. The Group’s foreign sales offices and subsidiaries Effect of FlyShare share savings plan on Group's results and financial position, have various defined contribution plans that comply with local rules and practices. The voluntary pension plans million euros 2017 2016 of CEO and two members of the Executive Board are arranged in a pension insurance company. The retirement age of the CEO is Total Income statement effect of share-based payments 1.6 0.9 the earliest possible statutory retirement age, and for the two members it is 63 years. These pension schemes are defined-conof which, share-settled 0.5 0.7 tribution schemes. Other (voluntary) pension cover of the Group’s domestic companies has been arranged mainly through Finof which, cash-settled 1.1 0.1 nair Plc’s Pension Fund, in which the pension schemes are defined-benefit plans. These pension plans cover old age pensions, occupational disability and survivors’ pensions. The pension fund is fully funded in accordance with the provisions of Finnish Liabiltity related to share-based payments at the closing date 1.3 1.0 law. 700 Finnair pilots have, in addition to voluntary pension arranged in Finnair Pension Fund, special defined-benefit pension scheme. This scheme applies only to pilots who work older than 58 years of age. Voluntary pensions of pilots recruited in 2015 or later are defined contribution schemes arranged through Finnish insurance company, except for the occupational disability benefit, which is a defined benefit plan arranged through the Finnair Pension Fund. = Accounting principles = Critical accounting estimates FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 51 Exposure to most significant risks The net defined benefit liability in 2017 includes 4.1 million euro (29.7) related to defined benefit plans insured through Volatility of plan assets: Some of the plan assets are invested in equities which causes volatility but is in the long run expectthe pension fund and 2.3 million euro (2.2) related to other defined benefit plans. In 2017, the pension obligation decreased ed to provide higher returns than corporate bonds. The discount rate of plan obligations is defined based on the interest rates mainly due to gains on plan assets. These positive returns on investment are included in the amount recognised through other of corporate bonds. comprehensive income as actuarial gains and losses. The amendment to the Finnish employee pension legislation, passed by Changes in bond yield: A decrease in corporate bond yields increases plan obligations due to the fact that the pension obliFinnish Parliament in November 2015 and effective from 2017 onwards, did not have an effect to Finnair defined benefit plans gation is discounted to net present value with a rate that is based on corporate bond rates. This increase in plan obligations is and supplementary pensions. partially mitigated by a corresponding increase in the value of corporate bonds in plan assets. Changes in pension obligations Life expectancy: The most significant part of the provided pension benefits relate to old age pensions. Therefore, an increase in life expectancy rate results in an increase of plan obligations. EUR mill. 2017 2016 Inflation risk: Pension obligations are linked to inflation which is why higher inflation leads to increased obligations. As only Fair value of pension obligations at 1 January 438.9 426.3 some of the plan assets increase with inflation, an increase in inflation will likely decrease the solvency of the pension plan. Current service costs 9.9 9.7 Defined benefit pension plans Past service cost 1.0 0.7 Interest expense 6.5 8.3 EUR mill. 2017 2016 Acquisitions and disposals* 0.8 -7.2 Items recognised in the income statement Expense recognised in income statement 18.2 11.4 Current service costs 9.9 9.7 Changes in actuarial assumptions 6.8 19.1 Past service cost 1.0 0.7 Experience adjustment on plan obligation -2.9 1.6 Service cost total, recognised in staff costs 10.9 10.4 Remeasurements recognised through OCI 3.9 20.7 The defined benefits related to acquisitions or disposals, net* 0.2 -0.6 Benefits paid -18.9 -19.7 Net interest expenses 0.5 0.1 Net present value of pension obligations 442.0 438.9 Total included in the income statement 11.6 9.8 Changes in plan assets Amounts recongnised though other comprehensive income EUR mill. 2017 2016 Experience adjustment on plan obligation -2.9 1.6 Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 407.0 422.0 Changes is financial actuarial assumptions 6.8 19.1 Interest income 6.0 8.2 Net return on plan assets -39.8 -2.7 Acquisitions and disposals* 0.6 -6.6 Amounts recongnised trhough other comprehensive income total -35.9 18.1 Items recognised through profit and loss 6.6 1.6 Acturial gain (loss) on plan assets 39.8 2.7 Number of persons involved, pension fund 4,689 4,732 Items recognised through OCI 39.8 2.7 Other defined benefit plans, persons involved 34 21 Contributions paid 1.0 0.4 Benefits paid -18.9 -19.7 Items recognised in the balance sheet Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 435.6 407.0 EUR mill. 2017 2016 *In 2017 Finnair acquired a new subsidiary, Finnair Kitchen Oy. The net liability related to defined pension plan was recognised as part of Present value of funded obligations 442.0 438.9 the gain related to items affecting comparability. In 2016 Finnair sold its subsidiary SMT Oy. The difference between amount of assets and liabilities transferred, 0.6 million euro, was recognised as adjustment of the sales gain and was included in the items affecting comparaFair value of plan assets -435.6 -407.0 bility. Net defined benefit liability 6.4 31.9 * Recognised in Items affecting comparability as gain or loss on sales or acquisition. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 52 Plan assets are comprised as follows Sensitivity analysis Sensitivity analysis describes the effect of change in actuarial assumptions to net defined benefit obligation. The analyses are % 2017 2016 based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. The method used is the same as that which Listed shares 22.2 21.0 has been applied when measuring the defined benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet. Debt instruments 53.3 53.0 Property 17.8 18.4 Sensitivity analysis on principal actuarial assumptions Other 6.7 7.6 Impact when increase Impact when decrease Total 100.0 100.0 Change in in assumption, in assumption, Actuarial assumption assumption EUR mill. % EUR mill. % Plan assets of the pension fund include Finnair Plc shares with a fair value of 1.8 million euros (0.6) and buildings used by the Discount rate % 0.25% -15.7 -3.6% 16.7 3.8% Group with a fair value of 19.7 million euros (2.0). Annual rate of future salary increases % 0.25% 5.1 3.8% -4.0 -0.9% Future pension increases % 0.25% 11.4 2.6% -10.8 -2.5% Defined benefit plans: principal actuarial assumptions Life expectancy at birth 1 year 13.7 3.1% -14.5 3.3% 2017 2016 Discount rate % 1.53% 1.52% According to Finnish legislation, pension fund needs to be fully funded. Expected contribution payments for the future five Inflation % 1.32% 1.12% years are approximately 48 million euros. The amount of payments depends on future returns on plan assets. Annual rate of future salary increases % 1.47% 1.70% Future pension increases % 1.62% 1.36% The duration of defined benefit obligation is 15 years. The duration is calculated by using discount rate of 1.53 %. Estimated remaining years of service 10 11 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 53 2 Aircraft and other intangible and tangible assets and leasing arrangements 2.1 Tangible assets Aircraft and other intangible and tangible assets, and leasing arrangements include particularly notes related to aircraft fleet. Notes related Tangible assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment loss if applicable. Tangible assets include to the aircraft operated by the Group, both owned and leased aircraft under different kind of lease arrangements as well as aircraft classified mainly aircraft. The acquisition cost of aircraft is allocated to the aircraft frame, engines and maintenace components as separate assets. as held for sale, are combined in this section so that the general view of the fleet would be easier to perceive. Maintenance components include heavy maintenance of aircraft frames and performance restoration and maintenance of life-limited The assets owned and leased by Finnair consist mostly of aircraft operated by Finnair and Norra. Approximately half of the parts of aircraft engines, and they are depreciatied during the maintenance cycle. Aircraft frame and engines are depreciated over the fleet operated is owned by Finnair. More detailed information regarding owned aircraft is found in Note 2.1 and regarding useful life of the aircraft. Significant modifications of own or leased aircraft are capitalised as separate items and depreciated over the leased aircraft in Note 2.2. expected useful life, which in the case of leased aircraft cannot exceed the lease period. Replaced components are derecognised from the balance sheet. Rotable spare parts are capitalised and depreciated during their expected useful life. Fleet Fleet Advance payments for aircraft are recorded as tangible assets. Interest costs related to advance payments are capitalised as acquisition cost for the period at which Finnair is financing the manufacturing of the aircraft. Fair value changes of derivatives used in hedging of currency exchange rate risk related to firm commitments of aircraft purchases are recognised in advance payments. Advance Owned, 40 Finance Operating lease, 32 lease, 7 payments, realised fx hedges and capitalised interests are recognised as part of the aircraft acquisition cost once the aircraft is delivNarrow-body, 60 ered and taken to commercial use. Depreciations of tangible assets is based on the following expected economic lifetimes: • Aircraft and engines as well as flight simulators (other equipment) on a straight-line basis as follows: −− Airbus A350 fleet, over 20 years to a residual value of 10% −− Airbus A320 and Embraer fleet, over 20 years to a residual value of 10% −− Airbus A330 fleet, over 18 years to a residual value of 10% −− Turboprop aircraft (ATR fleet), over 12 years to a residual value of 10% • Heavy maintenance of aircraft frame and performance maintenance and life limited parts of the engines, on a straight-line basis Wide-body, during the maintenance period • Rotable spare parts and components, over 15–20 years to a residual value of 10% 19 • Buildings, over 10-50 years from the time of acquisition to a residual value of 10% • Other tangible assets, over 3–15 years Diminishing balances method, that has been previously used in depreciating some buildings and other tangible assets, has been A350 (11) A330 (8) A321 (18) A320 (10) A319 (8) changed during 2017 to straight-line method. The change did not have significant impact to depreciation amounts of the financial year. E190 Norra operated (12) ATR Norra operated (12) The residual values and estimated useful lives of the assets are assessed at each closing date and if they differ significantly from previous estimates, the depreciation periods and residual values are changed accordingly. Gains and losses on disposal of tangible assets are included in the items affecting comparability. Fleet Fleet in Finnair balance sheet Impairment EUR mill. 2017 2016 Change On every closing date the Group reviews individual tangible asset items for any indication of impairment losses. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if it is greater than the recoverable amount. Advances paid for aircraft 96.0 99.4 -3.4 The recoverable amount is defined for cash generating unit, and need for impairment is evaluated on the cash generating unit level. Owned aircraft in use 1,002.5 764.1 238.4 The recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s fair value less costs to sell or its value in use. The value in use is based on the exAircraft finance lease 152.9 168.4 -15.5 pected discounted future net cash flows obtainable from the asset or cash-generating unit. Aircraft held for sale 0.0 139.1 -139.1 Book value total 1,251.4 1,171.0 80.4 Depreciation for the period 110.2 87.1 23.1 Impairment testing The recoverable amounts of cash generating units have been determined in calculations based either on the value in-use or on the sale Operating leases of aircraft price less the expenses of the sale. The preparation of these calculations requires the use of estimates. Estimates are based on budgets Operating lease commitments (nominal value) 1,163.6 1,069.9 93.7 and forecasts, which inherently contain some degree of uncertainty. The main uncertainty factors in calculations are the USD/EUR and JPY/EUR exchange rates, unit revenue, estimated sales volumes and jet fuel price. Leasing expenses for the period (Lease payments for aircraft) 136.6 109.5 27.1 = Content of the section = Accounting principles = Critical accounting estimates FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 54 Tangible assets 2017 Capitalised borrowing costs Buildings Other EUR mill. Aircraft and land equipment Advances Total Aircraft Advances Total Acquisition cost 1 Jan 2017 1,648.8 29.4 48.9 167.3 1,894.5 EUR mill. 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Additions from business acquisitions 0.4 0.4 Book value 1 Jan 5.4 1.0 7.3 6.1 12.7 7.1 Additions 294.5 21.8 14.7 45.8 376.8 Additions 9.5 7.5 9.5 7.5 Disposals -103.9 -3.0 -106.9 Disposals -1.8 -3.0 -3.0 -1.8 Currency hedging of aircraft acquisitions 92.0 92.0 Reclassifications 9.7 6.3 -9.7 -6.3 Reclassifications 127.1 38.0 6.7 -181.0 -9.2 Depreciation -0.4 -0.2 -0.4 -0.2 Transfer to assets held for sale 6.3 6.3 Book value 31 Dec 14.6 5.4 4.0 7.3 18.7 12.7 Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2017 1,973.0 89.2 67.6 124.1 2,253.9 In 2017, borrowing costs of 9.5 million euros (7.5) were capitalised in tangible assets related to the Airbus A350 investment Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1 Jan 2017 -699.8 -4.2 -20.8 -3.1 -728.0 program. Disposal is related to the sale and leaseback of one A350 aircraft. Finnair uses quarterly effective interest rate to Disposals 16.4 1.9 18.3 calculate the capitalised borrowing costs, that represents the costs of the loan used to finance the investment. Average yearly interest rate in 2017 was 9.63 % (5.0 %). The higher interest rate was mainly related to additional borrowing costs incurred Depreciation for the financial year -115.2 -1.6 -5.2 -122.1 from refinancing of the senior bond. Accumulated depreciation and impairment 31 Dec 2017 -798.6 -5.9 -24.2 -3.1 -831.8 Pledged assets and other restrictions on tangible assets Book value 31 Dec 2017 1,174.4 83.3 43.4 121.0 1,422.1 Finnair does not have tangible assets pledged as a security for bank loans. Finnair has three A350 aircraft financed with JOLCO-loans (see 3.3 Financial liabilities) and three finance leased A330 aircraft where the legal title is transferred to Finnair The carrying value of rotable parts included in aircraft is 19.0 million euros (16.4). In addition, inventories include non-rotable after loans are repaid. On top of that, Finnair has four finance leased aircraft in the balance sheet where the legal title will not aircraft parts 13.3 million euros (12.9). Currency hedging of aircraft acquisitions are described in Notes 3.5 Management of transfer to Finnair at the end of the lease term (see 2.2 Leasing arrangements). The value of these aircraft at the end of 2017 financial risks and 3.8 Derivatives. amounted to 377.1 million euro (402.8). Impairment test Tangible assets 2016 The impairment test of the aircraft based on the fair value has been done on the closing date. It did not cause any need for imBuildings Other EUR mill. Aircraft and land equipment Advances Total pairment. The test is sensitive to the exchange rate EUR/USD. The weakening of USD decreases the fair value of the aircraft. The fair value of the aircraft would still be higher than the carrying value, if USD would weaken by 10 per cent. Acquisition cost 1 Jan 2016 1,350.3 25.9 50.4 80.6 1,507.1 Additions 395.9 3.6 5.7 187.2 592.4 Investment commitments Disposals -119.2 -8.0 -0.5 -127.7 At the end of financial year investment commitments totalled 1,013 million euros (1,601) and it includes firm aircraft orders. Currency hedging of aircraft acquisitions 6.4 6.4 The total commitment fluctuates between the order and the delivery of the aircraft mainly due to exchange rate EUR/USD and Reclassifications 94.8 -0.1 0.8 -106.4 -10.9 the escalation clauses included in airline purchase agreements. The final amount of the commitment in relation to each airTransfer to assets held for sale -73.0 -73.0 craft is only known at the time of the delivery. Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2016 1,648.8 29.4 48.9 167.3 1,894.4 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1 Jan 2016 -667.5 -3.3 -21.7 -3.1 -695.6 Disposals 29.2 -0.4 5.6 34.4 Investment commitments Depreciation for the financial year -94.6 -0.6 -4.9 -100.0 € million Depreciation in items affecting comparability -2.3 0.1 -2.2 Reclassifications -4.6 0.0 0.0 -4.6 300 235 Transfer to assets held for sale 40.1 40.1 201 211 200 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 31 Dec 2016 -699.8 -4.2 -20.8 -3.1 -728.0 145 125 124 98 100 122 Book value 31 Dec 2016 949.0 25.1 28.0 164.2 1,166.5 76 2 0 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023– A350 Other FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 55 2.2 Leasing arrangements Finance lease liabilities Minimum lease payments Future financial expenses Present value of minimum lease payments The Group as lessee EUR mill. 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Lease agreements for tangible assets, where a substantial part of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group, are less than one year 25.8 26.6 3.4 2.6 22.4 24.0 classified as finance leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement of the lease term at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments. A corresponding sum is recognised as a finance lease liability in 1–5 years 92.0 97.2 9.1 6.3 82.9 90.9 the interest-bearing liabilities. The lease payments are allocated between interest expenses and the reduction of the outstanding liabilmore than 5 years 24.7 25.9 4.4 1.1 20.4 24.8 ity. Assets acquired under finance lease arrangements are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term. Total 142.4 149.7 16.8 10.1 125.6 139.6 Lease arrangements, where the lessor retains a substantial part of the risks and rewards of ownership, are classified as operating leases. Payments under operating leases are charged to the income statement over the lease term to lease payments for aircraft (not Finance lease liabilities mainly include two Airbus A320, two Airbus A321 and three Airbus A330 aircraft, whose minimum lease included in operational EBITDAR) or to other rents for facilities, purchased traffic, wet leases and temporary aircraft leases. payments are 117.7 million euros (147.3), future financial expenses 6.8 million euros (10.0) and present value of minimum lease payments 110.9 million euros (137.3). In addition, liability includes finance lease agreements of buildings and ground transThe Group as lessor Agreements, where the Group is the lessor, are accounted for as operating leases, when a substantial part of the risks and rewards of portation equipment. ownership are not transferred to the lessee. The assets are included in the tangible assets and they are depreciated during their useful life. Depreciation is calculated using the same principles as the tangible assets for own use. Under the provisions of certain aircraft lease agreements, the lessee is required to pay periodic maintenance reserves which accumulate funds for aircraft maintenance. Advances Other lease arrangements received for maintenance are recognised as liability, which is charged, when maintenance is done. The rents for premises and aircraft are recognised in the income statement as other operating income over the lease term. Minimum lease payments for irrevocable lease agreements, Group as lessee Aircraft Premises and land Other equipment Sale and leaseback transactions If a sale and leaseback transaction results in a finance lease agreement, the difference between the selling price and the carrying EUR mill. 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 amount of the asset sold is deferred and amortised over the lease period. If a sale and leaseback transaction results in an operating less than one year 146.6 125.6 23.0 22.4 6.8 5.7 lease agreement, the difference between the selling price and the carrying amount of the asset sold is recognised in the income state1–5 years 551.2 465.3 78.3 83.4 8.4 9.6 ment when the selling price is based on fair value. Otherwise the sales gain or loss is deferred and amortised over the lease period. more than 5 years 465.9 478.9 149.4 168.9 Total 1,163.6 1,069.9 250.7 274.7 15.1 15.3 Critical accounting estimates and sources of uncertainty The classification of aircraft lease arrangements in the Group to financial and other leases requires management discretion in interpreThe Group has leased premises as well as aircraft and other fixed assets with irrevocable lease agreements. These agreements tation and application of accounting standards. Those cases where the management has made a judgement that risks and rewards of have different terms of renewal and other index-linked terms and conditions. The Group has leased 32 aircraft on leases of ownership belong to Group the lease is handled as a financial lease otherwise as other lease. different tenors. Finance lease arrangements Minimum lease payments for irrevocable lease agreements, Group as lessor Aircraft Premises EUR mill. Buildings Aircraft Other equipment Total EUR mill. 2017 2016 2017 2016 Acquisition cost 247.8 4.5 252.3 less than one year 43.1 3.0 5.2 Additions 13.5 1.1 14.6 1–5 years 166.5 11.4 20.3 Disposals -2.0 -2.0 more than 5 years 28.6 15.6 35.3 Accumulated depreciation -0.7 -94.9 -1.6 -97.2 Total 238.2 30.1 60.8 Book value 31 Dec 2017 12.8 152.9 2.0 167.6 The Group has leased premises with irrevocable lease agreements. These agreements have different terms of renewal and Acquisition cost 197.2 8.5 205.7 other index-linked terms and conditions. Lease agreements of 24 aircraft operated by Norra became internal leases when Norra Additions 50.6 0.5 51.2 transferred to the full ownership of Finnair in November 2017. Disposals -4.5 -4.5 Accumulated depreciation -79.5 -2.1 -81.6 Book value 31 Dec 2016 168.4 2.3 170.7 Addition in the value of finance lease arrangements of buildings and other equipment is caused by finance lease contracts rec= Accounting principles ognised in the business acquisition of Finnair Kitchen. = Critical accounting estimates FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 56 2.3 Intangible assets 3 Capital structure and financing costs 3.1 Financial income and expenses Intangible assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment loss if applicable. The notes related to financial assets, liabilities and equity have been gathered into the capital structure and financing costs-section in order to give a better overview of the Group’s financial position. The note ´Earnings per share´ has been added to the equity section. Intangible assets in Finnair's balance sheet at the end of 2017 amounted to 15.5 million euros (12.4) and the depreciation and impairments recognised in 2017 amounted to 7.1 million euros (3.8). Intangible assets mainly include computer software amounting to 12.5 million euros (9.4), and they are depreciated with straight-line method over a useful life of 3–8 years. Other intangible Interest income and expenses assets mainly include connection fees, which are not depreciated. The goodwill included in intangible assets amounted to 1.3 Interest income and expenses are recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method. Interest expenses related to million euros (1.3) and based on impairment testing there was no indication of impairment at the end of 2017. the financing of significant investments are capitalised as part of the asset acquisition cost and depreciated over the useful life of the asset. More detailed information about financial assets can be found in Note 3.2 and about interest bearing liabilities in Note 3.3. EUR mill. 2017 2016 Net gains on investment instruments held at FVPL* -0.7 0.7 Other interest income 0.3 -0.1 Other financial income 0.1 0.4 Financial income total -0.3 1.0 Interest expenses for financial liabilities measured at amortised cost -6.6 -4.8 Interest on finance leases -3.3 -1.6 Foreign exchange gains and losses 0.1 -2.0 Other financial expenses -3.5 -3.1 Interest rate swaps, fair value hedges -3.0 3.6 Fair value adjustment to bond book value attributable to interest rate risk 3.0 -3.6 Financial expenses total -13.4 -11.5 Financial expenses, net -13.6 -10.5 *Fair value through profit and loss In the effectiveness testing of the Group’s hedge accounting, both cash flow and fair value hedging were found to be effective. Thus, as in the comparison year 2016, no inefficiency is included in the financial items for 2017. Financial income and expenses includes an identical amount of profit and loss for fair value hedging instruments and for hedged items resulting from the hedged risk. In 2017, financial expenses include the recovered loan to Nordic Regional Airlines in the amount of 1.8 million euros that was written down in 2014. In 2017, foreign exchange gains and losses recognised in financial expenses consist of net realised exchange losses of 12 million euro and net unrealised exchange gains of 12.1 million euro. During the year 2017, 9.5 million euros of interest expense was capitalised in connection with the A350 investment program (7.5). More information about the capitalised interest can be found in note 2.1 Tangible assets. Other financial expenses include revolving credit facility and guarantee fees as well as interest and penalties related to taxes. = Accounting principles = Critical accounting estimates FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 57 3.2 Financial assets 3.2.1 Other current financial assets EUR mill. 2017 2016 Financial assets Commercial paper, certificates and bonds 98.0 261.2 In the Group, financial assets have been classified into the following categories according to the IFRS 9 standard “Financial InstruMoney market funds 735.0 466.6 ments”: amortised cost and fair value through profit and loss. The classification is made at the time of the original acquisition based on Total 833.0 727.9 the objective of the business model and the characteristics of contractual cash flows of the investment, or by applying a fair value option. All purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date. Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss include such assets as investments in bonds and money market funds. Financial Ratings of counterparties assets at fair value through profit and loss have mainly been acquired to obtain a gain from short-term changes in market prices. All Better than A 0.0 22.6 those derivatives that do not fulfil the conditions for the application of hedge accounting are classified as financial assets at fair value A 23.0 79.9 through profit and loss and are valued at fair value in each financial statement. Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from BBB 24.5 83.5 changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise. Financial assets recognised at fair value BB 0.0 2.0 through profit and loss, as well as those maturing within 12 months, are included in current assets. B 2.0 0.0 Investments in debt securities are measured at amortised cost, but only when the objective of the business model is to hold the asset Unrated 783.5 539.9 to collect the contractual cash flows and the asset’s contractual cash flows represent only payments of principal and interest. Financial assets recognised at amortised cost are valued using the effective interest method. Financial assets valued at amortised cost include Total 833.0 727.9 trade receivables, deferred charges and security deposits for aircraft operating lease agreements. Due to the nature of short-term receivables and other receivables, their book value is expected to be equal to the fair value. As of 31 December 2017, investments in instruments issued by unrated counterparties mostly included investments in money Derecognition of financial assets takes place when the Group has lost its contractual right to receive cash flows or when it has submarket funds (EUR 735 mill). stantially transferred the risks and rewards outside the Group. The Group's financial asset investments and risk management policy are described in more detail in Note 3.5 Management of Impairment of financial assets financial risks. The IFRS classifications and fair values of the financial assets are presented in Note 3.6 Classification of finanFinnair Group recognises impairment provisions based on lifetime expected credit losses from trade receivables in accordance with cial assets and liabilities. IFRS 9. Finnair has chosen to apply a simplified credit loss matrix for trade receivables as trade receivables do not have a significant financing component. Accordingly, the credit loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses. The 3.2.2 Cash and cash equivalents expected credit loss model is forward-looking, and expected default rates are based on historical realised credit losses. The lifetime expected credit loss allowance is calculated using the gross carrying amount of outstanding trade receivables in each aging bucket and EUR mill. 2017 2016 an expected default rate. The changes in expected credit losses are recognised in other expenses in the consolidated income stateCash and bank deposits 150.2 60.0 ment. More information on the credit loss provision on trade receivables can be found in the note 1.2.3 Trade and other receivables. Deposits, maturing in less than 3 months 0.0 9.4 The impairment model does not apply to financial investments, such as bonds and money market funds, included in other financial Total 150.2 69.4 assets as those are measured at fair value through profit and loss under IFRS 9, which already takes into account expected credit losses. With respect to the assets measured at amortised cost, Finnair is actively following such instruments and will recognise impairment The items include cash and bank deposits realised on demand. Foreign currency cash and bank deposits have been valued usthrough profit and loss if there is evidence of deterioration in credit quality. ing the closing date mid-market exchange rates. The reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents is illustrated in the notes of the consolidated cash flow statement. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash reserves and short-term bank deposits with maturity of less than three months. Foreign exchange-denominated items have been converted to euro using the mid-market exchange rates on the closing date. = Accounting principles FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 58 3.3 Financial liabilities Short-term Long-term Long-term finance finance Short-term borrowlease lease liabilborrowings ings liabilities ities Total Financial liabilities Total liabilities from financing activities, 1 Jan 2017 78.5 499.6 22.0 117.6 717.7 Finnair Group’s financial liabilities are classified into two different classes: amortised cost and fair value through profit and loss. FiCash flows 0.3 90.6 -0.5 -21.2 69.3 nancial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value on the basis of the original consideration received. Transaction costs have been Acquisitions 15.9 0.0 1.6 13.0 30.4 included in the original book value of financial liabilities. Thereafter, all non-derivative financial liabilities are valued at amortised cost Disposals -44.0 0.0 -0.9 0.0 -44.9 using the effective interest method. Financial liabilities are included in longand short-term liabilities, and they can be interest-bearing or non-interest-bearing. Loans that are due for payment within 12 months are presented in the short-term liabilities. Foreign currency Foreign exchange adjustments -4.1 -41.5 0.0 -5.6 -51.3 loans are valued at the mid-market exchange rate on the closing date, and translation differences are recognised in the financial items. Reclassification between short-term and long-term liabilities 62.8 -62.8 0.2 -0.2 0.0 Accounts payable are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Other non-cash movements 0.7 -3.0 0.0 -0.3 -2.7 Derecognition of financial liabilities takes place when the Group has fulfilled the contractual obligations. Total liabilities from financing activities, 31 Dec 2017 110.0 482.9 22.4 103.3 718.6 Non-current liabilities Maturity dates of interest-bearing financial liabilities 31 Dec 2017 EUR mill. 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Later Total EUR mill. 2017 2016 JOLCO loans, fixed interest 13.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 40.7 53.9 JOLCO loans 283.6 346.2 JOLCO loans, variable interest 23.2 24.0 24.8 25.6 26.5 146.3 270.3 Bonds 199.3 153.4 Bonds, fixed interest 64.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 200.0 0.0 264.9 Finance lease liabilities 103.3 117.6 Finance lease liabilities, fixed interest 6.8 6.4 6.3 6.4 6.7 20.4 53.1 Interest-bearing liabilities total 586.2 617.3 Finance lease liabilities, variable interest 15.5 16.2 16.9 17.7 6.1 0.0 72.6 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 1.1 4.9 Other loans 8.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 8.0 Total 587.3 622.2 Interest-bearing financial liabilities total 131.7 46.6 48.0 49.7 239.3 207.3 722.8 Payments from currency derivatives 717.9 340.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1,058.9 Non-interest-bearing liabilities mainly include leases and maintenance reserves related to the aircraft leased to other airlines. Income from currency derivatives -695.7 -330.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 -1,026.0 Commodity derivatives -51.0 -11.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 -62.7 Current interest-bearing liabilities Payments from interest rate derivatives 18.8 95.5 13.3 130.5 0.0 0.0 258.1 Income from interest rate derivatives -18.0 -87.2 -12.5 -122.5 0.0 0.0 -240.2 EUR mill. 2017 2016 Equity derivatives 0.0 -11.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 -11.3 JOLCO loans 36.4 70.8 Trade payables and other liabilities 878.7 1.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 879.8 Bonds 65.6 0.0 Interest payments 20.0 15.4 14.2 13.0 11.7 24.1 98.4 Finance lease liabilities 22.4 22.0 Total 1,002.4 59.2 63.1 70.7 251.0 231.4 1,677.7 Other loans 8.0 7.7 Total 132.4 100.4 JOLCO loans include the JOLCO loans (Japanese Operating Lease with Call Option) for three A350 aircraft, as well as an interest-bearing loan for the E190 aircraft, whose call option has been exercised. The transactions are treated as loans and owned aircraft in Finnair's accounting. = Accounting principles FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 59 Maturity dates of interest-bearing finanThe currency mix of interest-bearing liabilities is as follows: cial liabilities 31 Dec 2016 EUR mill. 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Later Total JOLCO loans, fixed interest 29.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 44.5 74.2 EUR mill. 2017 2016 JOLCO loans, variable interest 41.1 26.2 27.0 27.9 28.9 191.8 342.9 EUR 356.7 249.5 Bonds 0.0 150.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 150.0 USD 290.5 383.7 Finance lease liabilities, fixed interest 7.1 7.9 6.2 6.1 6.2 18.8 52.1 JPY 71.4 84.5 Finance lease liabilities, variable interest 14.9 15.5 16.2 16.9 17.7 6.1 87.4 718.6 717.7 Other loans 7.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 7.7 Interest-bearing financial liabilities total 100.4 199.6 49.4 51.0 52.7 261.2 714.3 The weighted average effective interest rate on interest-bearing long-term liabilities was 2.0% (2.7%). Payments from currency derivatives 867.5 285.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1,153.2 Income from currency derivatives -966.2 -295.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 -1,262.2 Interest rate re-fixing period of interest-bearing liabilities Commodity derivatives -16.7 -11.6 -0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 -28.4 2017 2016 Interest rate derivatives 0.0 -3.6 -3.4 0.0 -12.8 0.0 -19.8 Up to 6 months 50.0% 93.7% Equity derivatives 0.0 0.0 -1.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 -1.6 6–12 months 9.0% 2.2% Trade payables and other liabilities 773.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 773.5 1–5 years 28.0% 0.0% Interest payments 17.6 16.0 9.2 7.6 6.6 25.9 82.8 More than 5 years 13.0% 4.1% Total 776.1 190.1 53.5 58.5 46.6 287.0 1,411.9 Total 100.0% 100.0% The interest rate re-fixing period is three months for variable interest loans and six months for variable interest finance leasThe increase in the share of interest-bearing liabilities with longer interest rate re-fixing periods can mainly be attributed to es. The fixed interest rate bond maturing in 2018 does not include the 0.7 million euro fair value of the interest rate swap. the bond issued in 2017 and maturing in 2022 that has a fixed coupon. Additionally, the bonds maturing in 2018 and 2022 do not include the amortised cost of 0.4 million euro and 0.7 million euro paid in 2013 and 2017, respectively. Therefore, the total amount of interest-bearing financial liabilities differs from the book value by the amount equal to the fair value of the interest rate swap and the amortised cost. 3.4 Contingent liabilities The minimum lease payments, discount values and present values of finance lease liabilities are presented in note 2.2 LeasEUR mill. 2017 2016 ing arrangements. Guarantees on behalf of group companies 71.0 69.0 Total 71.0 69.0 Maturity dates of interest-bearing financial liabilities 3.5 Management of financial risks Principles of financial risk management € million The nature of Finnair Group’s business operations exposes the company to a variety of financial risks: foreign exchange, inter300 est rate, credit, liquidity and commodity price risks. The Group’s policy is to limit the uncertainty caused by such risks on cash flow, financial performance, balance sheet items and equity. 250 239.3 The management of financial risks is based on the risk management policy prepared by the Financial Risk Steering Commit207.3 tee and approved by the Board of Directors. The policy specifies the minimum and maximum levels permitted for each type 200 of risk. Financial risk management is directed and supervised by the Financial Risk Steering Committee. Practical implemen150 tation of risk management policy and risk management have been centralised to the parent company’s treasury department. 131.7 In the management of foreign exchange, interest rate, jet fuel and electricity price risk, the company uses different deriv100 ative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options. At inception, derivatives are designated as hedges of highly probable cash flows (cash flow hedges), hedges of firm orders (hedges of the fair value of firm commitments) or as financial de46.6 48.0 49.7 50 rivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting (economic hedges). Finnair Group implements cash flow hedging through foreign exchange hedging of highly probable forecasted sales and costs denominated in foreign currencies, foreign exchange hedging 0 of lease payments, as well as through the hedging of electricity price and jet fuel price risk, in accordance with the hedge ac2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Later counting principles of IFRS 9. Hedge accounting compliant fair value hedges of Finnair Group consist of interest rate hedges of JOLCO-loans, fixed interest Bonds, fixed interest Finance lease liabilities, variable interest the issued bond and fair value hedges of firm aircraft purchase commitments. JOLCO-loans, variable interest Finance lease liabilities, fixed interest Other loans FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 60 Fuel price risk in flight operations The risk management policy divides the foreign exchange position into three parts, namely exposure to forecasted cash Fuel price risk means the cash flow and financial performance uncertainty arising from fuel price fluctuations. flows, balance sheet position and investment position. Finnair hedges against jet fuel price fluctuations using jet fuel forward contracts and options. The Jet Fuel CIF Cargoes NWE The cash flow exposure mainly consists of sales denominated in a number of different currencies and dollar-denominated index is used as the underlying asset of jet fuel derivatives, since over 60 per cent of Finnair’s fuel purchase contracts are based expenses. Forecasted jet fuel purchases, aircraft materials and overhaul expenses and traffic charges form a group of similar on the benchmark price index for Northwest Europe jet fuel deliveries. items that are hedged with the same hedging instrument. The purpose of currency risk hedging – for cash flow exposure – is Finnair applies the principle of time-diversification in its fuel hedging. According to the risk management policy, the hedging horito reduce the volatility of cash flows and comparable operating result due to fluctuating currency prices. This is done using a zon is two years. The risk management policy states that hedging must be increased during each quarter of the year, so that the hedge layered hedging strategy for the two biggest sources of currency risk and utilising diversification benefits of the portfolio of ratio is more than 60 per cent for the first six months, and thereafter a lower hedge ratio applies for each period. Due to hedging, the various currencies. The contracts are timed to mature when the cash flows from operating expenses are expected to be setfuel cost per period is not as low as the spot-based price when prices fall, but when spot prices rise, the fuel cost rises more slowly. tled. The hedging limits are set only for the main contributors to currency risk: the Japanese yen and the US dollar basket conThe hedges of jet fuel consumption are treated as cash flow hedges in accounting, in accordance with the hedge accounting sisting of the US dollar, the Chinese yuan and the Hong Kong dollar. For both of these, the hedging horizon is two years, which principles of IFRS 9. During 2017, Finnair has hedged the jet fuel price risk in its entirety, without separating it into underlying is divided into four six-month periods. In order to achieve time diversification, the minimum hedge ratio for the closest sixrisk components, such as crude oil price risk. However, Finnair has used proxy hedging for certain layer components of its jet month period is 60 per cent with a decreasing slope ending at zero per cent for the fourth six-month period. Even though the fuel consumption, as described below. policy does not require hedging of smaller currency flows, it is allowed, in which case the layered hedging strategy is partially In the hedging of jet fuel price risk, Finnair Group designates layer components of its jet fuel consumption as hedged items. The applied, although no minimum hedging ratio is specified. layer components are defined as jet fuel consumption linked to different jet fuel price benchmarks. The first layer is defined as jet The investment position includes all foreign currency denominated aircraft investments for which a binding purchase agreefuel purchases based on the Jet Fuel CIF Cargoes NWE index, with consumption linked to other price benchmarks, notably Cargoes ment has been signed as well as commitments for sale and leaseback transactions in the next four years. According to its risk FOB Singapore, representing other layers. Since the Jet Fuel CIF Cargoes NWE index is used as the underlying of all jet fuel derivamanagement policy, Finnair Group hedges 50-100% of its aircraft investment exposure. New hedges of investments in aircraft tives, they are designated as proxy hedges for consumption based on other price benchmarks. Therefore, ineffectiveness may arise are made as an IFRS 9 fair value hedge of a firm commitment. if the correlation between the NWE index and the price benchmark for the underlying consumption is not high enough for the fair Balance sheet exposure consists of foreign currency denominated financial assets and liabilities, as well as other foreign currency value changes in the hedged item and the hedging instrument to be exactly offsetting. Any ineffectiveness resulting from overhedgdenominated balance sheet items, such as provisions, trade receivables, trade payables and assets held for sale. Finnair Group ing or insufficient correlation is recognised in fair value changes in derivatives and changes in exchange rates of fleet overhauls. hedges 75–100% of net positions in foreign currency denominated financial assets and financial liabilities exceeding 10 MEUR. At the end of the financial year, Finnair had a hedge level for net operating cash flows of 67 per cent in the USD-basket and 66 Timing of the notional and hedged price Maturity per cent in JPY for the coming 12 months, and hedge levels of 23 per cent and 18 per cent for 2019, respectively. On the closing Hedged price Notional amount 31.12.2017 $/tonne (tonnes) Under 1 year 1 to 2 years date – excluding hedges – a 10 per cent strengthening of the US dollar against the euro has a negative impact on the 24-month Jet fuel consumption priced with NWE index 535.9 962,407 736,407 226,000 result of around 125 million euro and a 10 per cent weakening of the Japanese yen against the euro has a negative impact on 24-month of around 39 million euro. On the closing date – taking hedging into account – a 10 per cent strengthening of the US Jet fuel consumption priced with SING index 535.8 64,593 64,593 dollar weakens the result by around 75 million euro and a 10 per cent weakening of the Japanese yen weakens the result by The average hedged price of the instruments hedging highly probable jet fuel purchases is calculated by taking into account only the hedging (bought) leg of collar option structures, and therefore represents the least favorable hedged rate. The most favorable around 24 million euro. In the above numbers, the USD-basket risk also includes the Chinese yuan and the Hong Kong dollar, rate, calculated by including only the sold leg of collar option structures, is 528.8 US dollars per tonne for NWE consumption, and whose historical correlation with the US dollar is high. The situation as of 31 December 2017 is a reasonable representation of 519.2 US dollars for SING consumption. Options excluded from hedge accounting are excluded in both cases. conditions throughout the year given the current market environment. At the end of the financial year, Finnair had hedged 74 per cent of its fuel purchases for the first six months of 2018 and 53 per Maturity Timing of the notional Notional amount cent of the purchases for the second half of the year. In the financial year 2017, fuel used in flight operations accounted for apEUR mill. 31.12.2017 (gross) Less than 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 4 years proximately one fifth of Group’s turnover. At the end of the financial year, the forecast for 2018 is approximately one fifth of the USD 1,320.9 694.8 491.2 134.9 Group's turnover. On the closing date, a 10 per cent rise in the market price of jet fuel – excluding hedging activity – increases JPY 349.4 285.0 64.4 annual fuel costs by an estimated 54 million euro. On the closing date – taking hedging into account – a 10 per cent rise in fuel lowers operating profit by around 21 million euro. The situation as of 31 December 2017 is a reasonable representation of conCross-currency interest rate swaps are included in the nominal amount calculation. ditions throughout the year given the current market environment. Foreign exchange P&L exposure EUR mill. JPY USD-basket Foreign exchange risk 31 December 2017 Foreign exchange risk means the uncertainty in cash flows, financial performance and balance sheet arising from exchange Net forecasted operating cash flows, next 24M 386.6 -1,245.6 rate fluctuations. Net operating cash flow hedges, next 24M -161.1 535.0 Finnair Group’s foreign exchange risk mainly arises from fuel and aircraft purchases, divestments of aircraft, aircraft lease Weighted average exchange rate of hedging instruments against the euro 129.3 1.14 payments, aircraft maintenance, overflight royalties and foreign currency revenue. About 55 per cent of the Group’s revenue is denominated in euros. The most important foreign revenue currencies are Japanese yen (10 per cent, percentage of revenue), Foreign exchange exposure from operating cash flows after hedging, next 24M 225.5 -710.6 Chinese yuan (7 per cent), Swedish krona (4 per cent) and US dollar (4 per cent). Approximately half of the Group’s operating The average exchange rate of the instruments hedging highly probable forecasted sales and purchases denominated in foreign costs are denominated in foreign currencies. The most important purchasing currency is the US dollar, which accounts for alcurrencies is calculated by taking into account only the hedging (bought) leg of collar option structures, and therefore represents the least favorable hedged rate. The most favorable rate, calculated by including only the sold leg of collar option structures, is most 40 per cent of all operating costs. Significant dollar-denominated expenses are fuel costs and aircraft lease payments. 1.16 for USD contracts and 119.9 for JPY instruments. The largest investments – aircraft and their spare parts – are also mainly made in US dollars. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 61 Foreign exchange balance sheet exposure EUR mill. JPY USD Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the group to fair value interest rate risk. The group is applying hedge accounting (fair value hedge) in order to hedge the fair value interest rate risk of its 150 million euro fixed rate unsecured bond issued in 31 December 2017 August 2013. Net balance sheet items -65.7 -318.3 Future lease agreements expose the group to interest rate risk, as the interest rate is one component of the lease price. The Net hedges of balance sheet items 71.8 170.5 interest rate is fixed when the lease payments start. If necessary, the group can hedge this exposure with cash flow hedges. Weighted average exchange rate of hedging instruments against the euro 134.4 1.13 Maturity Foreign exchange exposure from balance sheet items after hedging 6.1 -147.8 Timing of the notional and hedged price range Notional amount EUR mill. 31 Dec 2017 (gross) Less than 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 4 years Interest rate derivatives 304.5 82.4 87.2 134.9 Foreign exchange investment exposure EUR mill. USD Cross-currency interest rate swaps are included in the nominal amount calculation. Finnair has not entered into any interest rate 31 December 2017 derivatives on which it is paying a fixed rate. Net investment position -625.8 Net hedges of investment position 316.2 Credit risk The Group is exposed to counterparty risk when investing its cash reserves and when using derivative instruments. The credit Weighted average exchange rate of hedging instruments against the euro 1.17 risk is managed by only making contracts with financially sound domestic and foreign banks, financial institutions and brokers, Foreign exchange exposure from investment position after hedging -309.6 within the framework of risk management policy for counterparty risk limits. Liquid assets are also invested in money market funds, bonds and commercial papers issued by conservatively selected companies, according to company-specific limits. This Foreign exchange P&L exposure EUR mill. JPY USD-basket way, risk exposure to any single counterparty is not significant. Change in the fair value of Group loans arises from changes in 31 December 2016 FX and interest rates, not from credit risk. The Group's credit risk exposure arises from other current financial assets presented in note 3.2.1, cash and cash equivalents presented in note 3.2.2, trade receivables presented in Note 1.2.3 and derivatives Net forecasted operating cash flows, next 24M 391.5 -1,201.5 presented in note 3.8. Net operating cash flow hedges, next 24M -182.7 603.1 Foreign exchange exposure from operating cash flows after hedging, next 24M 208.8 -598.4 Liquidity risk The goal of Finnair Group is to maintain good liquidity. Liquidity is ensured by cash reserves, bank account limits, liquid money Foreign exchange balance sheet exposure EUR mill. JPY USD market investments and committed credit facilities. Counterparties of groups' long term loans are solid financial institutions with good reputations. 31 December 2016 The Group’s liquid assets were 983.2 million euro at the end of financial year 2017. Finnair Plc has a domestic commercial Net balance sheet items -80.9 -359.4 paper program of 200 million euro, which was not in use as of the closing date. In addition, Finnair has an unused 175 million Net hedges of balance sheet items 83.9 193.4 euro committed revolving credit facility. The credit facility includes a financial covenant based on adjusted gearing. The coveForeign exchange exposure from balance sheet items after hedging 3.0 -166.0 nant level of adjusted gearing is 175 per cent, while at the closing date the figure was 69.9 per cent. The maximum level set by the Board of Directors is 175 per cent. Foreign exchange investment exposure EUR mill. USD Capital management 31 December 2016 Aim of Finnair’s capital management is to secure the access to capital markets at all times despite volatile business environNet investment position -662.2 ment, as well as support future business development. Through optimal capital structure Group also aims to minimize the cost of Net hedges of investment position 377.1 capital and maximize the return on capital employed. The capital structure is influenced via, for example, dividend distribution and share issues. The Group can vary and adjust the level of dividends paid to shareholders, the amount of capital returned to Foreign exchange exposure from investment position after hedging -285.1 them or the number of new shares issued. The Group can also decide on sales of asset items in order to reduce debt. The aim of Finnair´s dividend policy is to pay on average at least one third of the earnings per share as dividend during an economic cycle. Interest rate risk The development of the Group’s capital structure is continuously monitored using the adjusted gearing. When calculating adjusted gearing, adjusted interest-bearing net debt is divided by the amount of shareholders’ equity. The Group’s adjusted Interest rate risk means the cash flow, financial performance and balance sheet uncertainty arising from interest rate fluctuations. In Finnair Group, the interest rate risk is measured using the interest rate re-fixing period. If necessary, interest rate derivgearing at the end of 2017 was 69.9 per cent (78.3). atives are used to adjust the interest rate re-fixing period. According to the risk management policy, the mandate for the inSensitivity analysis of the fair value reserve vestment portfolio’s interest rate re-fixing period is 0–12 months and for interest-bearing liabilities 0–24 months. On the closIf the price of Jet fuel CIF NWE had been 10 per cent higher, the balance of the reserve would have been 45.9 million euro (33.9) ing date, the investment portfolio’s interest rate re-fixing period was approximately 3 months and approximately 24 months for interest-bearing liabilities. On the closing date, a one percentage point rise in interest rates increases the annual interest higher. Correspondingly, a 10 per cent weaker Jet fuel CIF NWE price would have reduced the reserve by 45.0 million euro (33.9). income of the investment portfolio by approximately 7.3 million euros and the interest expenses of the loan portfolio by apIn terms of the US dollar, a 10 per cent weaker level would have lowered the balance of the fair value reserve by 51.1 million euro proximately 3.1 million euros. The situation as of December 31 2017 is a reasonable representation of conditions throughout (47.9) and a 10 per cent stronger dollar would have had a positive impact of 49.3 million euro (47.9). In terms of the Japa­nese yen, the year given the current market environment. a 10 per cent stronger yen would have had a negative impact of 10.0 million euro (0.0), and a 10 per cent weaker level would have increased the balance of the fair value reserve by 15.1 million euro (0.0). The effect of change in interests to the fair value reserve in own equity is not essential. The enclosed sensitivity figures do not take into account any change in deferred tax liability (tax assets). FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 62 3.6 Classification of financial assets and liabilities Hedge Financial assets at accounting fair value through Loans and Valued at Book EUR mill. items profit and loss receivables amortised cost value Hedge accounting Fair value through EUR mill. items profit and loss Amortised cost Book value 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2017 Financial assets Financial assets Receivables 7.4 7.4 Receivables 5.6 5.6 Other financial assets 727.9 727.9 Other financial assets 833.0 833.0 Trade receivables and other receivables 211.9 211.9 Trade receivables and other receivables 319.8 319.8 Derivatives 133.2 43.3 176.6 Derivatives 100.8 3.7 104.5 Cash and cash equivalents 69.4 69.4 Cash and cash equivalents 150.2 150.2 Book value total 133.2 771.2 288.7 1,193.1 Book value total 100.8 836.7 475.6 1,413.0 Fair value total 133.2 771.2 288.7 1,193.1 Fair value total 100.8 836.7 475.6 1,413.0 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 578.1 578.1 Interest-bearing liabilities 592.9 592.9 Finance lease liabilities 139.6 139.6 Finance lease liabilities 125,6 125.6 Derivatives 8.4 16.8 25.2 Derivatives 61.3 20.0 81.3 Trade payables and other liabilities 4.9 773.5 778.4 Trade payables and other liabilities 879.8 879.8 Book value total 8.4 16.8 4.9 1,491.2 1,521.3 Book value total 61.3 20.0 1,598.4 1,679.7 Fair value total 8.4 16.8 4.9 1,491.2 1,521.3 Fair value total 61.3 20.0 1,607.7 1,688.9 In this note interest rate derivatives (currency and interest-rate swaps) are included in derivatives. Item Receivables mainly includes USD-denominated security deposits for leased aircraft. Trade payables and other liabilities include: trade payables, deferred expenses, pension obligations as well as other interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing liabilities. Derivatives are valued at fair value, with further details in the fair value hierarchy. Financial assets valued at fair value are money market funds (fair value hierarchy level 1) and bonds, or commercial papers (fair value hierarchy level 2). Loans and receivables are mainly current and the book value is equivalent to the fair value, because the discount effect is not significant. The current portion of loans valued at amortised cost, excluding bonds, is 66.8 million euro, and the book value is equivalent to the fair value, because the discount effect is not significant. The issued bonds make the most significant part of the loans valued at amortised cost. The senior bond maturing in 2018 was quoted at 103.3 per cent as per 31 December 2017, and the senior bond maturing in 2022 was quoted at 103.6, which explains the difference between book value and fair value. The valuation principles of financial assets and liabilities are outlined in the accounting principles. The valuation principles of financial assets and liabilities are outlined in the accounting principles. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 63 Fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities valued at fair value 3.7 Offsetting financial assets and liabilities Fair values at the end of the reporting period EUR mill. 2017 2016 EUR mill. 31 Dec 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Derivative assets gross amounts 104.5 176.6 Assets Gross amounts of recognised financial liabilities set off in the balance sheet 0.0 0.0 Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Net amounts of financial assets presented in the balance sheet 104.5 176.6 Securities held for trading 833.0 735.0 98.0 Enforceable master netting agreement -63.8 -95.5 Derivative assets net amount 40.7 81.1 Derivatives held for trading Currency and interest rate swaps and options 0.7 0.7 EUR mill. 2017 2016 of which in fair value hedge accounting 0.7 0.7 Derivative liabilities gross amounts -81.3 -25.2 Currency derivatives 14.7 14.7 Gross amounts of recognised financial assets set off in the balance sheet 0.0 0.0 of which in fair value hedge accounting 0.1 0.1 Net amounts of financial liabilities presented in the balance sheet -81.3 -25.2 of which in cash flow hedge accounting 10.9 10.9 Enforceable master netting agreement 63.8 95.5 Commodity derivatives 63.1 63.1 Derivative liabilites net amount -17.5 70.3 of which in cash flow hedge accounting 63.1 63.1 Equity derivatives 26.0 26.0 For the above financial assets and liabilities, subject to enforceable master netting arrangements or similar arrangements, each of which in fair value hedge accounting 26.0 26.0 agreement between the Group and the counterparty allows net settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when both parties choose to settle on a net basis. In the absence of such mutual decision, financial assets and liabilities will be settled Total 937.5 735.0 202.5 on a gross basis. However, each party of the master netting agreement, or similar agreement, will have the option to settle on a net basis in the event of default of the other party. Depending on the terms of each agreement, an event of default includes failure Liabilities by a party to make a payment when due, failure by a party to perform any obligation required by the agreement (other than payFinancial liabilities recognised at fair value through profit and loss ment), if such failure is not remedied within periods of 30 to 60 days after notice of such failure is given to the party, or bankruptcy. Derivatives held for trading Currency and interest rate swaps and options 18.6 18.6 Currency derivatives 47.6 47.6 of which in fair value hedge accounting 17.5 17.5 of which in cash flow hedge accounting 29.0 29.0 Commodity derivatives 0.5 0.5 of which in cash flow hedge accounting 0.1 0.1 Equity derivatives 14.7 14.7 of which in fair value hedge accounting 14.7 14.7 Total 81.3 81.3 During the financial year, no significant transfers took place between fair value hierarchy Levels 1 and 2. The fair values of hierarchy Level 1 are fully based on quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets of the same assets and liabilities. The fair values of Level 2 instruments are, to a significant extent, based on input data other than the quoted prices included in Level 1, but still mainly based on directly observable data (price) or indirectly observable data (derived from price) for the particular asset or liability. On the other hand, the fair values of Level 3 instruments are based on asset or liability input data that is not based on observable market information (unobservable inputs). The fair values are based on confirmations supplied by counterparties, based on generally accepted valuation models. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 64 3.8 Derivatives Derivative contracts and hedge accounting If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item, for which the effecAccording to its risk management policy, Finnair Group uses foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity derivatives to reduce the exchange tive interest method is used, is amortized to profit or loss over the period to maturity. rate, interest rate and commodity risks which arise from the Group's balance sheet items, currency denominated purchase agreements, anticiFinnair Group uses cross-currency interest rate swaps in the hedging of the interest rate and foreign exchange risks of foreign currency depated currency denominated purchases and sales as well as future jet fuel purchases. It is the Group’s policy not to enter into derivative financial nominated loans. Cross-currency interest rate swaps are excluded from hedge accounting, and therefore the fair value changes are recognised contracts for speculative purposes. in derivative assets and liabilities in the balance sheet, as well as in the financial income and expenses in the income statement. The fair value The derivatives are initially recognised as well as subsequently valued at fair value in each financial statement and interim report. The fair valchanges of the loans are simultaneously recognised in the financial income and expenses. Realised foreign exchange rate differences, as well as ues of the derivatives are based on the value at which the instrument could be exchanged between knowledgeable, willing and independent parinterest income and expenses, are recognised in the financial income and expenses against the exchange rate differences and interest income ties, with no compulsion to sell or buy in the sales situation. The fair values of derivatives are determined as follows: and expenses of the loan. The fair values of all derivatives are calculated using the exchange rates, interest rates, volatilities and commodity price quotations on the closing Finnair Group uses jet fuel swaps (forward contracts) and options in the hedging of jet fuel price risk. Unrealised gains and losses on derivatives date. The fair values of currency forward contracts are calculated as the present value of future cash flows. The fair values of currency options are hedging jet fuel, which are designated as cash flow hedges and fulfil the requirements of IFRS hedge accounting, are recognised in the hedging calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The fair values of interest rate swap contracts are calculated as the present value of future reserve within other comprehensive income. Accrued derivative gains and losses, recognised in shareholders’ equity, are recognised as income cash flows. The fair values of cross-currency interest rate swap contracts are calculated as the present value of future cash flows. The fair values of or expense in the income statement in the same financial period as the hedged item is recognised in the income statement. If a forecasted cash interest rate options are calculated using generally accepted option valuation models. The fair values of commodity forward contracts are calculated flow is no longer expected to occur, and as a result the IFRS hedge accounting criteria are not fulfilled, the fair value changes and the accrued as the present value of future cash flows. The fair values of commodity options are calculated using generally accepted option valuation models. gains and losses reported in shareholders’ equity are transferred to the items affecting comparability in the income statement. Changes in the The Group uses credit valuation adjustment for cross-currency interest rate swaps as the maturities of these derivatives are long. The credit fair value of jet fuel swaps and options excluded from hedge accounting are recognised in fair value changes in derivatives in the income statevaluation adjustment is not done for the rest of the derivatives as the maturities for these are short and the impact would not be material. Credit ment, while realised result is presented in fuel costs. risk management is described in more detail in note 3.5. For forward and option contracts, economic relationship exists between the hedged item and the hedging instrument as hedging instrument Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value are presented in the financial statements according to the original classification of the and hedged item are expected to move in opposite directions because of the same underlying. This is true for all hedge relationships except for derivative. Gains and losses on derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting are recognised in accordance with the nature of the risk being hedged. At the SING consumption hedged with NWE hedges (as described in section 3.5). In that case, the underlying is different, but the underlying hedged inception, derivative contracts are designated as hedges of future cash flows, hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities and binding item (SING) and the hedge (NWE) have a historical correlation of 0.99. Therefore, it can be classified as a relationship where the underlying and the purchase contracts (cash flow hedges or fair value hedges) or as derivatives not meeting the hedge accounting criteria or to which hedge accounthedge are economically closely related. Ineffectiveness on fuel derivatives can also arise from timing differences on the notional amount between ing is not applied (economic hedges). Hedging of the fair value of net investments of foreign units or embedded derivatives have not been used. the hedged instrument and hedged item, significant changes in credit risk of parties to the hedging relationship and changes in the total amount At the inception of hedge accounting, Finnair Group documents economic relationship and the hedge ratio between the hedged item and the of the hedged item, for instance if the underlying fuel consumption forecast is not accurate enough, that can result in overhedging. However, as hedging instrument, as well as the Group’s risk management objectives and the strategy for the inception of hedging. At the inception of hedging, Finnair usually hedges less than 100%, the risk of overhedging is insignificant. Finnair has established a hedge ratio of 1:1 for hedging relationships. and at least at the time of each financial statement, the Group documents and assesses the effectiveness of hedge relationships by examining the Finnair Group uses electricity derivative contracts in the hedging of electricity price risk in its entirety. The electricity price risk hedges are past and prospective capacity of the hedging instrument to offset changes in the fair value of the hedged item or changes in cash flows. The values recognised as cash flow hedges. Unrealised gains and losses on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges in accordance with IFRS, are recogof derivatives in a hedging relationship are presented in the balance sheet items Short–term financial assets and liabilities. nised in the hedging reserve within other comprehensive income. Accrued gain or loss on the hedge is transferred to the income statement in the Finnair Group implements the IFRS hedge accounting principles in the hedging of future cash flows (cash flow hedging). The principles are same period as the hedged transaction. Changes in the fair value of hedges excluded from hedge accounting (which do not fulfil the IFRS hedge applied to the price risk of jet fuel, the price risk of electricity, the foreign currency risk of lease payments and the foreign currency risk of highly accounting criteria) are recognised in the fair value changes in derivatives over the tenor time of the derivative, and realised gain or loss is preprobable future sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies. The IFRS fair value hedge accounting principles are applied to the hedgsented in Other expenses at maturity. ing of foreign exchange and interest rate risk of aircraft purchases and the hedges of the pilot incentive plan. Finnair uses forward contracts and options to hedge its exposure to foreign currency denominated cash flows. The hedges of cash flows deThe change in the fair value of the effective portion of derivative instruments that have been designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are nominated in foreign currencies are treated as cash flow hedges in accounting, in accordance with the hedge accounting principles of IFRS 9. Unrecognised in comprehensive income and presented within equity in the fair value reserve, to the extent that the requirements for the application realised gains and losses on hedges of forecasted cash flows qualifying for hedge accounting are recognised in the hedging reserve in OCI, while of hedge accounting have been fulfilled and the hedge is effective. The gains and losses, recognised in the fair value reserve, are transferred to the change in the fair value of such hedges not qualifying for hedge accounting is recognised in Fair value changes in derivatives and changes in the income statement in the period in which the hedged item is recognised in the income statement. exchange rates of fleet overhauls in the income statement. The change in fair value recognised in the hedging reserve in equity is transferred to When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the criteria for cash flow hedge accounting are no longer fulfilled, the income statement when the hedged transaction is realised. Forward points are included in the hedging instrument and in the hedge relationbut the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in the hedge reserve and is recogship. Potential sources of ineffectiveness include changes in timing of the hedged item, significant changes in credit risk of parties to the hedging nised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the underlying hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, relationship and changes in the total amount of the hedged item, for instance if the underlying cash flow forecast is not accurate enough, that the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in the hedge reserve with respect to the hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the can result in overhedging. However, as Finnair usually hedges less than 100%, the risk of overhedging is insignificant. Realised profit or loss on consolidated income statement. derivatives hedging JPY, CNY and SEK-denominated operating cash flows is presented in revenue, realised profit or loss on derivatives hedging a The effectiveness of hedging is tested on a quarterly basis. The effective portion of hedges is recognised in the fair value reserve of other group of similar USD costs is proportionally recognised in corresponding expense lines, while profit or loss on derivatives hedging cash flows decomprehensive income, from which it is transferred to the income statement when the hedged item is realised or, in terms of investments, as an nominated in other currencies is presented in Other expenses. acquisition cost adjustment. The hedge ratio is defined as the relationship between the quantity of the hedging instrument and the quantity of the hedged item in terms Fair value hedging is implemented on firm orders of new aircraft, in order to hedge the fixed interest rate bond, and to hedge the incentive of their relative weighting. With currency hedging, hedge ratio is typically 1:1. For forward and option contracts, an economic relationship exists plan negotiated with pilots. The binding purchase agreements for new aircraft are treated as firm commitments under IFRS, and therefore, the between the hedged item and the hedging instrument as there is an expectation that the value of the hedging instrument and the value of the fair value changes of the hedged part arising from foreign currency movements are recognised in the balance sheet as an asset item, and correhedged item would move in the opposite direction because of the common underlying. sponding gains or losses recognised through profit and loss. Similarly, the fair value of instruments hedging these purchases is presented in the Changes in the fair value of interest rate derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting are recognised in financial income and expenses in balance sheet as a liability or receivable, and the change in fair value is recognised in profit and loss. the income statement. Changes in the fair value as well as realised gain or loss on forward contracts used to hedge foreign currency denominated In relation to the incentive plan negotiated with the pilots in October 2014, Finnair entered into an agreement where the market price of Finnair balance sheet items of Finnair Group are recognised in financial expenses. Changes in the fair value and realised result of hedges of assets held share has an effect at the end of the plan. Finnair Group has hedged the amount exceeding 12 million euros of the possible cost effect of this plan for sale are recognised in Items affecting comparability. with stock options. Fair value hedging is applied to the hedges. The unrealised fair value changes of the options are recognised as a liability or receivable in the balance sheet, and in the income statement, the realised hedging results are recognised in the staff cost, and the unrealised hedging Cost of hedging result is recognised in the fair value changes in derivatives. The premium and the intrinsic value of the stock options are accrued and recognised in At Finnair, the time value of an option is excluded from the designation of a financial instrument and accounted for as a cost of hedging. Upon inithe staff costs over the lifetime of the hedge instrument. The incentive plan is treated as a firm commitment under IFRS. When the stock price extial recognition, Finnair defers any paid premium in the cost of hedging reserve within other comprehensive income. The fair value changes of the ceeds 4 euros, the cost of the incentive plan is also accrued and recognised in the staff costs. The unrealised and realised fair value changes of the time value are recognised in the cost of hedging reserve within other comprehensive income. The premium will be transferred to the consolidated incentive plan are recognised in the staff costs in the income statement, and its fair value is shown as a liability or receivable in the balance sheet. income statement in the same period that the underlying transaction affects the consolidated income statement for transaction-related hedges. The gain or loss related to the effective portion of the interest rate swap, which hedges the fixed interest rate bond, is recognised as financial As of 31 December 2017, Finnair has deferred premiums only on transaction-related hedges. income or expenses in the income statement. The gain or loss related to the ineffective portion is recognised within other operating income and expenses in the income statement. The change in the fair value attributable to the interest rate risk of the hedged fixed interest rate loans is recognised in the financial expenses in the income statement. = Accounting principles FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 65 2017 2016 2017 2016 Positive Negative Fair Negative Positive Negative Fair Negative Nominal fair fair net Nominal Positive fair fair Fair net Nominal fair fair net Nominal Positive fair fair Fair net EUR mill. value values values value value values values value EUR mill. value values values value value values values value Currency derivatives Cross-currency interest rate swaps 239.6 -18.5 -18.5 291.8 16.1 16.1 Jet fuel currency hedging 307.3 16.6 -0.1 16.5 Items outside hedge accounting total 239.6 0.0 -18.5 -18.5 291.8 16.1 0.0 16.1 Operational cash flow hedging (forward 385.2 5.8 -16.3 -10.5 contracts) Interest rate derivatives total 304.5 0.7 -18.5 -17.9 441.8 19.8 0.0 19.8 Operational cash flow hedging, bought 195.1 5.1 5.1 options Operational cash flow hedging, sold options 200.1 -4.0 -4.0 Equity derivatives Fair value hedging of aircraft acquisitions 316.2 0.1 -17.5 -17.4 377.1 74.6 74.6 Bought options, millions 3.0 26.0 26.0 3.0 1.8 1.8 Hedging of lease payments 131.7 0.1 -8.7 -8.6 172.4 9.7 -0.1 9.6 Sold options, millions 3.0 -14.7 -14.7 3.0 -0.2 -0.2 Hedge accounting items total 1,228.4 11.0 -46.5 -35.5 856.8 100.8 -0.1 100.7 Hedge accounting items total 6.0 26.0 -14.7 11.3 6.0 1.8 -0.2 1.6 Operational cash flow hedging (forward 157.4 5.3 -2.1 3.3 Equity derivatives total 6.0 26.0 -14.7 11.3 6.0 1.8 -0.2 1.6 contracts) Operational cash flow hedging, bought 173.2 5.9 5.9 Derivatives total * 104.5 -81.3 23.2 176.6 -25.2 151.4 options * Positive (negative) fair value of hedging instruments as of 31.12.2017 is presented in the statement of financial position in Operational cash flow hedging, sold options 245.4 -2.4 -2.4 the item derivative financial instruments within current assets (derivative financial instruments within current liabilities). Hedging of aircraft divestments 101.3 3.7 -0.1 3.6 123.7 -7.3 -7.3 Balance sheet hedging (forward contracts) 101.0 -0.9 -0.9 118.3 1.9 -0.4 1.5 Hedged items in hedge relationships Items outside hedge accounting total 202.3 3.7 -1.0 2.6 818.0 13.1 -12.2 0.9 Accumulated amount of fair Line item in Changes in fair Changes in fair Currency derivatives total 1,430.7 14.7 -47.6 -32.8 1,674.8 114.0 -12.4 101.6 value hedge the statement value of the value of the hedgadjustments of financial hedged item used ing instrument included in the position in for calculating used for calculatCommodity derivatives Carrying amount carrying amount of which the hedge ineffectiveing hedge ineffecJet fuel forward contracts, tonnes 808,000 58.3 58.3 650,000 26.9 -8.0 18.9 of the hedged item the hedged item hedged item is ness, previous 12 tiveness, previous Bought options, jet fuel, tonnes 91,000 4.8 4.8 31 Dec 2017 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities included months 12 months Sold options, jet fuel, tonnes 91,000 -0.1 -0.1 Cash flow hedges Electricity derivatives, MWh 13,140 0.0 0.0 0.0 Jet fuel price risk Hedge accounting items total 63.1 -0.1 63.0 26.9 -8.0 18.9 Forecasted jet -121.4 53.6 fuel purchases Foreign exchange Jet fuel forward contracts, tonnes 24,000 0.7 -0.2 0.6 risk Bought options, jet fuel, tonnes 236,000 13.3 13.3 Forecasted sales 129.1 -17.2 Sold options, jet fuel, tonnes 37,000 -0.4 -0.4 472,000 -4.4 -4.4 and purchases Items outside hedge accounting total 0.0 -0.4 -0.4 14.0 -4.6 9.4 Lease payments 41.6 -10.3 Fair value hedges Commodity derivatives total 63.1 -0.5 62.7 41.0 -12.6 28.4 Foreign exchange risk Aircraft 17.4 17.4 Non-current 92.0 -92.0 Interest rate derivatives acquisitions assets Interest rate swaps 64.9 0.7 0.0 0.7 150.0 3.7 0.0 3.6 Interest rate risk Hedge accounting items total 64.9 0.7 0.0 0.7 150.0 3.7 0.0 3.6 Fixed rated 65.5 0.7 Interest-bearing -3.0 3.0 loans liabilities FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 66 Ratings of derivative counterparties 3.9 Equity-related information EUR mill. 2017 2016 Better than A 2,3 105,3 Shareholders’ equity A 10,2 42,0 The nominal value of shares had been recognised in the share capital before an amendment to the Articles of Association registered BBB 10,7 4,1 on 22 March 2007. Share issue profit and gains on sale of own shares had been recognised in other restricted funds before the change in the Limited Liability Company Act in 2006. Total 23,2 151,4 The subscription proceeds from the 2007 share issue less transaction costs after taxes as well as share-based payments according to IFRS 2 have been recognised in the unrestricted equity funds. Derivatives realised through profit and loss Hedging reserve and other OCI items include changes in the fair value of derivative instruments used in cash flow hedging, actuarial gains and losses related to defined benefit pension plans and translation differences. EUR mill. 2017 2016 The acquisition cost of repurchased owned shares less transaction costs after taxes is charged to equity until the shares are cancelled or reissued. The consideration received for sale or issue of own shares is included in equity. Jet fuel hedging Fuel costs 2.1 -90.4 The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is not deducted from distributable equity until decided at the Annual General Meeting. Hedging of lease payments Lease payments for aircraft 1.9 14.7 The hybrid bond is recognised in equity. It is unsecured and subordinated to all senior debt. The hybrid bond does not confer shareElectricity derivatives Other expenses 0.0 -0.2 holders’ rights, nor does it dilute the holdings of shareholders. Interest expenses are debited from retained earnings on cash basis net Interest rate swaps Financial expenses 3.6 2.1 of tax. In the calculation of earnings per share, interest expenses of the hybrid bond are included in the earnings for the financial year. Operational cash flow hedging Fuel costs 0.1 0.0 Operational cash flow hedging Aircraft materials and overhaul 0.3 0.0 Number of shares 2017 2016 Operational cash flow hedging Traffic charges 0.9 0.0 Number of outstanding shares in the beginning of the financial year 127,347,151 127,810,910 Operational cash flow hedging Revenue 4.1 0.0 Purchase of own shares 0 -800,000 Expenses of hedge accounting items total 13.0 -73.8 Shares granted from the share-bonus scheme 180,904 55,105 Jet fuel hedging Fuel costs 0.1 -24.8 Shares granted from FlyShare employee share savings plan 174,693 281,136 Operational cash flow hedging Other expenses 0.0 14.0 Number of outstanding shares at the end of the financial year 127,702,748 127,347,151 Operational cash flow hedging Revenue 0.0 -12.3 Own shares held by the parent company 433,367 788,964 Hedging of aircraft sales transactions Items affecting comparability 1.4 -2.0 Total number of shares at the end of the financial year 128,136,115 128,136,115 Balance sheet hedging Financial expenses -10.6 0.5 Cross-currency interest rate swaps Financial expenses 4.3 1.9 Finnair Plc's share capital, paid in its entirety and registered in the trade register, was at 75,442,904.30 euros at the end of 2016 and 2017. The shares have no nominal value. During the year 2017, Finnair transferred a total of 174,693 shares to FlyShare parExpenses of items outside hedge accounting total -4.7 -22.8 ticipants and a total of 180,904 shares to participants in Finnair's share-based incentive scheme 2014–2016. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 67 The Group’s hedging reserve and other OCI items Hybrid bond Shareholders’ equity (after equity belonging to the owners) includes a 200 million euro hybrid bond issued in 2015. The hybrid Unrealised bond coupon is fixed at 7.875 per cent per year for the first five years, and thereafter floating, at least 12.875 per cent per year. Amounts gains and Change in Line item affected in Finnair can postpone interest payment if it does not distribute dividends or any other equity to its shareholders. The bond has reclassified to losses recogaccounting profit or loss because of no maturity date, but the company has the right to redeem it in five years and on every interest payment date thereafter. The EUR mill. 2017 profit or loss nised in OCI principles 2016 the reclassification overall hybrid bond net position recognised in equity is 198.2 million euro, due to issuing expenses. The hybrid bonds are unJet fuel price hedging 63.7 -2.1 38.0 8.9 18.9 Fuel costs secured and in a weaker preference position than promissory notes. A holder of hybrid bond notes has no shareholder rights. Jet fuel currency hedging -16.5 16.5 Fuel costs Hedging of lease payments -8.6 -1.9 -16.3 9.6 Lease payments for aircraft Earnings per share Operating cash flow hedging -9.8 -5.4 -26.7 22.3 0.0 Revenue and cost lines* The basic earnings per share figure is calculated by dividing the result for the financial year attributable to the parent compaHedging of interest related to -7.1 0.7 -7.7 Lease payments for aircraft ny's shareholders by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the financial year. The result for the financial future lease payments year is adjusted for the after-tax amounts of hybrid bond interests regardless of payment date, transaction costs of the new The actuarial gains and losses of 40.1 35.9 4.1 hybrid bond issued and premium paid, when a hybrid bond is redeemed. When calculating the earnings per share adjusted defined benefit plan by dilution, the weighted average of the number of shares takes into account the diluting effect resulting from changing into Translation differences 0.7 0.7 shares all potentionally diluting shares. Cost of hedging reserve -0.5 -4.7 4.3 0.0 Tax effect -15.6 -3.5 -3.8 -8.3 EUR mill. 2017 2016 Total 63.0 -8.8 22.7 15.2 33.9 Result for the financial year, EUR mill. 169.4 85.1 *Forward and option contracts hedging forecasted sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies are hedges of a group of simiHybrid bond interest, EUR mill. -15.8 -18.8 lar hedged items, and the amounts reclassified from OCI to P&L are allocated to revenue and different cost lines based on the realised cost Tax effect 3.2 3.8 amounts. Amounts reclassified to revenue and different cost lines are specified in the table Derivatives realised through profit or loss in section 3.8. Adjusted result for the financial year 156.8 70.1 Maturity dates of fair values recognised in the hedging reserve Weighted average number of shares, mill. Pcs 127.7 127.3 EUR mill. 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Later Total Undiluted and diluted earnings per share, EUR 1.23 0.55 Jet fuel price hedging 52.0 11.7 63.7 Effect of own shares 0.0 0.0 Hedging of lease payments -7.5 -1.1 -8.6 Operating cash flow hedging -7.1 -2.7 -9.8 Dividend Hedging of interest related to future -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 -3.6 -7.1 The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of EUR 0.30 per share be paid for 2017.­ lease payments The annual general meeting on 16 March 2017 decided that EUR 0.10 per share is paid as dividend for 2016. The actuarial gains and losses of defined benefit plan 40.1 40.1 Finnair Plc's distributable equity Translation differences 0.7 0.7 Cost of hedging reserve -0.5 -0.5 EUR mill. 31 Dec 2017 Tax effect -15.3 -1.4 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.7 -15.6 Retained earnings at the end of financial year 101.7 Total 61.1 5.7 -0.5 -0.5 -0.5 -2.3 63.0 Unrestricted equity 253.7 Result for the financial year 68.6 Distributable equity total 424.0 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 68 4 Consolidation Subsidiaries Group Group Notes under Consolidation section include description of general consolidation principles and methods of consolidation. Aim of the secName of the company ownership % Name of the company ownership % tion is to provide an overall picture of the group’s structure and principles applied in preparing consolidated financial statements and classiFinnair Cargo Oy, Finland 100.0 Balticport Oü, Estonia 100.0 fying ownership interests. In addition, notes include information about subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures held, acquired or sold by the group as well as information about assets held for sale. Finnair Aircraft Finance Oy, Finland 100.0 Finnair Kitchen Oy, Finland 100.0 Finnair ATR Finance Oy, Finland 100.0 Amadeus Finland Oy, Finland 95.0 4.1 General consolidation principles Finnair Technical Services Oy, Finland 100.0 Oy Aurinkomatkat Suntours Ltd Ab, Finland 100.0 Finnair Engine Services Oy, Finland 100.0 Aurinko Oü, Estonia 100.0 Consolidation Finnair Travel Retail Oy, Finland 100.0 Matkayhtymä Oy, Finland 100.0 Consolidation, consolidation method and classification of ownership interests depends on whether group has power to control Finnair Flight Academy Oy, Finland 100.0 OOO Aurinko, Russia 100.0 or jointly control the entity or have significant influence or other interests in the entity. When group has power to control the Kiinteistö Oy Lentokonehuolto, Finland 100.0 FTS Financial Services Oy, Finland 100.0 entity, it is consolidated as subsidiary in the group according to principles described in the note 4.2 Subsidiaries. When group has joint control or significant influence over an entity but does not have power to control, entity is accounted for by using eqNorthport Oy, Finland 100.0 Finnair Business Services Oü, Estonia 100.0 uity method according to principles set in note 4.6 Investments in associates and joint ventures. If group does not have power Nordic Regional Airlines AB, Sweden* 100.0 to control nor significant influence in the entity, its ownership interests are classified as financial assets available for sale and accounted for according to principles described in the note 3.2 Financial assets. *Nordic Regional Airlines AB (Norra) transferred to Finnair full ownership on an interim basis in November 2017. Finnair aims to find a new industrial partner to develop Norra's business further with Finnair. More information can be found in the notes 4.3, 4.4, 4.5 and 4.6. Translation of foreign currency items 4.3 Acquisitions and disposals Items included in each subsidiary’s financial statements are measured in the currency that is the main currency of operating environment of each subsidiary (“functional currency”). The consolidated financial statements have been presented in euro, At the first half of 2017, Finnair announced the signing of an agreement with LSG Sky Chefs based on which the catering comwhich is the parent company’s functional and presentation currency. Transactions denominated in foreign currencies in group pany operating at Helsinki Airport, LSG Sky Chefs Finland Oy, returned to Finnair’s control. The arrangement became effective companies are translated into functional currency by using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction Receivables and as of 21 April, when the preparation and development of in-flight meals became part of Finnair’s operations again. The comliabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies and are outstanding on the closing date are translated using the exchange pany employs approximately 500 people. The change did not have significant effect on Finnair’s financial position or results. rate of the closing date. Exchange rate differences are recognised in the income statement. During the latter part of the year Finnair announced that it will acquire 60% of Nordic Regional Airlines AB (Norra) from Foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency is not euro are translated into euro by using average rate for the financial Staffpoint Holding Oy and Kilco Oy. Finnair owned 40% of the company prior the transaction, that was closed in November. year. Balance sheets are translated by using the closing rate for the financial period. Translation differences arising from the Norra transferred to the full ownership of Finnair on an interim basis, and Finnair aims to find a new, industrial partner to elimination of acquisition costs of foreign subsidiaries are recognised in other comprehensive income. When foreign subsididevelop Norra’s business further with Finnair. The transaction had no impact on Norra’s operations or personnel. It neither ary is sold, the differences are recognised as part of the sales gain or loss. had a significant effect on Finnair’s financial position or results. In Finnair balance sheet, Norra has been classified as assets held for sale. More information related to transaction and cooperation with Norra can be found in the notes 4.4, 4.5 and 4.6. 4.2 Subsidiaries At the first half of 2016 the Group acquired ATR maintenance business from Nordic Regional Airlines Oy and divested its ownership in associated company Amadeus Eesti. During the latter part of the financial year Finnair sold its subsidiary SMT to American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). Consolidation principles of subsidiaries Finnair Plc’s consolidated financial statements include the parent company Finnair Plc and all its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are defined as companies in which Finnair has control. Control exists when Finnair has rights to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Usually Finnair has power over the entity when it owns more than 50% of the votes or where Finnair otherwise has the power to govern the financial and operating policies. The acquired subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the day the Group has control, and disposed subsidiaries until the control ceases. Acquired and established companies are accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting. Accordingly, the acquired company’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. The excess between purchase price and fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets is recognised as goodwill. All inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless there is evidence of impairment related to the transferred asset. The accounting principles of subsidiaries have been changed to correspond Group’s accounting policies. Non-controlling interest and transactions with non-controlling interest Non-controlling interests are presented within the equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, separated from equity attributable to owners of the parent. For each acquisition the non-controlling interest can be recognised either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquirer’s net assets. The carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of the interests at initial recognition added with the non-controlling interests’ share of subsequent changes in equity. = Content of the section = Accounting principles FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 69 4.4 Investments in associates and joint ventures The associated company owned by Finnair, Suomen Ilmailuopisto Oy, is an unlisted company and is not considered material compared to Finnair’s operations. Continuous result of associated companies and joint ventures for 2017 was 0,2 (0,3) million euro, of which Finnair's share was 0,0 (0,0) million euro. Associates are companies in which the Group generally holds 20–50 per cent of the voting right or in which the Group has significant influence but in which it does not exercise control. Companies where the Group has joint control with another entity are considered as Associated companies joint ventures. The Group’s interests in associated companies and jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method. Suomen Ilmailuopisto Oy (the Finnish Aviation Academy) is a vocational special purpose aviation school owned by Finnair Oyj The investment in associates and joint ventures include goodwill recognized at the time of acquisition. The Group recognises its share (49.5%), Finnish Government (49.5%) and the City of Pori (1%). Finnair is not entitled to company’s results nor net assets, but of the post-acquisition results in associates and joint ventures in the income statement. When the Group’s share of losses in an associpossible results need to be used for developing school’s activities. ate or a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the associate or joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations on behalf of the associate or joint venture. Nordic Regional Airlines Results from the transactions between the Group and its associates are recognised only to the extent of unrelated investor's interNordic Regional Airlines AB (Norra) has during 2017 and 2016 operated mainly purchase traffic for Finnair. Until end of 2017, ests in the associates. The Group determines at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in the Norra has been a joint venture of StaffPoint Oy and Kilco Oy where owners had a joint control over the entity. In November, associates is impaired. In case of such indications, Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverNorra was transferred to Finnair's full ownership on an interim basis. The transaction had no significant effect on Finnair’s fiable amount of the associate and its carrying value. The impairment is recognised in share of results in associates and joint ventures. nancial position or results. In Finnair balance sheet, Norra has been classified as assets held for sale. More information can be Accounting policies of associates or joint ventures have been changed where necessary to correspond with the accounting policies found in the notes 4.3 Acquisitions and disposals, 4.5 Assets and liabilities held for sale and 4.6 Related party transactions. adopted by the Group. If financial statements for the period are not available, the share of the profit of certain associated or joint venture companies is included in the consolidated accounts based on the preliminary financial statements or latest available information. 4.5 Assets and liabilities held for sale Assets held for sale or disposal groups are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally The Group’s share of the result, asset items and liabilities of associates and joint ventures is presented below. through a sale transaction and sale is considered highly probable, during the following twelve months. Immediately before classification, assets held for sale or assets and liabilities of disposal groups are valued at the lower of the carryEUR mill. 2017 2016 ing amount or their fair value less cost to sell. Depreciation of these assets is discontinued at the moment of classification. At the beginning of the financial year 2.5 2.6 Disposals 0.0 -0.2 Assets and liabilities held for sale include Finnair's ownership in Nordic Regional Airlines AB, which was acquired to Finnair's At the end of the financial year 2.5 2.5 full ownership on an interim basis during November 2017. Previously Finnair owned 40% share and it was classified as joint More information on transactions with associated companies and joint ventures can be found in the note 4.6 Related party venture. Finnair expects to sell the 60% share to new partners in the near future. See more in the notes 4.3, 4.4 and 4.6. transactions. At the end or 2016, aircraft classified as held for sale included four Airbus A340 aircraft, of which three were redelivered to Airbus during the first half of 2017 and one during the second half of 2017, in accordance with a previous agreement. The reInformation on the Group's associates and joint ventures 31.12.2017 maining payment from this transaction, approximately 100 million euros, will be received in 2018 and is included in trade and Profit/ other receivables. These wide-body aircraft have been replaced by new A350 aircraft. The sale of one ATR 72 aircraft, that was EUR mill. Domicile Assets Liabilities Revenue Loss Holding % classified as assets held for sale at the end of 2016, was cancelled and therefore reclassified to tangible assets. Suomen Ilmailuopisto Oy* Finland 19.2 1.5 9.5 0.2 49.50 The book value of the assets held for sale *The presented figures for 2017 are preliminary and unaudited. EUR mill. 2017 2016 Tangible assets 0,1 139,3 Information on the Group's associates and joint ventures 31.12.2016 Assets from subsidiary held for sale 16,6 Profit/ EUR mill. Domicile Assets Liabilities Revenue Loss Holding % Assets total 16,7 139,3 Nordic Regional Airlines AB Sweden 34.8 34.1 107.9 0.1 40.00 Suomen Ilmailuopisto Oy Finland 18.8 1.1 8.8 0.2 49.50 Liabilities from subsidiary held for sale 11,2 Total 53.6 35.2 116.7 0.3 = Accounting principles FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 70 4.6 Related party transactions 4.7 Changes in accounting principles Related party of Finnair group includes its subsidiaries, management, associated companies and joint ventures and Finnair IFRS 9 Financial Instruments pension fund. Subsidiaries are listed in the note 4.2 and associates and joint ventures in note 4.4. Related party transactions Finnair Group early adopted IFRS 9: Financial Instruments (2014), endorsed by the EU on 22.11.2016, with a date of initial apinclude such operations that are not eliminated in the group's consolidated financial statement. plication on 1 January 2017. Finnish government owns 55.8% (55.8%) of Finnair's shares. All the transactions with other government owned companies IFRS 9 replaces IAS 39 and addresses the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and liabilities, are with arms length basis. introduces new rules for hedge accounting and a new impairment model for financial assets. The new hedge accounting rules have aligned the accounting for hedging instruments more closely with Finnair’s risk management practices. Under IFRS 9, more hedge relationships are eligible for hedge accounting. The change has decreased volatility in Finnair’s operating result, The following transactions have taken place with associated companies and joint ventures: because unrealised fair value changes of a larger amount of derivatives are recognised in other comprehensive income instead of operating result. Changes related to the classification and impairment of financial instruments did not have any sigEUR mill. 2017 2016 nificant effects on Finnair. Sales of goods and services The key changes that have impacted Finnair’s financial statements are described in more detail below. Associates and joint ventures 42.2 42.9 Pension fund 0.0 0.1 1 Impairment of financial assets Purchases of goods and services The new impairment model requires the recognition of impairment provisions based on expected credit losses (ECL), rather Associates and joint ventures 105.6 106.8 than only incurred credit losses as is the case under IAS 39. The only aspect affecting Finnair is related to the credit risk from trade receivables, and the change resulted in earlier recognition of credit losses on trade receivables. There was no impact on Pension fund 3.5 3.2 Finnair’s credit risk position when moving from IAS 39 to IFRS 9. Receivables Credit risk from trade receivables – According to IFRS 9, Finnair can use a simplified credit loss matrix for trade receivables Current receivables from associates and joint ventures 9.3 as trade receivables do not have a significant financing component. Accordingly, the credit loss allowance is measured at an Liabilities amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses. The expected credit loss model is forward-looking, and expected default Non-current liabilities to pension fund 4.1 29.7 rates are based on historical realised credit losses. The lifetime expected credit loss allowance is calculated using the gross Current liabilities to associates and joint ventures 0.2 carrying amount of outstanding trade receivables and an expected default rate. The lifetime expected credit loss allowance total was recognised as an adjustment of 1.2 million euros to the opening balance of retained earnings in the year 2017, and Transactions with related parties are with arms length, and are with similar terms than transactions carried out with independthereafter the changes in expected credit losses will be recognised in profit and loss. However, the yearly recognition of credit ent parties. Management remuneration is presented in note 1.3.7. Management has not been granted any loans and there has losses in profit and loss is expected to be low due to nature of the business; flight tickets and other services provided by Finnot been any other transactions with management. nair are usually paid before the service is delivered. Nordic Regional Airlines AB was acquired to Finnair Group during fourth quarter, with 100% ownership interest. Before the The impairment model does not affect investments in bonds and money market funds included in other financial assets as acquisition, the Group was Finnair's, Staffpoint Holding Oy's and Kilco Oy's joint venture, and transactions before the acquisithose are measured at fair value through profit and loss both under IAS 39 and IFRS 9, which already takes into account extion are disclosed as related party transactions. Norra is classified as an asset held for sale, and the transactions related to the pected credit losses. With respect to the assets measured at amortised cost, Finnair is actively following such instruments and purchase traffic arrangement between the parties are not eliminated from Finnair's results from continuing operations, as the will recognise impairment through profit and loss if there is evidence of deterioration in credit quality. arrangement is expected to continue after the sale of the 60% share. Assets and liabilities between Finnair and Norra have been eliminated. Therefore, those sales and purchase transactions have been included in the 2017 related party transactions, 2 Changes in the classification of financial assets and liabilities but not disclosed as receivables and liabilities. The new business-model driven classification of financial assets contains three different classes: amortised cost (replaces Finnair’s More information on associated companies and joint ventures can be found in the note 4.4. previous classification “Loans and trade receivables” and “Held-to-maturity investments”), fair value through profit and loss (replaces “Held for trading”) and fair value through other comprehensive income (replaces “Available for sale financial assets”). Based on Finnair’s analysis, the application of IFRS 9 did not have any significant impact on the recognition or measurement Finnair pension fund of the Group’s financial assets. Investments in debt securities, such as commercial paper and deposits, are measured at amorThe Finnair pension fund in Finland is a stand-alone legal entity which mainly provides additional pension coverage to Finnair's tised cost, but only when the objective of the business model is to hold the asset to collect the contractual cash flows and the personnel in the form of defined benefit plan, and manages related pension assets. The assets include Finnair's shares repasset’s contractual cash flows represent only payments of principal and interest. Due to the nature of short-term receivables resenting 0.1% (0.1%) of the company's outstanding shares. Real estate and premises owned by the pension fund have been and other receivables, their book value is expected to be equal to the fair value. Other financial assets, such as investments in mainly leased to Finnair. In 2017 and 2016 Finnair did not pay any contributions to the fund. Pension obligation was 4.1 million bonds and money market funds, are measured at fair value. The changes in the fair values of financial assets are recognised euros (29.7) at the end of the financial year. in the income statement. Liabilities are classified into two different classes: amortised cost (replaces “Loans and receivables” and “Valued at amortised cost”) and fair value through profit and loss. Finnair’s liabilities are mainly classified as amortised cost, except for derivative liabilities. IFRS 9 did not bring any changes to company’s previous classification and measurement of financial liabilities. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 71 3 Hedge accounting On the date of initial application, 1 January 2017, the financial instruments of the company were as follows, with any reclasIFRS 9 introduced a new hedge accounting model to simplify hedge accounting outcomes and more closely align hedge acsifications noted: counting with risk management strategy and objectives. The key changes impacting Finnair Group's hedge accounting include: Measurement category Carrying amount, 1 January 2017 Risk components – IFRS 9 allows derivatives that are hedging a non-financial component of a price risk that is separately New Original identifiable and measurable to be designated in a hedge relationship for that risk component only. Previously, non-financial Original (IAS 39) New (IFRS 9) EUR mill. EUR mill. Difference components were prohibited from being designated as hedged items under IAS 39. The Group uses options and swaps on jet fuel, Non-current financial and could potentially use, for example, gasoil and Brent oil to hedge exposure to movements in the price of jet fuel. The change assets will allow Finnair to apply hedge accounting to such instruments under IFRS 9, which would not have been possible under IAS 39. Loan and other receivables Loans and receivables Amortised cost 7.4 7.4 Cost of hedging – IFRS 9 allows the time value of options to be excluded from the designation of a hedging instrument and Current financial assets accounted for as a cost of hedging. The fair value changes of the time value are recognised in other comprehensive income, and depending on the nature of the hedged item will either be transferred to the Income Statement in the same period that Cash and cash equivalents Loans and receivables Amortised cost 69.4 69.4 the underlying transaction affects the Consolidated Income Statement or will be capitalised into the initial carrying value of a Commercial paper, Financial assets at fair certificates and bonds value through profit and hedged item. Under IAS 39, Finnair did not apply hedge accounting when options were used for hedging future cash flows, and loss FVPL* 261.2 261.2 all the unrealised fair value changes of options were recognised in operating result as “Fair value changes in derivatives and Money market funds Financial assets at fair changes in exchange rates of fleet overhauls”. Finnair may use options when hedging against foreign currency exchange and value through profit and fuel price risk, and the ability to apply hedge accounting for those will reduce the fair value changes of derivative instruments loss FVPL* 466.6 466.6 being recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as non-designated derivatives. Trade receivables and other Loans and receivables Hedge effectiveness – Under IFRS 9, IAS 39 requirements for retrospective effectiveness testing as well as for hedge efreceivables Amortised cost 211.9 211.9 fectiveness of 80 to 125 per cent are removed. The ineffectiveness of hedges previously used by Finnair was minor or non-exDerivatives Hedge accounting items Hedge accounting items 158.5 133.2 25.3 istent. Finnair expects that the hedge ineffectiveness will also be minor for hedge relationships that become eligible for hedge Derivatives Financial assets at fair accounting under IFRS 9. value through profit and IFRS 9 requires that the hedge effectiveness assessment is forward-looking and does not prescribe defined effectiveness loss FVPL* 18.0 43.3 -25.3 parameters for the application of hedge accounting. Under IAS 39, an entity had to test effectiveness both retrospectively and Non-current liabilities prospectively, and hedge accounting could only be applied if the relationship was 80 to 125 per cent effective. Under IFRS 9, Interest-bearing liabilities Financial liabilities valued at hedge effectiveness is defined as the extent to which changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedging instrument offset amortised cost Amortised cost 499.6 499.6 changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. Finance lease liabilities Financial liabilities valued at IFRS 9 introduces three hedge effectiveness requirements for the application of hedge accounting, the first of which is an amortised cost Amortised cost 117.6 117.6 economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument. Therefore, there must be an expectation that the Trade payables and other Loans and receivables value of the hedging instrument and the value of the hedged item will move in opposite directions as a result of the common liabilities Amortised cost 4.9 4.9 underlying or hedged risk. The second criterion relates to the fact that the change in the credit risk of the hedging instrument Current liabilities or the hedged item must not be of such magnitude that it dominates the value changes that result from that economic relationInterest-bearing liabilities Financial liabilities valued at ship. The third criterion is that the hedge ratio is defined as the relationship between the quantity of the hedging instrument amortised cost Amortised cost 78.5 78.5 and the quantity of the hedged item in terms of their relative weighting. IFRS 9 requires that the hedge ratio used for hedge Finance lease liabilities Financial liabilities valued at accounting purposes is the same as that used for risk management purposes. This change has not had a material impact on amortised cost Amortised cost 22.0 22.0 the Consolidated Income Statement. Derivatives Hedge accounting items Hedge accounting items 14.7 8.4 6.3 Finnair Group has applied the hedge accounting principles of IFRS 9 on a prospective basis. Accordingly, there was no tranDerivatives Financial liabilities at fair sitional restatement of the Group results. value through profit and Transition adjustment to retained earnings: The opening balance of retained earnings is adjusted to take into account loss FVPL* 10.5 16.8 -6.3 the jet fuel hedges (options and swaps) and operative cash flow hedges (forwards and options), which were previously excludTrade payables and other Financial liabilities valued at liabilities amortised cost Amortised cost 773.5 773.5 ed from hedge accounting, but are included in hedge accounting according to IFRS 9. The adjustment due to the reclassification of certain types of derivatives from profit and loss to the hedging reserve resulted in a reduction of retained earnings by 19 million euros (15 million euros net of taxes). * FVPL = financial assets or liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 72 On the date of initial application, 1 January 2017, the derivative contracts of the company were as follows, with any change in the IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers application of hedge accounting noted: Finnair will adopt the new standard on revenue recognition in the beginning of 2018. Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or serCarrying amount, 1 January 2017 vices to a customer. The standard will supersede all current revenue recognition requirements under IFRS. Finnair applies cuNew Original mulative catch-up method in the transition. EUR mill. EUR mill. Finnair has finalized its evaluation of the effects of the new standard for different revenue streams (products). Finnair has Currency derivatives worked with other airlines through the IATA (International Air Transport Association) Industry Accounting Working Group (IAWG) Jet fuel currency hedging 16.5 16.5 in coordination with the Airlines Revenue Recognition Task Force of the AICPA (American Institute of Certified Public Accountof which in cash flow hedge accounting 16.5 16.5 ants) to agree harmonised accounting treatment for issues requiring clarity under the new standard. Finnair applies these pubFair value hedging of aircraft acquisitions 74.6 74.6 lished industry papers in its interpretations. Based on evaluation, IFRS 15 will change the timing of revenue recognition mainly in passenger revenue (ticket sales) and ancillary revenue. The changes in recognition are described below and impact is minor. of which in fair value hedge accounting 74.6 74.6 In passenger revenue, customers usually pay their tickets upfront but do not always exercise their rights and tickets remain Currency hedging of lease payments 9.6 9.6 unused (breakage). According to IFRS 15, if the airline expects to be entitled to breakage, the airline should recognise the exof which in cash flow hedge accounting 9.6 9.6 pected breakage amount as revenue in proportion to the pattern of rights exercised by the passenger. Currently ticket revenue Operational cash flow hedging (forward contracts) 3.3 3.3 is recognised when the tickets are used or when the rights expire. In practice the recognition of breakage means that revenue of which in cash flow hedge accounting 3.3 is recognised earlier but the impact will be insignificant. Finnair Plus loyalty program accounting treatment or point valuation Operational cash flow hedging (options) 3.5 3.5 will not change due to implementation of IFRS 15. of which in cash flow hedge accounting 3.5 In ancillary sales, the revenue related to change fees will be recognised later than currently, since it is considered as a contract modification instead of separate revenue transaction. In travel services, flight and hotel are considered separate perforHedging of assets held for sale -7.3 -7.3 mance obligations and are recognised as service is delivered. Previously travel services have been considered as one perforBalance sheet hedging (forward contracts) 1.5 1.5 mance obligation. The impact will be minor. In the beginning of 2018, Finnair will make an adjustment of -4.7 million euros to its retained earnings related to these changCommodity derivatives es in these accounting principles. The adjustment consists of decrease in revenue -8.7 million euros, decrease in expenses for Jet fuel forward contracts 19.5 19.5 tour operations +2.8 million euros and changes in deferred taxes +1.2 million euros. of which in cash flow hedge accounting 19.5 18.9 Jet fuel options 8.9 8.9 IFRS 16 Leases The new leasing standard, published in January 2016 and endorsed by EU, will be effective from 2019 onwards. Finnair exof which in cash flow hedge accounting 11.6 pects to adopt the standard from 2019 onwards, and plans to apply the full retrospective method. IFRS 16 replaces the previous standard (IAS 17 Leases). Currency and interest rate swaps and options Finnair expects that the new standard will have a significant impact on its financial statements and key ratios. The present Interest rate swaps 3.6 3.6 value of the future operating lease payments for aircraft, real estate and other operating lease arrangements will be recogof which in fair value hedge accounting 3.6 3.6 nised as right-of-use assets and interest-bearing liabilities in the balance sheet. Currently, future lease payments are presentCross currency Interest rate swaps 16.1 16.1 ed in the notes as operating lease commitments at their nominal value. The currently reported lease commitments at the end of 2017 amounted to 1,429 million euros (see note 2.2 Leasing arrangements for more detail). Based on Finnair's preliminary Equity derivatives evaluation, service contracts that relate to the usage of airports and terminals (HEL hub) do not qualify as lease arrangements for IFRS 16 purposes. Stock options 1.6 1.6 The leasing standard will also impact Finnair’s income statement. In the future, operating lease cost will be divided into the of which in fair value hedge accounting 1.6 1.6 depreciation of the right-of-use asset (affecting the comparable operating result) and interest cost associated with the liability (affecting finance net). The interest cost for the liability is at its highest in the beginning of the lease term, decreasing towards Derivatives total 151.4 151.4 the end of the term as the lease liability is amortised. Currently, lease expenses are accrued over the lease term primarily on a -Items in cash flow hedge accounting total* 64.0 45.0 straight line basis and recognised in the operating result as lease payments for aircraft and other rents, according to the lease -Items in fair value hedge accounting total 79.9 79.9 contract terms. In addition to impact on operating result and EBITDA, also cash flow from operating activities will increase, as the amortisation of lease liabilities is transferred from operating activities to financing activities in cash flow. The new standard will have significant impact on Finnair's balance sheet -related KPIs, such as the equity ratio and gearing. On *The change in the carrying amount of items in cash flow hedge accounting resulting from the application of IFRS 9 was recognised as an adthe other hand, Finnair currently discloses a key ratio called “Adjusted gearing”, which takes future operating lease payments into justment to the opening balance of retained earnings on the date of initial application. account in the following way: aircraft lease costs for the last twelve months are multiplied by 7 and added to the interest-bearing net debt (see Balance sheet: “Additional information to Balance sheet: Interest-bearing net debt and adjusted gearing ). Although the assets associated with operating leases will be denominated in Euros when converted into right of use assets, the majority of Finnair's aircraft lease contracts are payable in US dollars. This will result in an increase of the foreign exchange exposure in Finnair's balance sheet. The company is investigating options to mitigate the effects of this volatility. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 73 5 Other notes Deferred tax assets and liabilities The Group has evaluated the nature and classification of deferred tax assets. Based on the evaluation, deferred tax assets and Other notes include all such notes that do not specifically relate to any previous subject matters. liabilities levied by the same taxing authority met the requirements for offset eligibility in accordance with IAS12. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown net on the balance sheet. 5.1 Income taxes Changes in deferred taxes during 2017: Change in The tax expense for the period includes current and deferred tax and adjustments to previous years’ taxation. Tax is recognised in accounting the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or other equity items. principles (IFRS Recognised in Recognised in 9, Financial the income shareholders’ Deferred taxes are calculated for temporary differences between accounting and taxation using the valid tax rates for future years at EUR mill. 2016 Instruments) statement equity 2017 the closing date. Deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit through future profits is probDeferred tax assets and liabilitities able. Temporary differences arise mainly from sales of tangible assets, depreciation and unused tax losses. Deferred tax is recognised Confirmed losses 29.3 3.8 -22.6 3.2 13.7 for foreign subsidiaries’ undistributed earnings only when related tax effects are probable. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are set off when they are levied by same taxing authority and Finnair has legally enforceable right Employee benefits 6.0 2.1 -7.2 0.9 to set off the balances. Property, plant and equipment -53.4 -16.3 -69.7 Finance leasing -4.7 -2.6 -7.2 Other temporary differences -2.5 -1.7 -4.2 Income taxes Valuation of derivatives at fair value -7.5 -3.8 3.7 -7.6 Total -32.7 0.0 -41.1 -0.3 -73.9 EUR mill. 2017 2016 Deferred tax assets that can be used after 0.6 0.5 Taxes for the financial year more than 12 months Current tax -0.6 -0.5 Deferred tax liabilities that are expected to -54.4 -70.4 Adjustments recognised for current tax of prior periods 0.0 0.1 realise after 12 months or more Deferred taxes -41.1 -20.2 Total -41.7 -20.6 The estimated amount of confirmed tax losses after the 2017 taxable result is approximately 68 million euros. Confirmed tax losses expire earliest within 5–10 years. Distributing retained earnings of foreign subsidiaries as dividends would cause a tax effect of 0.4 million euros (0.3). The table below explains the difference between theoretical tax cost calculated with Finnish nominal tax rate 20.0% (20.0%) and tax expense in the consolidated income statement: Changes in deferred taxes during 2016: EUR mill. 2017 2016 Recognised in Recognised in Result before taxes 211.1 105.8 the income shareholders’ EUR mill. 2015 statement equity 2016 Taxes calculated using the Finnish tax rate -42.2 -21.2 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Different tax rates of foreign subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 Confirmed losses 51.7 -26.2 3.8 29.3 Tax-exempt income 0.7 1.5 Employee benefits 0.5 1.8 3.6 6.0 Non-deductible expenses -0.4 -1.2 Property, plant and equipment -59.2 5.8 -53.4 Adjustments recognised for taxes of prior periods 0.0 0.1 Finance leasing -3.4 -1.2 -4.7 Income taxes, total -41.7 -20.6 Other temporary differences -2.1 -0.4 -2.5 Effective tax rate 19.8% 19.5% Valuation of derivatives at fair value 21.6 -29.0 -7.5 Effective tax rate was 19.8% (19.5%). Current tax relates to tax cost accrued in Finnair Kitchen Oy whose control was transferred Total 9.1 -20.2 -21.6 -32.7 to Finnair Group during the financial year. Deferred tax assets that can be used after more than 12 months 0.5 0.6 Deferred tax liabilities that are expected to realise after 12 -60.2 -54.4 months or more = Content of the section = Accounting principles FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 74 5.2 Disputes and litigation Finnair reports only cases of which the interest is material and that are not insured. On 31 December 2017 there were no such disputes pending. 5.3 Events after the closing date Finnair has decided to reschedule the delivery of one A350 aircraft from 2023 to 2019, which means that the remaining eight A350s will be delivered to Finnair between 2018-2022. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 75 6 Parent company financial statements Finnair Plc balance sheet Finnair Plc income statement EUR mill. Note 2017 2016 ASSETS EUR mill. Note 2017 2016 Non-current assets Revenue 6.2 2,419.4 2,102.8 Intangible assets 6.11 24.0 18.2 Other operating income 6.3 78.0 88.0 Tangible assets 6.12 63.4 56.1 Operating income 2,497.5 2,190.8 Investments Holdings in group undertakings 447,6 448.6 Materials and services 6.4 1,128.5 1,055.5 Participating interests 2,5 2.5 Staff expenses 6.5 327.7 287.1 Other shares and similar rights of ownership 0,4 0.4 Depreciation and reduction in value 6.6 9.1 12.0 Loan and other receivables 6.14 21,1 223.6 Other operating expenses 6.7 950.9 834.3 Total investments 6.13 471,6 675.0 Operating expenses 2,416.3 2,188.9 Deferred tax assets 6.15 0,0 12.3 Total non-current assets 559.0 761.6 Operating profit/loss 81.2 2.0 Current assets Current receivables 6.16 787.3 443.1 Financial income and expenses 6.8 -25.9 1.2 Marketable securities 6.17 833.0 727.9 Cash and bank equivalents 6.18 146.4 66.5 Profit/loss before appropriations and taxes 55.3 3.2 Total current assets 1,766.6 1,237.5 Appropriations 6.9 29.9 128.4 TOTAL ASSETS 2,325.6 1,999.1 Income taxes 6.10 -16.5 -22.4 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Profit/loss for the financial year 68.6 109.2 Equity Share capital 75.4 75.4 Share premium account 24.7 24.7 Other reserves Unrestricted equity funds 253.7 252.2 Legal reserve 147.7 147.7 Hedging reserve 42.8 28.3 Retained earnings 101.7 20.5 Profit/loss for the financial year 68.6 109.2 Total equity 6.19 714.7 658.0 Accumulated appropriations 6.20 20.5 20.4 Provisions 6.21 98.4 83.5 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 6.22 406.4 357.2 Current liabilities 6.23 1,085.8 880.1 Total liabilities 1,492.1 1,237.3 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES TOTAL 2,325.6 1,999.1 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 76 Finnair Plc cash flow statement Notes to Finnair Plc financial statements EUR mill. 2017 2016 6.1 Accounting principles Cash flow from operating activities Foreign currency items Result before appropriations 55.3 3.2 Business transactions in foreign currencies have been valued using the exchange rate at the date of transaction. Receivables Depreciation 9.1 12.0 and liabilities on the balance sheet date are valued using the exchange rate on the balance sheet date. Advances paid and reOther non-cash transactions 21.9 -37.9 ceived are valued in the balance sheet using the exchange rate at the date of payment. Exchange rate differences on trade reFinancial income and expenses 28.6 -1.2 ceivables and payables are treated as the adjustments to turnover and other operating expenses. Exchange rate differences Changes in working capital 82.3 59.2 on other receivables and liabilities are entered under financial income and expenses. Interest and other financial expenses paid -30.6 -27.8 Derivative contracts Received interest and other financial income 2.2 9.9 According to its risk management policy, Finnair uses foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity derivatives to reduce the Cash flow from operating activities 168.6 17.5 exchange rate, interest rate and commodity risks which arise from Finnair’s balance sheet items, currency denominated purchase agreements, anticipated currency denominated purchases and sales as well as future jet fuel purchases. The balance Cash flow from investing activities sheet exposure is hedged only at the Group level. The combined entity-level exposure for all Group companies differs from the Investments in intangible and tangible assets -32.6 -38.7 Group-level exposure by the amount of intercompany items. Therefore, the balance sheet position and contracts hedging it are presented only in note 3.5. of the Group financial statements. Similarly, the foreign currency cash flow exposure is only hedged Proceeds from sales of tangible assets 0.4 3.6 at the Group level to take advantage of the netting effect, and is presented in note 3.5 of the Group financial statements. DerivChange in long-term receivables -195.0 67.3 ative contracts are valued using the rates on the balance sheet date according to Accounting Act 5:2 a §. Investments in subsidiaries 2.4 0.0 The derivatives are initially recognized at original acquisition cost (fair value) in the balance sheet and subsequently valued Proceeds from sales of subsidiaries 0.0 8.0 at fair value in each financial statement and interim report. The fair values of the derivatives are based on the value at which Received dividends 0.0 17.1 the instrument could be exchanged between knowledgeable, willing and independent parties, with no compulsion to sell or Cash flow from investing activities -224.7 57.3 buy in the sales situation. The fair values of derivatives are determined as follows: The fair values of all derivatives are calculated using the exchange rates, interest rates, volatilities and commodity price quotations on the closing date. The fair values of currency forward contracts are calculated as the present value of future cash Cash flow from financing activities flows. The fair values of currency options are calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The fair values of interPurchase of own shares 0.0 -4.3 est rate and currency swap contracts are calculated as the present value of future cash flows. The fair values of interest rate Proceeds from loans 200.0 0.0 options are calculated using generally accepted option valuation models. The fair values of commodity forward contracts are Loan repayments and changes -74.9 -81.7 calculated as the present value of future cash flows. The fair values of commodity options are calculated using generally acHybrid bond repayments 0.0 -38.3 cepted option valuation models. Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value are presented in the financial statements according to the original Dividends paid -12.8 0.0 classification of the derivative. Gains and losses on derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting are recognized in accordance Received and given group contributions 128.7 139.2 with the underlying asset being hedged. At inception, derivative contracts are designated as future cash flows hedges, hedges Cash flow from financing activities 241.0 14.8 of binding purchase contracts (cash flow hedges or fair value hedges) or as derivatives not meeting the hedge accounting criteria or to which hedge accounting is not applied (economic hedges). Hedging of the fair value of net investments of foreign Change in cash flows 184.9 89.6 units or embedded derivatives has not been used. At the inception of hedge accounting, Finnair documents the economic relationship and the hedge ratio between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, as well as the company’s risk management objectives and the strategy for the inception of Change in liquid funds hedging. At the inception of hedging, and at least at the time of each financial statement, Finnair documents and assesses Liquid funds, at beginning 794.4 704.8 the effectiveness of hedge relationships by examining the past and prospective capacity of the hedging instrument to offset Change in cash flows 184.9 89.6 changes in the fair value of the hedged item or changes in cash flows. The values of derivatives in a hedging relationship are Liquid funds, at end 979.4 794.4 presented in the balance sheet items current assets and current liabilities. Finnair implements the IFRS hedge accounting principles in the hedging of future cash flows (cash flow hedging). The principles are applied to the foreign currency risk of foreign currency denominated purchases and sales, the price risk of jet fuel purchases and the price risk of electricity. The change in the fair value of the effective portion of derivative instruments that fulfil the terms of cash flow hedging are directly recognised in the fair value reserve of other comprehensive income, to the extent that the requirements for the application of hedge accounting have been fulfilled. The gains and losses, recognised in fair value reserve, are transferred to the FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 77 income statement in the period in which the hedged item is recognised in the income statement. When an instrument acquired Appropriations for the hedging of cash flow matures or is sold, or when the criteria for hedge accounting are no longer fulfilled, the gain or loss The difference between total and planned depreciation is shown as accumulated appropriations in the balance sheet and the accrued from hedging instruments remains in equity until the forecast transaction takes place. However, if the forecasted hedged change during the financial year in the income statement. Appropriations contain also given and received group contributions. transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accrued in equity is immediately recognised in the income statement. Income taxes Financial assets and liabilities Income taxes in the income statement include taxes calculated for the financial year based on Finnish tax provisions, adjustFinancial assets have been classified into the following categories: amortised cost and fair value through profit and loss. The ments to taxes in previous financial years and the change in deferred taxes. classification is made at the time of the original acquisition based on the objective of the business model and the contractual cash flows of the investment. All purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date. Liabilities are recPension schemes ognised at acquisition cost. Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss as well as assets and liabilities maturing withThe mandatory pension cover of the company’s domestic employees has primarily been arranged through a Finnish pension in 12 months are included in current assets and liabilities. Investments in debt securities are measured at amortised cost, but insurance company and other additional pension cover through the Finnair pension fund or a Finnish pension insurance comonly when the objective of the business model is to hold the asset to collect the contractual cash flows and the asset’s contracpany. Since 1992, the pension fund has no longer accepted employees other than pilots for additional pension coverage. The tual cash flows represent only payments of principal and interest. Financial assets recognised at amortised cost are valued Finnair pension fund’s pension obligation is fully covered with respect to additional coverage. Pension fund liabilities are preusing the effective interest method. Financial assets valued at amortised cost include trade receivables, deferred charges and sented in the notes to the financial statements. security deposits for aircraft operating lease agreements. Due to the nature of short-term receivables and other receivables, their book value is expected to be equal to the fair value. Derecognition of financial assets takes place when Finnair has lost Provisions its contractual right to receive cash flows or when it has substantially transferred the risks and rewards outside the company. Provisions in the balance sheet and entered as expenses in the income statement comprise those items which the company is Finnair recognises impairment provisions based on lifetime expected credit losses from trade receivables in accordance committed to covering through agreements or otherwise in the foreseeable future and which have no corresponding revenue with IFRS 9. Finnair has chosen to apply a simplified credit loss matrix for trade receivables as trade receivables do not have and whose monetary value can be reasonably assessed. a significant financing component. The expected credit loss model is forward-looking, and expected default rates are based The company is obliged to return leased aircraft at the required redelivery condition. To fulfil these maintenance obligations on historical realised credit losses. The lifetime expected credit loss allowance is calculated using the gross carrying amount the company has recognised provisions based on flight hours flown during the maintenance period. of outstanding trade receivables in each aging bucket and an expected default rate. The changes in expected credit losses are recognised in other expenses in the consolidated income statement. The impairment model does not apply to financial investments, such as bonds and money market funds, included in other financial assets as those are measured at fair value through 6.2 Revenue by business area profit and loss under IFRS 9, which already takes into account expected credit losses. With respect to the assets measured at amortised cost, Finnair is actively following such instruments and will recognise impairment through profit and loss if there is EUR mill. 2017 2016 evidence of deterioration in credit quality. Revenue by division 2,419.4 2,102.8 Fixed assets and depreciation Passenger revenue 2,109.0 1,891.4 Buildings, over 50 years from the time of acquisition to a residual value of 10%. Other tangible assets, over 3–15 years. Ancillary services 108.5 103.2 Diminishing balances method, that has been previously used in depreciating some buildings and other tangible assets, has Other 201.9 108.2 been changed during 2017 to straight-line method. The change did not have significant impact to depreciation amounts of the financial year. Distribution of turnover by market areas based on flight routes, % of turnover Finland 7% 17% Research and development costs Europe 39% 40% Except for major software development costs, research and development costs are expensed as they occur. Research and deOther countries 53% 43% velopment of aircraft, systems and operations is conducted primarily by the manufacturers. Total 100% 100% Leasing Lease payments for aircraft are significant. Annual lease payments are treated as rental expenses. Lease payments due in future years under aircraft lease contracts are presented as off-balance sheet items. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 78 6.3 Other operating income 6.7 Other operating expenses EUR mill. 2017 2016 EUR mill. 2017 2016 Aircraft lease income 26.0 28.0 Lease payments for aircraft 306.9 249.6 Other rental income 27.3 31.9 Other rents for aircraft capacity 117.1 123.3 Capital gains on sales of tangible assets 0.0 0.2 Office and other rents 35.6 34.0 Other income 24.8 27.8 Traffic charges 266.5 262.8 Total 78.0 88.0 Sales and marketing expenses 76.4 67.1 Other expenses 148.6 97.5 Total 950.9 834.3 6.4 Materials and services EUR mill. 2017 2016 Materials and supplies 6.8 Financial income and expenses Ground handling and catering expenses 283.8 203.5 EUR mill. 2017 2016 Fuel costs 472.2 491.5 Dividend income Aircraft materials and overhaul 235.5 231.1 From group companies 0.0 17.1 IT expenses 72.8 68.0 Total 0.0 17.1 Other items 64.3 61.4 Total 1,128.5 1,055.5 Interest income From group companies 5.5 5.9 6.5 Staff costs From other companies Net gains on debt instruments held mandatorily at FVPL -0.7 0.7 EUR mill. 2017 2016 Other interest income 0.3 0.1 Wages and salaries 254.4 227.2 Total 5.1 6.7 Pension expenses 48.4 42.1 Other social expenses 25.0 17.7 Gains on disposal of shares 2.8 4.1 Total 327.7 287.1 Interest expenses Salary and bonus expenses of Chief Executive Officer and Members of the Board of Directors To group companies 0.0 -0.2 Chief Executive Officer and his deputy 1.6 1.3 To other companies -28.5 -25.6 Board of Directors 0.4 0.4 Total -28.6 -25.9 Personnel on average 3,761 3,569 Other financial expenses To group companies -0.1 -1.6 To other companies 0.0 -0.3 6.6 Planned depreciation and amortisation Total -0.1 -1.9 EUR mill. 2017 2016 On other long-term expenditure 8.4 4.5 Exchange gains and losses -5.1 1.1 On buildings 0.3 6.6 On other equipment 0.5 0.9 Financial income and expenses total -25.9 1.2 Total 9.1 12.0 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 79 6.9 Appropriations 6.12 Tangible assets EUR mill. 2017 2016 Tangible assets 2017 Change in depreciation difference -20.1 -0.3 Other Advances EUR mill. Land Buildings equipment paid Total Change in reinvestment provision 20.0 0.0 Acquisition cost 1 January 0.7 8.4 6.4 47.4 63.0 Received group contribution 30.0 128.7 Additions 0.0 46.0 1.8 4.7 52.5 Total 29.9 128.4 Disposals 0.0 0.0 -0.3 -44.3 -44.6 Acquisition cost 31 December 0.7 54.4 7.9 7.7 70.8 6.10 Income taxes Accumulated depreciation 1 January 0.0 -3.1 -3.7 0.0 -6.8 EUR mill. 2017 2016 Disposals 0.0 0.0 0.3 0.0 0.3 Change in deferred taxes -16.5 -22.4 Depreciation and reduction in value 0.0 -0.3 -0.5 0.0 -0.8 Total -16.5 -22.4 Accumulated depreciation 31 December 0.0 -3.4 -3.9 0.0 -7.4 6.11 Intangible assets Book value 31 December 0.7 51.0 4.0 7.7 63.4 EUR mill. 2017 2016 The share of machines and equipment in the book value Other long-term expenditure of tangible assets 31 Dec 2017 1.3% Acquisition cost 1 January 41.8 37.5 Additions 14.1 11.1 Disposals -3.0 -6.8 Tangible assets 2016 Acquisition cost 31 December 52.9 41.8 Other Advances EUR mill. Land Buildings equipment paid Total Accumulated depreciation 1 January -23.6 -25.4 Acquisition cost 1 Jan 2016 0.7 24.5 7.2 19.1 51.5 Disposals 1.7 6.3 Additions 0.0 0.6 1.6 28.6 30.8 Depreciation and reduction in value -7.0 -4.5 Disposals 0.0 -16.7 -2.3 -0.3 -19.3 Accumulated depreciation 31 December -28.9 -23.6 Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2016 0.7 8.4 6.4 47.4 63.0 Book value 31 December 24.0 18.2 Accumulated depreciation 1 Jan 2016 0.0 -11.4 -4.2 0.0 -15.5 Disposals 0.0 14.9 1.4 0.0 16.2 Depreciation for the financial year 0.0 -6.6 -0.9 0.0 -7.5 Accumulated depreciation 31 Dec 2016 0.0 -3.1 -3.7 0.0 -6.8 Book value 31 Dec 2016 0.7 5.3 2.7 47.4 56.1 The share of machines and equipment in the book value of tangible assets 31 Dec 2016 7.3% FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 80 6.13 Investments 6.14 Non-current loan and other receivables EUR mill. 2017 2016 EUR mill. 2017 2016 Group companies From group companies 19.6 222.1 Acquisition cost 1 January 448.6 452.6 From other companies 1.5 1.5 Additions 0.3 0.0 Total 21.1 223.6 Disposals -1.3 -4.0 Book value 31 December 447.6 448.6 6.15 Deferred tax assets Associates and joint ventures EUR mill. 2017 2016 Acquisition cost 1 January 2.5 2.5 Change in accounting principles 3.8 0.0 Book value 31 December 2.5 2.5 Deferred tax assets 1 January 12.3 65.3 From result for the financial year -16.5 -22.1 Shares in other companies From temporary differences 0.0 -0.2 Acquisition cost 1 January 0.4 0.4 Taxes from previous periods 0.0 -0.1 Book value 31 December 0.4 0.4 From valuation of derivates at fair value -3.6 -30.6 Offset against deffered tax liabilities 4.0 0.0 Deferred tax assets 31 December 0.0 12.3 Share of Associates and joint ventures parent company % Suomen Ilmailuopisto Oy, Finland 49.50 6.16 Current receivables EUR mill. 2017 2016 Share of Share of Group companies parent company % parent company % Short-term receivables from group companies Finnair Cargo Oy, Finland 100.00 Finnair Travel Retail Oy, Finland 100.00 Trade receivables 27.4 26.6 Finnair Aircraft Finance Oy, Finland 100.00 Finnair Kitchen Oy, Finland 100.00 Received Group contribution 30.0 128.7 Northport Oy, Finland 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Lentokonehuolto, Finland 100.00 Accrued income and prepaid expenses 2.6 4.4 Finnair Technical Services Oy, Finland 100.00 Amadeus Finland Oy, Finland 95.00 Other receivables 426.2 25.6 Finnair Engine Services Oy, Finland 100.00 Oy Aurinkomatkat Suntours Ltd Ab, Finland 100.00 Total 486.2 185.2 Finnair Flight Academy Oy, Finland 100.00 FTS Financial Services Oy, Finland 100.00 *Nordic Regional Airlines AB, Sweden 100.00 Finnair Business Services OÜ, Estonia 100.00 Short-term receivables from associates and joint ventures Trade receivables 0.0 8.7 * Finnair owned 40% of Nordic Regional Airlines AB prior to the transaction, that was closed in November, in which it was transferred to Total 0.0 8.7 the full ownership of Finnair on an interim basis. Kiinteistö Oy LEKO 8, Finland and Kiinteistö Oy Air Cargo Center 1, Finland were merged to Finnair Oyj on 31st December 2017. Finnair Short-term receivables from others took a control of LSG Sky Chefs Finland Oy and changed a name to Finnair Kitchen Oy. A/S Aero Airlines, Estonia was removed from the ­Estonian Business Register on 29th August 2017. Trade receivables 123.5 85.6 Prepaid expenses 68.8 54.3 Derivative financial instruments 100.7 74.3 Other receivables 8.1 34.9 Total 301.1 249.1 Short-term receivables total 787.3 443.1 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 81 6.17 Investments Distributable equity EUR mill. 2017 2016 EUR mill. 2017 2016 Short-term investments at fair value 833.0 727.9 Unrestricted equity funds 253.7 252.2 Retained earnings 101.7 20.5 6.18 Cash and bank equivalents Profit/loss for the financial year 68.6 109.2 Total 424.0 381.8 EUR mill. 2017 2016 Funds in bank accounts and deposits maturing in three months 146.4 66.5 6.20 Accumulated appropriations 6.19 Equity EUR mill. 2017 2016 Un­­ Accumulated depreciation difference 1 January 0.3 0.0 Share restricted Change in depreciation difference 20.1 0.3 Share premium Legal Hedging equity Retained Equity Accumulated depreciation difference 31 December 20.5 0.3 EUR mill. capital account reserve reserve funds earnings total Equity 31 Dec 2016 75.4 24.7 147.7 28.3 252.2 129.6 658.0 Change in accounting principles 15.2 -15.2 0.0 EUR mill. 2017 2016 Equity 1 Jan 2017 75.4 24.7 147.7 43.5 252.2 114.5 658.0 Accumulated reinvestment provision 1 January 20.0 20.0 Change in fair value of equity Change in reinvestment provision -20.0 0.0 instruments -0.7 -0.7 Accumulated reinvestment provision 31 December 0.0 20.0 Share-based payments 1.6 1.6 Dividend -12.8 -12.8 Accumulated appropriations total 20.5 20.4 Result for the financial year 68.6 68.6 Equity 31.12.2017 75.4 24.7 147.7 42.8 253.7 170.3 714.7 6.21 Provisions Un­­ EUR mill. 2017 2016 Share restricted Provisions 1 January 83.5 89.8 Share premium Legal Hedging equity Retained Equity EUR mill. capital account reserve reserve funds earnings total Provision for the period 42.6 42.6 Equity 1 Jan 2016 75.4 24.7 147.7 -94.1 250.4 24.8 428.9 Provision used -16.0 -50.8 Change in fair value of hedging Exhange rate differences -11.8 2.0 instruments 122.5 122.5 Provisions 31 December 98.4 83.5 Share-based payments 1.7 1.7 Of which long-term 78.3 62.0 Purchase of own shares -4.3 -4.3 Of which short-term 20.1 21.5 Result for the financial year 109.2 109.2 Total 98.4 83.5 Equity 31 Dec 2016 75.4 24.7 147.7 28.3 252.2 129.6 658.0 Long-term aircraft maintenance provisions are expected to be used by 2029. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 82 6.22 Non-current liabilities 6.24 Collateral, contingent liabilities and other commitments EUR mill. 2017 2016 EUR mill. 2017 2016 Loans from group companies 0.0 1.0 Guarantees and contingent liabilities Bonds 200.0 153.6 On behalf of group companies 71.0 69.0 Hybrid loan 200.0 200.0 On others companies 0.0 0.0 Deferred tax liability total 4.0 0.0 Total 71.0 69.0 Other liabilities 2.4 2.5 Total 406.4 357.2 Aircraft lease payments Within one year 364.2 297.7 Maturity of interest-bearing liabilies After one year and not later than 5 years 1,618.7 1,399.1 1–5 years 200.0 Later than 5 years 420.9 355.6 after 5 years 200.0 Total 2,403.8 2,052.4 Total 400.0 Parent company has leased the aircraft fleet from the fully owned subsidiary. 6.23 Current liabilities EUR mill. 2017 2016 EUR mill. 2017 2016 Other lease payments Current liabilities to group companies Within one year 27.9 27.7 Trade payables 40.5 37.9 After one year and not later than 5 years 55.4 92.5 Accruals and deferred income 20.6 4.5 Later than 5 years 180.9 168.9 Group bank account liabilities 130.6 119.8 Total 264.3 289.1 Total 191.7 162.2 Pension obligations Current liabilities to others Total obligation of pension fund 334,1 331.0 Loans from financial institutions 65.6 0.0 Non-mandatory benefit covered -334,1 -331.0 Advance payments received 0.1 0.1 Total 0.0 0.0 Trade payables 73.5 82.8 Accruals and deferred income 739.3 616.4 Other liabilities 15.7 18.6 Total 894.1 717.9 Current liabilities total 1,085.8 880.1 Accruals and deferred income Unflown air transport revenues 384.9 348.3 Jet fuels and traffic charges 74.7 67.8 Holiday payment liability 56.7 52.8 Loyalty program Finnair Plus 40.9 33.6 Derivative financial instruments 35.5 17.4 Other items 146.6 101.1 Total 739.3 620.9 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 83 6.25 Derivatives 2017 2016 Positive Negative Positive Negative EUR mill. Nominal value fair values fair values Fair net value Nominal value fair values fair values Fair net value Currency derivatives Jet fuel currency hedging 307.3 16.6 -0.1 16.5 Operational cash flow hedging (forward contracts) 385.2 5.8 -16.3 -10.5 Operational cash flow hedging, bought options 195.1 5.1 5.1 Operational cash flow hedging, sold options 200.1 -4.0 -4.0 Hedge accounting items total 780.4 10.9 -20.3 -9.4 307.3 16.6 -0.1 16.5 Operational cash flow hedging (forward contracts) 157.4 5.3 -2.1 3.3 Operational cash flow hedging, bought options 173.2 5.9 0.0 5.9 Operational cash flow hedging, sold options 245.4 0.0 -2.4 -2.4 Items outside hedge accounting total 576.0 11.2 -4.5 6.7 Currency derivatives total 780.4 10.9 -20.3 -9.4 883.3 27.8 -4.6 23.2 Commodity derivatives Jet fuel forward contracts, tonnes 808,000 58.3 58.3 650,000 26.9 -8.0 18.9 Bought options, jet fuel, tonnes 91,000 4.8 4.8 Sold options, jet fuel, tonnes 91,000 -0.1 -0.1 Electricity derivatives, MWh 13,140 0.0 0.0 0.0 Hedge accounting items total 63.1 -0.1 63.0 26.9 -8.0 18.9 Jet fuel forward contracts, tonnes 24,000 0.7 -0.2 0.6 Bought options, jet fuel, tonnes 236,000 13.3 13.3 Sold options, jet fuel, tonnes 37,000 -0.4 -0.4 472,000 -4.4 -4.4 Electricity derivatives, MWh 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Items outside hedge accounting total 0.0 -0.4 -0.4 14.0 -4.6 9.4 Commodity derivatives total 63.1 -0.5 62.7 41.0 -12.6 28.4 Interest rate derivatives Interest rate swaps 64.9 0.7 0.0 0.7 150.0 3.7 0.0 3.6 Hedge accounting items total 64.9 0.7 0.0 0.7 150.0 3.7 0.0 3.6 Interest rate derivatives total 64.9 0.7 0.0 0.7 150.0 3.7 0.0 3.6 Equity derivatives Bought options, millions 3.0 26.0 26.0 3.0 1.8 1.8 Sold options, millions 3.0 -14.7 -14.7 3.0 -0.2 -0.2 Hedge accounting items total 6.0 26.0 -14.7 11.3 6.0 1.8 -0.2 1.6 Equity derivatives total 6.0 26.0 -14.7 11.3 6.0 1.8 -0.2 1.6 Derivatives total * 100.7 -35.5 65.2 74.3 -17.4 56.9 * Positive (negative) fair value of hedging instruments on 31 Dec 2017 is presented in the statement of financial position in the item derivative assets within current assets (derivative liabilities within current liabilities). FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 84 6.26 Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value 6.27 Fuel price risk in flight operationsi Fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities valued at fair value Timing of the notional and hedged price Fair values at the end of the reporting period Maturity Hedged price Notional amount EUR mill. 31.12.2017 Level 1 Level 2 31.12.2017 $/tonne (tonnes) Under 1 year 1 to 2 years Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Jet fuel consumption priced with Securities held for trading 833.0 735.0 98.0 NWE index 535.9 962,407 736,407 226,000 Jet fuel consumption priced with Derivatives held for trading SING index 535.8 64,593 64,593 Currency and interest rate swaps and options 0.7 0.7 of which in fair value hedge accounting 0.7 0.7 Foreign exchange risk Currency derivatives 10.9 10.9 Maturity of which in cash flow hedge accounting 10.9 10.9 Average exchange Commodity derivatives 63.1 63.1 Timing of the notional rate of hedging of which in cash flow hedge accounting 63.1 63.1 EUR mill. instruments Notional amount Equity derivatives 26.0 26.0 31.12.2017 against the euro (gross) Less than 1 year 1 to 2 years of which in fair value hedge accounting 26.0 26.0 USD 1.14 502.9 350.8 152.1 Total 933.6 735.0 198.7 JPY 129.3 277.5 213.1 64.4 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value through profit and loss Interest rate risk Derivatives held for trading Currency derivatives 20.3 20.3 Timing of the notional and of which in cash flow hedge accounting 20.3 20.3 hedged price range EUR mill. Notional amount Maturity Commodity derivatives 0.5 0.5 31.12.2017 (gross) Less than 1 year of which in cash flow hedge accounting 0.1 0.1 Interest rate derivatives 64.9 64.9 Equity derivatives 14.7 14.7 of which in fair value hedge accounting 14.7 14.7 Total 35.5 35.5 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 85 Calculation of key ratios Comparable operating result: Dividend/earnings, %: Available seat kilometres (ASK): Operating result excluding fair value changes in derivatives, changes in the exchange rates of fleet Dividend/share Total number of seats available × kilometres flown overhauls and items affecting comparability ×100 Earnings/share Revenue passenger kilometres (RPK): Items affecting comparability: Number of revenue passengers × kilometres flown Dividend yield, %: Gains and losses on aircraft and other transactions and restructuring costs Dividend/share Passenger load factor (PLF), %: ×100 Comparable EBITDAR: Share price at the end of the financial year Share of revenue passenger kilometres of available seat kilometres Comparable operating result + depreciation + lease payments for aircraft Cash flow from operating activities/share: Available cargo tonne kilometres (cargo ATK): EBITDA: Cash flow from operating activities Number of tonnes of capacity for carriage of cargo and mail × kilometres flown Operating result + depreciation Average number of shares during the financial year, Revenue cargo tonne kilometres (cargo RTK): Shareholders’ equity: adjusted for share issues Total revenue load consisting of cargo and mail × kilometres flown Equity attributable to owners of the parent Price/earnings ratio (P/E): Overall load factor, %: Gross capital expenditure: Share price at the end of the financial year Share of revenue tonne kilometres of available tonne kilometres Investments in intangible and tangible assets excluding advance payments Earnings/share Revenue per available seat kilometre (RASK): Liquid funds: Unit revenue (RASK) represents the Group’s revenue divided by available seat kilometres (ASK). Equity ratio, %: Cash and cash equivalents + other financial assets Shareholders’ equity + non-controlling interest Unit revenue (RASK) with constant currency aims to provide a comparative, currency neutral ×100 measurement for unit revenues. All the currency changes and currency hedging results are Adjusted interest-bearing liabilities: Balance sheet total excluded from the measurement. Interest-bearing liabilities + cross currency interest rate swaps in derivative financial instruments Gearing, %: Cost per available seat kilometre (CASK): Interest-bearing net debt: Interest-bearing net debt Unit cost (CASK) represents the Group’s operational costs divided by available seat kilometres. Adjusted interest-bearing liabilities liquid funds ×100 Shareholders’ equity + non-controlling interest Other operating income is deducted from operational costs. Adjusted interest-bearing net debt: Unit cost (CASK) with constant currency aims to provide a comparative, currency neutral Interest-bearing net debt + 7 × lease payments for aircraft Adjusted gearing, %: measurement for unit costs. All the currency changes and currency hedging results are excluded Adjusted net debt from the measurement. Average capital employed: ×100 Shareholders’ equity + non-controlling interest Equity + interest-bearing liabilities (average of reporting period and comparison period) Unit revenue per revenue passenger kilometre (yield): Passenger Revenue by product divided by Revenue passenger kilometres (RPK). Return on equity (ROE), %: Earnings per share: Result for the financial year Result for the financial year hybrid bond expenses net of tax Cargo traffic unit revenue per revenue cargo tonne kilometre: ×100 Shareholders’ equity + non-controlling interest (average) Cargo Revenue by product divided by Revenue cargo tonne kilometres (cargo RTK). Average number of shares during the financial year, adjusted for share issues Return on capital employed (ROCE), %: Result before taxes + financial expenses Equity/share: ×100 Shareholders’ equity Average capital employed Number of shares at the end of financial year, adjusted for share issues FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 86 Board of Directors’ proposal on the dividend Finnair Plc’s distributable equity on 31 December 2017 amounts to 424,036,052.14 euros, of which the net result for the financial year 2017 is 68,644,816.95 euros. There have been no material changes in the company's financial position since the end of the financial year. The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of 0.30 euros per share be paid based on the balance sheet to be adopted for the financial year, which ended on 31 December 2017, and the remaining portion of the result be retained in the equity. Based on the number of outstanding shares as of 15 February 2018, the total amount of dividend proposed to be paid is 38,310,824.40 euros. Signing of the Report of the Board of Directors and the Financial Statements Helsinki, 15 February 2018 The Board of Directors of Finnair Plc Jouko Karvinen Colm Barrington Mengmeng Du Maija-Liisa Friman Jussi Itävuori Jonas Mårtensson Jaana Tuominen Pekka Vauramo President and CEO of Finnair Plc FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 87 AUDITOR’S REPORT (TRANSLATION FROM THE FINNISH ORIGINAL) To the Annual General Meeting of Finnair Oyj Our audit approach Overview Report on the audit of the financial statements Materiality Opinion • Overall group materiality: € 12 000 000 which represents approximately 0.5% of Group’s In our opinion, revenues • the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the group’s financial position and financial performance and cash flows in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU Group scoping • the financial statements give a true and fair view of the parent company’s financial performance and financial position in • Audit scope: We have audited parent company and four the most significant subsidiaries. In accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of the financial statements in Finland and comply with addition, we have performed group level procedures over specific consolidated accounts and statutory requirements. analytical procedures to assess unusual movements across all entities. Our opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee. Key audit matters What we have audited • We have audited the financial statements of Finnair Oyj (business identity code 0108023-3) for the year ended 31 December • Deferred revenue on ticket sales 2017. The financial statements comprise: • Aircraft maintenance provision • the consolidated balance sheet, income statement, statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity, • Defined employee benefit plans statement of cash flows and notes, including a summary of significant accounting policies • the parent company’s balance sheet, income statement, statement of cash flows and notes. As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial Basis for opinion statements. In particular, we considered where management made subjective judgements; for example, in respect of signifWe conducted our audit in accordance with good auditing practice in Finland. Our responsibilities under good auditing pracicant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. tice are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance Independence whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They We are independent of the parent company and of the group companies in accordance with the ethical requirements that are are considered material if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions applicable in Finland and are relevant to our audit, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. these requirements. Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall To the best of our knowledge and belief, the non-audit services that we have provided to the parent company and to the group materiality for the consolidated financial statements as set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative congroup companies are in accordance with the applicable law and regulations in Finland and we have not provided non-audit siderations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to services that are prohibited under Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014. The non-audit services that we have provided evaluate the effect of misstatements on the financial statements as a whole. are disclosed in note 1.3.3 to the Financial Statements. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 88 How our audit addressed Overall group materiality € 12,000,000 (previous year € 12,000,000) Key audit matter in the audit of the Group the Key audit matter How we determined it 0.5% of revenues Deferred revenue on ticket sales Rationale for the materiality benchmark applied The group’s profitability has been volatile over the last few years and has been significantly impacted by items affecting Airline tickets are typically sold in advance when payments received are We evaluated the design and tested the opcomparability. Therefore, we chose revenues as the bench­recognized as deferred revenue. The deferred revenue related to unflown erating effectiveness of certain controls over mark as we considered that this provides us with a consisttickets amounted €385.2 million as of December 31, 2017. revenue recognition. ent year-on-year basis for determining materiality, reflecting Airline ticket sales are recognised as revenue when the flight is flown or We have tested a sample of tickets recognized the group’s growth and investment plans, and which we bewhen ticket has expired. Revenue recognition related to expired tickets is as revenues. lieve is also the benchmark against which the performance done m ­ anually. This manual adjustment is based on the expiry of the tickets We have tested a sample of unused tickets in of the Group is commonly measured by users, and is a genwhen Finnair has no obligation to return the related payment to customer. the deferred revenue. erally accepted benchmark. We chose 0.5% which is within Due to magnitude of the balance and related manual adjustment we consider We have performed computer assisted audit the range of acceptable quantitative materiality thresholds this as a key audit matter in the audit of the Group. procedures to deferred revenue related to unin auditing standards. This matter is a significant risks of material misstatement referred to in A ­ rticle flown tickets. 10(2c) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014. How we tailored our group audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit, taking into account the structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates. Aircraft maintenance provision Group operates domestically through several legal entities. In addition, Group has few small legal entities outside Finland. Refer to note 1.3.5 to the consolidated financial statements for the related We evaluated the maintenance provision model Group’s sales is mainly generated by parent company and we have audited the parent company as part of our audit of consoldisclosures. and tested the calculations therein. This includidated financial statements. In addition, we have audited four the most significant subsidiaries. We have considered that the remaining subsidiaries don’t present a reasonable risk of material misstatement for consolidated financial statements and The Group operates aircrafts which are owned or held under finance or opered assessing the process by which the variable thus our procedures have been limited to targeted audit procedures over significant balances and to analytical procedures ating lease arrangements. The Group is obligated to return leased aircraft at factors within the provision were estimated, performed at Group level. the required redelivery condition agreed with the lessor. To fulfil these mainevaluating the reasonableness of the assumpBy performing the procedures above at legal entities, combined with additional procedures at the Group level, we have obtenance obligations the Group has recognized airframe heavy maintenance, tions, testing the input data and testing mathetained sufficient and appropriate evidence regarding the financial information of the Group as a whole to provide a basis for engine performance maintenance and engine life limited part provisions which matical accuracy of the calculations. our opinion on the consolidated financial statements. amounted €97.3 million as of December 31, 2017. In particular, we challenged the key assumpLiabilities for maintenance costs are incurred during the term of the lease tions that were based on the Group’s interKey audit matters in respect of aircraft leased under operating leases. These arise from legal nal data, such as expected timing and cost of Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial and contractual obligations relating to the condition of the aircraft when it maintenance checks and maintenance contract statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a is returned to the lessor. terms. We also evaluated the provision and the whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. key assumptions in the light of actual utilisaAt each balance sheet date, the maintenance provision is calculated using a As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other tion in the year. model that incorporates a number of variable factors and assumptions includmatters consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. ing: likely utilisation of the aircraft; the expected cost of the heavy maintenance check at the time it is expected to occur; and the expected occurrence of the heavy maintenance check. We focused on this area because of an inherent level of management judgement required in calculating the amount of provision needed as a result of the complex and subjective elements around these variable factors and assumptions. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 89 How our audit addressed Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements Key audit matter in the audit of the Group the Key audit matter Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with good auditing practice will alDefined employee benefit plans ways detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material Refer to note 1,3.7.2 to the consolidated financial statements for the relatWe have used auditors expert to review the acif, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on ed disclosures. tuarial statement prepared by independent acthe basis of these financial statements. The group has defined employee benefit plans where amount of pension bentuaries. This has included assessment of the apAs part of an audit in accordance with good auditing practice, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional efit that an employee will receive on retirement is defined and that is usually propriateness of the actuarial assumptions used skepticism throughout the audit. We also: dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compenin calculating the defined benefit obligation. • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and sation. The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined penWe have tested valuation of the plan assets reperform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a sion plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of lated to defined employee benefit plans by testbasis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The net defined benefit ing a sample of listed equity holdings against from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. liability amounted to €6.4 million as of December 31, 2017. prevailing market prices at the year end. Re• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuarlated to unlisted investments we have created in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the parent company’s or the ies using the projected unit credit method. Calculation of the defined benefit independent expectation based on the nature group’s internal control. obligation requires use of actuarial assumptions such as life expectancy, inof the investment, historical purchase price or • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disflation and future salary increases. The present value of the defined benefit prior year audited valuation and publicly availclosures made by management. obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash flows usable information on similar investments and • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of ing interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the compared that to the management valuation. accounting and based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity that may cast significant doubt on the parent company’s or the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation. that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the The plan assets are valued at fair value as of December 31, 2017 and valuafinancial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evtion involve use of judgment in particular relating to unlisted investments. idence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the parent company We considered valuation of the defined benefit obligation and plan assets as or the group to cease to continue as a going concern. a key audit matter in the audit of the Group due to materiality of the related • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the balances and judgments involved in these estimates. financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events so that the financial statements give a true and fair view. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision We have no key audit matters to report with respect to our audit of the parent company financial statements. and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. There are no significant risks of material misstatement referred to in Article 10(2c) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 with ­respect We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the to the parent company financial statements. audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought the Managing Director for the Financial Statements to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial statements From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most signifthat give a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, and icance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare of financial statements in Finland and comply with statutory requirements. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for assessing the parent company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters relating to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The financial statements are prepared using the going concern basis of accounting unless there is an intention to liquidate the parent company or the group or to cease operations, or there is no realistic alternative but to do so. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 90 Other reporting requirements Appointment PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy was first appointed as auditor of Finnair Oyj by the annual general meeting on 14.8.1964 and our appointment represents a total period of uninterrupted engagement of 53 years. Back then Authorised Public Accountant, employed by PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy, was appointed. Other information The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the report of the Board of Directors and the information included in the Annual Report, but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. With respect to the report of the Board of Directors, our responsibility also includes considering whether the report of the Board of Directors has been prepared in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. In our opinion • the information in the report of the Board of Directors is consistent with the information in the financial statements • the report of the Board of Directors has been prepared in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Other statements We support that the financial statements and the consolidated financial statements should be adopted. The proposal by the Board of Directors regarding the use of the profit shown in the balance sheet is in compliance with the Limited Liability Companies Act. We support that the Members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of the parent company should be discharged from liability for the financial period audited by us. Helsinki 15 February 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Authorised Public Accountants Mikko Nieminen Authorised Public Accountant FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 91 TAX FOOTPRINT Direct taxes payable, EUR million Finland* 2017 Other countries Total Finland* 2016 Other countries Total Employer contributions 5.0 2.1 7.1 5.7 1.8 7.5 Tax principles Property taxes 0.4 0.0 0.4 0.6 0.0 0.6 Finnair’s principle is to pay, collect, remit and report the indirect and direct taxes it is subject to in each country according to local laws and regulations. High-quality tax returns and reports are very important to Finnair and, as a result, we prepare tax Other taxes 1.4 0.1 1.4 1.7 0.0 1.7 returns carefully and submit them on time. Finnair also discusses openly with tax authorities. The aim of Finnair's tax principle Public subsidies received -2.1 0.0 -2.1 -2.1 0.0 -2.1 is to support business decisions and to ensure their appropriate implementation, also from the perspective of taxation. Finnair Taxes included in direct operating Group does not have any structures in place in order to transfer taxable income from Finland to jurisdictions with lower tax rates. expenses and subsidies in total 4.7 2.1 6.9 5.9 1.8 7.7 Income taxes payable* 20.1 0.0 20.1 22.6 0.0 22.6 Taxes related to international business operations Total direct taxes payable 24.8 2.1 26.9 28.4 1.8 30.3 Finnair’s international business operations are mainly related to the sales of flight tickets and cargo through Finnair Plc’s for* Income taxes payable are tax expenses recorded based on the taxable result, which has been utilised against confirmed tax losses. eign sales units, as well as local sales promotion activities. Sales units are not separate legal entities. The sales units’ income Figures include also sold and acquired subsidiaries from the time they were part of Finnair group. is taxed pursuant to the regulations and double tax treaties pertaining to the international airline business as part of the parent company’s taxable income in Finland. The operations of Finnair’s foreign subsidiaries in 2017 and 2016 have been primarOther taxes primarily include environmental and electricity taxes. Due to the nature of the international airline business, jet ily related to travel and back office services, and they are very minor in scale relative to the Group’s business operations as a fuel is tax-free. Public subsidies mainly consist of subsidies received for training and they are primarily related to the aviation whole. Finnair has also minor holdings (less than 20%) in some insurance captives located in Guernsey for business reasons, training services provided by Finnair. The reported public subsidies do not include subsidies paid to the airline business by the results of which are subject to taxation in Finland. the authorities in other countries, as they are considered business secrets. The reported public subsidies, however, include a Finnair’s taxable operations in individual countries outside of Finland are minor in scale. Hence, the table below presents subsidy of 0.1 million euros (0.0) relating to Enontekiö region's tourism promotion received in 2017 from a Finnish authority. Finland separately and all other countries together. Country level information for subsidiaries is found in the second table on Finnair has confirmed losses in taxation from previous tax periods amounting to approximately 147 million euros. The esthis page. Country level specification for taxes paid and collected outside Finland is found on the next page. timated amount of confirmed tax losses after 2017 taxable result is approximately 68 million euros. The confirmed tax losses can be utilised against positive taxable income over the next five to ten years. Income tax (cash tax) becomes due for payment 2017 2016 only when previous losses have been utilised in full. Finnair’s operations in Finland and in Other Other More detailed specification of employer contributions paid in other countries is found on the next page. other countries Finland* countries Total Finland* countries Total More information on direct taxes, such as the taxes pursuant to the consolidated income statement, deferred tax assets and Revenue, EUR million 2,557.7 10.8 2,568.4 2,307.9 8.8 2,316.8 liabilities, and the adjustment of the effective tax rate, is presented in Note 5.1 in Finnair’s consolidated financial statements. Result before taxes, EUR million 210.6 0.5 211.1 105.1 0.6 105.8 Number of personnel 5,034 492 5,526 4,408 500 4,908 2017 2016 * Figures include also sold and acquired subsidiaries from the time they were part of Finnair group. Internal turnover has been eliminated. Indirect taxes collected for the Other Other financial year, EUR million Finland* countries Total Finland* countries Total Finland 2017 figures include Finnair Kitchen Oy and Finland 2016 figures include SMT Oy for the time the companies were part Value added taxes, sales 90.4 1.0 91.5 77.0 0.8 77.8 of the Group. Finnair Group’s foreign operative subsidiaries are located in Estonia, where income tax is due in connection with Value added taxes, purchases 118.8 4.9 123.8 103.6 4.9 108.5 distribution of dividends. The Group has also a dormant subsidiary in Russia. Specification for revenue, result before taxes, inValue added taxes, net -28.4 -3.9 -32.3 -26.6 -4.1 -30.7 come tax payable and number of personnel is presented in the below table. Withholding taxes on wages and salaries and other indirect taxes 92.6 2.5 95.1 87.0 2.8 89.7 2017 2016 Excise taxes 0.4 0.1 0.5 0.4 0.0 0.4 Finnair’s operations in other countries Estonia Russia Total Estonia Russia Total Total 64.6 -1.4 63.2 60.7 -1.2 59.5 Revenue, EUR million 10.8 0.0 10.8 8.8 0.0 8.8 * Figures include also sold and acquired subsidiaries from the time they were part of Finnair group. Result before taxes, EUR million 0.5 0.0 0.5 0.6 0.0 0.6 Income taxes payable 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 The most significant indirect taxes collected during the financial year are withholding tax liabilities, value added taxes and exNumber of personnel 186 0 186 188 0 188 cise taxes. Finnair was subject to tax audit in 2016 which resulted in Finnish withholding tax payable relating to Finnair's own foreign crew. Reassessed taxes have been paid and included in withholding taxes on wages and salaries in 2016. The passenger tariffs collected from flight passengers are not considered as tax-like payments remitted to the authorities Profits of sales units are taxed in accordance with regulations and double tax treaties pertaining to the international airline subject to reporting as part of the tax footprint, as these payments are usually remitted to private or public parties responsible business and hence, revenue, result before taxes, income tax payable and number of personnel in other countries are not for airport operations. More detailed specification of taxes collected in other countries is found overleaf. separately adopted in financial statements. Specification of taxes paid and collected in other countries is presented overleaf. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 92 Country specific information for 2017 is presented below only regarding countries where the amount of taxes paid, collected Country specific information for 2016 is presented below only regarding countries where the amount of taxes paid, collected or deducted is at least 0.05 million euros. Countries where this threshold is not met are presented as two areas below. The figor deducted is at least 0.05 million euros. Countries where this threshold is not met are presented as two areas below. The figures below include taxes paid and collected by subsidiaries and sales units. ures below include taxes paid and collected by subsidiaries and sales units. Withholding Withholding 2017 Value added taxes on 2016 Value added taxes on Employer Value added taxes, Value added wages and Employer Value added taxes, Value added wages and Country specification, EUR million contributions taxes, sales purchases taxes, net salaries Total Country specification, EUR million contributions taxes, sales purchases taxes, net salaries Total Countries Countries Estonia 0.9 0.2 0.2 0.0 0.5 1.3 Estonia 0.7 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.4 1.0 China 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.7 China 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.5 0.7 Belgium 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.2 USA 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 Greece 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.2 Italy 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.1 USA 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 Greece 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.1 Italy 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.1 Australia 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.2 0.1 Russia 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 Russia 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 Spain 0.1 0.1 0.2 -0.1 0.1 0.1 Belgium 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 Australia 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.1 0.0 Spain 0.1 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.1 0.0 Switzerland 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.1 0.0 Switzerland 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 Sweden 0.2 0.0 0.3 -0.3 0.2 0.0 Sweden 0.1 0.1 0.5 -0.4 0.2 0.0 Singapore 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.0 0.0 France 0.0 0.1 0.1 -0.1 0.0 0.0 France 0.0 0.1 0.1 -0.1 0.0 -0.1 Denmark 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.1 0.0 Denmark 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.0 -0.1 Singapore 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.0 0.0 South-Korea 0.0 0.0 0.2 -0.2 0.0 -0.1 South-Korea 0.0 0.0 0.2 -0.2 0.0 -0.1 Germany 0.0 0.1 0.4 -0.3 0.1 -0.1 Germany 0.0 0.1 0.4 -0.3 0.1 -0.2 Norway 0.0 0.0 0.5 -0.5 0.1 -0.4 Norway 0.0 0.0 0.5 -0.5 0.2 -0.2 Japan 0.2 0.1 1.2 -1.1 0.5 -0.4 Japan 0.3 0.1 1.3 -1.2 0.6 -0.3 Thailand 0.0 0.0 0.5 -0.5 0.0 -0.4 Thailand 0.0 0.0 0.4 -0.4 0.0 -0.4 The UK 0.0 0.1 0.8 -0.7 0.0 -0.7 The UK 0.0 0.0 0.7 -0.7 0.0 -0.6 Areas Areas Other Europe countries* 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 Other EU-countries* 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 Rest of the world** 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Rest of the world** 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 2.1 1.0 4.9 -3.9 2.5 0.6 Total 1.8 0.8 4.9 -4.1 2.8 0.6 * Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Hungary, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia * Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Hungary, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia and Slovenia and Slovenia ** Canada and India ** Canada and India Employer contributions paid relate to mandatory employer payments regarding employees located outside of Finland. Withholding taxes on salary are collected based on local legislation. Value added taxes on sales and purchases relate mainly to passenger sales and cargo services. Total amount of excise taxes outside Finland in 2017 and 2016 has been less than 0.1 million euros and, hence. this information is not presented on a country-by-country basis. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 93 GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 94 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 2017 Contents Corporate Governance Code is publicly available on the website of the Securities Market Association at Regulatory framework ........................................................................................................................................ 94 ­www.cgfinland.fi. Governing bodies ................................................................................................................................................ 94 General Meetings ................................................................................................................................................. 95 This statement has been reviewed by Finnair’s Audit Committee and the Board of Directors, and it has been Auditor ................................................................................................................................................................. 95 prepared as a separate report from the Board of Directors’ Report. Finnair’s audit firm, PricewaterhouseShareholders’ Nomination Board ........................................................................................................................ 95 Coopers, has verified that the description of the main features of internal control and risk management Board of Directors ............................................................................................................................................... 96 related to the financial reporting process contained in this statement and in the financial statements are Committees of the Board .................................................................................................................................... 98 consistent with each other. Company management ....................................................................................................................................... 99 Main features of the internal control and risk management system pertaining Governing bodies to the financial reporting process ...................................................................................................................... 101 The governing bodies of Finnair pursuant to the Companies Act and the Articles of Association are the General Description of the overall system ...................................................................................................................... 101 Meeting of Shareholders, the Board of Directors (the “Board”) and the Chief Executive Officer (the “CEO”). The Control environment .......................................................................................................................................... 101 roles of the governing bodies are described below. Risk assessment ................................................................................................................................................. 102 Governing bodies of Finnair*) Control activities ................................................................................................................................................ 102 Information and communication ....................................................................................................................... 103 Monitoring and improvement ............................................................................................................................ 103 Internal Audit ..................................................................................................................................................... 103 Shareholders Compliance ........................................................................................................................................................ 104 Transactions with closely associated parties .................................................................................................... 104 Managers’ transactions and main insider management procedures ............................................................... 104 Regulatory framework Shareholders’ This Corporate Governance Statement is prepared in accordance with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code General Meeting* Auditors Nomination Board 2015 for listed companies. It sets out the governing bodies and the principles of governance of Finnair Plc. Finnair complies with the recommendations of the Code without exceptions. The principal legislative authorities on corporate governance of Finnish listed companies are the Companies Act, the Securities Market Act, the Market Abuse Regulation (MAR), the regulations and guidelines issued by Compensation and Board of Audit the Financial Supervisory Authority, the rules and instructions for listed companies issued by Nasdaq Helsinki Nomination Committee Directors* Committee and the Finnish Corporate Governance Code, all of which are complied with by Finnair. Company specific authorities on the governance of Finnair are the Articles of Association and the charters and policies specified Finnair’s Board of Directors and Executive Board. CEO* The Articles of Association, the published policies and other additional information on Finnair’s corporate governance can be found at Finnair’s website at https://investors.finnair.com/en/governance. The FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 95 General Meeting of Shareholders Shareholders’ Nomination Board The ultimate authority in Finnair is vested in the General Meeting of Shareholders. An Annual General Meeting The AGM 2013 decided to establish a permanent Shareholders’ Nomination Board. The term of the Nomina(the “AGM”) must be held each year by the end of May. tion Board continues until further notice. The previous practice since 2008 was that a Shareholders’ Nomination Committee was established annually by the AGMs. The competence of the General Meeting of Shareholders is set out in the Companies Act and in Finnair’s Articles of Association. The AGM shall annually decide on the following matters: The purpose and task of the Nomination Board is to prepare and present to the AGM, and if necessary, to an Extraordinary General Meeting, proposals on the remuneration of the members of the Board, on the number • adoption of the financial statements and the consolidated financial statements of members of the Board and on the members of the Board. In addition, the task of the Nomination Board is • the use of the profit shown on the balance sheet to seek potential future candidates for Board members. The Nomination Board shall forward its proposals to • the discharging of the Members of the Board and the CEO from liability the company’s Board by 31 January each year. • the appointment of the Members of the Board and their remuneration • election of the Chairman of the Board from among the Members The Nomination Board consists of four members nominated annually. The company’s three largest share• the election and remuneration of the auditor. holders appoint three of the members, and the current Chairman of the Board serves as the fourth member. The Nomination Board appoints its chairman from among its members. The company’s largest shareholders The Board convenes the General Meetings of Shareholders by publishing a notice not earlier than three entitled to appoint members to the Nomination Board are determined on the basis of the registered holdings months and not later than three weeks before the date of the meeting and always at least nine days before the in the company’s shareholder register held by Euroclear Finland Oy as of the first working day in September record date of the meeting. The notice shall be published as a stock exchange release and on Finnair’s website. each year. In the event that a shareholder does not wish to exercise its right to appoint a representative, such right passes to the next largest shareholder. Each shareholder who is registered on the record date as a shareholder in the company’s public register of shareholders, maintained by Euroclear Finland Oy, has the right to participate in the General Meeting of The members of the Nomination Board are not remunerated by Finnair for their membership in the NominaShareholders. If a holder of nominee-registered shares wishes to participate in the meeting, he or she has to tion Board. The members’ expenses are reimbursable in accordance with the company’s expense policy. In register temporarily in the register of shareholders. Furthermore, in order to attend the meeting, a shareaddition, the Nomination Board’s costs of using external experts shall be borne by the company. holder must register for the meeting in the manner defined in the notice convening the meeting. The Charter of the Nomination Board is available at the company website. A shareholder has the right to have a matter falling within the competence of the General Meeting of Shareholders addressed by the meeting, if the shareholder so demands in writing from the Board by the date 2016 Nomination Board announced on Finnair’s website. The 2016 Nomination Board consisted of the representatives of three largest shareholders as at the first working day in September 2016 i.e. the State of Finland, Keva and Varma, and of the Chairman of the Board. The minutes of the General Meeting of Shareholders and the voting results, if any, shall be made available to The composition of the 2016 Nomination Board was the following: shareholders on Finnair’s website within two weeks of the meeting. • Mr. Eero Heliövaara, b. 1956, M. Sc. (Econ.), M. Sc. (Eng.), Director General in the Ownership Steering in 2017 Annual General Meeting the Prime Minister’s Office (Chairman) Finnair’s AGM 2017 was held in Helsinki on 16 March. A total of 263 shareholders, representing 69.5 per cent of • Mr. Robin Backman, b. 1971, M. Sc. (Econ.), Portfolio Manager in Keva the shares and voting rights of the company, participated either in person or by proxy representatives. All Board • Mr. Reima Rytsölä, b. 1969, M.Soc.Sc, EVP Investments, Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company members, candidates for Board membership and the auditors of the company were present in the meeting. • Mr. Klaus Heinemann, b. 1951, Diplom Kaufmann, Chairman of the Board of Finnair until March 16th 2017 Auditor The company’s auditor in 2017 was PricewaterhouseCoopers, and Mr. Mikko Nieminen acted as the auditor The Nomination Board convened 3 times and the participation rate was 100%. On 25 January, 2017, the with principal responsibility. The audit fees paid in 2017 amounted to 0.3 million euros, and the fees for other Shareholders’ Nomination Board submitted to the Board of Directors its proposals for the AGM to be held on services rendered amounted to 0.4 million euros. 16 March 2017. The proposals are available at Finnair’s website. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 96 2017 Nomination Board tees. The Board approves also the Internal Audit Charter. The Board sets the company’s strategic aims and The 2017 Nomination Board consisted of the representatives of first, third and fourth largest shareholders monitors the implementation of the strategy. The Board approves other significant strategic matters, business as at the first working day in September 2017 i.e. the State of Finland, Mr. Heikki Kyöstilä and Mutual Pension plans, significant partnerships and other decisions exceeding the limits that the Board has set to the CEO’s Insurance Company Ilmarinen, and of the Chairman of the Board. The composition of the 2017 Nomination decision-making authority. The Board decides on guarantees and other commitments for external liabilities. Board was the following: The monetary limit for the CEO’s decision-making authority is 10 million euros. • Mr. Pekka Timonen, b. 1960, Director General of Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment The Board appoints and removes the CEO and other members of the Executive Board, evaluates their perfor(Chairman) mance and determines their levels of remuneration. The Board also attends to the succession planning of • Mr. Heikki Kyöstilä, b. 1946, Managing Director of Planmeca Oy the management. The Board establishes and regularly evaluates the group’s personnel policies, including • Mr. Mikko Mursula, b. 1966, Chief Investment Officer of Mutual Pension Insurance Company Ilmarinen the compensation structures. The Board evaluates its own work on an annual basis. The Board’s charter is • Mr. Jouko Karvinen, see details on page 118. Chairman of the Board of Finnair. available on Finnair’s website in its entirety. The Nomination Board convened 3 times and the participation rate was 100%. In addition, the Nomination The Board has determined its diversity principles for the perusal of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board when Board held several telephone conferences and interviewed the Board candidates in Finland and abroad. On searching successors to retiring Board members and preparing proposals on the composition of the Board to 30 January 2018, the Nomination Board submitted to the Board its proposals for the 2018 AGM to be held on the Annual General Meeting. The diversity principles do not bind the Nomination Board nor the AGM. 20 March 2018. The proposals are available at Finnair’s website. The diversity principles of the Board of Directors are: Board of Directors • The Board must have sufficient expertise and experience to conduct its duties carefully and effectively, The Chairman and the Members of the Board are elected by the AGM. According to the Articles of Associataking into account the quality, scope and international nature of the company’s operations, the compation, the Board consists of the Chairman and a minimum of four and a maximum of seven other members. The ny’s strategic targets and changes in the business environment and society. Board elects a Vice Chairman from among its members. The term of office of the members of the Board ends • The members of the Board must be capable of cooperating with the other members and the management. at the close of the first AGM following their election. • The members of the Board should have education and experience that complements each other and experience from industries that are important for the company. According to the Companies Act, the Board represents all shareholders of Finnair and has the general duty to • The members should have experience of board work and of managerial duties in businesses or in other act diligently in the interests of the company. Under law, the Board is accountable to the shareholders for the areas of society. appropriate governance of the company and for ensuring that the operations of the company are run adequa• The Board shall have at least 40 per cent both men and women. The composition should show diversity tely. also in terms of the age distribution, length of service and cultural background. • Sufficient continuity should be ensured when renewing the composition of the Board, but the continuous The accountability for the company’s governance pertains specifically to the assurance of the reliability of term of any member may not exceed 10 years. the financial reporting of the company and the effectiveness of the company’s system of internal controls. The main features of the company’s system of internal controls and risk management are described later in The principles applying to the composition of the Board were fulfilled well in the Board elected in 2017. this report. Finnair has a number of procedures and policies issued by the Board of Directors or the Executive The members represent diverse experience from managerial and board duties in Finland and abroad. The Board, designed to enhance the internal controls. The procedures and policies are assessed at least once a members come from three countries and speak three different languages as their native tongue. Women year and updated where necessary. represent 43 per cent of the Board members, which meets both the diversity target set by the Finnish Council of State in its resolution of 17 February 2015 and the target set by the company’s Board of Directors. At the In addition to the Board’s statutory tasks, certain significant matters are reserved for the Board’s decision, as end of 2017, the term of all members had lasted less than six years. The median year of birth of the Board set out in the Board’s charter. The Board prepares and approves the charters of the Board and of its commitmembers is 1957 and the age differential between the youngest and eldest member is 34 years. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 97 Participation in Board Participation in Committee Members of the Board and their independence Name Personal Information meetings in 2017* meetings in 2017* The 2017 AGM held on 16 March elected Mr. Jouko Karvinen as Chairman of the Board and Compensation Mr. Colm Barrington, Ms. Mengmeng Du, Ms. Maija-Liisa Friman, Mr. Jussi Itävuori, Mr. Audit and Nomination Jonas Mårtensson and Ms. Jaana Tuominen as other members of the Board. The Board Jouko Karvinen Chairman of the Board since 16 March 2017 9/9 1/1 Vice Chairman of the Board between elected Mr. Colm Barrington as its Vice Chairman. 17 March 2016 and 16 March 2017 B. 1957, M. Sc. Tech Main occupation: Board professional The Board has assessed the independence of its members and concluded that all members Committee membership: Audit Committee until 16 March 2017 are independent of the company and its major shareholders. Colm Barrington Vice Chairman of the Board since 7/7 5/5 16 March 2017 B. 1946, MA (Econ) Main occupation: CEO and Director of Fly Leasing Limited The ownership of the Directors and companies controlled by them in Committee membership: Audit Committee Finnair Mengmeng Du Member of the Board since 16 March 2017 7/7 5/5 B. 1980, M.Sc. (Econ), M.Sc. (Computer science) At the end of 2016 and 2017, neither the members of the Board of Directors nor any Main occupation: Board professional; digital advisor companies under their control held any shares or any rights relating to shares in any Committee membership: Audit Committee Maija-Liisa Friman Member of the Board since 28 March 2012 9/9 6/6 company within Finnair Group. B. 1952, M.Sc. (Eng.) Main occupation: Board professional Committee membership: Audit Committee (Chairman) Members of the Board in 2017 and their attendance in Board and Jussi Itävuori Member of the Board since 28 March 2012 9/9 5/5 Committee meetings B. 1955, M. Sc. (Econ.) Main occupation: Managing Director and Senior Partner, In 2017, the Board had 9 planned and 5 extraordinary meetings. See the table at right for RJI Partners Oy information on the Board members’ participation in the meetings. Committee memberships: Compensation and Nomination Committee (Chairman) Jonas Mårtensson Member of the Board since 16 March 2017 7/7 3/4 B. 1977, M. Sc. Business Administration Main Occupation: CEO of Mojang Committee membership: Compensation and Nomination Committee Jaana Tuominen Member of the Board since 27 March 2014 9/9 5/5 B. 1960, M. Sc. (Eng.) Main occupation: CEO of Fiskars Group Committee membership: Compensation and Nomination Committee The Board’s work in 2017 Members until 16 March 2017 In 2017, the Board had 9 planned and 5 extraordinary meetings. Klaus W. Heinemann Chairman of the Board between 27 March 2013 2/2 and 16 March 2017 Member of the Board since 28 March 2012 In addition to its duties under its charter and the law, the Board focused in its work B. 1951, B.Sc. (Econ.) Main occupation: Board professional on monitoring the company’s financial result and status, monitored the implemenCommittee membership: Audit Committee until 27 March 2014 tation of the company’s strategy, and evaluated changes in the operating environGunvor Kronman Member of the Board since 28 March 2012 2/2 1/1 ment as well as their impacts on the company’s strategy and confirmed the finanB. 1963, Master of Arts Main occupation: CEO of Swedish-Finnish cial targets and focus areas of strategy implementation in 2017–2020. The Board Cultural Centre Committee membership: Compensation and monitored the status of flight and occupational safety as well as corporate security Nomination Committee and operational quality, and reviewed the related management systems. It also Nigel Turner Member of the Board since 27 March 2014 2/2 1/1 B. 1958, BA (Hon.) monitored the functioning of the enterprise risk management and the development Main occupation: of internal controls and compliance. The Board held a risk management workshop Committee membership: Audit Committee and approved the company’s risk appetite statement and risk management policy. * Participation statistics are presented with respect to meetings during each Board member’s term of office More information on the Members of the Board is available on page 118 and on Finnair’s website. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 98 The Committees of the Board • assess the group’s compliance with laws and regulations; and The Board delegates certain of its functions to the Audit Committee and to the Compensation and Nomination • maintain contact with the auditors. Committee. The Board appoints the Committee members and their Chairs from among the members of the Board. The minimum number of members is three in both Committees. The Audit Committee’s members are Ms. Maija-Liisa Friman (Chair), Mr. Colm Barrington and Ms. Mengmeng Du. Each Committee meets regularly under their respective charters. The Committees’ tasks and the work carried The Audit Committee held 6 planned and one extraordinary meeting in 2017. The CEO, the CFO, the Head out by them during the year are described in their respective sections below. The Committees report on their of Internal Audit and Risk Management as well as the external auditor also participated in the Committee’s work regularly to the Board but they do not have decision-making powers independent from the Board, except in-person meetings. Finnair’s General Counsel acted as the secretary of the Audit Committee. The Committee where expressly authorised by the Board. Copies of the Committees’ charters are available on Finnair’s website. held closed sessions as well as sessions where the external or internal auditors participated without the presence of the members of the management. Audit Committee The Audit Committee assists the Board in its task to ensure the proper governance of the company, in particular by considering the accounting and financial reporting, the Company’s internal control systems and the The Audit Committee’s activities in 2017 work of the external auditors. The Audit Committee addresses concerns pertaining to control matters as may In addition to its customary tasks, in 2017 the Audit Committee attended selected focus areas, such be detected by the management or the internal audit or external auditors of the company. These are reported as the progress in the new IFRS reporting standards and their implementation, evaluation of past key to the Board by the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee ensures that appropriate action is t­ aken by the projects, the company’s IT architecture as well as development of the financial management processes, management to rectify identified shortcomings. In addition, the Audit Committee monitors the development the internal controls and the Compliance function. Audit Committee participated in the planning and and implementation of the Code of Conduct and Compliance program of the company, and evaluates comppreparation of the Board of Directors risk assessment workshop. Risks against Finnair’s strategic objeliance reports, resources and qualifications. ctives were assessed in the workshop. Based on the risk assessment Finnair Risk Appetite Statement was reviewed and updated. The members of the Audit Committee are independent of the company and its significant shareholders. The members have complementary expertise and business management experience as well as industry expeThe Audit Committee also: rience. The Audit Committee as a whole has sufficient expertise and experience of the matters in its remit. • Reviewed and approved the Internal Audit’s risk-based annual audit plan and assessed the ­sufficiency of the resources in the Internal Audit function; The main duties of the Audit Committee • Discussed with the auditors and the management the company’s significant accounting policies The Audit Committee shall: and the estimates and judgements applied in preparing the reports; • monitor the financial status of the company • Performed an annual self-evaluation and drafted the Committee’s annual plan for 2018. • monitor the reporting process of financial statements and interim reports and assess the draft financial statements and interim reports In 2018, the Audit Committee’s focus areas will be the implementation of IFRS 16 reporting standard • monitor the efficiency of the company’s internal controls, internal auditing and risk management system and the continued development of the financial management processes and controls. • monitor the statutory audit and review all material reports from the auditor. • assess the independence of the auditors, in particular with regard to their non-audit services and establish the procedures and limits applying to the procurement of such services Compensation and Nomination Committee • prepare for the Board proposals to the Annual General Meeting regarding the election of the auditor(s) The Compensation and Nomination Committee assists the Board in matters pertaining to the compensaand their remunerations tion and benefits of the CEO and other senior management, their performance evaluation, appointment and • review the auditors’ and internal auditors’ audit plans and reports successor planning. The Committee assists the Board also in establishing and evaluating the group’s compen• review the company’s corporate governance statement sation structures and other personnel policies. Pursuant to Board’s authorisation, the Committee reviews and • prepare for the Board the group’s risk management policies confirms the achievement of targets for short-term incentives and approves the payment of incentives to the • prepare for the Board decisions on significant changes in the accounting principles or in the valuations of CEO and other top management. the group’s assets FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 99 The main duties of the Compensation and Nomination Committee Company management The Committee prepares the following matters for the Board: • compensations, pensions, benefits and other material terms of the contract of the CEO Finnair’s corporate structure • compensations, pensions and benefits of the top executives of the group, and other material terms of Finnair’s core airline activities are operated in the Group’s parent company, Finnair Plc whereas technical their contracts to the extent that the same deviate from the customary practice services, travel services (package tours), catering services and financial business services are run in wholly • nominations of the CEO and other top executives owned subsidiaries. Finnair business is considered as one operating segment, consisting of Finnair units • top executives’ succession planning Customer Experience, Operations and Commercial. The shared functions in Finnair’s Group Administration are • composition of the Executive Board Finance and Control, People and Culture, Digitalisation, Communications and Corporate Responsibility, Legal • equity-based incentive plans Affairs, Internal Audit and Compliance. • the principal compensation policies and practices regarding the personnel • major organisational changes • proposals of awarding the members of the management honorary decorations and titles. Company Management A copy of the Committee’s charter is available on Finnair’s website. The members of the Compensation and Nomination Committee are Mr. Jussi Itävuori (Chairman), Mr. Jonas Mårtensson and Ms. Jaana Tuominen. All Committee members are independent of the Company and of its Reports to Board’s Board of Directors Reports to Board’s significant shareholders. Audit Committee Audit Committee The members of the Compensation and Nomination Committee met 5 times in 2017. The CEO and the SVP, People and Culture participated in the meetings and Finnair’s General Counsel acted as the Committee’s secretary. Compliance CEO Internal audit The Compensation and Nomination Committee’s work in 2017 The Committee, among other things: • Prepared for the Board approval the conditions and targets of the employee share saving plan Executive Management (FlyShare) for the earnings period beginning in 2018; Customer Experience, Operations, Commercial, Digitalisation, People and Culture, Finance and Control, Legal Affairs, Communications and Corporate Responsibility • Reviewed the senior management’s compensation levels compared to the market level, assessed the performance of the management relative to the long and short-term incentive targets, and approved the payment of short-term management incentives; • Assisted the Board in determining the personnel fund’s bonus criteria for 2018 and the semi-anExecutive Board Subsets nual targets and conditions for top management for 2017; • Assisted the Board in determining the participants, targets and conditions for the next earnings period of the share bonus plan for key personnel; Network Customer Risk Digital Procurement • Assessed the company’s compensation structures and programmes and their development needs; Planning Experience Management Transformation Steering Board and Board Board Steering Board Board • Assessed the methodology and results of the company’s successor and talent mapping. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 100 The CEO Investments required by the fleet and traffic growth and related operational challenges required the attention The CEO is appointed by the Board. The CEO manages the company’s day-to-day operations in accordance of the Executive Board throughout the year. The Executive Board continued the managers’ talent and leaderwith guidelines and instructions issued by the Board. The CEO’s instructions from the Board include, in partiship development programs that support the implementation of the strategy and the company’s transformacular, the implementation of Finnair’s strategy, driving of structural changes and improving the company’s tion. The Executive Board also focused on the financial position of the company and on improving the operaprofitability. The CEO acts as the Chairman of the Executive Board. tional quality, customer experience, personnel wellbeing and occupational health and safety. The Executive Board also worked with reinforcing the ethics and compliance culture and the company’s key processes and The Board determines the CEO’s compensation and sets his short and long-term incentive targets. The main internal controls. contents of the CEO’s contract, including his compensation and benefits, are described in the Remuneration Statement and on Finnair’s webpages. Subsets of the Executive Board The Executive Board delegates certain of its functions to five subsets. These subsets’ decision-making authoriThe CEO of Finnair is Mr. Pekka Vauramo, b. 1957, M.Sc. (Tech). At the end of the year, he owned 122,562 ties are derived from that of the Chief Executive Officer, which in turn is set by the Board of Directors. Finnair shares. Neither he nor any company under his control held shares in other Finnair Group companies. Neither he nor any entity under his control had share-based rights in any Finnair Group company at the Network Planning Board is responsible for fleet and network strategy and short and long-term traffic planend of 2017. The CEO belongs to Finnair’s long-term incentive programs as well as to the FlyShare program, ning of Finnair’s scheduled, leisure and cargo traffic, among other things. The Group is headed by the Chief described in more detail in Note 1.3.7 to the financial statements and in the Remuneration Statement. Commercial Officer, and it meets monthly. Executive Board Procurement Steering Board is responsible for Finnair’s Procurement Guidelines, procurement category The Executive Board of the Company is led by the CEO and it comprises the senior management responsible structure and related development projects. It also leads supplier relationship management. The Group for Finnair’s operations and commercial activities, customer experience, digitalisation, finance and control, convenes at least four times a year and it is chaired by the CFO. people and culture, communications and corporate responsibility and legal affairs. The members’ respective roles and their direct and indirect shareholdings in Finnair as at 31 December 2017 are shown below. Customer Experience Board is responsible for decisions related to customer experience, such as the brand, customer service identity, airport experience, the flight product, aircraft interior design and lounges. The Hakakari, Eija, b. 1961, M.Sc. (Ed), SVP Human Resources 12,298 Board is headed by SPV Customer Experience and it meets bi-monthly. Harra-Salonen, Katri, b. 1969, M.Sc. (Tech), eMBA, Chief Digital Officer 2,437 Järvinen, Juha, b. 1976, MBA, Chief Commercial Officer 8,208 Digital Transformation Board is responsible for the implementation of the digital strategy and related deciKarhu, Piia, b. 1976, Doctor, Business Administration, SVP Customer Experience 3,411 sions, including those concerning the digital customer and employee interface, development and IT projects Sarelius, Sami, b. 1971, LLM, SVP and General Counsel 50,037 related to digital planning and implementation as well as technology. In addition, the development of experSchildt, Jaakko, b. 1970, MBA, B.Sc. Engineering, SVP Operations 2,498 tise, innovation and technological capabilities in the area of digitalisation fall within the Board’s remit. The Suominen, Arja, b. 1958, MA, eMBA, SVP Communications and Corporate Responsibility 82,727 Board convenes approximately once a month and it is chaired by the Chief Digital Officer. Vähähyyppä, Pekka, b. 1960, M.Sc (Econ), eMBA, CFO 56,476 In addition, the Executive Board acts as the Risk Management Steering Board that is responsible for the The Executive Board members are appointed by the Board, which also determines their remuneration. Group’s strategic risk assessment and the implementation of risk management measures. It assesses the adequacy and timeliness of the Group’s risk management policy. In addition, it approves changes in the risk The duties of the Executive Board include group-wide development projects, the definition of principles and reporting process, Finnair common risk language and risk model. The Steering Group is headed by the CEO procedures that guide the company’s activities, and the preparation of matters to be dealt with by the Board. and it meets bi-monthly. The Executive Board also acts as Finnair’s risk management steering group. Management Board In 2017, Finnair’s Executive Board met twice a month on average. A major proportion of the Executive Board’s Finnair Management Board is principally a communication and co-operation forum designed for the persontime was used in leading key projects relating to Finnair’s strategy and in further development of the strategy. nel’s participation in the company’s governance processes, especially with regard to matters that affect the FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 101 personnel. The focus of the Management Board work is on enhancing communication and understanding Finnair participates in joint business ventures consisting of certain airlines belonging to the oneworld between the personnel groups and the management as to the implementation of the company’s strategic alliance. These joint business ventures seek to improve competitiveness and efficiency in a manner benefitting objectives and on sharing information and discussing plans and projects that affect Finnair’s personnel. The the passengers. Finnair’s influence in the joint business ventures is based on contractual arrangements. DeciManagement Board also discusses the business plans and financial performance of the Group, the operational sions by the joint venture are sought to be made unanimously. quality and customer satisfaction as well as significant development projects. The Management Board comprises the Executive Board members, certain senior managers and the representatives of all personnel groups. All Finnair’s service providers are expected to comply with Finnair’s Supplier Code of Conduct. Finnair aims to secure in its supply contracts the rights to audit the Supplier’s governance and security measures. In 2017, the Management Board met 7 times. Finnair’s Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct are available on Finnair’s website. Corporate Governance in Finnair subsidiaries For major subsidiaries, the members of the boards of directors are selected from individuals belonging to Main features of the internal control and risk management system pertaining to the Finnair’s senior management and, in selected subsidiaries, also from representatives proposed by personnel financial reporting process groups. The key tasks of the boards of directors of subsidiaries include strategy preparation, approving operational plans and budgets, and deciding on investments and commitments within the scope of the approval Description of the overall system limits issued by Finnair’s Board. The objective of internal control and risk management system pertaining to the financial reporting process is to provide the Board, the Executive Management and other key stakeholders with a reasonable assurance of The subsidiaries of Finnair are presented in the Financial Statements 2017 under Note 4.2. the reliability and correctness of financial and operational reporting, as well as compliance with associated laws, regulations and internal policies. It is built on the principles of Finnair’s overall system of risk manageGovernance principles in key partnerships and outsourcings ment which is aligned with commonly accepted COSO ERM framework and ISO 31000:2009 standard for risk Finnair has equity partnership in Nordic Regional Airlines Oy through Nordic Regional Airlines AB (ownermanagement. ship 40 per cent until 17 November 2017 and 100 per cent thereafter). Nordic Regional Airlines Oy is a Finnish regional passenger airline operating ATR turboprop and Embraer 190 aircraft. Its route network is designed Control environment to provide convenient feeder connections to Finnair’s European and long-haul routes. Finnair’s influence over Finnair’s Code of Conduct and management system form the foundation for its control environment and backthe governance of the company is secured by shareholding and various contractual rights. As of 17 November ground for awareness and implementation of control activities across the organisation. Guiding principles of 2017, Finnair acquired the sole ownership of Nordic Regional Airlines AB when the previous majority owners, internal control and risk management in Finnair are documented in the Group Risk Management Policy. Other Staffpoint Oy and Kilco Oy, exited in connection with Staffpoint’s ownership change. Finnair aims to find a new key steering instruments supporting control over reporting include, but are not limited to, Accounting prinmajority owner to Nordic Regional Airlines. ciples, Treasury Policy, Procurement Policy, Credit Policy, Disclosure Policy and Approvals Policy. Finnair procures certain important operational services from strategic partners, such as the ground handling Finnair’s Board of Directors holds the overall responsibility for the company’s internal control and risk manaservices in Helsinki hub from Swissport Finland Ltd, and the engine and component services from SR Technics, gement. The Board has delegated the implementation of efficient control environment and measures to Lufthansa Technik and Rolls Royce. In the area of IT and mobile services Finnair partners with IBM and Apple, ensure the reliability of financial reporting to the CEO. The Group CFO is responsible for governing financial among others. The cost and quality targets of these agreements have been determined so as to correspond at reporting control environment and acting as the risk owner of reporting risks. The line organisations of busileast to a good general market level. ness units and Group-wide functions have the main responsibility for executing day to day control activities pertaining to the financial reporting process. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 102 Internal Audit assesses the control environment as well as the status and effectiveness of planned control and Risk Assessment risk management activities. To ensure the independence of the Internal Audit activity, Internal Audit has a The objective of Finnair’s financial reporting risk assessment is to identify, evaluate and prioritise the most direct functional reporting line to the Audit Committee of Finnair Board and it is positioned to operate admisignificant threats to the reliability of internal and external reporting at the Group, unit, function and process nistratively under the CEO. The Audit Committee appointed by the Board of Directors oversees the financial levels. Processes related to financial reporting are subject to on-going risk assessment by the business unit reporting process and overall maturity of the internal control and risk management system. The described controllers, financial controllers and other shared service center staff as part of their a­ ctivities. roles and responsibilities are in accordance with the Finnish Companies Act, and the Finnish Corporate Governance Code. The picture below summarises the roles of the listed stakeholders in the implementation of the Control activities internal control and risk management system. Financial reporting instructions have been prepared to be followed across the organization. The instructions outlining the content and schedule for the reporting aim to increase the overall controllability of the financial reporting process and ensure that financial statement fulfils the requirements set in the IFRS standards and other applicable requirements. Risks related to financial reporting are managed through controls aiming to provide reasonable assurance that the information of interim reports and year-end reports are correct and that they have been prepared in The role in the implementation of the internal control and risk management system accordance with legislation, applicable accounting standards and other requirements for listed companies. These control activities are: Three lines of defence • preventive, detective and corrective in nature; • integrated into reporting processes in business units, group-wide functions and subsidiaries; Business segments and common functions • operationalized through the implementation of Group Policies First line of Day to day control and risk management activities pertaining to the • captured in Control Catalogues; defence financial reporting process • supported by Standards, Rules and Manuals as well as Process Descriptions and Work Instructions; • monitored and continuously improved through a dedicated governance model. Corporate functions Second line of Oversight and continuous improvement of the internal control and risk Responsibilities over reporting controls are illustrated in the matrix below: defence External auditors management environment Role Description Operational level Control Environment Owner – Group CFO Responsible for governing financial reporting control environment and acting as the risk owner of reporting risks Internal Audit Control Catalogue Owner – Process Owners Owner of the process controls defined in the control catalogue Third line of Assessment of control environment, day to day control and risk Control Performer / Reviewer Responsible for executing / monitoring key control(s) defined in management activities, and overall maturity of the internal control and risk the control catalogue defence management system Internal Audit Responsible for audit of reporting processes and related controls according to the annual audit plan The Board of Directors Ultimate Reasonable assurance of the achievement of company’s strategic and responsibility operational objectives, reliability of financial and operational reporting, as well as compliance with laws, regulations and internal policies FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 103 The main components and roles associated with control planning, implementation and monitoring are The CFO, supported by Investor Relations function, is responsible for the disclosure of financial information summarized below: and fulfilment of the communication obligations of a listed company. Investor Relations holds the responsibility over planning and implementation of investor communications and daily contact with investors and Report Audit Set Guidelines analysts. Findings Board of and Approve Group Policies Directors Policies Monitoring and improvement Finnair’s internal control and risk management system is subject to both on-going and periodical monitoring activities to gain reasonable assurance over its appropriateness and effectiveness. On-going monitoring is built into the normal, recurring operating activities of operations and is the responsibility of corporate manaImplement gement, business units and group-wide functions. Policies and Executive Board Guidelines, Requirements, Principles Guidelines Focus areas of internal control over financial reporting in 2017 and 2018 Key Activities in 2017 During 2017 internal controls development was more closely integrated to finance process deveControl lopment as part of finance process ownership and development model implementation. According Environment to the model, finance processes and controls are monitored, reviewed and developed in a contiOwner nuous manner. Specific emphasis was put on financial forecasting and reporting process areas where Identify processes and controls were reviewed and redefined during implementation of a new finance planning Internal Risks Audit Control Catalogs and reporting system. and Define Controls The Internal Audit and external auditors performed audits on key controls as defined in the annual Control Catalog Owner audit plan. Planned Key Activities for 2018 Continuous finance process and control development model will be further developed during 2018. In addition, detailed internal controls assessment and redefinition project will be conducted on selected Control Apply Manuals process areas identified based on updated financial reporting materiality and risk assessment. Process Work Performer/ and Controls Descriptions Instructions Reviewer Standards Internal Audit The Internal Audit is established by the Board of Directors, and its responsibilities are defined by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors as part of their oversight function. Information and communication Information and communication system provides means for Finnair’s personnel to capture and communicate The mission of Internal Audit in Finnair is to provide independent, objective assurance and consulting services information related to risk assessments and control activities across company’s operations. The system aims designed to add value and improve the organisation’s operations. Internal Audit helps the organisation to at providing required personnel access to adequate and timely information on accounting and reporting as mitigate factors that might undermine its business objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach well as on related controls. Information regarding control requirements is communicated through common to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance processes. policies, dedicated guidelines and process level procedure descriptions. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 104 Internal Audit focus areas in 2017 and 2018 further supports effective system of internal controls and participated in 2017 in the internal control Key Activities in 2017 development based on the findings and recommendations of the internal and external auditors. In 2017 Internal Audit’s key focus areas were based on and aligned with corporate strategy, results of risk assessments conducted by company’s management and recent changes in internal processes. During 2018 Compliance will support the documentation and implementation of Group wide key contAudit activities payed special attention to the strategic focus areas (profitable growth, customer experols, with a special focus on regulatory changes impacting Finnair operations and processes. Other rience, people experience and digital transformation). key focus areas for 2018 will be EU General Data Protection Regulation compliance and continuing the implementation of Finnair’s Code of Conduct amongst personnel outside of Finland and with key Planned Key Activities for 2018 outsourcing partners. Internal Audit focus areas and annual plan for 2018 have been approved by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors in December 2017. In 2018, audit activities will concentrate on the four abovementioned strategic focus areas, continue auditing of the selected IT application controls and focus on Transactions with closely associated parties auditing the IT strategy and generic IT controls. In addition, Internal Audit participates in internal contFinnair has guidelines concerning the avoidance of conflicts of interest, which concern, among other things, rols development by reviewing control catalogues and activities for selected process areas. business transactions between the Finnair group and people in its employ. The guidelines also apply to the members of the Board of Directors. A permission must be obtained for transactions with the company. The permission can be given by the Executive Board, or if the permission concerns the CEO or a member of the Compliance Board of Directors, by the Board of Directors. The requirement to have a permission also applies to transaFinnair is committed to complying with applicable international and local laws and ethical policies in accorctions in which the counterparty is a person closely related to a Finnair employee or Board member, or an dance with the company’s Code of Conduct updated in 2016. In order to strengthen Finnair’s Compliance entity in which these have an ownership of at least 20%. The person concerned may not participate in discussystem, Compliance function was established as an independent Group function in 2017, and a new Head of sing the matter on the Executive Board or the Board of Directors or participate in preparations, decisions or Compliance was appointed in August 2017. The Compliance function is positioned to operate under the CEO implementation of the matter on behalf of the company. and, in order ensure effective reporting, has a direct functional reporting line to the Audit Committee of Finnair Board. In addition, the members of the Executive Board and the Board of Directors are required to file an annual report of transactions conducted by them or their closely related parties with Finnair during the financial Finnair Compliance function supports the business lines and other functions in identifying and complying period as well as of transactions anticipated for the next period. with applicable laws and regulations as well as governance practices and policies. Other key tasks of Finnair’s Compliance function are the maintenance and the development of Finnair’s compliance program and furtheThe permission and notification procedures only apply to negotiated transactions. Hence, they do not apply to ring of ethical business culture. In addition to Group Compliance function, Finnair’s flight operations have a service or product purchases available on normal commercial terms or to normal employee discounts. comprehensive compliance monitoring system relating to the requirements set by special legislation within the airline operations and by the supervisory authorities. Significant transactions between Finnair and closely associated parties are announced with a stock exchange release in accordance with the rules of Nasdaq Helsinki. Compliance focus areas in 2017 and 2018 Information on transactions with closely associated parties is also provided in note 4.6 to the financial stateDuring 2017, the Compliance function focused in particular on the implementation of the new Code of ments. Conduct, training a total of 4,360 Finnair employees in online training on Finnair’s Code of Conduct. In addition members of Finnair leadership teams and Finnair managers were educated on Finnair’s Code Managers’ transactions and key insider management procedures of Conduct in interactive workshops. Also Finnair’s Supplier Code of Conduct was renewed in 2017. Inside information within the company and transactions on Finnair financial instruments by persons discharAnother focus area has been preparations for the EU General Data Protection Regulation. Compliance ging managerial responsibilities in the company or their closely related persons are managed in accordance FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 105 with the Market Abuse Regulation (MAR) and the insider guidelines of Nasdaq Helsinki and of the company. The company’s insider rules also apply to employees in the so-called informative core of the company. The company maintains a list of persons discharging managerial responsibilities in Finnair (managers), including their closely related persons and entities, who are under the obligation to notify the company and the Financial Supervisory Authority of their transactions on the company’s financial instruments within three business days of the execution of the transaction. The company is under the obligation to disclose these transactions in a stock exchange release during the same period. The company’s managers refer to the members of Finnair’s Board of Directors and of the Executive Board. The company’s managers and employees in the so-called informative core of the company are bound by a closed window on trading, which begins 30 days before the release of interim or annual results and continues until the end of the release date. The company may also impose other trading restrictions and grant exemptions in accordance with its insider guidelines. The company’s managers and employees in the so-called informative core of the company must give an advance notice to the company before the execution of a planned transaction. In addition, they can request an advance assessment of the legality of a planned transaction. The advance notice obligation and advance assessment opportunity are intended to reduce the risk of trading during a closed trading window or at a time when the company has undisclosed inside information. Giving an advance notice does not affect the responsibility of the company’s managers and employees in its so-called informative core regarding the abuse of inside information. The disclosure policy of the company requires, in accordance with the Market Abuse Regulation (MAR), that the company discloses as soon as possible any inside information it may have. However, the disclosure may be delayed if the requirements specified in MAR are met. The identification of inside information and decisions regarding the disclosure or delay of disclosure are made by the company’s Disclosure Committee, which comprises of the members of the Executive Board. The Disclosure Committee assesses the company’s information every two weeks or otherwise whenever necessary. If the company delays the disclosure of inside information, it establishes a project-specific insider list and enters the persons with access to the relevant information on the insider list. The person responsible for insider issues within the company is the General Counsel. Finnair’s insider rules are available at the company’s website. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 106 RISK MANAGEMENT AND MAJOR RISKS Risk management Finnair operates in a global and highly competitive environment that is sensitive to economic fluctuations. In executing its strategy, Finnair and its operations are exposed to a broad range of risks and opportunities. Control environment To exploit opportunities to create value, Finnair is prepared to take and manage risks within the limits of its risk appetite (rewarded risks). In relation to flight safety matters, compliance with laws and regulations, and reliability of reporting, Finnair’s objective is to minimise risks (unrewarded risks). The purpose of risk management is to provide a systematic approach to the management of rewarded and unrewarded risks in all Establish context and set objectives sections of Finnair’s operations. Policy and framework In Finnair, risk is considered as the potential for loss caused by an internal or external event or series of Identify risks and opportunities events that can adversely affect the implementation of strategy, achievement of business objectives or shareholder value. Both negative events and unrealised positive events are considered as risk. The Finnair Risk Management Policy defines the overall framework for risk management at Finnair. This Analyse risks framework, while taking into account industry specific requirements, is aligned with the commonly accepted Monitor and COSO ERM framework and the ISO 31000:2009 standard for risk management. Inform and continuously communicate improve Specific Risk Management Standards have been established to support the implementation of the Risk ManaIntegrate risks gement Policy in the following contexts: Treasury, New Ventures, Programs and Projects, Supply Chain, Flight Safety, Corporate Security and Information Security. Principles associated with financial risk management are discussed in Note 3.5 on page 59. Policy implementation Evaluate risks The Board of Directors holds the ultimate responsibility for the Enterprise Risk Management system in Assess risks Finnair. It is responsible for approving the Risk Management Policy, setting Finnair’s Risk Appetite and overseeing the effectiveness of Risk Management. Control risks Finnair’s CEO holds the responsibility for the appropriateness of the risk management and oversight of Risk Management Policy implementation. The CEO, supported by the Risk Management Steering Group consisting of the members of the Executive Board, is also responsible for reviewing the Risk Management Policy and risk management priorities. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 107 Business units, group functions and subsidiaries of Finnair are responsible for implementing the Risk ManageThe CEO, supported by the Risk Management Steering Group, is responsible for defining risk response stratement Policy into the management system as well as for aligning risk management guidelines and procedures gies and procedures and for setting risk management priorities. with the Risk Management Policy. Control activities Process Risk owners are composed of the members of the Risk Management Steering Group. They are responsible Finnair’s Risk Management System consists of the following components: for planning and implementing control measures within business units, group functions and subsidiaries to ensure an acceptable level of residual risk, and that the relevant risk interdependencies are appropriately Establish context and set objectives acknowledged. Finnair’s Risk Management System ensures that management has a process in place to assess and manage uncertainties associated with set objectives, and that those uncertainties are analyzed and managed within Information and communication the boundaries of Finnair’s risk bearing capacity. The risk management information system aims to provide a means for Finnair’s personnel to capture and communicate information related to the execution of risk assessments and control activities across the Risk assessment company’s operations. Identified risks and their control measures are documented in risk logs for follow-up Risk assessments are executed according to the Annual Cycle defined in the Risk Management Policy. Finnair’s purposes. Dedicated information systems are in place to identify and analyze operational risk events and to risk assessment process takes place as an integral part of strategy process and operational objective-setting support associated operational audit activities. across the organisation to enable a holistic view of risks and opportunities. Risk reporting to the Board of Directors and to the Risk Management Steering Group takes place on a quarRisk assessment in Finnair includes the following phases: terly basis under the coordination of Finnair Internal Audit and Risk Management function. The status of risk • Identification of external and internal events affecting the achievement of objectives; management development activities and the implementation of control measures are reported to the Audit • Distinction between risks and opportunities; Committee of the Board of Directors six times per year. In addition to the periodical business risk reporting, • Analysis of identified risks; there are several reporting lines associated with financial and operational risk reporting to both internal and • Integration (aggregation) of risks; external stakeholders. • Evaluation and prioritization of risks based on their impact and likelihood. Monitoring and continuous improvement Finnair’s risk model and criteria for risk evaluation have been established to ensure comprehensive risk idenFinnair’s Risk Management System is subject to both ongoing and periodical monitoring activities to gain tification and systematic risk evaluation. Assumptions behind strategic objectives are analyzed and validated reasonable assurance of its appropriateness and effectiveness. The implemented risk management system as a part of strategic risk assessment. is subject to continuous improvement activities based on a PDCA (Plan-Do-Check-Act) cycle consistent with ISO 31000:2009. On-going monitoring is built into the normal, recurring operating activities of operations and A dedicated Risk Coordinator Forum has been established to support the execution and coordination of systeis the responsibility of the corporate management, business units and group functions. matic risk assessment activities in units, group functions and subsidiaries, and to ensure these activities conform to the requirements set in the Risk Management Policy. The effectiveness of all flight safety related control activities and the general compliance with official regulations are monitored through the safety and quality system. Within the scope of the safety and quality system, Risk response the safety-critical elements of the company are audited annually. Risk response strategies shall be applied to prioritized risks in order to reach reasonable assurance that their outcomes fall within an acceptable level. These risk response strategy options include: The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for regularly reviewing and monitoring the • Acceptance of risk • Avoidance of risk • Transfer of risk • Mitigation of risk FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 108 Governance model and reporting lines implementation of the Risk Management Policy and the Enterprise Risk Management process. Finnair Internal Audit and Risk Management in cooperation with the Risk Manager Forum is responsible for the assessment and development of the maturity of the risk management system. In order to ensure well-coordinated risk Audit management development activities across the organisation and exchange of best practices, a dedicated Risk Board of Directors Manager Forum consisting of risk management specialists has been established. Committee CEO Risk Management focus areas in 2017 and 2018 Regarding risk management development activities in 2017, the focus was on the further integration of risk management into strategic decision making as part of the strategy process, and the implementation of formal risk appetite setting in Risk Management Steering Group as part of continuous risk management, as well as the further development of risk management activities in relation to partners Risk Management Steering Group and suppliers. The following activities are the focus areas in 2018: Further improvement of the established company-­ Risk wide bottom-up approach to risk management as well as continuing development of the systematic Manager risk management activities in relation to partners and suppliers. Forum Finnair Internal Audit and Risk Management Major risks Risk Business Group Globally the airline industry is one of the sectors most sensitive to external shocks, seasonality and cyclical Coordinator Subsidiaries units functions changes in economic conditions. Finnair carries out a comprehensive risk management process to ensure that Forum risks are identified and mitigated where possible although many remain outside our full control. The risks and uncertainties described below are considered to potentially have significant effect on Finnair’s business, Risk financial results and future prospects. This list is not intended to be exhaustive. Management specialists Risk Management Information System FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 109 Major risks Risk Definition Our risk responses include, but are not limited to: BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Competitors The risk of competitors or new entrants to the market taking actions to • Continuous monitoring of competitor activities • Product development program(s) establish sustainable competitive advantage over Finnair. • Scenario analysis • Cost-competitiveness program(s) • Contingency planning • Active joint business and alliance cooperation Economic volatility Risk of major economic volatility or other large scale economic disturbances • On-going analysis of market trend development • Risk diversification through active vendor portfolio management slow down travelling. • Periodical risk assessments • Fleet ownership strategy • Contingency planning Traffic charges and flight permissions The price and availability of overflight rights as well as the price of traffic • Continuous monitoring of political environment • Active cooperation with key stakeholders charges, such as arrival, departure and navigation charges result in a • Lobbying • Enterprise-wide dependency analysis negative impact on Finnair’s business operations and profit margin. Country risk The risk that sudden changes in demand, political upheaval, cultural factors, • Continuous monitoring and market intelligence • Contingency planning natural disasters, pandemic or other disturbances in destination countries • Group level risk assessments • Crisis communication planning slow down travelling and/or hinder Finnair's ability to conduct business. • Foreign unit risk assessments • Network diversification Laws and regulations The risk that new laws or changes in laws, regulations or their interpretations • Compliance management program to identify changes in external • Awareness through tailored training programs significantly affect Finnair’s ability to efficiently conduct business. requirements and align internal activities to support compliance • Ensuring ability and resources to execute controls • Dedicated internal policies FINANCIAL Market risk The risk of incurring additional costs due to adverse movements of the • Treasury policy approved by the Board of Directors • Continuous monitoring of hedging ratio(s) interest rates, unsuccessful currency position, and/or rise of jet fuel price. • Internal controls over Treasury policy implementation • Scenario and sensitivity analysis Liquidity risk The risk of incurring additional or unnecessary costs due to inability to • Maintain robust cash balance • Maintain an unutilised credit facility and commercial paper program generate cash flow. • Diversify funding sources • Pre-committed aircraft financing BUSINESS OPERATIONS Capacity planning The risk that insufficient capacity threatens Finnair’s ability to meet • Network strategy • Deviation analysis customer demands, or excess capacity threatens Finnair’s ability to generate • Demand forecasting • Continuous process improvement competitive profit margins. • Route performance monitoring Revenue management The risk that Finnair is not capable to perform competitive revenue • Global sales strategy and revenue optimisation process • Executive level monitoring and performance evaluation management to optimise its revenues per seat kilometre. • Daily monitoring of booking trends, issued sales, advance booking • Control measures to ensure timeliness and integrity of revenue reports management information • Monitoring of key variables such as market shares, pricing structure and yields of other relevant airlines as well as route profitability Sales and distribution channels The risk that Finnair is not able to create an optimal sales and distribution • Continuous benchmarking to market players channel mix in various markets. • Continuous development in channel solutions Marketing mix The risk that segmentation and marketing mix decisions on product, • Continuous benchmarking and strategic positioning of Finnair product • Continuous product and service development price, promotion and distribution do not support creation of sustainable • Customer satisfaction and consumer trend surveys competitive advantage. Human capital The risk that Finnair is not able to execute its strategy due to inadequate • Strategic competency management • Internal communication management quality, commitment or resourcing of human capital. • Continuous improvement of HR processes • Union relations management • Change management program • Contingency planning • Employee wellbeing strategy • Active and open communication with key stakeholders Innovations management The risk of Finnair not being able to produce product, service and/or process • Digital vision and strategy innovations to drive increased customer satisfaction and continued cost • Digitalization roadmaps reductions. • Project portfolio management • Innovation process FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 110 PARTNERSHIPS Airline partnerships and alliances The risk that other alliances and/or airline partnerships gain competitive • Active alliance cooperation • Joint continuous process improvement activities advantage over oneworld or airline partnerships in which Finnair is a • Joint business governance model • Internal controls over joint business processes member, and/or the risk that objectives set for airline partnerships and • Dedicated alliance and joint business teams alliances are not reached. Partners and suppliers The risk that quality and availability issues and/or unexpected costs • Supplier relationship management program • Dedicated procurement specialists per supplier category associated with partners and suppliers have adverse effect on Finnair's • Supplier risk assessments • Scenario analysis product and profit margin or partners/suppliers gain bargaining power over • Contract risk management • Contingency planning Finnair. SAFETY & SECURITY Flight safety The risk of endangered flight safety due to poor process design, poor process • SMS (safety management system) • Reporting execution or human error. • SQM Governance (Safety and Quality Board, safety action groups, • Monitoring post holder responsibilities) • Safety and Quality audit program • Continuous analysis • FRMS (fatigue risk management system) • Risk assessment Information and cyber security The risk of a cyber-attack on aviation systems having an impact on • Risk assessments operations and therefore damaging the Finnair brand. • Security audits and evaluations • Risk management actions The risk that inappropriate parties can access Finnair’s sensitive or classified • Contingency planning information jeopardizing its confidentiality and/or integrity. The risk that a large-scale attack or disruption in information systems affects Finnair’s ability to conduct its business as planned. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 111 REMUNERATION STATEMENT 2017 Content Remuneration decision-making procedure Introduction ........................................................................................................................................................ 111 Remuneration governance .................................................................................................................................. 111 The Shareholder’s Nomination Board Remuneration principles at Finnair.....................................................................................................................112 Variable pay ........................................................................................................................................................112 Short-term incentives (STI) .........................................................................................................................113 Prepares proposal on Board’s remuneration. Personnel fund ............................................................................................................................................113 Employee share savings plan Fly Share ......................................................................................................113 Annual General Meeting Performance share plan for key personnel ................................................................................................113 Performance criteria and payout of the performance share plan............................................................. 114 Long-term incentive plan for pilots ........................................................................................................... 114 Decides on the Board’s remuneration. Extra reward 2017....................................................................................................................................... 114 Compensation Other remuneration and terms of employment for the CEO and members of the Executive Board .................115 Board of Directors and Nomination Supplementary pensions ............................................................................................................................115 Committee Termination of the service contract and severance pay .............................................................................115 • Decides on the CEO’s and Executive Board members’ Other benefits .............................................................................................................................................115 remuneration. Prepares Remuneration of the CEO and members of the Executive Board in 2017 ...........................................................115 • Decides on the incentives, performance-related remuneration Remuneration of the Board of Directors in 2017 ................................................................................................117 variable pays and share-based incentive schemes related matters pertaining to the company as a whole. and proposals Introduction • Sets company level targets of the short-term for the Board. incentive scheme. This remuneration statement describes Finnair’s remuneration principles and the remuneration of the Board of Directors, the CEO and the members of the Executive Board in 2017. Further information is available on the company website at www.finnairgroup.com. This remuneration statement has been prepared based on the 2015 CEO Finnish Corporate Governance Code for Listed Companies published by the Finnish Securities Market Association, and it also covers other key components of remuneration that we believe the readers are interested in. Executive Board Remuneration governance The Board of Directors’ remuneration: The Shareholders’ Nomination Board annually prepares its proposal for the remuneration of the members of the Board of Directors. The Annual General Meeting of shareholders makes the final decision on the Board’s remuneration. The remuneration of the CEO and the Executive Board: The Board of Directors decides on the salary, incentive schemes and associated targets of the CEO and other members of the Executive Board based on preparatory work carried out by the Board’s Compensation and Nomination Committee. Decisions on remuneration are made with consideration of the government guidelines on management remuneration. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 112 Remuneration principles at Finnair Finnair aims to make work rewarding and interesting also by offering opportunities for development and job Finnair’s aim is to recruit, motivate and develop employees to enable them to successfully implement the rotation within the company. Employees are satisfied at Finnair, as evidenced by a high average duration of company’s strategy. A motivating, fair, competitive and transparent remuneration structure has a significant employment and a very low employee turnover. The average number of service years of all employees was effect on the company’s ability to achieve this aim. Remuneration must also be competitive in terms of its 15.0 at year-end 2017. costs. Average years of service in Finnair’s different personnel groups on 31 Dec 2017 Finnair’s remuneration practices follow local legislation as well as guidelines regarding remuneration for the management of state-owned companies. The remuneration of Finnair’s different personnel groups are Personnel group Average years of service compared annually to the local remuneration practices in each country where the company operates. Executive Board 5.6 The remuneration applicable to the CEO, the members of the Executive Board, senior salaried employees and Pilots 12.8 personnel based in units abroad are based on the following main elements: Management Positions 13.9 White Collar Employees 13.9 I. Fixed pay: base salary Technical Employees 24.7 II. Variable pay: short and long-term incentives linked to company and individual performance Technical Service Workers 18.8 III. Employee benefits: perquisites and other personnel benefits Cabin Crew 16.3 Ground Service Workers 15.0 Finnair uses job grading as the basis for determining the compensation structure of the CEO, members of the Aviation Employees 19.5 Executive Board, senior salaried employees and personnel based in units abroad. Job grading is based on the significance of the job and responsibility within the organization, and it brings structure and enables uniforTravel Agency Employees 14.6 mity in compensation-related decisions both internally and compared to the market. Travel Guides 5.5 Travel Agency Professionals 9.5 Salaries, addendums and other compensation components of personnel groups other than those mentioned Abroad Employees 10.9 above are, for the most part, defined in their respective Finnish collective agreements. Outside Finland, Average of personnel groups 15.0 Finnair follows the pay practices and collective agreements of each country of operation. Employment benefits for all personnel include a staff ticket benefit in line with company policy, as well as a Variable pay Sickness Fund for employees based in Finland. Certain personnel groups also have a car benefit and mobile The aim of variable pay is to drive performance to support the achievement of Finnair’s strategic targets. phone benefit in line with company policy. Long-term incentives are also aimed at committing the personnel and management to the company and aligning their interests to the interests of shareholders. Performance targets for the CEO and members of the Executive Board are set by Finnair’s Board of Directors. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 113 Short-term incentives (STI) Participation in the plan is voluntary. Through the plan, each eligible Finnair employee is offered the opportuThe purpose of the short-term incentive (STI) plan is to drive individual and organizational performance and nity to save a part of his or her salary to be invested in Finnair shares. The amount of monthly savings can be support rapid implementation of strategic initiatives. When target level performance is achieved, the STI 2–8 per cent of each participant’s gross base salary per month. Shares are purchased with the accumulated payout ranges from 2.5–30 per cent of base salary, depending on the job grade. If an individual exceeds his or savings at the market price quarterly, after the publication dates of Finnair’s interim results. Any dividends her targets substantially, the payout may, at a maximum, reach 5–60 per cent of base salary. The variable pay paid on purchased shares during the savings period will be automatically reinvested in Finnair shares on the is calculated based on the individual’s base salary for the period in question. next share purchase date following the payment of dividend. To support rapid implementation of strategic initiatives and to help react to the fast changing market environAfter the two-year shareholding period, Finnair will award each participating employee one matching share ment, Finnair operates a bi-annual (six-month) performance period. As of 2018, the CEO and members of the for each two shares purchased. The awarded additional shares are taxable income for the recipient. In addiExecutive Board will change to an annual (twelve-month) performance period while other employees eligible tion, employees participating in the plan for the first time are rewarded with 20 bonus shares after the first for the STI plan will continue with the bi-annual performance period. three months. The bonus shares are also taxable income. The STI for the CEO and other members of the Executive Board is determined based on financial, operative In 2017, Finnair delivered a total of 167,353 shares as awarded matching shares to the participants for the and quality measures as set by the Board of Directors. 2014–2015 saving period. The STI for the CEO and the members of the Executive Board corresponds to 30 per cent of the base salary at Performance share plan for key personnel the target level and 60 per cent of the base salary at the maximum level. The combined value of short-term Finnair operates a performance share plan which is aimed at a limited amount of key personnel. The purpose and long-term incentives paid out during any calendar year may not exceed 120 per cent of the annual gross of the arrangement is to motivate the management to work to increase the shareholder value in the longbase salary. term and to commit the management to the company. Personnel fund The Board of Directors decided in December 2016 upon a new performance share plan structure, with the first Finnair has a Personnel Fund owned and controlled by the personnel. A share of Finnair’s profits is allocated period covering the years 2017–2019. In December 2017, Finnair’s Board of Directors decided on a new period to the fund. The share of profit allocated to the fund is determined on the basis of targets set by the Board of covering the years 2018–2020. In the revised structure, the annually commencing performance share plans Directors. The CEO, other members of the Executive Board and the participants of the performance share plan include a three-year performance period as before. The potential share rewards will be delivered to the partiare not eligible for the Personnel Fund payout. In 2017, 116 per cent of the targets of the personnel fund were cipants in one tranche after the performance period and they are at the free disposal of the participants after reached based on company performance. As a result, 6.7 million euros will be transferred to the fund. delivery. Employee share savings plan Fly Share The members of Finnair’s Executive Board are expected to accumulate their share ownership in Finnair until it On 27 March 2013, Finnair’s Board of Directors decided to launch Fly Share, an employee share savings plan. corresponds to their annual gross base salary and thereafter retain it for as long as they are members of the The plan encourages employees to become shareholders in the company, and thereby strengthens the emploExecutive Board. yees’ interest in the development of Finnair’s shareholder value and rewards them in the long-term. The maximum combined value of all variable compensation paid to an individual participant in any given The plan consists of annually starting savings periods which are followed by a two-year shareholding period. calendar year may not exceed 120 per cent of the participant’s annual gross base salary. Every new savings period is decided separately by the Finnair Board. In December 2017, Finnair’s Board of Directors decided to continue the plan with a new savings period that starts on 1 July 2018. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 114 Within the plan, the participants have the opportunity to earn Finnair shares, if the performance targets set Long-term incentive plan for pilots by the Board of Directors for the plan are achieved. The potential share rewards for the period 2018–2020 will Finnair’s Board of Directors approved on 13 October 2014 a new long-term incentive plan for Finnair pilots. be delivered to the participants in the spring 2021. The plan is a part of the savings agreement between Finnair and the Finnish Airline Pilots’ Association (SLL) that brings Finnair 17 million euros in permanent annual savings. The savings agreement was contingent on If the targets set for the plan for years 2018–2020 are fully achieved, the maximum number of shares to be the realization of the incentive plan. delivered based on this plan is approximately 370,000 shares. This number of shares represents a gross earning, from which applicable payroll tax is deducted and the remaining net-value is delivered to the particiThe plan period is 2015–2018 and the prerequisite for rewarding pilots based on this plan is the achievement pants in shares. of the agreed cost savings over this time period. In addition, the company share price must be at least 4 euros at the end of the incentive plan. If these conditions are met, the pilots are entitled to a cash payment. The The number of employees eligible to participate in the plan 2018–2020 is approximately 70 persons. amount of the payment is based on the Finnair share price. The total payment is 12 million euros with a share price of 4 euros and 24 million euros with a share price of 8 euros, which is also the maximum earning of the A person is not entitled to the incentive if he or she resigns or is dismissed before the date of payment. The plan. Divided over the four-year period, the annual earnings potential for one participant is equivalent to 5–10 Board of Directors is also entitled, for a particularly weighty reason, to change or cancel the incentive or to per cent of the annual base salary. postpone its payment. The Board of Directors is entitled to remove a participant from the share plan if the person has committed a significant offence or acted in a manner detrimental to the company or contrary to There are approximately 700 pilots eligible to participate in the plan. The cash payment will be delivered in the company’s interests. spring 2019, provided that the conditions stated above are met. Performance criteria and payout of the performance share plans Extra reward 2017 The performance criteria applied to the plans 2014–2016, 2015–2017 and 2016-2018 are Return on Capital The year was a great success for Finnair, and it was decided to reward Finnair employees with an extra reward Employed (ROCE) and Total Shareholder Return (TSR). These criteria are weighted equally (50 per cent and 50 of up to 2,000 euros per employee in January 2018 payroll. The CEO and members of the Executive Board are per cent). excluded from the reward. The achieved payout rate was 118 per cent of the 2014–2016 plan, while the target was 100 per cent and the maximum 200 per cent. The performance criteria applied to the plans 2017–2019 and 2018–2020 are earnings per share (EPS) and revenue growth. The target levels and maximum levels set for the criteria are based on long-term strategic objectives set by the company’s Board of Directors. Performance against the criteria is monitored quarterly. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 115 Other remuneration and terms of employment for the CEO and members of the Other benefits Executive Board CEO Pekka Vauramo’s benefits include life insurance, free-time accident insurance, travel insurance, management liability insurance and medical insurance. The life insurance coverage starts at 20 per cent of annual pay Supplementary pensions and increases each year. The total sum may not, however, exceed 500,000 euros. The CEO also has a mobile The CEO, Pekka Vauramo, accumulates pension and his retirement age is defined in accordance with the phone benefit in line with company policy. Finnish Employees’ Pensions Act. In addition, the CEO is entitled to a defined-contribution pension insurance, where the contribution equals 20 per cent of the CEO’s fixed annual salary (pension contribution under the The benefits of the members of the Executive Board include free-time accident insurance, travel insurance, supplementary scheme as of 2017). management liability insurance and the right to medical insurance. They also have a car benefit and mobile phone benefit in line with company policy. The members of the Executive Board accumulate pension in accordance with the Finnish Employees’ Pensions Act. In addition, the company has a supplementary pension scheme that includes some of the members of Remuneration of the CEO and members of the Executive Board in 2017 the Executive Board. All pension arrangements for members of the Executive Board are collective within In 2017, Finnair’s CEO was Pekka Vauramo. The Executive Board comprised eight members in addition to the the meaning of Finnish tax laws. All supplementary pensions taken for the executives are defined contribuCEO. The Executive Board members are presented on page 119 in the Annual Report 2017. tion schemes. The supplementary defined contribution pension arrangement applies to two members of the Executive Board. The annual contribution equals 10 per cent of the income for the year. The supplementary In 2017, the rewards from the Performance share plan 2014–2016 were paid to the management in one batch pension includes vested rights. The retirement age is 63 years. in March. The targets of the program were achieved by 118 per cent, while the target was 100 percent and the maximum 200 per cent. Termination of the service contract and severance pay According to Pekka Vauramo’s service contract, both the CEO and the company have the right to terminate the The differences between management remuneration in 2016 and 2017 are mainly due to the 2014–2016 LTI service contract without a specific cause. The notice period is six months for both the company and the CEO. incentives being achieved at higher rate than in the previous year due to the company’s result. In the event that the company terminates the service contract, the CEO is entitled to a severance pay corresponding to the total salary for twelve months (base salary + taxable value of benefits) in addition to the salary for the notice period. The severance pay does not apply if the CEO resigns or retires. According to the service agreements of the Executive Board members, both parties have the right to terminate the service contract without a specific cause. The maximum notice period is six months for both parties. In the event that the company terminates the agreement, the member of the Executive Board is entitled to a severance pay corresponding to the base salary of maximum of twelve months in addition to the salary for the notice period. This severance pay does not apply if the contract of employment is cancelled, if the executive terminates the contract or retires. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 116 Salary and other remuneration paid, euros per year CEO 2017 CEO 2016 Executive Board1 2017 Executive Board1 2016 Pekka Vauramo Pekka Vauramo Base Salary2 The monthly salaries of the CEO and members of the Executive Board are In total, euros 648,964 648,912 1,764,987 1,686,867 decided by the Board of Directors. Employee benefits Employee benefits are described on page 112 Car benefit, taxable value 0 0 54,234 60,201 Phone benefit, taxable value 240 240 1,920 1,887 Other taxable benefits3 2,297 2,052 16,674 17,145 In total, euros 2,537 2,292 72,828 79,234 Short-term incentives4 The principles are described on page 113 In total, euros 236,070 260,889 621,394 588,791 Long-term incentives Key personnel LTI, monetary and 224,851 80,793 326,057 76,383 share reward, total Fly Share, monetary and share 5,888 0 6,563 13,552 reward, total In total, euros 230,739 80,793 332,620 89,935 Supplementary pensions (defined contribution) In total, euros 123,600 0 57,150 78,155 SALARY AND OTHER REMUNERATION PAID IN TOTAL 1,241,910 992,886 2,848,979 2,522,982 1 Salary and remuneration included for Executive Board membership period only. 2 Base salary includes holiday bonus. 3 Other taxable benefits include health insurances and staff tickets. 4 Earning period for incentives paid in 2016 was 1 Jul 2015–30 Jun 2016 and for incentives paid in 2017 1 Jul 2016–30 Jun 2017. Management remuneration, the company’s long-term incentive plan and pension contributions are also described in Finnair Financial Statements in note 1.3.7 Employee benefits. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 117 Remuneration of the Board of Directors in 2017 Remuneration paid to Finnair Board of Directors in 2017 The Annual General Meeting (AGM) decides annually on the remuneration and other financial benefits of the Meeting members of the Board of Directors and its committees. The election and remuneration of the members of the compenBoard are prepared by the Nomination Board formed by the representatives of the company’s largest shareAnnual remuBoard Committee sations in Taxable neration1) meetings meetings total benefits2) Total holders. The remuneration of the Board of Directors and its committees is paid in cash. Members 1.1.–31.12.2017 The members of the Board of Directors are not covered by the company’s share incentive scheme or other Jouko Karvinen (deputy chairman until 16.3. and chairman from 16.3.) 54,000 8/8 1/1 15,600 3,156 72,756 incentive schemes. Maija-Liisa Friman 33,750 8/8 7/7 9,600 8,910 52,260 Jussi Itävuori 33,750 8/8 5/5 13,200 462 47,412 The annual remuneration and meeting compensation decided by the 2017 AGM for the members of the Board of Directors are: Jaana Tuominen 30,000 8/8 5/5 7,800 1,808 39,608 Members 16.3.–31.12.2017 • Chairman’s annual remuneration, 61,200 euros Colm Barrington (deputy chairman) 22,800 7/7 6/6 15,600 1,834 40,234 • Deputy Chairman’s annual remuneration, 32,400 euros Mengmeng Du 22,500 7/7 6/6 19,200 3,139 44,839 • Chairmen of the Audit Committee and Compensation and Nomination Committee, 32,400 euros, where Jonas Mårtensson 22,500 7/7 3/4 11,400 0 33,900 these individuals are neither the Chairman nor the Deputy Chairman of the Board Members 1.1.-16.3.2017 • Other Board members’ annual remuneration, 30,000 euros Klaus Heinemann (chairman) 15,300 2/2 0/0 4,800 0 20,100 • Meeting compensation paid per Board or committee meeting is 600 euros when the meeting takes place in the member’s country of residence and 2,400 euros for other meetings. For telephone meetings, the Nigel Turner 7,500 2/2 1/1 7,200 0 14,700 fee is 600 euros. Gunvor Kronman 7,500 2/2 1/1 1,800 389 9,689 The members of the Board of Directors are entitled to a daily allowance and compensation for travel expenses Remuneration paid to the Board in 2017. in accordance with Finnair’s general travel rules. In addition, the members of the Board of Directors have a 1) The remuneration is expressed at the annual level but paid in monthly instalments. limited right to use staff tickets in accordance with Finnair’s staff ticket rules. Under the current rules, the 2) Taxable benefits include Finnair staff tickets. The members of the Board and their spouses have a right to use staff tickets in accordance with Finnair’s staff ticket rule. Directors and their spouses are entitled to 4 return or 8 one-way tickets on Finnair flights per calendar year in Economy or Business Class. The fare of these tickets is zero, exclusive of any airport taxes, fees and charges, which are payable by the Directors and their spouses. These tickets constitute taxable income in Finland. Annual remuneration for members of the Board of Directors has remained unchanged since 2008. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 118 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 31 DECEMBER 2017 Jouko Karvinen Maija-Liisa Friman Jaana Tuominen b. 1957, M.Sc. (Tech.), Finnish citizen. b. 1952, M.Sc. (Chem. Eng.), Finnish citizen. b. 1960, M. Sc. (Eng.), Finnish citizen. Chairman of the Finnair Board of Directors Member of the Finnair Board of Directors Member of the Finnair Board of Directors since 16 March 2017 and Vice Chairman since 2012. since 2014. since 2016. Independent of the company and its largest Independent of the company and its largest Independent of the company and its largest shareholders. shareholders. shareholders. Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Compensation Committee memberships: Audit Committee (Chairman) and Nomination Committee Main occupation: Board professional Key positions of trust: Main occupation: CEO of Fiskars Oyj Abp Key positions of trust: Vice Chairman Member of the Boards of Essity AB and since 2017 of the Board of Valmet; Member of the the Finnish Securities Market Association, Key positions of trust: Suominen Oyj, Foundation and Supervisory Boards of IMD partner of Boardman Oy. member of the Board of Directors. Business School, Lausanne, Switzerland; Member of International Advisory Board of Jussi Itävuori Komatsu Corporation of Japan b. 1955, M. Sc. (Econ.), Finnish Citizen. The Board of Directors was elected in the Member of the Finnair Board of Directors Annual General Meeting held on 16 March Colm Barrington since 2012. 2017. More detailed information about the b. 1946, MA (Econ), Irish citizen. Independent of the company and its largest board members can be found at https:// Vice Chairman and member of the Finnair shareholders. company.finnair.com/en/about/board. Board of Directors since 2017. Committee memberships: Compensation Information on their ownership of Finnair Independent of the company and its largest and Nomination Committee (Chairman) shares can be found at https://investors. shareholders. Main occupation: Managing Director, RJI finnair.com/en/governance/insider-issues/ Committee memberships: Partners Oy, Senior Partner and Director, managers-holdings. Main occupation: CEO and Director of Fly RJI Partners Limited Leasing Limited Key positions of trust: Chairman of the Key positions of trust: Board of Barona Group Oy and RJI PartMember of the Board of Directors of IFG ners Oy, and Chairman of the Board of RJI Group plc and Hibernia REIT plc. Holding Oy and Cloudator Payroll Oy. Mengmeng Du Jonas Mårtensson b. 1980, M.Sc. (Econ), M.Sc. (Computer b. 1977, M.Sc. Business Admin (Business science), Swedish citizen. Development), M.Sc. Business Admin Member of the Finnair Board of Directors (Entrepreneurship), Swedish citizen. since 2017. Member of the Finnair Board of Directors Independent of the company and its largest since 2017. shareholders. Independent of the company and its largest Committee memberships: shareholders. Audit committee Committee memberships: Compensation Main occupation: Digital advisor, board and Nomination Committee professional Main occupation: CEO of Mojang, a Key positions of trust: Member of the videogame development company Board of Directors of Skandia and Netonnet Key positions of trust: Group and Member of the Swedish National Innovation Council. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 119 EXECUTIVE BOARD 31 DECEMBER 2017 Pekka Vauramo Sami Sarelius Katri Harra-Salonen b. 1957, M. Sc. (Mining). President and b. 1971, LLM, SVP and General Counsel, in b. 1969, M.Sc. (Tech), eMBA, Finnair Chief CEO as of 1 June 2013. Mr. Vauramo joined Finnair’s service since 1998. Digital Officer (CDO) as of 21 March 2016. Finnair from Cargotec, a Finnish cargo and Harra-Salonen has conducted a long career load handling company, where he held Arja Suominen in digital transformation positions. Since different management position between b. 1958, MA, eMBA, SVP Corporate Commu2012, she has been a founder and the 2007 and 2013. Before his transfer to nications and Corporate Responsibility, in CEO of Umbrella Strategic Advisory Ltd. Finnair, Mr. Vauramo was based in Hong Finnair’s service March 2011. Previously, she has been the CEO of Fjord Kong since 2010 as COO of the MacGregor Ms. Suominen previously worked for Nokia, Sweden in Stockholm and held leaderBusiness Area. Between 1985 and 2007 mainly in communications positions, ultiship positions at Satama Interactive in Mr. Vauramo worked at Sandvik, a Swedish mately as Nokia’s Senior Vice President, Finland and Sweden. Since autumn 2016, mining and construction company. Communications. she has served on the Board of Directors of Key positions of trust: Member of the Board Veho Oy Ab. of Glaston Plc 2011–, Member of the Board Pekka Vähähyyppä of Boliden Group, May 2016– b. 1960, M.Sc. Econ., eMBA, Finnair CFO Piia Karhu as of 17 August 2015. Vähähyyppä joined b. 1976, Doctor of Science (Economics and Eija Hakakari Finnair from Stockmann where he held Business Administration) SVP Customer b. 1961, M. Sc. (Education), SVP Human different management positions in 2000– Experience as of 1 March 2016. Karhu Resources as of 1st of October 2014. 2015, most recently as CFO. Prior to that, has held various leadership positions Before joining Finnair, Eija Hakakari was he held financial management positions in at Finnair since 2013, most recently in SVP Human Resources at Stora Enso’s for example, Nestlé’s Nordic subsidiaries, charge of network planning and business Printing and Living division. Her previous OKO-Venture Capital and A-lehdet Oy. development. positions include SVP Human Resources at Key positions of trust: Member of the Rautaruukki and various HR director posiBoard of A-lehdet Oy 2013–, IATA Financial Jaakko Schildt tions in both China and Finland. Committee June 2017-June 2019 b. 1970, MBA, BSc Engineering, appointed as Finnair SVP Operations on 1 March 2016. Juha Järvinen Mr. Schildt joined Finnair from Thomas b. 1976, BA (Hons), MBA, Chief CommerCook Airlines UK where he held the position cial Officer as of 1 November 2014. In as Accountable Manager. Previously, Mr Finnair service since 2012. Mr. Järvinen has Schildt has worked as the head of Finnair extensive experience in managing diffeTechnical Services, as well as in various rent services within the airline industry. leadership positions within SAS Group. He served as Managing Director of Finnair Cargo since March 2012, and prior to that Information on Finnair shares owned he was the Vice President, Ground Handby members of Group management is ling International in SAS Scandinavian available at the https://investors.finnair. Airlines. com/fi/governance/insider-issues/managers-holdings. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 120 INFORMATION FOR THE SHAREHOLDERS Annual General Meeting The shareholder may participate in the meeting either in person or through authorised or proxy representaFinnair Plc’s Annual General Meeting will be held on Tuesday 20 March 2018, at 16:00 at the Messukeskus tive. Possible proxy documents shall be delivered by the end of registration period to: Finnair Plc/AGM, HEL Helsinki at the address Messuaukio 1, Conference Centre, Helsinki, Finland. The reception of persons who ACC/502, 010153 Finnair, Finland. have registered for the meeting and the distribution of voting tickets will commence at 15:00. Coffee is served before the commencement of the AGM. AGM 2018 – Important dates 8 March 2018 Record date The notice to convene the AGM 15 March 2018 At 10:00 deadline for giving notice of attendance The notice to convene the AGM and the proposals of the Board of Directors to the AGM will be published as 20 March 2018 At 15:00 the reception of persons registered to the AGM will commence and a stock exchange release and on Finnair’s company website. The notice will contain the agenda for the AGM. at 16:00 the AGM will commence Shareholders are entitled to having an issue put on the Annual General Meeting’s agenda, provided that such an issue requires a decision by the Annual General Meeting according to the Finnish Companies Act, and Board of Directors’ proposal on dividend provided that they request it in writing in due time to be included in the notice. Finnair Plc.’s distributable funds were 424,036,052.14 euros on 31 December 2017. The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of 0.30 euros per share be distributed for 2017. The right to participate in the AGM Each shareholder who is registered on Thursday 8 March 2018 in the Company’s register of shareholders Financial information in 2018 maintained by the Euroclear Finland Oy has the right to participate in the AGM. Finnair Plc will publish four financial reviews in 2018. The publication dates are as follows: Registration for the AGM • Financial Statements Bulletin for 2017 on Friday 16 February 2018 The shareholder who wants to participate in the general meeting and exercise their voting right can register • Interim Report for January–March 2018 on Wednesday 25 April 2018 to the meeting at the latest on Thursday 15 March 2018 at 10:00. Registration can be done: • Interim Report for January–June 2018 on Tuesday 17 July 2018 • Interim Report for January–September 2018 on Thursday 25 October 2018 • In the internet at http://company.finnair.com/en, • By e-mail to: agm@finnair.com, The financial statements bulletin and interim reports in 2018 will be published at approximately 9:00 am EET. • By phone from Monday to Friday at 9:00–16:00 in the number: +358 20 770 6866 or Financial report, financial statements and interim reports are published in Finnish and English. The material • By mail to: Finnair Plc, Register of shareholders, HEL-AAC/ 502 01053 FINNAIR. is available on the company website. Shareholders can subscribe or unsubscribe for the releases at http:// company.finnair.com/en/media. A holder of nominee registered shares is advised to request without delay necessary instructions regarding the registration in the shareholder’s register of the company, the issuing of proxy documents and registration Silent period for the general meeting from his/her custodian bank. The account management organization of the custodian Finnair’s silent period starts three weeks prior to publishing of its interim financials and four weeks prior to bank will register a holder of nominee registered shares, who wants to participate in the general meeting, to publishing of annual financial results. Finnair will not comment on its business or meet with capital market be temporarily entered into the shareholders’ register of the company at the latest on Thursday 8 March 2018 representatives during that period. at 10 a.m. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 121 Changes in contact information Euroclear Finland Ltd maintains a list of Company shares and shareholders. Shareholders who wish to make changes to their personal and contact information are kindly asked to contact their own account operator directly. Finnair cannot make these changes. Assessments regarding Finnair as an investment According to our knowledge, the following analysts have regular coverage on Finnair Group. The list may be incomplete. Finnair has made agreements on analyst services with Evli Bank and Inderes. However, all the listed analysts do their analysis independent of Finnair and Finnair is not responsible for their views. • Carnegie, Robin Nyberg, Finland, Tel. +358 9 618 71 234 • Evli Bank, Markku Järvinen, Finland, Tel. +358 9 4766 9314 • HSBC, Achal Kumar, UK, Tel. +91-80-4555 2751 • Nordea, Pasi Väisänen, Finland, Tel. +358 9 1655 9943 • Pohjola, Jari Räisänen, Finland, Tel. +358 10 252 4504 • Inderes, Antti Viljakainen, Finland, Tel. +358 44 5912216 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 122 SUSTAINABILITY Cleaner, caring, collaborative FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 123 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Finnair updated its materiality analysis for corporate responsibility in 2015 in accordance with the GRI G4 reporting guidelines. The materiality analysis was used Environment Economy to identify the key economic, environmental and social impacts in Finnair’s value chain as well as impacts on business and stakeholder decision-making. • Fuel efficiency • Financial performance and Identified material • Energy and greenhouse gas future competitiveness The materiality analysis was based on identifying corpoemissions • Local economic impacts rate responsibility issues emerging from Finnair’s busithemes and aspects • Environmental legislation and regulation ness environment through an analysis of industry trends, legislation, corporate responsibility reporting guidelines, of corporate • Efficient air traffic the reporting of peer companies and issues highlighted responsibility management • Biodiversity by various stakeholders. The identified corporate responsibility aspects were assigned priorities in expert workshops based on their business impact and stakeholder interest.The results of the prioritisation were reviewed with the representaEthical business conduct and Personnel Customer tives of key stakeholders. Finnair’s Executive Board and responsible sourcing Board of Directors approved the results of the materiality analysis. • Code of conduct • Employee safety • Passenger wellbeing • Anti-corruption and • Competence development, and safety The material aspects defined as a result of the materianti-bribery policies wellbeing, diversity, equality • Customer satisfaction ality analysis were grouped under five themes. This • Human rights and non-discrimination • Punctuality ­analysis was also used as the basis for reporting for 2017. • Purchasing practices and • Accessibility and supply chain sustainability non-discrimination FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 124 Finnair’s most significant corporate responsibility Finnair’s material themes and aspects and aspect boundaries impacts are related to ensuring the safety of customers and employees, maintaining the company’s financial Finnair’s theme and material aspect GRI G4 aspects (G4-19) Aspect boundaries (G4-20, G4-21) competitiveness and its role in Finnish society, and the Environment Environmental responsibility aspects (EN) Finnair’s own operations and indirect impacts on continuous improvement of fuel efficiency. In addition to • Fuel efficiency • Energy greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) and biodiversity these themes, stakeholder representatives highlighted • Energy and greenhouse gas emissions • Emissions • Environmental legislation and regulations • Waste water and solid waste the significance of employee competence, well-being • Route planning • Biodiversity and equality, as well as ethical operating methods and • Biodiversity • Compliance good corporate governance. Economic aspects Economic responsibility (EC) Finnair’s own operations, society and local communities • Financial results and future competitiveness • Financial results • Local and economic impacts • Indirect economic impacts The following table illustrates the links between Finnair’s Customer Product responsibility (PR)) Finnair’s own operations and customers material themes and aspects with the aspects defined • Passenger well-being and safety • Customer health and safety in the GRI G4 reporting guidelines, as well as the aspect • Customer satisfaction • Product and service information • Punctuality • Marketing communications boundaries. Based on the materiality analysis, the GRI • Customer privacy protection content reported by Finnair is focused on the most signi• Compliance ficant impacts of Finnair’s value chain. Personnel Social responsibility – Labour practices (LA) Finnair’s own operations • Employee safety • Employment • Employee competence, well-being, • Employer-employee relations diversity and equality • Occupational health and safety • Training • Diversity and equal opportunities • Equal remuneration Ethical business and responsible sourcing Society (SO) Finnair’s own operations, partners and supply chain • Code of Conduct • Anti-bribery and anti-corruption • Anti-corruption and anti-bribery procedures • Lobbying • Human rights • Restrictions on competition • Purchasing policies and supply chain responsibility • Compliance Human rights (HR) • Human rights screenings • Supplier human rights screenings Economic responsibility (EC) • Purchasing policies FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 125 REPORTING PRINCIPLES Finnair was one of the first airlines in the world to have been adhered to whenever the available data have Finnair Group communicate on its corporate responsibility issues so allowed. If some other measurement or calculation under the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting method has been used, this is mentioned in connection Operating area Business unit / subsidiary Included in report framework. The Annual Report 2017 has been compiled with the key figure concerned. The figures have been Airline business Airline business x in accordance with the GRI’s G4 Guidelines (Core option). presented in time series when this has been appropriate Finnair Cargo Oy x and reliably possible. The report covers the parent company and all Finnish Finnair Aircraft Finance Oy and FAF subsidiaries x subsidiaries. Figures on economic responsibility are mainly derived Finnair Technical Services Oy x from the financial statements. Other information with Finnair Engine Services Oy x Finnair Group does not report on the operations of respect to economic responsibility is derived from the Finnair Kitchen x foreign subsidiaries, because they are deemed not to group’s various operators. Travel services Oy Aurinkomatkat Suntours Ltd Ab x be of key significance in terms of the group’s corporate Amadeus Finland Oy x responsibility issues as minor operators. Any exceptions Indicators on personnel are based on active employment Other functions Group administration x to this are mentioned separately in connection with each relationships as of 31 December 2017. The figures exclude Joint functions x indicator. Finnair does not report on outsourced operadormant employees and Aurinko Oü, Suntours’ Baltic tions either. The business units and subsidiaries covered subsidiary (number of personnel on 31 December 2017). FTS Financial Services Oy x by the report are listed in the adjacent table. Finnair Flight Academy Oy x Finnair’s largest single material cost item is jet fuel. In this Finnair’s maintenance organisation consists of two indereport, jet fuel is treated, however, as energy, because pendent companies: Finnair Technical Services Oy and in terms of its purpose and environmental effects it is Finnair Engine Services Oy. This approach is justified by sensible to understand jet fuel as stored energy. Fuels are the fact that the operations of both technical services also reported on the basis of their mass and volumes. tanks once fuel uplift for the flight is complete – Amount subsidiaries are the repair and maintenance of aircraft of fuel contained in aircraft tanks once fuel uplift for and their components, and for this reason their corpoFuel consumption and emission figures for flight operasubsequent flight is complete + Fuel uplift for that subserate responsibility aspects are convergent at the group tions (Annex 1 EU ETS Directive 2003/87/EC of the Euroquent flight. This method is used in order to capture the level. Hence, they are treated in this report as one unit, pean Parliament and of the Council ) are derived from fuel consumption by the aircraft’s auxiliary power unit Finnair Technical Services. the company’s own monitoring systems and based on (APU) on the ground. actual fuel consumption (Method A EU ETS Monitoring Information sources, measurement and and Reporting Regulation (EU) N:o 601/2012). Emission Where Method A cannot be used, we are using actual Finnair Group calculation methods factor for jet fuel used in the report is 3.15 kg CO2/kg leg consumption (fuel onboard remaining fuel) adding The information of the report has been collected from (Default IPCC emission factors, taken from the 2006 IPCC average APU usage. the Group’s internal statistics systems and also from Inventory Guidelines). various subcontractors. In terms of measurement and Fuel mass is converted to volume using densities calculation methods, the GRI G4 calculation guidelines European Union Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) provided by fuel vendor. If density is not available we are “Method A” formula: Amount of fuel contained in aircraft using default value 0,800. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 126 For wet-leased flights fuel burn is requested from be subject to further adjustment. Information relating wet-lessor. If not received then fuel burn is calculated by to human rights and local communities are derived from aircraft manufacturers specifications or lessors informaprocurement agreements, from personnel responsible tion on aircraft type fuel burn per block hour. for procurement, subcontractors and, in terms of the impact of tourism, mainly from Aurinkomatkat-Suntours, Data gaps and erroneous data are handled using subswhich as a tour operator occupies a key position in this titution data as close to actual values as possible. respect. Operational compliance with laws and regulaThe electricity and heat data are based on metered tions has been confirmed with the group’s Legal Affairs consumption data, and on estimations based on surface department. area, where direct metering data was unavailable. Customer satisfaction data, on the other hand, are Finnair has assessed its Scope 3 emissions based on GHG based on customer satisfaction surveys and on feedback Protocol’s Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting received by the group. and Reporting Standard). Category 3 (Fuel and Energy related activities not included in Scope 1-2) primary data Effect of any restatements of information originates from Finnair’s fuel data base. Emission factor provided in earlier reports source: SFS-EN 16258 standard for JET A-1. Emissions of In 2015, Finnair updated its materiality analysis on Extraction, production and transportation of the fuels = corporate responsibility in accordance with the GRI G4 amount of fuel * 0,0159 tonnes CO2/GJ. reporting guidelines. Impacts and indicators related to material aspects were redefined in the process. This In relation to material streams, the amounts of waste report follows the same principles. and energy consumption of properties, data have been obtained from service providers, goods suppliers and on LSG Sky Chefs Finland Oy operating at Helsinki Airport the basis of invoices paid. With respect to Finnair Techwas transferred under the control of Finnair and named nical Services, environmental data are also obtained Finnair Kitchen Oy. It will become a part of Finnair’s from monitoring and measuring systems required by Customer Experience unit.and The LSG Finland emplotheir environmental permits. In terms of Technical yees are transferred to the service of Finnair Kitchen. Services’ use of materials, only chemicals are reported, because the statistical practice of raw materials and However, there have been no changes in the data spare parts does not allow a comparable way of prescompared with the previous report. Information on Reporting priorities entation. Finnair Technical Services is not, however, a changes in individual indicator data is provided under In 2013, Finnair discontinued the publication of a sepasignificant user of raw materials, and its main environthe section on the indicator in question. rate corporate responsibility report and financial report. FINNAIR HAS mental aspects relate to storage and use of chemicals. Changes pertaining to the Finnair’s organisational strucAll the data can be found in the Annual Report and this REPORTED Information on personnel comes from Finnair’s HR inforture and the calculation of financial statement data are GRI section. ACCORDING TO THE mation system and from parties responsible for the welldescribed in more detail in connection with Finnair’s GRI GUIDELINES being of employees. Accident statistics are obtained financial key figures. The priorities of the report are based on the materiality from the insurance company and they are updated analysis described on page 123. EVER SINCE 2008. retroactively, as a result of which the 2017 figures may FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 127 MANAGEMENT PRINCIPLES General management principles responsibility for regulatory compliance in flight operaFinnair’s management system is aimed at achieving tions lies with the persons defined and approved by the strategic goals, creating added value for the company’s authorities. Finnair is also subject to supervision relating owners and other stakeholders, managing operational to finances and, safety and security. risks and improving the company’s performance. Internal control and audit roles and responsibilities are The Company’s operations are guided by principles, policompliant with the Finnish Companies Act, the Finnish cies and guidelines defined by the company, including Corporate Governance Code for Listed Companies and the following: the regulations governing the aviation industry. • Code of Conduct • Supplier Code of Conduct Finnair’s governance model, control environment and • Corporate responsibility policy activities, internal audit and the roles and responsibili• Environmental and energy policy ties related to these are described in detail in Finnair’s • Risk management policy and related, more detailed Corporate Governance Statement on pages 94–105. guidelines for different areas • Safety and security policies Corporate Responsibility at Finnair concerns everyone • Data security policy and guidelines and our aim is to incorporate the corporate responsi• Disclosure policy bility aspects equally in all our processes and product • Equality and non-discrimination guidelines design. The Corporate Responsibility function is headed • Remuneration policy by the Senior Vice President for Communications and • Procurement policy and guidelines on supplier relaCorporate Responsibility, who is also a Member of the tionship management Finnair Executive Board. Reports and all key principles • Sponsorship guidelines and policies will be discussed by the Finnair Board of • Anti-competition policy and guidelines Directors. The development, coordination and repor• The Group’s anti-bribery guidelines ting is managed by the corporate responsibility function • The Group’s guidelines on conflicts of interest with the support of the steering groups for other key • Board of Directors’ diversity targets ­functions. In financial reporting, Finnair applies the rules relating Responsible Finnair to listed companies as well as international financial Finnair’s corporate responsibility is reflected in its strareporting standards. Most of Finnair’s operational actitegy, vision and values of commitment to care, simplivities are based on official regulations and are subject city and courage. Responsibility is integral to all Finnair to official supervision. Within the group, the legality operations. The purpose of the responsibility strategy and acceptability of operations is monitored as part is to reduce the environmental impact and increase the of Finnair’s general control and audit processes. The financial and social return for society. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 128 The key areas of corporate responsibility and sustainasupport political decision-makers in any way in pursuing Economic responsibility bility strategy fall under the following themes: cleaner, its interests. The legality and ethicality of lobbying actiFinnair as a whole has substantial direct and indirect caring and collaborative. For a more detailed descripvities is controlled as part of the company’s general financial implications on Finland’s both national and tion of these themes and the pertinent indicators, please supervision and audit processes. local economies. refer to the GRI section. The aim of Finnair’s lobbying activities is to maintain Aviation is a significant industry for Finnish society Finnair is committed to complying with international relationships concerning relevant policy and to partiand the national economy. The accessibility created by and national legislation in its operations, as well as cipate in relevant negotiations and the operations of airline traffic is a necessity for Finland’s global competithe ethical operating principles laid out in the Code of advocacy organisations. When lobbying on various civil tiveness and its economic impact is considerable; aviaConduct. The previous Code from 2012 was updated in aviation and industry regulation issues, Finnair typically tion is estimated to account for 3–5 per cent of GDP, 2016. Related training continued in 2017. cooperates with various organisations and chambers employment and tax revenue. Finnair’s effective Asian of commerce. Finnair is an active member of various strategy is a key element of the GDP contribution of aviaIn 2014, the Group Executive Board approved addiaviation industry organisations, such as A4E and IATA, tion and its impact is estimated at 1–2 billion euros. tional group-wide guidelines to supplement the Code but also in the Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK), of Conduct with regard to the prevention of bribery and its sub-associations and in several chambers of Finnair’s objective is to create sustainable economic and topics including hospitality, conflicts of interest commerce. added value by producing flight services profitably, and compliance with anti-competition regulations. cost-competitively and in harmony with the needs of Compliance with the guidelines has been promoted by Communications the environment and society. Responsible operations communicating their content and organising training Finnair aims at open, honest and timely communicaare the cornerstone of profitable business activity, and events. Furthermore, an internal whistleblowing channel tions. In line with these principles, Finnair’s communiFinnair takes into account the effects of its operations was launched in 2015. cations are also in compliance with regulations goveron society. These effects are identified and assessed by ning listed companies and limited liability companies, as the company’s corporate responsibility and risk manaThe corporate responsibility aspects that are defined well as the obligations of the Finnish Act on Cooperation gement organisations, which work under the delegated as material for Finnair are provided in the Materiality within Undertakings and the communications guidelines authority of the CEO. Assessment and the GRI content index. Finnair’s operaof the State Ownership Steering Department. tions and services involve a number of financial, social Finnair’s Board of Directors has set the company’s finanand environmental considerations. These have been Finnair takes different perspectives into consideration cial targets, which are provided in information matedescribed in more detail in the following sections. and respects all stakeholders’ views of our operations. rial for investors. As a public limited company, Finnair is Finnair’s internal communications are based on recicommitted to earning a profit for its shareholders. The Public affairs and lobbying procity. Every employee has the duty to communicate company’s profit distribution principles are expressed Aviation is a strictly regulated industry. Therefore, it is matters related to their area of responsibility to the in Finnair’s dividend policy. Finnair’s financial reporimportant for Finnair to participate in discussions and relevant target groups. Those in supervisory roles have ting aims to transparently provide information about decision-making regarding its operating conditions. It is a further duty to communicate goals, operations and Finnair’s financial position and development. part of the company’s growth strategy to aim towards results to their own work community and create a work securing adequate traffic rights. environment that enables genuine constructive discusPurchasing practices sion. The company systematically develops its commuAs provided in Finnair’s Code of Conduct, its procureFinnair pursues its interests in an ethically sustainable nication channels to enable more efficient communicament operations are entirely based on the fair treatmanner by appropriately introducing its views, perspections and to facilitate constructive discussion. ment of suppliers. The persons who make procuretives and expertise. The company does not pressurise or ment decisions at Finnair must always be indepenFINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 129 dent of the business partners concerned. A Finnair supply chain responsibility and for handling non-compFinland and the Nordic countries, promoting the reducemployee must declare himself/herself disqualified due liances. Finnair aspires to continuously develop practices tion of the aviation sector’s environmental load. An to bias whenever they are required to make a decision that ensure that negative impact, including human rights open dialogue with different stakeholders and contipertaining to a contract or business relationship involviolations, can be mitigated and that responsible sournuous development of operations according to the latest ving family relationships, ownership in the company cing is favoured when possible. available information are prerequisites for environconcerned (with the exception of a reasonable share of mental responsibility. We report on our environmental ownership in a listed company) or any other business Environmental responsibility impacts regularly in annual reports and as a part of the or debt relationship external to Finnair. Finnair does The biggest environmental impact of an airline is its Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). In addition, we communot accept corruption in any form and requires that its engine emissions. Modern aircraft are always more nicate directly with various parties about our operations personnel and partners comply with the principles of the efficient than previous-generation aircraft, and hence and gladly answer any questions from our stakeholders UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Finnair’s most significant environmental action is to or private customers. invest in a modern fleet. The procurement steering group operating under Finnair’s Environmental responsibility is managed as part of management is responsible for the steering of the Group’s Aircraft noise also has an impact on the areas Finnair’s environmental policy and environmental manaprocurement activity. The management of the Procusurrounding airports and under takeoff and approach gement system. Finnair Environment and Energy Policy rement unit has the duty to ensure that the personnel flight paths. Advances in aerodynamics and engine described the goals of the company’s environmental carrying out purchasing has access to valid purchasing technology help mitigate aircraft noise. The noise level management. In 2014, Finnair became the first Euroguidelines and that the guidelines are observed. Audits of the Finnair fleet has been significantly reduced thanks pean airline to receive IATA Environmental Assessment are performed in certain product and service groups. to the on-going fleet modernisation and noise attenua(IEnvA) Stage 2 certification for its environmental manaAuditing focuses on quality and safety factors. tion systems installed in older-generation aircraft. gement systems. IEnvA is an environmental management system developed by IATA for airlines, which we Many of the company’s procurement categories are In addition, other normal operations, including running apply to make use of the best practices in the industry. subject to regulation, requiring that the suppliers are business and office premises and the fuel of ground Our environmental management system has been approved by the authorities. This includes all procurement vehicles, produce their share of emissions and environassessed by third-party auditors authorised by IATA who relating to flight safety. The sustainability of the supply mental impact. These are all managed under Finnair’s are qualified to perform audits of environmental manachain is of major importance for airlines. which are using IEnvA environmental system. gement systems. To improve its performance, Finnair partners and service providers to an increasing degree. has identified the most significant environmental factors Conforming with the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Finnair’s goal is to be a leading airline in the field of relevant to its operations and defined targets for them. Rights and all applicable laws and statutes is a minimum environmental responsibility. The company is committed requirement. Finnair requires that its suppliers comply to the common goal of the aviation industry to achieve Finnair takes into account environmental considerations with essentially similar ethical standards as the company carbon neutral growth by 2020 and to cut the emissions in all its flight and ground operations. Besides energy in its own operations. Finnair’s Supplier Code of Conduct of our flight operations by half by 2050 from the 2005 solutions that reduce the environmental load, Finnair’s provides clear principles to ensure ethical purchasing. level. We comply with current environmental legislation, environmental strategy also includes the preservation but our environmental work aims at exceeding statutory and promotion of natural diversity, known as biodiverResponsibility aspects are considered in cooperation requirements and being a pioneer in evaluating, reporsity thinking. In addition, among other things, Finnair with the corporate responsibility unit. Finnair launched ting and reducing environmental impacts. has actively supported a rain forest reforestation project human rights assessments in autumn 2015, which were in Madagascar in collaboration with the Finnish Associaextended to the supply chain in spring 2016. Finnair has Finnair participates actively in civil aviation environmetion for Nature Conservation for several years. a process and guidelines for continuous improvement in ntal committees as well as in industry workgroups in FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 130 Finnair’s human rights management is described in the Finnair Code of Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct and the company’s personnel management principles. Finnair respects the UN Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the core conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO). Finnair signed in 2013 the United Nation’s Global Compact initiative and undertook to comply with the Global Compact’s ten principles of corporate responsibility. As required by the Global Compact principles endorsed by Finnair, the company aims to prevent any violations of human rights and the use of forced labour both within its own operations and its supply chain. Personnel A major aspect of social responsibility is to do with personnel and their working conditions at Finnair. Personnel management policies cover all aspects of social responsibility that have been identified as material. The impacts affecting the personnel and the working conditions are managed as based on the HR guidelines and Finnair HR policy. Management, development, training and employee wellbeing Finnair signed the United for Wildlife (UFW) Buckingham Human rights Finnair does not discriminate based on gender, age, Palace declaration of the Duke of Cambridge to prevent Finnair’s own operations involve no significant human ethnic or national origin, nationality, language, religion, the illegal smuggling of wild animals. As a signatory, the rights risks or impacts. However, indirect risks and impliconviction, opinion, health, disability, sexual orientation company has undertaken to promote the awareness of cations may exist in relation to the supply chains and or other personal attributes or circumstances. different stakeholders about this topic. outsourced operations. Finnair does not condone harassment in the work Social responsibility In order to improve the monitoring of its own operations community. Reporting infractions is every employee’s Finnair is a company in a complex, highly technical busiand those of its entire supply chain, Finnair continued to right and the company is determined to take steps to ness. The company has operations and supply chain develop assessment of the realisation of social responintervene in all cases brought to its knowledge. It is the partners in dozens of different countries, each with sibility and human rights in 2017. In order to improve duty of every group employee to act so that no one is varying laws and practices. The most important social supply chain risk management, traceability and the accorded unequal status. responsibility areas concern safety, personnel, the assessment of social impact, Finnair relies on the SEDEX supply chain and customers. system together with the oneworld alliance. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 131 Finnair offers equal opportunities to everyone with stages. The programme also contributes to employee mental rights in Finland. There is a long tradition of regard to recruitment, work performance, career productivity, the company’s competitiveness and attractrade union activity in the company. Labour market progression and development. Finnair implements the tiveness as an employer as well as the implementation of culture in the company has been constructed in such equal pay principle based on the Finnish Equality Act the social component of corporate responsibility. a way that the organisation of workers and collecand gives both men and women equal opportunities for tive negotiations between the company and employee balancing work and family life. In 2011, Finnair signed In 2017, Finnair started building the management groups are part of normal practice. All Finnair emplothe United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles, system for occupational health and safety, whereby the yees have the right and opportunity to agree on terms which give guidance on the empowerment of women in best practices of each unit are brought together within of employment collectively. The terms of employment the workplace, marketplace and community. Finnair’s unified ERP system. The system is based on of management employees are agreed on locally. the Dupont’s 12 element model and covers all Finnair’s Personnel and management remuneration principles are Finnair complies with procedures jointly agreed by the operations, premises and workplace principles. The described on page 111. employer and employees for the prevention of harassmanagement system for occupational health and safety ment, inappropriate conduct, and conflicts. Finnair has also strengthens more than before the integration of Management of customer experience also promoted the prevention culture and processes of occupational health care as part of a unified manageThe aviation industry consists of a strictly regulated easily accessible services. The procedures are based on ment system for wellbeing at work. value chain comprised of multiple suppliers of products the Finnish Act on Occupational Safety and Health and and services. As an airline and service company at the complies with the model recommended by the Finnish At Finnair, the Finnair Health Services unit is responsible top of this value chain, Finnair creates added value for Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. for occupational health care services. Finnair Health its customers by providing them with a comprehensive Services focus on preventive care. The model of early and high-quality service product in collaboration with its Leadership and competencies are developed on an indicaring and the occupational ability risk management partners. Finnair is responsible for transporting custovidual, team, unit and organisation level. Learning and system are examples of the guidelines governing prevenmers and their baggage to their destinations safely, development solutions are typically either adopted by tive health care. smoothly and punctually. The most significant product the entire personnel or tailored for specific development responsibility aspects in the Finnair Group’s operations needs within a unit. They may also be aimed at develoFinnair Health Services and the Finnair Aeromedical are flight safety, food safety, responsibility for individual ping professional skills, based on official requirements Centre FAeMC coordinate and are responsible for the customers, and responsibility for the cargo carried. or in support of personal development. Leadership deveimplementation of occupational health care in the lopment was one of Finnair’s key focus areas for 2016, entire Finnair group. The operational and service quality At Finnair, situations that deviate from the norm are and the efforts continued in 2017. Development needs in of Finnair Health Services is based on the European prepared for in advance. The group has developed teams and the organisation are identified and the wellFoundation for Quality Management’s EFQM Excellence processes for various unexpected situations and these being and commitment of the personnel are regularly Model. The quality system is used to ensure that Finnair are continually updated and maintained. Customers monitored through a personnel survey. Health Services meets the requirements for good occumust be able to trust in the fact that they will be cared pational health care practice in both aviation health care for throughout the entire service chain. Finnair has Occupational health and wellbeing at work and aviation medicine services. The occupational health responsibility towards its customers for the overall The target group for the wellbeing at work programme, care and aviation medical services are described in a quality of their experience, regardless of the fact that which Finnair launched in 2011, is aimed at the entire quality manual. some services are produced by Finnair’s partners personnel. The aim of the programme is to promote rather than the company itself. Therefore, Finnair pays the effectiveness and functionality of the work commuFreedom of association and collective negotiation increased attention to the selection of its partners nity through various annually launched projects and to Freedom of association and the collective right to negoand the partners are required to comply with Finnair’s ensure the wellbeing of personnel through all career tiate on occupational issues are recognised as fundaquality assurance policies and ethical guidelines. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 132 Flight safety A strong safety culture, objective monitoring of the Carriage (http://www.finnaircargo.com/en/cargo/geneSafety is at the core of all Finnair’s operations. Flight company’s own operations, ongoing development raltransportationterms.html) as well as international safety and giving priority to it are part of all deciand carrying out corrective measures as well as open and national regulations. The aim is to offer cargo custosion-making at every stage. Finnair maintains and devedialogue with the authorities governing Finnair’s operamers efficient logistics services. This means, among lops the principles of ongoing development by adhetions guarantee safe and high-quality airline operations. other things, that cargo entrusted to Finnair Cargo for ring to its Safety Management System (SMS). It covers transport is delivered to its destination exactly as agreed all aspects of flight safety: safety policy, flight safety risk Customer care with the customer. management, safety training and communications for For exceptional situations, Finnair has its own separate the entire personnel and subcontractor chain, continual unit. All flight traffic irregularities are handled centrally Finnair’s Ground Operations unit is responsible for the auditing of operations and the assessment of the potenfrom Helsinki, thereby gathering the necessary informaacquisition, quality criteria and quality control of ground tial impact of new factors in the operating environment. tion into one place. In this way, a more detailed overall handling services required at airports. The unit’s task is Official regulations and standards set the minimum picture of the multiplier effects and costs of the irreguto ensure that the ground services used by Finnair fulfil standards for Finnair’s safety management, which the larities is obtained, and efforts are made to minimise the requirements set for them, both in terms of quality company aims to exceed in all areas. inconvenience to the customer. and in respect of safety and official regulations. One of the central elements in Finnair’s safety system Monitoring and supervision of customer service actiTo deliver on their service promises, both Finnair Cargo is the safety reporting concerning the entire staff. The vity is based on regular auditing, customer feedback and the Ground Operations unit apply a systematic company encourages its personnel and subcontracand customer satisfaction surveys, as well as external evaluation process when selecting subcontractors and tors to actively report any processes or elements they measurements. Our partners’ operations are also contipartners. Partners are required, for example, to ensure come across that could potentially compromise safety. nually evaluated. Monitoring is systematic and is used and maintain the expertise of their personnel, and also Each report is analysed and assessed for risk, followed to set targets and check that they are being met. Staff to ensure that vehicles, equipment and premises are by necessary corrective actions based on this, and the expertise is ensured through training. appropriate. In addition to quality audits at airports, person submitting the report will be notified of the Finnair also regularly performs quality inspections that outcome of the investigation. Alongside subjective Customer data continually monitor both its own and subcontractors’ observations, Finnair extensively monitors and analyses Finnair respects the privacy of its customers and is work. Finnair Cargo and Ground Operations are responobjective indicators, such as flight data. Ongoing monicommitted to ensuring that personal details and other sible for maintaining and updating their own quality toring and analysis enable a transparent risk level in all customer information are processed appropriately. We systems and ensuring that operations comply with requiareas, which in turn enables prompt action on any indido our best to guarantee the confidentiality, security rements. cation of altered safety level. and accuracy of customer data under all circumstances. The company processes personal details at all stages Ground Operations also has an area manager, responEvents that seriously jeopardise safety are extremely rare of travel in compliance with the legislation on personal sible for airport operations, who has a significant role in and almost without exception an impartial safety investidata and regulations issued by the authorities in the monitoring the compliance of operations with regulagation is launched on each event. Safety investigations are countries in which we operate. tions. If some activity does not to some extent comply coordinated by public officials (Safety Investigation Authowith the operations manual or prevailing legislation, the rity) or, if the authorities elect not to investigate the event, Cargo and ground handling deviation is documented and corrective measures effeFinnair will conduct its own internal safety investigation. In cargo transport, Finnair and its subsidiary Finnair cted immediately. The safety investigators always carry out the investigation Cargo are responsible for transporting customers’ cargo independently and the company’s management has no in the condition in which it has been entrusted to us, and More information about IATA safety and quality audits: opportunity to influence the investigation. in compliance with Finnair Cargo’s General Conditions of http://www.iata.org. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 133 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY Finnair’s objective is to create sustainable economic Indicators of economic responsibility added value by producing flight services profitably, EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed cost-competitively and in harmony with the needs of EUR mill. 2017 2016 2015 2014 the environment and society. Responsible operations Direct economic value generated are the cornerstone of profitable business activity, and Consolidated turnover 2,568.4 2,316.8 2,254.5 2,284.5 Finnair takes into account the effects of its operations on society. Other operating income 77.0 75.5 85.2 18.3 Financial income -0.3 1.0 1.3 3.5 Finnair’s Board of Directors has set the company’s finanTotal 2,645.2 2,393.3 2,341.0 2,306.3 cial targets, which are provided in information material for investors. As a public limited company, Finnair is Economic value distributed committed to earning a profit for its shareholders. The Cash paid outside the company, materials and services, other operating expenses 1,901.4 1,939.0 1,802.3 1,905.4 company’s profit distribution principles are expressed Payments to personnel* 374.0 341.6 335.6 344.3 in Finnair’s dividend policy. Finnair’s financial reporPayments made to shareholders and loan providers ting aims to transparently provide information about Finnair’s financial position and development. Dividend** 12.8 0 0 0 Interest and other financial expenses 13.4 11.5 9.7 26.9 Finnair’s economic responsibility in 2017 Payments to governments*** 7.5 8.1 9.6 7.6 Finnair’s tax footprint report is presented on page 91. Donations and other charitable payments n/a n/a n/a n/a Finnair seeks to make its financial statements easier to read and understand by various specific measures: Distributed, total 2,309.0 2,300.2 2,157.2 2,284.3 firstly, the notes are presented as business-based Economic value retained for operational development 336.1 93.1 183.7 22.0 combinations including related accounting principles, critical accounting estimates and sources of uncertainty. Investments in tangible and intangible assets as well as acquisitions of subsidiaries 511.5 516.9 329.7 82.4 Secondly, particularly interesting figures are highlighted Comparable operating result 170.4 55.2 23.7 -36.5 with a circle and explained in a text box marked with Return on capital employed (ROCE), % 13.6 8.9 12.2 -6.5 a star. Thirdly, illustrating charts are used in various 1 http://www.finnwatch.org/fi/blogi/365-ruusuja-finnairin-veroraportille (in Finnish) sections of the financial statements to facilitate the understanding of the figures. * Payments to personnel include wages and salaries and paid contributions related to pension plans. More information on payments to personnel is available in Finnair’s 2017 Remuneration Statement on page 111 of the annual report. ** The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting 2017 that a dividend of 0.30 euro per share be paid for 2017. A dividend for 2016 of 0.10 euro per share, amounting to a total of EUR 12.8 million, was decided in the Annual General Meeting on 16 March 2017. The dividend was paid on 4 April 2017. *** Includes paid income taxes, social security payments and taxes on property. Taxes and charges comparable to taxes paid by Finnair have been discussed also in Finnair’s Tax Footprint Report for 2015 on page 91 of the annual report. Note! Payments to governments do not include payments to Finavia, which is an airport operator 100% owned by the Finnish government. Finnair paid traffic charges and rents totalling 60 million euros in 2016 and 55 million euros in 2015 to Finavia. Of these expenses, approximately 26 million euros (25) were related to air traffic control. In addition, Finnair passed levied passenger charges, totalling approximately 70 million euros in 2016 and 65 million euros in 2015, on to Finavia. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 134 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Finnair is a leading airline in carbon dioxide emissions opportunities for the organisation’s activities due reporting and reducing emissions. The risks, opportunito climate change ties, financial effects and management methods related In combating climate change, the main measures are to climate change are described in detail in Finnair’s directed at reducing the combustion of fossil fuels. The responses to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) jet fuel used by Finnair is fossil fuel and fuel costs are report. In 2017, the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Finnair’s single most significant cost item. Therefore, recognised Finnair as on the Management level B, with all the factors influencing the price of jet fuel similarly the industry’s average level C. Organisations qualified influence Finnair’s operating costs. The need to reduce by rankings on the management level are recognised as fuel consumption and the resultant carbon dioxide emisefficient in reducing their carbon footprint and in intesions has a significant impact on the company’s business grating environmental issues in their operations. operations. In 2017, fuel made up approximately one fifth of Finnair’s operational expenses; therefore efficiency G4-EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined has a material impact on the development of shareholder benefit plan obligations value. All Finnair employees are covered by pension security in accordance with the Employee Pensions Act (TyEL). In order to reduce its fuel consumption, Finnair follows Pension contributions amounted to 17.9 per cent of salaa strategy comprised of four elements: technological ries and 14.0 per cent of total personnel expenses in development, improvement of operational efficiency, 2017. In addition, some employees are covered by an development of infrastructure and support of a global additional pension fund benefit and management by an market-based measure to offset CO2 emissions. Finnair additional benefit in accordance with their contracts. Of operates a modern fleet and invests from 2015 onward group personnel, around 32.7 per cent are covered by in fuel-efficient next-generation aircraft to maintain its the additional pension fund benefit. Finnair’s pension competitive advantage. In 2017, the first stage of fleet liability (Finnish Accounting Standards) in respect of its renewal was accomplished. own pension fund was 341.8 million euros at the end of 2017. Pension liabilities are covered in full. For several years now, Finnair has voiced its support for a global market-based measure for offsetting greenG4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received house gas emissions that would complement the from government industry’s technological, operational and infrastructural The Finnish Government does not support Finnair’s efforts to reduce emissions. In 2017, Finnair participated operations financially. The Finnair Aviation College in the European Union’s Emissions Trading Scheme constitutes an exception. The Finnair Aviation College, (EU-ETS), which concerned only Intra-European flights. founded in 1964, is a special vocational educational The direct costs incurred by Finnair from emissions establishment maintained by Finnair Plc, which operates IN COMBATING CLIMATE CHANGE, THE MAIN trading totalled 3.6 million euros in 2017. The direct as a special educational establishment under the Act costs of market based emission reduction schemes in the on Vocational Adult Education (631/1998). The Finnair MEASURES ARE DIRECTED AT REDUCING THE coming years are difficult to estimate due to open details Aviation College’s task is to arrange further vocational COMBUSTION OF FOSSIL FUELS. of the systems and accepted carbon credits. training leading to a vocational or special vocational FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 135 qualification as well as other further vocational training Aurinkomatkat-Suntours Ltd uses primarily small and required for the practice of Finnair Plc’s and its subsidiamedium-sized hotels, which are, as a rule, locally owned. ries’ operations (Further Vocational Training ArrangeIn addition, Aurinkomatkat has a local representative ment Permit 551/530/2006, 13 December 2006). As a at each of its destinations, from whom the company privately-owned educational establishment, the Finnair purchases, among other things, ground transfers, tour Aviation College funds its operations in accordance with arrangements and other operational services. government aid practices. In 2017, the Finnair Aviation College received a total of approximately 2.0 million At the group level, Finnair collects and monitors spend euros. data on purchases from all suppliers and from all regions. Finnair requires both locally and globally compG4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers liance with air operation laws and regulations. Attenat significant locations of operation tion is also paid to the appropriateness, supply reliaFinnair’s home base is Helsinki Airport, where almost bility, price competitiveness and quality. The products all Finnair flights depart or arrive. As measured by the purchased must be sustainable and as safe as possible number of passengers, every single other airport, or for people and the environment. Many of the group’s so-called outpost, constitutes less than 5 per cent. In procurement categories are officially regulated, in which addition, Finnair’s corporate headquarters, the subsicase possible suppliers must be approved by the authodiary for technical operations, and the catering division rities. For example, all purchases relating to flight safety Finnair Kitchen are located in the immediate vicinity are of this type. The company-wide Supplier Code of of Helsinki Airport. Therefore, the majority of Finnair’s Conduct defines the overall policy on sustainability and sourcing is concentrated around the Helsinki Airport ethics of Finnair procurement activities. In 2017, Finnair area. Group updated its Supplier Code of Conduct. In 2017, 39 per cent of Finnair’s goods and services Finnair’s business is by nature complex and in some procurement was made with Finnish suppliers.1 Finnair’s respects highly technical. The company has operations largest single procurement item is jet fuel. In jet fuel and supply chain partners in dozens of different countprocurement, Finnair gives significant weight on finanries, each with varying laws and practices. The most cial factors and reliability of supply. Jet fuel is typically important social responsibility areas concern safety, procured locally at each flight destination from some 50 personnel, the supply chain and customers. Finnair THE COMPANY-WIDE SUPPLIER CODE OF different suppliers. In 2017, over half of Finnair’s global developed cooperations in corporate responsibility CONDUCT DEFINES THE OVERALL POLICY fuel purchases were refined locally in Finland. aspects with domestic suppliers and partners in 2017 ON SUSTAINABILITY AND ETHICS OF by sharing best practices in responsible sourcing. The Finnair Group’s subsidiary, package tour organiser aim of the cooperation was to improve the traceabiFINNAIR PROCUREMENT ACTIVITIES. lity of products and services purchased from domestic s­ uppliers. 1 Finnish suppliers were defined based on the company’s place of business. Finnair Kitchen Oy has been included since May 2017. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 136 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Finnair’s operations are by nature very diverse and in a engine has been improved to collect information certain way highly technical. Our organisation and partabout the type of assistance required by passengers. ners are present in dozens of countries around the globe • Finnair made an agreement with UN Media to and are subject to a wide range of laws and regulations. include UN documentaries into its selection of The core areas of our social responsibility include safety, inflight entertainment. care for our employees and customers, and supply chain • The “Fit for Future” initiative, which was launched management. in 2015, has been successfully completed in 2017. Almost 300 Finnair employees took part in this yearFinnair’s social responsibility during 2017 long programme and more than a half of partici• According to a research conducted by Sustainable pants managed to make positive changes both in Brand Index to identify the most sustainable and their physical shape and in their lifestyles. Based on responsible Nordic brands, Aurinkomatkat-Suna draw from the twenty top performers, two colleatours (a tour operator within Finnair Group) was gues (with their person of choice) were awarded a perceived by Finnish consumers as Finland’s most trip to the Olympic Games in South Korea. responsible tour operator. The survey was based on • According to the We Together @Finnair survey, the the ten principles of UN’s Global Compact initiative. level of the job satisfaction was 3.78/5.0. In 2017, • The Finnish Association for Fair Tourism supplied the survey also included questions about equal sustainability training for the staff of Aurinkomattreatment (3.35) and non-discrimination (3.98). kat-Suntours. The training gives solid knowledge on • Finnair’s employer brand image was stronger in sustainable tourism and tools to respond to requi2017. According to the survey by Universum, busirements of customers and other stakeholders. ness students considered Finnair the most attrac• Finnair published its commitment to sustainability tive employer of the year. (Commitment 2050), which aligns its commitment • The German ESG rating company oekom Research to UN Sustainable Development Goals with the AG updated its analysis of Finnair in 2017, Finnair Finnish national programme. Finnair is committed was awarded the Prime designation with a rating to promote equality and non-discrimination in its C+, based on a review of a peer group of 69 compaown activities and in customer services. nies in transportation and logistics. • Finnair updated the ethical principles in its Supplier • Finnair’s Corporate Responsibility Policy was Code of Conduct in 2017 renewed in 2017 • Finnair renewed its customer service processes to promote non-discrimination. Finnair now offers inflight videos in sign language, while its booking FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 137 Employees by group Responsibility for Personnel FINNAIR’S VALUES – COMMITMENT TO CARE, A core part of Finnair’s social responsibility involves SIMPLICITY AND COURAGE – SERVE AS A taking care of its employees and their working conditions. % In this respect, Finnair is a notable employer. The poliGUIDELINE FOR EVERYONE AT FINNAIR. cies of personnel management cover all aspects of social responsibility that have been identified as m­ aterial. Finland. Of these, 167 worked in financial management Finnair currently has employees abroad in 28 countries. Finnair’s strategic HR guidelines and HR policy cover all in the Baltic countries, 18 in travel agencies and tour The employment contracts and terms of employment are factors that may impact personnel and working condioperators based in the Baltic countries, and 78 as guides based on local legislation. Employees have the opportions. Finnair’s values —Commitment to Care, Simplicity for Aurinkomatkat-Suntours’ holiday destinations. The tunity to agree on their terms of employment through and Courage— which serve as a guideline for everyone rest are employed in sales and customer service duties collective bargaining in countries in which that is the at Finnair are increasingly reflected in day-to-day operain Finnair’s passenger and cargo traffic. local practice. Finnair does not limit its employees’ rights tions according to Finnair’s personnel. The survey to participate in trade union activities. ­­­­We Together @Finnair helps the company determine Full-time staff accounted for 94 per cent of Finnair what areas it has been successful in and what areas employees in 2017, and 96 per cent of staff were G4-12 Description of the organisation’s supply Cabin Crew (SLSY) 32% need improvement. The employee survey covers the employed on a permanent basis. The average age of chain Pilots (SLL) 16% White Collar Employees (FYT) 14% following key themes: My Job, Managerial and Superviemployees was 42.7 years. Our diverse supply chain is built around our route Finnair Kitchen 9% sory Work, Teamwork, and My Employer. network. It includes suppliers regulated by the aviation Abroad 7% G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by industry, suppliers and service providers who specialise Technical Services (IAU) 6% Leadership development continues to be one of Finnair’s collective bargaining agreements in airlines, as well as suppliers who make it possible for Ground Service (IAU) 5% key HR focus areas. Finnair identifies regularly the needs All Finnair employees in Finland have the right and us to conduct our core business. Aviation Employees (SLV) 3% for team and organisational development, and moniopportunity to agree on their terms of employment Technical Employees (FT) 3% tors the welfare and commitment of the personnel by an through collective bargaining. Senior management consOur international supplier network enables us to operate Management 1% employee survey. titutes an exception to this, as its terms of employment at a world-class level, implement our growth strategy Travel Guides 1% are agreed on locally or individually. and provide new value-added services to customers. Travel Agency Staff 1% G4-10 Total number of employees by employment type, employment contract, region and gender In 2017 Finnair’s total number of employees increased significantly. At the end of 2017, the number of Finnair employees in active employment relationships was 5,918, which is 1080 more than during the previous year. A half of the increase in the personnel numbers is connected to the integration of the catering division into THE SCORE OF ­­ FINNAIR PERSONNEL Finnair Group. A large majority of the personnel works WE TOGETHER @FINNAIR GREW BY 1,051 in Finland, mostly at the Helsinki-Vantaa airport or in EMPLOYEE SURVEY WAS 3.78 the neighbouring area. On 31 December 2017, there were 550 Finnair emploNEW EMPLOYEES yees in active employment relationships working outside IN 2017 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 138 Migration) and IATA (International Air Transport Association) in stopping and preventing human trafficking and in the promotion of human rights in aviation. G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover During 2017, Finnair hired 1,051 new employees, more than a half of the new recruits were flight personnel. At the same time, about 350 employees retired from Finnair. The employee turnover has been rather low in Finnair, less than 4%. Finnair’s employer brand image has developed positively. According to the survey by Universum, business students considered Finnair the most attractive employer in 2017. G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation Finnair employees enjoy the same benefits irrespective of their type of employment. Some benefits are such that they enter into effect only after employment has lasted a certain period of time. An exception is Finnair’s Financial Services Office, which only serves permanent employees of Finnair Plc or its subsidiaries who are its members. G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting chain and outsourced operations. In order to improve G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding period regarding the organisation’s size, the monitoring of its own operations and those of its operational changes, including whether these are structure, ownership or supply chain entire supply chain, Finnair continued the project it specified in collective agreements During the reported period, LSG Sky Chefs Finland Oy began in 2015 to assess the realisation of social responSignificant operational changes in Finland are governed was transferred under Finnair, becoming part of Finnair’s sibility and related risk assessment. Finnair makes use of by the Finnish Act on Cooperation within undertakings. Customer Experience unit, while the staff of LSG Finland the SEDEX system as part of its sourcing processes and Depending on the matter in question, the minimum time moved to Finnair Kitchen services. operating methods to improve supply chain risk manageperiod applied can range from one day to six weeks. The ment, traceability and the assessment of social impacts. collective bargaining agreements that concern Finnair Finnair’s own operations involve no significant direct The system was implemented in cooperation with the do not include provisions that run counter to these legissocial responsibility risks or impacts. However, indirect oneworld alliance. Finnair is an active participant in the lative provisions. risks and implications may exist in relation to the supply initiatives led by IOM (International Organization for FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 139 For redundancies and layoffs, the minimum notice matters such as equality and non-discrimination, planning calculation of cosmic radiation exposure based on the period pursuant to the Act on Cooperation within Underand changes pertaining to employees on a broad basis. routes flown. takings applies in addition to the statutory notice period for redundancies and layoffs prior to the termination of G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal employment or payment of wages. The statutory notice occupational diseases, lost days, and agreements with trade unions period for layoffs is two weeks and the notice period for absenteeism, and total number of work-related Finnair’s primary occupational safety forums are the employees made redundant ranges from 14 days to six fatalities joint occupational health and safety committees of the months depending on the duration of their employment. Work-related accidents comprise workplace accidents personnel and the employer. The development of occuSome collective bargaining agreements contain proviand business trip accidents. The table below shows all pational safety and health has been included into the sions on notice periods for layoffs that are more advanwork related or business trip accidents that resulted in action plan for occupational safety and health, and its tageous to employees. at least one day of sick leave. focus areas are updated annually. G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented LTIF= Loss time injury frequency refers to the number of in formal joint management worker health and workplace accidents per million of working hours. Medical check-ups at Finnair in 2017 safety committees that help monitor and advise Finnair Group 1,550/4,415 on occupational health and safety programs Airline’s ground personnel include Group management, Customer Experience At Finnair, cooperation on occupational health and safety support services, ground crew, and operative ground Helsinki Airport Customer Service 134 /251 is organised in compliance with Finnish occupational personnel. Cabin crew 744/1,805 health and safety legislation. Personnel have represenOperations tation in official occupational health and safety commitG4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of tees at the company level or the business unit level. The diseases related to their occupation Cockpit 344/906 occupational health and safety of Finnair’s personnel Medical examinations pertaining to exposure at work Cargo 16/120 abroad is also taken into consideration in the work of the include examinations concentrating on the effects of Finnair Flight Academy 8/31 committees. The occupational health and safety commitcarcinogenic substances, solvents and other chemicals, Technics 291/667 tees operate at the company level, representing various noise, vibration and working night shifts. To prevent/minipersonnel groups. In large subsidiaries, employees are mize exposure to such work-related health hazards, the also represented by occupational health and safety deleprimary focus is on implementing working methods and Work-related Workplace Loss time injury Business trip accidents accidents frequency accidents gates at the department level. Occupational health and procedures that involve minimal exposure to hazards. 2017 safety delegates are selected via elections for two-year terms. Occupational health and safety elections were Cosmic radiation assessments were conducted for a Airline’s flight personnel 71 60 21 11 most recently arranged in November–December 2015, total of 10 pregnant members of flight personnel in Airline’s ground personnel* 39 27 23 12 with the term of the elected delegates starting at the 2017. Finnair Health Services has monitored the radiaFinnair Technical Service Oy 20 16 15 4 beginning of 2016 and concluding at the end of 2017. tion exposure of all flight personnel on a quarterly basis. Finnair Cargo Oy 2 1 6 1 Employee health and safety issues are also handled by Radiation exposure levels have not exceeded the annual Finnair Flight Academy Oy 0 0 0 0 Finnair’s Trust Forum. Members of the Executive Board, maximum level (6 mSv). All flight personnel can check Aurinkomatkat Oy 5 0 0 5 HR management, delegates and occupational health and their cumulative radiation exposure by accessing a browTotal* 137 104 14 33 safety organisations are invited to join the forum. The ser-based system that provides information on actual forum provides background information and discusses hours of flight duty performed and a mathematical *Note. The data for 2017 include Finnair Kitchen (the entire 2017) During 2017 no suspected occupational diseases FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 140 IN 2017 FINNAIR ORGANISED REGULAR TRAINING ON OCCUPATIONAL planning of the training on prevention of unprofessional SAFETY AND HEALTH, INCLUDING ON PREVENTION. THE PLANNING OF conduct and interference also began in 2017. THE TRAINING ON PREVENTION OF UNPROFESSIONAL CONDUCT AND The development of shared occupational safety pracINTERFERENCE ALSO BEGAN IN 2017. tices for workplaces continued in 2017. Finnair took the convening role in cooperation meetings between TRAINING HOURS IN TOTAL 322,580 the companies that work in and around aircraft during The focus areas in 2017 were: decreased compared to the previous year. The data for turnarounds. In addition, Finavia convened a coopera• Development of the Occupational Safety and Health 2017 now also includes the new Finnair Kitchen unit. tion forum concerning the entire airport, with Finnair’s System representatives also participating in the forum. As an HOURS • Development of the mobile reporting tool The number of work-related safety observations doubled aviation industry employer, Finnair has also participated • A double increase in the observations of safety and in 2017. This strengthens the focus of activities even in the development of the occupational safety of its health issues compared to the previous year more towards proactive measures. In 2018, the safety employees in cooperation with representatives of labour • An update of risk assessments observations can be reported via mobiles, which will market organisations in a transport and logistics group • A campaign for the entire staff about workplace strengthen the safety and health observation culture. coordinated by the Centre of Occupational Safety. bullying • Development of the safety culture through the traiIn 2017, a central place on occupational safety and health G4-LA10 Programs for skills management ning in the preventive direction agenda belonged to the development of a system to Maintaining employee competence has a significant • Integration of safety discussions in performance manage occupational safety. The system will help systeeffect on the implementation of strategy. Competence assessments matise the processes and methods in use across Finnair development needs are surveyed by unit and by indiviGroup. The system will be developed further in 2018. dual in conjunction with performance reviews. As the TRAINING HOURS Finnair has achieved progress in all focus areas: the accionly airline company in Finland, it is particularly critical PER EMPLOYEE 57 dent frequency decreased slightly from the previous In 2017, Finnair organised regular trainings on occupathat Finnair maintains an appropriate level of aviatiyear. The level of seriousness of the accidents has also tional safety and health, including on prevention. The on-specific competencies. HOURS G4-LA9 Average hours of training Employees 31.12.2017 (only active employees) Training hours per employee Weighted Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men average Employees 6,074 9,271 15,345 Employees 506 687 1,193 Employees 12 13 13 Office staff 9,309 13,517 22,826 Office staff 718 745 1,463 Office staff 13 18 16 Cabin 138,463 19,969 158,432 Cabin 1,620 191 1,811 Cabin 85 105 87 Pilots 123,425 Pilots 24 877 901 Pilots 137 Management 885 1,667 2,552 Management 27 49 76 Management 33 34 34 Total 322,580 Total 2,895 2,549 5,444 Total 57 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 141 The strategic development of competencies requires • Coaching for project managers cooperation with various parties. Learning and deve• Programs and events across units to support development solutions are built at the company, unit, team lopment of supervisors and individual levels. In addition to traditional classroom teaching, competence is developed by a variety B. Customised personnel development solutions of methods, including learning on the job, online lear• Experience Manager Master Class for internal ning, workshops, coaching, shadowing, and mentoring. experts in customer experience development On-the-job learning is an exemplary method of profes• Ground and Crew-staff (UNCE)Service-days, aiming sional development, especially in the context of digitaat securing the high quality of customer experience lisation and continuously changing working tools and • Training towards the transformation of cargo practices that require self-guided learning. Mapping operations and the implementation of Skychain competence development areas was made a part of stra• Professional technical training for pilots in connectegic personnel planning processes and My Journey, a tion to growth strategy and new education for pilots new concept of individual performance assessment. • Training to support the integration of new working tools: O365, Sky Pay payment solutions, Line MainThe professional training for flight personnel is conducted tenance app, new application in digital services in cooperation with Finnair Flight Academy, while • Commercial Development Program in Commercial Finnair’s technical services unit handles its own profesunit, including Commercial Exchange Program sional technical training. The People Development unit is • Master Class with People and Culture-unit responsible for strategic competence ­development. • Digital Runway – webpages for self-guided learning and digitalization awareness Permanent themes include occupational safety and Development areas in 2017 included the following: health in aviation, work induction, occupational safety C. Team development and coaching and health awareness for supervisors, and occupational A. Development of managerial and supervisory work • Individual coaching programs for key individuals safety card training. • Fit for Growth – development program for managecontinued ment team • Group coaching programs for different target Other professional training organised in 2017 included • My Leadership Lab – the program to support indivigroups continued outstation training, first aid and emergency training, dual development of managers basic and recurrent training, systems training and • Inflight Supervisors Master Class – the program to D. Professional competence development and cooperation with various educational institutions. support the customer service management i­ nduction training • Flight Operations Master Class to support the deve• #JoinFinnair induction training for all new employees The Finnair Aviation Academy, founded in 1964, is a special lopment of pilots’ leadership skills • Safety training for all employees, with targeted traivocational educational establishment maintained by • Two new Talent programs: Finnair Transformers ning for special groups Finnair Plc, which operates as a special educational estaband Customer Service Future Leaders • General competence development, including the lishment under the Act on Vocational Adult Education • Continuing with Finnair’s Leadership Forum development of competencies related to systems, (631/1998). Its task is to arrange further vocational trai• Continuing with MOVE onboard; a coaching languages and purchasing ning leading to a vocational or special vocational qualifiprogram for new supervisors • Open House sessions (i.e. Airline Economics, Analytics) cation as well as other further vocational training required FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 142 for the practice of Finnair Plc’s and its subsidiaries’ operaincluded in the comparison was 935, of which 440 (47%) G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were tions (Further Vocational Training Arrangement Permit were female. screened using human rights criteria 551/530/2006, 13 December 2006). As a privately-owned Finnair has its own ethical guidelines for suppliers educational establishment, the Aviation Academy funds its Wage-setting for other personnel groups is based on (Supplier Code of Conduct) and subcontractors, and all operations in accordance with government aid practices payscale salaries and raises based on the number of suppliers are required to comply with them. All partners BY THE END OF 2017 and it is a member of Business Education Establishments years in service, which leads to equal levels of remuneand subcontractors, moreover, are obliged to comply 55.5% ELO (Elinkeinoelämän oppilaitokset Elo ry). ration between men and women. with the principles of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights as well as local legislation. G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of OF FINNAIR STAFF regular performance and career development operations that have been subject to human Finnair continues to rely on the SEDEX system to WERE WOMEN reviews rights reviews or impact assessments improve supply chain risk management, traceability and Performance and career development reviews cover all Finnair continued the project it began in the previous the assessment of human rights impacts in cooperation Finnair personnel. The PD process (Performance Dialogue) year to develop the realisation of social responsibility, with the oneworld alliance. is a management tool based on biannual discussions that human rights reviews, and related risk assessment. The guide the setting and achievement of targets, the evaluacurrent policies and procedures were reviewed against tion of performance and management, and development. the UN Declaration of Human Rights as well as guidelines and best practices for businesses. Risks related to G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and human rights violations in Finnair’s own operations, the breakdown of employees per employee category operations of Aurinkomatkat-Suntours and the supply according to gender, age group, minority group chain were also assessed. membership, and other indicators of diversity THE AVERAGE AGE OF At the end of 2017, 55.5 per cent of Finnair’s emploFinnair implements the SEDEX system to improve FINNAIR’S PERSONNEL IN yees were women and 44,5 per cent were men. Three of risk management, the evaluation of social impacts 2017 WAS 42.7 the seven members of Finnair’s Board of Directors are and traceability in the supply chain. The implementawomen. The average age of Finnair’s personnel in 2017 tion of the SEDEX system is carried out in cooperation was 42.7 years. Of the personnel, 27 per cent were over with the oneworld alliance. Assessment of the direct YEARS 50 years of age, while 13 per cent were under 30 years of geographical and industry-specific social responsibiage. Finnair does not maintain statistics based on ethnility risk of all suppliers that are significant regarding city. customer experience are made using a risk assessment tool. Finnair aims at including all new suppliers in the G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration SEDEX system starting from the bidding phase. of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation The base salaries of female employees were, on average, THE SUSTAINABILITY OF THE SUPPLY CHAIN IS 10 per cent lower than the corresponding base salaries OF MAJOR IMPORTANCE FOR THE AIRLINE AS of males in personnel groups (management and white FINNAIR USES PARTNERS AND SERVICE PROVIDERS collar employees) falling within the scope of position evaluation (Mercer). The total number of personnel TO AN INCREASING DEGREE AS IT EXPANDS ITS INTERNATIONAL ROUTE NETWORK FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 143 updated in 2017 and it provides clear principles to ensure ethical purchasing. Responsibility aspects are considered in cooperation with the social responsibility unit. SEDEX system was used to evaluate all suppliers that are significant from the perspective of operations and customer experience. The need to audit the implementation of responsibility of suppliers is evaluated among other things by the system’s risk assessment tools, adjusted to each of the operational fields. Finnair is aware of the risks related to environment and human rights in geographical and industry-specific areas and aims at continuous improvement of preventive actions. The dialogue with the suppliers is continuous via themed supplier events. G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified The identification and assessment of risks related to corruption are part of the general risk assessment of the Society approved additional group-wide guidelines to supplement company and its business units, and Finnair’s business Aviation is a strictly regulated industry. As such, it is the Code of Conduct regarding the prevention of bribery units conduct an analysis of risks related to corruption important for Finnair to participate in discussions and and topics including hospitality, conflicts of interest and as part of the company’s general risk survey. decision-making regarding its operating conditions. It is compliance with anti-competition regulations. part of the company’s growth strategy to aim at securing G4-SO4 Communication and training on antiadequate traffic rights. G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative corruption policies and procedures human rights impacts in the supply chain and Finnair’s Code of Conduct includes an anti-corruption Finnair pursues its interests in an ethically sustainable actions taken section, and the receiving and giving of bribes is strictly manner by appropriately introducing its views, perspecThe sustainability of the supply chain is of major imporprohibited. Preventing corruption is the responsibility tives and expertise. The company does not pressurise or tance for the airline as Finnair uses partners and service of everyone at Finnair, including the heads of business support political decision-makers in any way in pursuing providers to an increasing degree as it expands its operations and the internal audit. its interests. The legality and ethics of lobbying activities international route network. Conforming with the UN’s is controlled as part of the company’s general supervision Universal Declaration of Human Rights and all appliCertain job descriptions at Finnair are such that they are and audit processes. Finnair is committed to complying cable laws and statutes is a minimum requirement for considered to have a higher than normal risk of corrupwith international and national legislation in its operasuppliers. Finnair requires that its suppliers comply with tion associated with them. All those handling such tasks tions, as well as the ethical operating principles laid out in similar ethical standards as the company does in its are offered the opportunity to participate in anti-corrupthe Code of Conduct. In 2014, the Group Executive Board own operations. Finnair’s Supplier Code of Conduct was tion training in business units and subsidiaries. Finnair’s FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 144 Code of Conduct and Guidelines for Anti-Bribery, Corpocustomer, the most important product information issues rate Hospitality and Hosting of Public Officials are also relate to the conditions of carriage and customer’s rights. communicated to the employees handling such tasks. The Group’s Guidelines for Anti-Bribery, Corporate The duty to disclose relating to the conditions of carriage is Hospitality and Hosting of Public Officials specify more based on the Montreal Convention, and the content of the detailed guidelines concerning bribery and hospitality, Convention has also been codified in official r­ egulations. and the Group’s Conflict of Interest Guidelines cover the identification and avoidance of conflicts of interest and Finnair’s General Conditions of Carriage are enclosed related conduct. with travel and cargo documents, and are also available on the company website. The special conditions for G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by package tours are based on the EU Directive 90/314/ country and recipient/beneficiary EEC. The conditions relating to package tours provided Finnair does not support any political parties or persons. by Finnair are to be found in the tour operators’ travel documents, travel brochures and websites. Product responsibility The aviation industry consists of a strictly regulated The airline has a duty to communicate the passenger’s value chain comprised of multiple suppliers of products rights if a passenger is denied access to a flight, the and services. As an airline and service company at the passenger’s flight is cancelled or the flight is delayed. top of this value chain, Finnair creates added value for This duty is based on EC Regulation 261/2004. At the its customers by providing them with a comprehensive same time, the airline must inform customers with and high-quality service product in collaboration with its whom they can file a complaint. Finnair complies with partners. We are responsible for transporting customers these regulations in its customer service operations. and their baggage to their destinations safely, smoothly and punctually. A customer’s protection of privacy is prescribed by the Finnish Personal Data Act 22.4.1999/523. During 2017, The most significant product responsibility aspects in the Finnair has prepared for the enforcement of EU’s GDPR Finnair Group’s operations are flight safety, food safety, (General Data Protection Regulation), scheduled for responsibility for individual customers, and responsibi25.5.2018, and has updated its data protection guidelity for the cargo carried. lines and revised its processes from the point of view of personal data protection. G4-PR3 Type of product and service informaDURING 2017, FINNAIR HAS PREPARED tion required by the organisation’s procedures G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer FOR THE ENFORCEMENT OF EU’S GDPR for product and service information and labelsatisfaction ling, and percentage of significant products and Finnair monitors the customer feedback it receives and (GENERAL DATA PROTECTION REGULATION), service categories subject to such information reports on the feedback to the unit concerned at least AND HAS UPDATED ITS DATA PROTECTION requirements once per month. In urgent matters, the feedback is GUIDELINES AND REVISED ITS PROCESSES Finnair’s operations are regulated by numerous offiforwarded immediately. In 2017, customer feedback was cial regulations and international agreements. For the utilised in monitoring customer reactions to product and FROM THE POINT OF VIEW OF PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 145 service renewals. Based on feedback, we have developed Survey-based data plays an important role in the devethe customer experience at the airports and in the cabin, lopment of the customer experience. In 2017, Finnair’s Links with development efforts focused on areas including overall customer satisfaction was close to the level seen Finnair’s General Conditions of Carriage check-in, lounge services, inflight entertainment and in recent years. Of all customers completing the survey http://www.finnair.com/INT/GB/info/conditions-of-carriage inflight meal and beverage services. Proactive customer in 2017, 77 per cent rated their experience between 8 and compensation in airport services has also been deve10 on a scale of 1–10 (76 per cent in 2016). Finnair’s Net Finnair Notice on Passenger Rights loped further. Promoter Score, which measures customers’ likelihood https://www.finnair.com/go/2015.9-58/documents/PDFs/Finnairof recommending Finnair’s services, was higher than in Notice-on-Passenger-Rights-2012.pdf Customer feedback helps improve the overall customer 2016 almost all through the year, with the score reaching experience, and feedback is also important for motivaa new record (54) under the current measurement prinCargo guidelines and conditions of carriage ting customer service personnel. ciples in August 2017. The NPS for the full year (47) was http://www.finnaircargo.com/en/cargo/guidelines.html four percentage points higher than in 2016. In addition to spontaneous customer feedback, customer http://www.aurinkomatkat.fi/matkaehdot perceptions of the service experience are monitored by The strengths of Finnair’s service included efficient (Aurinkomatkat general conditions of travel, in Finnish) using questionnaires on scheduled flights, and the results and smooth ground services and effective transfers at are reported monthly. Finnair’s customer satisfaction Helsinki Airport. Customers also appreciate Finnair’s Montreal Convention survey covers all scheduled traffic destinations operated cabin environments — with the new A350 aircraft receihttp://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEXby Finnair and Norra. The survey is conducted using ving particularly high scores — and friendly inflight :22001A0718(01):FI:HTML e-mail questionnaires based on partial random sampling, service. Development areas highlighted previously in performed 1–7 days following the flight. The survey’s key customer feedback include inflight entertainment and EU Package Travel Directive indicators are the general rating of the flight experience meals. Finnair placed a particular focus on these areas http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEXas well as ratings of various elements such as booking, last year, which was reflected in higher scores. :31990L0314:FI:HTML airport services and in-flight services. On its Asian and European routes, Finnair also participates in IATA’s In addition to customer satisfaction surveys at the Group Minimum Air Transport Passenger Rights when passengers Airs@t competitor monitoring surveys, which track the level, Finnair’s subsidiaries also commission their own are denied boarding against their will or a flight is cancelled ­­ quality of service experienced by the customer in compacustomer satisfaction surveys. or delayed rison to the most important c­ ompetitors. http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:32004R0261:FI:HTML Finnair’s customer satisfaction with flight as a whole in 2017 Finnish Personal Data Act Intercontinental Business Class http://www.finlex.fi/fi/laki/ajantasa/1999/19990523?search%5Btype%5D=pika&search%5Bpika%5D=henkil%C3%B6tieto Intercontinental Economy Class The General Data Protection Regulation Europe Business Class http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/FI/TXT/?uri=CEEurope Economy Class LEX:32016R0679 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Very dissatisfied 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Very satisfied 10 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 146 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Finnair’s environmental responsibility management is eleven Airbus A350XWB aircraft. based on the principle of continuous improvement. Envi• CO2 emissions from flight operations increased by ronmental responsibility is managed with the help of the 5.4 per cent from the previous year, while available company’s environmental policy and system. The envitonne kilometres (ATK) increased by 9.9 per cent ronmental and energy policy lays out the targets for enviover the same period. ronmental management. • Measured by the unit-specific CO2 emissions of revenue tonne kilometres, emissions decreased by In 2014, Finnair became the first European airline to 6.7 per cent from the previous year. receive IATA Environmental Assessment (IEnvA) Stage 2 • The volume of waste increased by approximately 5­­ certification for its environmental management systems. per cent from the previous year. IEnvA is an environmental management system deve• Since 2016, Finnair has been a part of the energy loped by IATA for airlines, which is consistent with ISO efficiency pact of the Confederation of Finnish 14001:2005 standard. In this, Finnair makes use of the Industries, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Emplobest practices in its industry. yment and the sectoral business organisations. The pact requires a reduction of 4.5 per cent in properFinnair’s environmental management system is assessed ties’ energy consumption by 2020 from the level of by third-party auditors authorised by IATA who are quali2017 and ultimately 7 per cent by 2025. fied to perform audits of environmental management • During summer 2017, Finnair’s new cargo terminal systems. To improve performance, Finnair has identified activated 1,200 solar panels with the potential of the key environmental aspects of its operations, their generating 254 MWh electricity per year. impacts and risks involved, and set targets related to • Finnair’s energy usage in facilities increased by 7 them. per cent. • The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), the indepenFinnair’s key environmental aspects are: dent international not-for-profit for promoting • Emissions from the use of jet fuel environmental reporting, awarded Finnair with the • Flight noise score B, which refers to the Management level. • The energy consumption of properties • The German ESG rating company oekom research • Cabin waste AG updated its analysis of Finnair. The analysis looks into the sustainability efforts by companies Finnair’s environmental responsibility in the investment universe extensively, covering in 2017 environmental and social responsibility as well as • Finnair continued the replacement of its Airbus corporate governance. Finnair’s peer group in the A340 wide-body aircraft with next-generation review comprises globally 69 companies in the Airbus A350 XWB aircraft that are on average 25 transportation and logistics sector, including major per cent more fuel-efficient than their predecesairlines. Finnair was awarded the rating C+, along sors. At the end of 2017, Finnair’s fleet included with the designation ”Prime”. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 147 Developments in Finnair's G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the Finnair monitors the fuel efficiency of its flights primarily fuel efficiency 2013–2017 organisation by the payload indicator (RTK), which accounts for the fuel kg/100RTK Finnair’s primary energy consumption consists of the passenger load factor, the volume of cargo transported use of transport fuels. Aviation is very energy-intensive and the distance between the origin and destination. The 35 and Finnair’s largest environmental load arises from following chart and table illustrate the fuel efficiency of 30 flying and particularly from the use of fossil jet fuel. all Finnair flights in 2013–2017 (including Norra flights 24.8 starting as of 4/2015 and all wet lease flights). Finnair’s 25 Fuel consumption 20 Finnair’s total consumption of jet fuel comprises flights Finnair’s Fuel efficiency 2013–2017 15 operated by Finnair itself, flights operated by Norra on 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 10 Finnair’s behalf as well as so-called wetlease flights leased g/RPK 30.0 32.3 32.6 32.6 32.8 on a short-term basis from other operators due to lack of 5 g/ASK 25.0 25.8 26.2 26.4 26.3 fleet or crew. In addition, jet fuel is consumed on transfer g/RTK 247.6 265.3 271.2 270.7 273.5 0 and training flights as well as test runs by technical services. 13 14 15 16 17 g/ATK 167.0 174.1 180.1 180.9 180.0 RPK = revenue passenger kilometres ASK = available seat kilometres RTK = revenue tonne kilometres, i.e. capacity use RTK = revenue tonne kilometres, i.e. capacity In 2017, Finnair’s jet fuel consumption increased by according to payload weight ATK = available tonne kilometres, i.e. capacity according to payload weight use according to payload weight 47 million kilogrammes or approximately 5.4 per cent RPK and ASK describe passenger traffic performance and RTK and ATK describe performance according to payload capacity Flights operated by Finnair and NoRRA (passengers+cargo) compared to the previous year. The higher total consump(Norra as of 4/2015) tion of fuel was primarily due to traffic growth. The breakTotal jet fuel consumption down of total consumption in 2017 is presented in the Finnair’s fuel consumption in 2013–2017 Total jet fuel consumption adjacent chart. Jet fuel 2017 2016 2015 tonnes Jet fuel (Jet A-1), kg 921,519,796* 874,148,241* 833,294,028** tonnes Energy and heating consumption of properties MWh 11,058,238 10,489,779 9,999,528 In 2017, the energy consumption of Finnair’s properties GJ 39,809,655 37,763,204 35,998,302 amounted to 73,754 MWh. Of this amount, electricity Change % 5.4 4.9 13.2 consumption accounted for 31,615 MWh, while heating energy accounted for 42,139 MWh. Finnair’s operations Ground vehicles centre (TOKE) is not included in year 2015 figures, when Petrol, Diesel and Fuel Oil l 232,351 71,164 53,317.69 its energy consumption was 2,300 MWh. MWh 2,313 703 525 GJ 8,326 2,530 1,890 G4-EN5 Energy intensity Change % 226.5 33.5 -3.1 Fuel efficiency of Finnair fleet Total Finnair’s target is to reduce the CO2 emissions from its MWh 11,060,550 10,490,482 10,000,053 Finnair 820,604 tonnes flight operations relative to revenue tonne kilometres GJ 39,817,981 37,765,734 36,000,192 NoRRa 85,697 Finnair 820,604 tonnes tonnes (RTK) by 17 per cent by 2020, using 2013 as the baseline. Change % 5.4 4.9 12.9 Wet Lease NoRRa 13,251 85,697 tonnes tonnes Other* Wet 1,967 Lease tonnes 13,251 tonnes Other* 1,967 tonnes Finnair’s measures to improve its fuel efficiency focus *These figures are externally assured. **NoRRA’s fuel consumption is included as of 4/2015. *Other consumption = cargo flights primarily on flights operated by the company itself. *Other consumption = cargo flights FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 148 Energy consumption of Finnair’s properties 2015–2017 opportunities to have an impact on the fuel efficiency of particularly by striving to reduce jet fuel consumption. flight operations leased from NoRRA and other cooperaAirlines with an environmentally friendly mindset, such Energy GJ/MWh 2017* 2016* 2015** tion partners are mainly limited to route planning, fleet as Finnair, strive to operate a modern fleet. Electricity MWh 31,615 33,253 34,294 utilisation and load factor optimisation. GJ 113,814 119,711 123,459 The average age of the fleet operated by Finnair was Change % -4.9 -3.0 -13.9 Energy efficiency of Finnair’s properties approximately 9 years at the end of 2017. Next-generaThe properties owned and leased by Finnair are mainly tion aircraft consume approximately 25 per cent less fuel Heat MWh 42,139 35,890 26,182 located in the Helsinki Airport area. The combined size than their predecessors. The CO2 emissions of the aircGJ 151,700 129,204 94,257 in cubic metres of these properties was 2,5 million m3 in raft have also declined by a corresponding amount. In Change % 17 37.1 -48.6 2017, and the energy efficiency was 27 KWh/m3. Energy addition to Airbus A35 XWB aircraft, Finnair added seven Total MWh 73,754 69,143 60,477 consumption figures are not available for Finnair’s new Airbus A321 to its fleet in 2017. GJ 265,514 248,915 217,716 offices (sales etc.) abroad, as their energy consumption is typically invoiced as a fixed part of rent. By the end of 2017, Finnair had eleven next-generation Change % 7 14.3 -33.4 Airbus A350 XWB wide-body aircraft. The last Airbus G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption A340 aircraft as taken out of service in 2017. In addi* These figures are externally assured. Owing to the energy-intensive nature of its operations tion to providing a first-class travel experience, the new **2015 figure does not include Finnair flight operations building (TOKE). and the resulting costs, Finnair naturally has a strong Airbus A350 XWB aircraft offer 20 per cent more cargo aspiration to make its operations more energy efficient, and passenger capacity than their predecessors. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 149 The fleet investment, which was the most significant in the company’s history, will see Finnair take delivery of a total of 19 Airbus A350 XWB aircraft. They support the company’s pursuit of the target of reducing CO2 emissions by 17 per RTK flown by the end of 2020, using 2013 as the baseline. In addition to fleet modernisation, Finnair strives to NEXT-GENERATION improve fuel efficiency by other means. The ongoing AIRCRAFT CONSUME fuel conservation program has achieved a reduction of APPROXIMATELY several per cent in jet fuel consumption in recent years. 25% A 2 per cent increase in fuel efficiency in Finnair’s traffic corresponds to approximately 15 million kilogrammes of fuel, which in turn corresponds to a reduction of nearly LESS FUEL THAN THEIR 50 million kilogrammes of CO2. PREDECESSORS. Finnair’s initiatives to improve the efficiency of fuel cover all activities within operations, from flight planning to continuous descent approaches (CDA). Operational punctuality and fuel efficiency are the main focus areas in flight planning. Due to the flexible deployment of our Airbus fleet, it is easily possible to allocate an optimal aircraft type to each particular route on any given day of the year. During the operation stage, every FINNAIR’S CO2 EMISSIONS flight is provided with an optimal flight path, based on DECREASED BY payload, weather forecast, and capacity of airspace. 6.7% /RTK Besides weather factors, fuel consumption is affected by the weight of the aircraft and its load. The weight of the aircraft is followed up on regular basis, as well as the efficiency of water uplift and refuelling of the aircraft. efficiency measures. The agreement obliges Finnair to Together with local partners, Finnair is evaluating the Aircraft engines go through a special wash treatment reduce its properties’ energy consumption by 7 per cent possibility of establishing a biofuel hub at Helsinki regularly to improve their fuel efficiency. from the 2016 level by 2025. Airport. The company is part of a project led by the Finnish Ministry of Transport and Communications that In 2016, Finnair Facilities Management joined a natiIn March 2017, Finnair participated in the international also includes Finavia and Neste as partners. Finland is on-wide energy efficiency agreement in the service Earth Hour for the ninth time by switching off its adververy well positioned to be among the first countries in sector, which is part of the implementation of Finland’s tising lights at the airport and in various properties for the world to introduce biofuels in broader and contilong-term energy and climate strategy and the a whole weekend and informing personnel of ways to nuous use in aviation. Renewable bio-based diesel is framework decision of the Council of State on energy conserve energy when at work as well as when on duty. considered a potential alternative to biokerosene due to FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 150 its lower investments required for continuous producFlight noise the continuous descent approach (CDA) also helps reduce tion, and therefore lower costs. Renewable bio-based One typical adverse environmental effect of air transport flight noise within 10 kilometres of the airport. However, diesel has not yet received international approval for use is noise. The noise produced by aircraft is mainly engine the use of CDA requires uncongested airspace and good as aviation fuel, but the approval process is underway. noise and aerodynamic noise. The level of engine noise is weather conditions. During the busiest afternoon hours Finnair wants to find an ecologically, financially and greater in take-offs, while the level of aerodynamic noise at Helsinki Airport, for example, when there are a lot of socially sustainable fuel solution. The projects that are grows during approaches. parallel approaches, using CDA is not possible. Finnair currently underway play a significant role in achieving aims at increasing the annual amount of CDA landings in this objective. Finnair has reduced noise by modernising its fleet and Helsinki by one per cent during 2018–2020. by scheduling take-offs and landings at less undesirable Finnair is an active member of the Nordic Initiative for times from a noise perspective. However, Finnair also The International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) has Sustainable Aviation working group comprised of Nordic operates flights in the evenings and at night, at which specified noise certification limits for aircraft and their airlines, airport operators and government ministries times noise is perceived to be more disruptive. The use of engines. Over 90 per cent of Finnair’s fleet is compliant who are working together with aircraft manufacturers with the specifications for Chapter 4, which is the newest to expedite the development of biofuel in the aviation and quietest ICAO noise category. The remaining below 10 industry. per cent of Finnair’s aircraft are categorised in Chapter 3. G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of Other products and services products and services CDA-approaches to Helsinki 2015–2017* During 2017, Finnair offered digital newspapers and G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of magazines on its long haul flights. The ability to offer activities, products, and services on biodiversity % breaking news for the passengers and less fuel consumpin protected areas and areas of high biodiversity 80 tion for each operated flight. 71.3 value outside protected areas 70 Finnair takes environmental aspects into consideration The main service process reform in 2016 was the standar60 on the ground and in the air. Besides energy solutions dising of the loading process. As a result, the entire fleet 50 that reduce the environmental load, Finnair’s environadopted a single service trolley standard, which enables the 40 mental strategy also includes the preservation and cross-use of the new-generation light trolleys. This gene30 promotion of natural diversity, known as biodiversity rates savings in material cost and fuel costs due to weight thinking. Finnair has assessed the ecosystem services, 20 savings and considerable improvement in work ergonomics. or benefits provided to people by nature, that are most 10 relevant to its business, as well as its most significant 0 During 2017, Finnair commenced a re-configuration 15 16 17 impacts on them. process for its narrow-body fleet. The modification of cabin interiors resulted in a reduction of the stowage * The criteria for Continuous Descent Approach (CDA): Of the different categories of ecosystem services, At any stage of approach below 1,800 metres the areas. Additionally, noticeable weight savings can be aircraft does not maintain level flight more than cultural services and regulating services are the most achieved by the optimisation of the galley load. 30 seconds. relevant to Finnair’s business. Cultural services include FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 151 tourism, spiritual value and aesthetic value. Regulating services include the regulation of air quality and climate, disease control, pest control and pollination. Finnair’s core business and key product areas benefit ecosystem services in various ways. Cultural services are particularly important for travel services. Accordingly, Finnair’s travel agency, Aurinkomatkat-Suntours, has participated in various local projects to maintain biodiversity at various destinations for several years. In planning its destination programs, Aurinkomatka Suntours carefully evaluates their potential effects on the environment and biodiversity. The operations aim to avoid excursions to sites where visits could pose a threat to biodiversity. Customers are informed at destinations on appropriate conduct to preserve biodiversity. For several years, Finnair has also actively supported a rain forest reforestation project in Madagascar in collaboration with the Finnish Association for Nature Conservation, although the company does not operate any flights to the area. In the airline business, Finnair supported both cultural and regulating services by prohibiting the transportation of hunting trophies or memorabilia originating from endangered species or their parts in its cargo network. Furthermore, Finnair signed the United for Wildlife (UFW) Buckingham Palace declaration of the Duke of Cambridge to prevent the illegal smuggling of wild materials for renewable energy sources is used in line Regulating services have a significant impact on both the animals. As a signatory, the company has undertaken to with the principles of sustainable development and does airline business and travel services. The local decline of biodipromote the awareness of different stakeholders about not compromise ecosystem services. For example, in the versity erodes the operating conditions of the tourism industry this topic. manufacturing of biofuel, measures must be taken not and increases the risk of infectious diseases. to indirectly lead to changes in land use (ILUC). The objeThe significance of biodiversity in Finnair’s airline busictive is to ensure that arable land used for growing food Climate change can lead to an increase or exacerbation of ness will be highlighted further in the coming years crops is not used to produce raw material for biofuel, extreme weather phenomena, which in turn could restrict aviathrough climate change mitigation measures. When which would result in either the clearing of forests or tion or, in the worst case, prevent it entirely in some regions. biofuels replace fossil fuels in the future, the company wetlands to create space for food production or a decline wants to ensure that the primary production of raw in food production. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 152 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions emissions. Finnair uses means such as repairs and alteG4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) (Scope 1) rations, as well as user training, to ensure the energy emissions (Scope 3) Nearly all of Finnair Group’s greenhouse gas emissions efficiency of its business premises in order to mitigate The greenhouse gas emissions arising from the producarise from flight operations. Flying primarily causes two the greenhouse gas emissions arising from the energy tion of jet fuel constitute a significant proportion of kinds of direct greenhouse gas emissions: carbon dioxide consumption of its buildings. Finnair’s indirect greenhouse gas emissions balance. FINNAIR’S LONG TERM and water vapour. Water vapour is the most important More than 55 per cent of the jet fuel used by Finnair and TARGET IS TO REDUCE greenhouse gas in the atmosphere, but it is not generally Of the district heating and electrical energy used by Norra is produced at the Neste refinery in Porvoo’s KilpiTHE CARBON EMISSIONS examined directly as a human-derived greenhouse gas Finnair, 17 per cent was produced by natural gas, 43 per lahti district. The greenhouse gas emissions arising from OF ITS FLIGHT emission, because the water vapour in the atmosphere cent by coal, and 40 per cent by mixed waste. In 2017, the production and transport of jet fuel amounted to OPERATIONS RELATIVE is mainly the result of natural evaporation. Air tranthe CO2 emissions arising from the production of heating an estimated 632,974 tonnes of CO2 in 2017 (externally TO THE REVENUE TONNE sport is in a special position in this respect because the energy amounted to 11,040 tCO2, calculated according assured). KILOMETRES (RTK) BY water vapour generated by the engines is released high in the atmosphere, which increases the atmosphere’s H2O content above the cloud layer. However, not much is to the emission factor reported by the heating energy supplier (262 kg CO2/kWh). The location-based emissions of heat consumption amounted to 7,417 tCO2. Calculated The purchases of Airbus A350 XWB wide-body aircraft and Airbus A321 narrow-body aircraft repre17% FROM THE LEVEL OF yet known about the potential impacts of water vapour based on the average emission factor for Finnish district sented Finnair’s most significant investment in 2017. emissions from aviation. heating joint generation areas 176 g CO2/kWh). The indirect greenhouse gas emissions arising from the 2013 BY 2020. manufacture of seven A321 and four A350XWB aircraft In 2017, the greenhouse gas emissions of Finnair’s traffic The CO2 emissions attributable to the production of represent an estimated 13,077 tonnes of CO2 on Finnair’s amounted to approximately 2,902,787 tonnes of carbon electrical energy in 2017 were 5,722 tCO2, calculated emissions balance. dioxide. This figure covers Finnair’s total fuel consumpaccording to the emission factor for average electricity tion (see table on fuel usage in 2015–2017). purchasing in Finland (181 g CO2/kWh) and 8,252 tCO2, At the end of 2017, Finnair had a total of 683 leasing according to the supplier-specific emission factors (262 g cars. Their combined emissions amounted to 1,557 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) and 198 g CO2/kWh). tonnes of CO2, which is 6 per cent higher than in the emissions (Scope 2) previous year. The average CO2 emission per leasing car In Finland, the energy consumption of buildings amounted to 108 g CO2/km, which is 6 per cent less than accounts for more than a third of total greenhouse gas a year earlier. Business travel by Finnair employees primarily involves Finnair’s direct greenhouse gas emissions Finnair’s indirect greenhouse gas emissions the company’s own flights, the emissions of which are 2015–2017 2015–2017 reported under Scope 1. Commuting by Finnair employees caused an estimated 6,847 tonnes of CO2 emissions CO2 tn 2017 2016 2015 CO2 tn 2017* 2016* 2015** in 2017. Flying, AY 2,902,787* 2,753,567* 2,624,876 Electricity 8,252 8,843 7,544 Ground 621 186 143 Heat 11,040 9,583 6,415 equipment, AY The CO2 emissions caused by crew transportation at Total 19,292 18,425 13,959 Helsinki airport station level amounted to slightly more Total 2,903,408 2,753,753 2,625,019, Change % 4.7 32.0 -40.1 than one tonne in 2017. Change % 5.4 4.9 13.2 *These figures as well as location based CO2 emissions are externally Finnair’s indirect CO2 balance also includes the capacity *These figures are externally assured. Calculated from p. 147 total assured. purchased from other operators by Finnair Cargo. In consumption table. **2015 figure does not include Finnair flight operations building (TOKE). FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 153 Fleet’s Fleet’s NOxNO emissions emissions 2015–2017 2015–2017 Amounts of waste and utilisation percentage x 2015–2017 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity kilograms kilograms tonnes tonnes % % tonnes % The emissions intensity of an aircraft goes hand in hand 20 20 1,200 1,200 100 100 6,000 100 with its energy intensity. In other words, as the energy 1,0831,083 87 87 100% consumption of the aircraft increases, its emissions 15 15 900900 75 75 4,500 75 increase. 10 10 600600 50 50 3,000 50 The ratios for jet fuel and the energy consumption of properties are reported under EN5 Energy intensity. 5 5 300300 25 25 1,500 25 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Finnair’s long term target is to reduce the carbon emis15 15 16 16 17 17 15 15 16 16 17 17 15 16 17 sions in its flight operations relative to the revenue tonne Average NOx NO Average emissions emissions x (kg)/LTO cyclecycle (kg)/LTO Share Share of fleet below of fleet below CAEP/6 CAEP/6 limitlimit Composting Reuse kilometres (RTK) by 17 per cent from the level of 2013 by TotalTotal NOx NO emissions x (tonnes)/year emissions (tonnes)/year Recycling Other* 2020. The ongoing fleet renewal plays the most signifiEnergy use Utilisation, % cant role in achieving this target. In addition, Finnair has Landfill site deployed a new digital application that enables more precise monitoring of flight and aircraft type specific jet fuel consumption. Finnair uses RTK (revenue tonne kilometres) to measure its carbon emissions, since it measures fuel consumption and emissions in relation to 2017, this cargo capacity produced approximately 9,893 sions to be calculated at present. Finnair Cargo’s main the distance travelled and the volume of passengers. tonnes of CO2 in total. The amount includes cargo flights partners in truck traffic use vehicles classified as EURO 4 that were operated solely due to Finnair Cargo. at a minimum. G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions In addition, significant material flows are also generated When there is humidity in the air and the temperature is Besides carbon dioxide, nitrogen oxides (NOx) are the by Finnair Kitchen (previously Finnair’s subcontractor close to or below freezing, airlines use de-icing and antimost significant air emission of flying. NOx emissions LSG Sky Chefs Finland Oy), which provides catering for icing to ensure the safety of their operations. De-icing arise in combustion processes that take place at high the flights that depart from Helsinki. The emissions involves cleaning impurities on the exterior of the airctemperatures. arising from these materials, such as food and beveraft, while anti-icing involves spraying the exterior with rages served on flights, were not reported in 2017. The a protective substance, propylene glycol (hereafter refeNitrogen oxides contribute to the formation of ozone in greenhouse impacts of the material flows could not be rred to as glycol), to prevent ice from accumulating on the lower atmosphere, but destroy methane, which is a estimated. it. In 2017, the total consumption of glycol was 1,042,253 powerful greenhouse gas, in the atmosphere. The impact litres, and the water mixed with glycol amounted to of nitrogen oxides is complex and in many respects still Information on truck transport by Finnair Cargo is 1,764,613 litres. The number of de-icing and anti-icing not fully understood. absent from this report. Finnair Cargo purchases trantreatments during the year was 5,052. The greenhouse sport services from truck companies, and the statistical impact of glycol could not be estimated, since no emisThe basis of the calculation of NOx emissions produced practices of these companies do not allow actual emission factor is available for it. by the engines of Finnair aircraft is the aircraft engiFINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 154 ne-specific emission database compiled by the UN Interobjectives of increasing waste recovery, cost efficiency G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant national Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO). The dataand safety, as well as reducing the volume of waste. In spills base covers the NOx emissions of different engine types practice, this means that waste will be utilised as either In 2017, Finnair had no significant spills burdening the during one internationally defined landing-take-off energy or material. environment. cycle (LTO) up to the altitude of 915 metres (3,000 feet). ICAO has set a CAEP/6 target level for NOx emissions, Waste generated by Finnair’s operations is no longer G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and and Finnair monitors the achievement of this target by disposed of in landfills in Finland. The combination of total number of non-monetary sanctions for WASTE GENERATED BY using the percentage indicator “Proportion of the fleet mixed waste and energy waste is made possible by the non-compliance with environmental laws and FINNAIR’S OPERATIONS represented by aircraft that are under the CAEP/6 limit”. thermic processing of waste at Fortum’s power plants regulations IS NO LONGER DISPOSED The calculation covers Finnair’s own fleet and does not in Riihimäki. Following a change in applicable regulaFinnair was not subject to any fines or other sanctions OF IN LANDFILLS IN account for emissions by external flight operators in tions, food waste originating from outside of the EU that for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulaFINLAND. Finnair’s purchased traffic (such as wet leases involving is subject to the EU by-products Regulation can now be tions during the reporting period. Finnair leasing an aircraft and its crew). directed to thermic processing, allowing it to be utilised with other waste in generating district heating and In addition to NOx emissions, Finnair’s operations give ­electricity. rise to volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions. VOC emissions are harmful to the environment by, for example, contributing to the formation of ozone in the lower atmosphere. Lower-atmosphere ozone, moreover, is harmful to both human and animal health and flora. Technical Operations (FTO) holds an environmental permit granted by the environmental protection authorities, which regulates the use of volatile solvents and specifies limits for emissions. In 2017, FTO’s VOC emissions totalled 4,24 tonnes. Slight increase from previous year is due to increased production and temporary change in engine washing method. G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method The total amount of waste generated by Finnair increased by approximately 5 per cent, or over 209,7 tonnes, from the previous year. The increase/reduction in the total weight of waste is primarily attributable to traffic growth. The company placed even more focus on waste recovery and sorting. Finnair has set waste management FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 155 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX The Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment, and anti-corruption: Human Rights Location Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and p. 3–4; 18–19; 31–34; 127–132; 136–145 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. p. 18; 31–34; 127–132; 136–145 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; p. 31–34; 127–132; 136–145 Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; p. 31–34; 127–132; 136–145 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and p. 31–34; 127–132; 136–145 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. p. 3–4; 31–34; 127–132; 136–145 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; p. 31–34; 127–132; 146–154 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and p. 3–4; 31–34; 127–132; 146–154 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies p. 31–34; 127–132; 146–154 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. p. 31–34; 127–132; 136–145 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 156 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX Code GRI content Location Further information General standard disclosures Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from the CEO p. 3–4 G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities p. 7–16; 20; 24–36; 101–110 Organisational profile G4-3 Name of the organisation Finnair Group Plc G4-4 Primary brands, products and services p. 8; 11–16; 27–28 G4-5 Location of the organisation's headquarters Tietotie 9 , 01053 Finnair G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries where either the organisation has significant operations p. 8–16; 123–126 or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form p. 29–31 G4-8 Markets served p. 8–16; 27–28 G4-9 Scale of reporting organisation p. 8–16; 22–23 G4-10 Total number of employees and breakdown by employment type, employment contract, region and gender p. 137 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements p. 137–138 G4-12 Description of the organisation's supply chain p. 8–9; 11–16; 138 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organisation’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain p. 11–16; 24–31 G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organisation p. 94–111; 122–132 G4-15 List of externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation p. 3–4; 17–19; 127–132 subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organisations in which the p. 17–19; 127–132 organisation is active Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the organisation's consolidated financial statements p. 125–126 G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries p. 123–124 G4-19 Material aspects identified p. 123–124 G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organisation for each material aspect p. 123–126 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organisation for each material aspect p. 123–126 G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements p. 123–126 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries p. 123–126 Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation p. 17 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage p. 17; 123–124 G4-26 Organisation's approach to stakeholder engagement p. 17 G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to them p. 17 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 157 Code GRI content Location Further information Report profile G4-28 Reporting period for information provided 1.1.2017–31.12.2017 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Mar-16 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annually G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its content Communications, Finnair Plc Tietotie 9, 01053 Finnair. comms(a) finnair.com G4-32 GRI content index p. 156–159 G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report Some of the indicators externally verified Governance Governance structure and composition G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees of the highest governance body p. 94–105 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Description of the organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. p. 3–4; 8–20; 127–132 Specific standard disclosures Disclosures on management approach DMA General disclosure on management approach p. 127–132 Economic indicators Economic performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed p. 133 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation's activities due to climate change p. 134 G4-EC3 Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit plan obligations p. 134 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government p. 134–135 Indirect economic impacts G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts p. 11–16; 22 Procurement practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation p. 135 Environmental indicators Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation p. 147–148 G4-EN5 Energy intensity p. 147–148 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption p. 148–150 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services p. 150 Biodiversity G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity p. 150–151 value outside protected areas FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 158 Code GRI content Location Further information Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) p. 152 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) p. 152 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) p. 152–153 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity p. 147–148; 153 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions p. 153 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions p. 153–154 Effluents and waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method p. 154 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills p. 154 Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and p. 154 regulations Social indicators Labor practices and decent work Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region p. 138 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of p. 138 operation Labor/management relations G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements p. 139 Occupational health and safety G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and p. 139 advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by p. 139 region and gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation p. 139 G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions p. 139–140 Training and education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender and by employee category p. 140 G4-LA10 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in p. 140–142 managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category p. 142 Diversity and equal opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group p. 142 membership and other indicators of diversity Equal remuneration for women and men G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation p. 142 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 159 Code GRI content Location Further information Human rights Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments p. 142 Supplier human rights assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria p. 142 G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken p. 143 Society Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified p. 143 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures p. 143-144 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No incidents Public policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary p. 144 Anti-competitive behaviour G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes No incidents Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations No incidents Product responsibility Customer health and safety G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement 70% G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products No incidents and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and service labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organisation's procedures for product and service information and labelling, p. 144 and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and No incidents labelling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction p. 144-145 Marketing communications G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including No incidents advertising, promotion and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Customer privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data One incident Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and No incidents services OMA Punctuality p. 32 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 160 INDEPENDENT PRACTITIONER’S LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT To the Management of Finnair Plc The Management of Finnair Plc is also responsible for such internal to obtain evidence about the amounts and other disclosures in the SeleWe have been engaged by the Management of Finnair Plc (hereinafter control as the management determines is necessary to enable the cted environmental information. The procedures selected depend on the also the Company) to perform a limited assurance engagement on selepreparation of a Selected environmental information that is free from practitioner’s judgement, including an assessment of the risks of matected environmental performance indicators (hereinafter the Selected material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. rial misstatement of the Selected environmental information. environmental information) for the reporting period 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017, to be disclosed in the Sustainability section of Practitioner’s independence and quality control Our work consisted of, amongst others, the following procedures: Finnair Plc’s Annual Report 2017. We have complied with the independence and other ethical require• Interviewing employees responsible for collecting and reporting ments of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the the Selected environmental information Selected environmental information International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded • Assessing how Group employees apply the Company’s reporting The Selected environmental information consists of the following on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional compeinstructions and procedures performance indicators: tence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. • Testing the accuracy and completeness of the information from 1. Fuel consumed by all flights under the Finnair Plc’s callsign. original documents and systems on a sample basis 2. Energy consumed in Finnair Plc’s properties. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy applies International Standard on Quality • Testing the consolidation of information and performing re­calcula3. Heating consumed in Finnair Plc’s properties. Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality tions on a sample basis. 4. CO2 emissions originating from the consumption referred to in point 1. control including documented policies and procedures regarding comp5. CO2 emissions originating from the consumption referred to in points 2 and 3. liance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable Limited assurance conclusion 6. CO2 emissions in Scope 3 category 3 (Fueland energy-related activities). legal and regulatory requirements. Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe Management’s responsibility Practitioner’s responsibility that Finnair Plc’s Selected environmental information for the reporting The Management of Finnair Plc is responsible for preparing the SeleOur responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the period ended 31 December 2017 is not properly prepared, in all material cted environmental information in accordance with the Reporting Selected environmental information based on the procedures we have respects, in accordance with the Reporting criteria. When reading our criteria as follows: performed and the evidence we have obtained. Our assurance report assurance report, the inherent limitations to the accuracy and complehas been prepared in accordance with the terms of our engagement. teness of sustainability information should be taken into consideration. For items 1 and 4 of the scope above: We do not accept, or assume responsibility to anyone else, except to • Finnair’s own reporting instructions (described in the SustainabiFinnair Plc for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions that we lity section of Finnair Plc’s Annual Report 2017). have reached. Helsinki, 9 February 2018 For items 2, 3 and 5 of the scope above: We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with • The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporthe International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3410 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy ting Standard. “Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements”. That Stan• Finnair’s own reporting instructions (described in the Sustainabidard requires that we plan and perform the engagement to obtain Sirpa Juutinen lity section of Finnair Plc’s Annual Report 2017). limited assurance about whether the Selected environmental informaPartner tion is free from material misstatement. Sustainability & Climate Change For item 6 of the scope above: • The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures Accounting and Reporting Standard as applicable. are more limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement, and • Finnair’s own reporting instructions (described in the Sustainabitherefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance lity section of Finnair Plc’s Annual Report 2017). engagement. An assurance engagement involves performing procedures FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 161 CONTACT INFORMATION House of Travel and Transportation Finnair Oyj Tietotie 9 A (Helsinki Airport) 01053 FINNAIR Tel. +358 600 0 81881 (1,25e/answered call + local charge) www.company.finnair.com www.investors.finnair.com www.facebook.com/finnair www.facebook.com/finnairsuomi www.twitter.com/Finnair www.twitter.com/FinnairSuomi https://blog.finnair.com/en/ https://blog.finnair.com/ www.instagram.com/feelfinnair/
