UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 CSR is firmly anchored in the Plesner spirit THOUGHTS FROM THE MANAGING PARTNER AND THE CSR PARTNER “Plesner is the darling of the Danish business community”. That was the We owe these achievements to our team of reaction in the media when Plesner was amazing and dedicated Plesner colleagues, ranked first in Kantar Sifo Prospera’s annual who are highly trained in identifying and survey ‘Tier 1 Law Firm Review in Denmark solving challenges and who will not let a 2018.’ good process be stopped no matter what obstacles they may encounter. We deploy Being ranked number one by the largest these same professional skills in finding efand most professional companies is the fective solutions in the CSR field. ultimate recognition you can get as a provider of advisory services – and it makes Plesner’s CSR initiatives remain based on us both very proud and humble. the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, which are now embodied in 17 SusWe remain committed to becoming even tainable Development Goals. If the global better – also in CSR terms. community is to attain these ambitious goals, we all need to make a serious conPlesner’s CSR programme is one of the tribution. We believe in sharing benefits as most extensive in the legal profession. well as responsibilities. With this programme we have commited to pursuing the highest ethical and While fully aware that our impact in the professional standards when providing grand scheme of things is – and can only be legal advice, to run our firm in a socially – marginal, we will continue our dedicated and environmentally responsible way, sustainability and corporate social responto provide pro bono legal advice and to sibility efforts. Doing our best is also firmly support the local community in general. anchored in the Plesner spirit. As you can read in this year’s report, these Copenhagen, June 2018 words are backed by concrete actions, with satisfactory progress being reported in all our focus areas. Tom Kári Gitte Holtsø Kristjánsson CSR Partner Managing Partner R E A D M O R E ABO U T PL E S NE R S P O L ITI C S O N PRO BO N O Pro Bono Prompt and efficient help to self-help PLESNER HAS AGAIN THIS YEAR WORKED ON A VARIETY OF PRO BONO ASSIGNMENTS, PROJECTS AND SOLUTIONS – ALL BENEFITING CHARITABLE ORGANISATIONS FOCUSED ON VULNERABLE CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE AND THE SERIOUSLY ILL. Last year’s administrative restructuring of ”The degree to which the organisations Plesner’s pro bono programme was intenddraw on our assistance varies a lot. When ed to focus energies and resources on the we establish a partnership with a new core of the project: helping and advising organisation, we naturally put a lot of the charitable organisations included under work and effort into start-up projects and our CSR programme. basic assistance in establishing the legal framework. This was also the case with “The road from enquiry to action has the Child Brain Cancer Foundation (Børne definitely become shorter – which has Hjernecancer Fonden), with whom we formed re-energised the project and resulted in a partnership last year. Other organisations improved communications and shorter have been part of the programme for waiting times. We have significantly reduced years and today require other types of the time spent on administration and assistance than when they first joined. This increased the time spent on concrete advisory is true of Children’s Welfare (Børns Vilkår) services, with the vast majority of enquiries and the Muscular Dystrophy Foundation processed within a few days. All things (Muskelsvindfonden), whose projects considered, we now handle pro bono cases are typically more complex and require with much greater efficiency and flexibility – specific, specialised assistance. We are also which benefits the organisations”, says Lars planning to strengthen our dialogue with the Mygind Bojsen, Attorney-at-Law and Pro organisations to help them define more work Bono coordinator at Plesner. that can be provided within the framework of the partnership.” Expanding collaboration At Plesner, we continuously assess how best Strong staff commitment to strengthen the programme and make the The revitalisation of Plesner’s pro bono most of the resources allocated to our pro work is also noticeable internally, with embono work. According to Lars Mygind Bojsen, ployees showing a keen interest in assisting eight charitable organisations are currently with the very diverse issues presented by receiving free legal advice from Plesner: the organisations. ”This is a very positive sign, as we attach the And many of us see it as a natural part of our same importance to pro bono assistance as to job to give something back by doing voluntary other client services. By simplifying working work through the legal aid service or other procedures, we have reduced the amount of pro bono programmes. I did this as a law administrative work and made it much easier student, so continuing my involvement as to team organisations and their needs with an attorney at Plesner¬ was natural for me – relevant professionals. This has helped further and not because I feel I have to, but because motivate our employees to proactively seek it interests and inspires me. It’s just a great these assignments” explains Lars. way of putting your skills to use”, says Lars Mygind Bojsen. A great way of putting your skills to use During the past reporting period, some 50+ Lars Mygind Bojsen is living proof of the of our assistant attorneys, attorneys and rewards gained from being part of Plesner’s partners undertook more than 1,000 hours pro bono network. of pro bono work. To this should be added a significant number of hours committed ”Many of my colleagues have studied law and by secretarial and administrative staff. subsequently chosen to become attorneys because they basically wish to help other people or make a difference in society. Plesner provides assistance to selected Danish charitable organisations: • Bryd Tavsheden (Break the Silence – a Danish non-governmental organisation for individuals exposed to domestic violence) • Børns Vilkår (Children’s Welfare) • Julemærkefonden (the Christmas Seal Foundation) • Red Barnet Ungdom (Danish Child Rights Ambassadors) • Scleroseforeningen (the Danish Multiple Sclerosis Society) • Make-A-Wish Ønskefonden (the Make-A-Wish Foundation) • Muskelsvindfonden (the Muscular Dystrophy Foundation) • Børne Hjernecancer Fonden (the Child Brain Cancer Foundation) (NEW) Anette Overby, MSc (Economics) and CBCF founder: ”During the start-up phase, our primary focus has been on strategic partnerships with other organisations sharing the same aims and interests as us. We have also put a lot of time and effort into establishing a network of influential people who are willing to help and support CBCF, primarily through Cycling Challenge, our network of business professionals headed up by former professional cyclist Rolf Sørensen. Plesner’s assistance makes a huge difference The Child Brain Cancer Foundation for a small organisation like ours, whose (CBCF) is an organisation in its start-up funds and resources are limited. The support phase that relies on volunteers. Over the provided by Partner Peter Fogh in his capacpast few years, the Foundation has been ity as our Chairman is invaluable. working to establish itself as an organisation –setting up a medical advisory board Plesner not only provides highly professional to assist the Board when making decisions assistance, they are also extremely considerabout research support and undertaking ate and pleasant collaboration partners. other initiatives promoting CBCF’s objecWe always receive a prompt response to our tives. Plesner assisted with a number of questions and specific requests. I have never specific tasks over the past year, including seen a request or a detail missed. convening and holding general meetings. We also provided legal advice and assisPlesner has also played a major role in buildtance in connection with the preparation ing our network of business professionals of a privacy policy and the updating and through Cycling Challenge, in which four or translating of the Foundation’s by-laws. five partners participate every year. The Child Brain Cancer Foundation is a Being backed by Plesner signals that we charitable organisation supporting reare a serious organisation with everything search into paediatric brain cancer in the under control. Plesner’s assistance also hope of eventually curing all children with allows member contributions and donations brain cancer. to be channelled into our work rather than administration. In providing legal assistance and expert sparring for the Board of Directors, Plesner plays a crucial role in our continued growth and ability to help children with brain cancer.” Children’s Welfare works to prevent the Rasmus Kjeldahl, neglect of children in Denmark. In 2017, Executive Director, Children’s Welfare: the organisation celebrated its 40th an”Our partnership with Plesner enables us niversary, while its Kids Helpline passed to run a professional organisation in full the 30-year mark. Last year, the Kids control of everything – big or small – related Helpline provided advice and assistance to employment law, privacy, rights issues, to children more than 50,000 times, with contracts and numerous other areas. We the many conversations providing unique are in regular contact with Plesner, and our insights into childhood in Denmark. In the partnership is organised so that our requests past year, the organisation has focused are always directed to the right people, even on helping even more of the children who when – as is often the case – they span more approach it for advice. This work is far than one professional field. from complete and will remain one of the main priorities of Children’s Welfare going In the past year, some of our requests reforward. quired immediate legal assistance, and Plesner prioritised helping us every time. It is Children’s Welfare is a private humanitargreat to know that Plesner can competently ian organisation that has worked to help coordinate and identify the right resources all children in Denmark since 1977. The for whatever request we may make. Having organisation works to ensure that children the right help ensures everything is handled get the help they need and to safeguard a appropriately and that the funds and comchild’s right to a safe and secure life and a mitment of our members, sponsors, employgood childhood. ees and volunteers are always used on the basis of well-informed decisions. Plesner’s willingness to act as a pro bono partner, using their professional capabilities to help prevent the neglect of children in Denmark, has of course a vast financial significance to us. Thank you!” The Muscular Dystrophy Foundation’s Lea Ljungberg Haldrup, interaction with Plesner in the past year Financial Controller, the Muscular Dysmainly consisted of questions and retrophy Foundation: quests related to data protection law and ”Our partnership with Plesner on data proin particular the EU General Data Protectection legislation has enabled us to train tion Regulation, which came into force relevant employees within this area. Through in May 2018. New legislation passed in Plesner’s certification programmes, we were 2018 concerning payments will mean that also able to participate in GDPR networks, a number of summer festivals, includwhich has been very helpful in relation to our ing the Muscular Dystrophy Foundation’s work with the new Regulation. Green Concert and Cirkus Summarum, are no longer obliged to receive payments in Again this year, Plesner assisted us in applycash. ing for the Green Concert and Cirkus Summarum to be held as cash-free events. This The Muscular Dystrophy Foundation’s is resulted in a permanent exemption from the an organisation that since 1971 has helped requirement to receive payment in cash in people with muscular dystrophy and their connection with these events. families live active lives as full members of society. The organisation’s objective is At a more general level, Plesner provides to provide the best possible conditions for us with legal guidance in a multitude of people with disabilities. specialist areas. We send our requests to a permanent contact, who promptly finds the right person to solve the task. This is the ideal approach for us, as it gives us speedy access to the relevant skills. Being able to present a more professional profile in our dealings with business partners, members, volunteers and society in general is invaluable to us.” R E A D M O R E A BO U T PL E S NE R S SU PP O RT TO THE LO C A L CO MMU N IT Y The School Project Role models choose the School Project with their hearts PLESNER’S SCHOOL PROJECT WOULD NOT HAVE BEEN POSSIBLE WITHOUT THE COMMITMENT OF DEDICATED ROLE MODELS WHO SET EXAMPLES FOR SCHOOL KIDS TO FOLLOW. ”Our role models do a great job, they do it pro the pupils during their final years at lower bono, and they choose with their hearts – alsecondary school. A key task of the role though they are all busy people with demandmodels is to build trusting relationships ing jobs. Sharing their personal stories about with the school kids so they can talk to breaking the cycle of deprivation, they show them about both their future careers and school kids the difference education can make personal matters. when it comes to future job opportunities and freedom to choose”, says Shaina JabReal commitment needed bar, Attorney-at-Law and Partner at Plesner The role models meet with the school pu– and co-founder and coordinator of the pils once a month at events that alternate School Project. between classroom dialogue and visits to selected companies. This gives the young Pattern-breakers show the way people a first-hand impression of the wide Ever since the beginning in 2011, role range of courses, training and job opportumodels acting as sparring partners for nities available, while the role models help school pupils have been key to the School them define goals for their professional Project. Working closely together with development and decide which field of Plesner, these role models have followed education or training to choose. The idea is selected lower secondary school classes at to create a virtuous circle where the intertwo schools in the inner-city district of Nøraction with the role models and the pupils’ rebro, with a major proportion of the pupils willingness to listen and learn make all the having a non-Danish ethnic background. difference. Many of the role models also have nonDanish backgrounds and are themselves ”As a role model, real commitment and a gen“pattern-breakers” with various higher-level uine wish to help and support young people qualifications. is crucial. Finding role models willing to fully commit and with the necessary drive used The classes are divided into groups and a to be our biggest challenge in relation to the role model is assigned to each group. This School Project. That has gradually changed allows the role models to really get to know as we have been able to show that the School The role models meet regularly to strengthen relations. Project makes a noticeable difference to chal”New and positive developments have lenged young people and produces measurunfolded over the past year, making me able results year after year”, explains Shaina extremely happy and proud. Several of our Jabbar. young assistant attorneys, also ethnic Danes, have approached me on their own initiative to become part of the School Project by Fresh thinking providing administrative assistance or acting Role models who have been part of the as role models. The school kids learn a lot project since the beginning have recruited from spending time with our young attorneys, new participants from within their own netwho have different backgrounds and works. Besides attorneys from Plesner, the challenges, but who support the project with group today spans a wide range of profesall their heart and inspire the school pupils sionals, including a chief superintendent, a by providing ideas and advice about their journalist, a chief executive and a pilot. options and choice of education. They bring fresh thinking and new input to the School According to Shaina Jabbar, Plesner’s own Project, and they do a really great job”, says employees also express pride in the School Shaina Jabbar. Project and also have a growing interest in contributing to its success. Spreading the word and make a difference to young people with The next step for the School Project is to challenges”, says Shaina Jabbar. spread the word and inspire other companies to embrace the idea. The role models A former pupil at Nørrebro Park School and have an important communication task herself a pattern-breaker, Shaina Jabbar has here by spreading the message through been a role model since the School Project their own workplaces and networks and started – a job she finds particularly meanthrough the many companies which over ingful: the years have opened their doors to these ”I use the space and the opportunities I have school pupils – and tomorrow’s employees. as a role model for some of the girls in the School Project to share my own experience as “The School Project is a proven success, and I a pattern-breaker and how, against all odds, I would really like to expand the project to the have succeeded. In my world, you can do and rest of Denmark. To that end, we have drawn have everything if you really want it. Those up a script describing the key aspects of the are the seeds I would like to sow among the project and illustrating how companies can young people to enable them to make their start their own school project. At the moment, own choices on an informed basis. Following we are considering how best to pass the baton the pupils and watching them grow in the on to other companies who wish to commit course of the project is so rewarding to me.” PROJ EC T MA NAG E R SC H OO L RO L E M O D E L S B US I NE SS -V I S IT S S TAT US ME E TI N GS About the School Project The purpose of the School Project is to inspire young people to understand the importance of taking school and education seriously and to motivate them to focus on the many job opportunities and freedoms that continuing education can offer. Through the School Project, Plesner has established a long-term partnership with selected lower secondary school classes at two schools in the Nørrebro district, Nørrebro Park School and Blågård School, where many pupils face both language and social challenges. The partnership also includes “pattern-breakers”, typically people from non-Danish ethnic backgrounds who act as role models for the students. Plesner’s School Project comprises two schools in the Nørrebro district in Copenhagen. Since the beginning in 2011, more than 100 school pupils have particiNØ R R E B RO PA R K SC H O O L B L Å G Å R D SC H O O L pated in the School Project and the Two classes s t ar t in g O n e class f in is h in g t h e vast majority of these have chosen t h e n int h sch o o l year in n int h sch o o l year in to continue their education. Augus t 2018 J u n e 2018 Alternating between meetings at the school and company visits is a perfect mix that allows us to form close relationships – personal We all have something to offer and academic – with the young people. At the Kabeer Takiar, 45, head of section/deputy same time, we help broaden their horizons assistant commissioner of the Danish and show them in practice what it’s like to be National Police – National Operations part of a company. Department and in charge of national development projects. Also a member of I’m confident that by participating as role the emergency staff of the Danish National models in the project we make a difference to Police, which in case of major incidents the young people. That, combined with the works closely with the 12 police districts satisfaction of being able to help, provides and other disaster response units, including the drive to carry on. It’s important for me to the Danish Emergency Management Agenspend time on meaningful voluntary work. cy, the Danish Defence, the Danish Security And when I talk to my colleagues, friends and and Intelligence Service and several minisfamily about the project, I show the way for tries. A School Project role model for three others who may want to contribute. I also talk years. to my three children about being a role model, and I can tell that it makes them happy and “My reason for being part of the project is proud. very simple: We all have something to offer! Throughout my career with the Police, the To others who want to make a difference to Copenhagen Fire Department and the private young people with challenges, I say: EVERY sector, I have met countless young people in young person has potential. Focusing less need of a helping hand and a push in the right on young people’s backgrounds, identities direction. and limitations and more on their potential strengths and skills creates greater value for everyone. When companies choose to open their doors assistant, among other things. The young to these young people, it has a ripple effect people look up to us as role models. I can tell and inspires others through the positive that they think: Hmm, if he can do it, so can I! narratives. All things considered, I find it extremely important that senior corporate Given my own background, I’m able to relate management supports CSR projects and to some of the young people’s challenges and the opportunity to join a School Project like problems. I know what they’re going through ours. In my own organisation, management and I hope to give them some tools to help strongly supports employee participation them along. But they have to make an efin such projects. In the police force, we are fort themselves. Lately, we’ve been working happy to invite young people to open house specifically on setting goals, writing good events, guided tours, dialogue meetings, etc. traineeship applications and preparing for job to increase their awareness of the work we interviews. do. And every time it gives new energy and excitement to our workplace.” As role models, we’re able to win the confidence of the young people. This becomes particularly clear when we discuss more personal or taboo subjects. We’ve had some very good talks about the meaning of life, illegal streaming and homosexuality. Every time we visit the If he can do it, so can I classes, I see the young people’s views and Hussain Ali Alhaidary, 29, assistant attorney boundaries shifting. in Plesner’s Insolvency and Reconstruction practice. A School Project role model for I’ve expanded my network and met other very about six months. committed role models in the School Project. This group constitutes a very special com“I basically want to make a difference to othmunity that differs from an “ordinary” workers in my local community. I joined the School place. As a role model, I also get the chance Project in the hope of helping young people to develop my communication skills, which who feel abandoned by school and society. is extremely relevant to my work life, where As a role model, I want to help change their I interact with a lot of different people from views on the educational establishment, the very different social backgrounds. labour market and society in general. I strongly recommend that others reach out Pointing out that there is more than one to young school pupils and show an interest way in life and that it’s good to try different in them. Whether you want to make a things before you make up your mind is an difference to young people as a private person important message. I tried a lot of things or as a company, you will very quickly see that myself before choosing the law and deciding they are extremely curious and interested in to become a lawyer. I worked as a baggage you or your company.” handler, a security guard and a childcare R E A D M O R E A BO U T PL E S NE R S SO C I A L R E S P O N S I NB I L IT Y Women & Career Flexibility is the way forward PLESNER IS COMMITTED TO BREAKING THE MALE DOMINANCE OF OWNERSHIP SO THAT MORE WOMEN AIM FOR PARTNERSHIPS. Equal gender representation at senior manent to luncheons centred around a number agement level is still a rarity. Particularly in of relevant themes. The purpose was to dislarge Danish and international law firms, cuss the particular challenges that women female partners are few and far between. face in the course of their careers and to We would like to change that. We are firmly identify potential solutions. Internal and of the opinion that change must take place external speakers were invited to several of gradually through a sustained focus and bethese luncheons to inspire or challenge our lief that the future battle for talent will be thinking on women and careers by drawing won by those who demonstrate flexibility. on current research or their own experience. There is more than one way forward. Companies need to be flexible and offer Partnership with maternity/paternity multiple career paths. network During these luncheons, some recent “We want to give everyone with the requisite mothers expressed a wish for work-related professional and business skills the opportuinspiration during their maternity leave. nity to become a partner at Plesner – irrespective of gender. However, we are not in favour In January 2018, we therefore formed a of quotas and would rather improve condipartnership with Inspired Beyond Babies tions for talented female lawyers who appear (IBB) a professional network for men and on course to meet our partnership requirewomen wishing to develop their profesments, so they stay with us and eventually sional capabilities and strengthen their netbecome partners”, says Niklas Korsgaard, works while on maternity/paternity leave. Partner with responsibility for Plesner’s Women & Career programme. The network focuses on professional upskilling and continuing education through With that end in view, Plesner is working workshops, knowledge sharing and lecsteadily to identify the kind of flexibility tures by specialists, prominent business that will open the door to more female professionals and interest groups. This partners. ensures that employees return to work with renewed energy and motivation – ready to Throughout the reporting period, we reguimplement the lessons learnt. larly invited our target group of female talMentoring scheme popular among female Niklas Korsgaard believes we need to break talents down mental and structural barriers: Based on the feedback received from our female talents, we initiated additional men“We’ve come a long way through the past toring programmes during the reporting year’s many inspirational meetings and have period. definitively broken down the taboos. We now have a team of women who help each other A key benefit of mentoring programmes is see opportunities rather than barriers.” that you can test and investigate your ideas of reality. Entering a mentor-mentee relaMuch of the problem is cultural and cannot tionship, sharing challenges, dilemmas and be changed overnight. However, there is concerns with a more experienced person, a growing realisation that we face a chalcan therefore often be a career booster. lenge, and Plesner is fully committed to making career paths more flexible. Plesner’s mentoring scheme targeting female talent dates back to spring 2014. Niklas Korsgaard notes that Plesner has a Inspired by the strong interest shown in large number of female talents at the mothe scheme and the positive feedback from ment – and that the firm is committed to completed programmes, Plesner applied in retaining them: 2016 for permission to extend the scheme available to our female lawyers. A number “We are currently assessing how to make of female lawyers are currently in a mentorstructural adjustments in order to smooth ing scheme. We are very pleased that the the path for more female partners. While Ministry of Justice granted us permission to we do not intend to lower our qualification extend the mentoring scheme for five years requirements, we need to demonstrate some until 2021. flexibility on the road to partnership. Much of this rests on being able to say that this can be done.” Greater focus on early development The feedback received from our female talents has also inspired us to increase our focus on early talent development. “We are working to give our talents feedback on their development potential at an even earlier stage. This will allow us to give them better and more timely support so they can qualify for the career they wish to pursue”, says Niklas Korsgaard. J UN E 2 0 1 7 J U NE 2018 61 62 PART N ER S I N TOTAL PA RT NE R S I N TOTA L 9 F EM AL E 11 FE MA L E PART N ER S PA RT NE R S “Women & Career” is one of the focus areas of Plesner’s CSR programme, aiming to provide conditions that make it attractive for women to continue their careers with Plesner. Employee satisfaction Development, satisfaction and collaboration three aspects of the same issue OUR EMPLOYEES’ DEVELOPMENT, SATISFACTION AND ABILITY TO WORK ACROSS THE ORGANISATION ARE INSEPARABLY LINKED – AND BENEFIT EACH INDIVIDUAL EMPLOYEE AND THE RESULTS WE ACHIEVE FOR OUR CLIENTS. Effective collaboration is basically about New and different dialogue getting to know yourself and your colleaExperiencing progress in their personal gues better. That is why we have for the and professional development is crucial to past three years been working with JTI – the job satisfaction of knowledge emploa typology tool for developing managers, yees. We develop when we are allowed to employees and teams. JTI highlights the try new things and to test our capabilities. differences and the dynamics that are at Hence, combining the performance review play when we solve problems, make decisiwith JTI can open the door to a new and ons, form relationships and give and receive different dialogue about how we work and feedback. plan for success. This could involve daring to seek new challenges, being able to work During the past year, our focus has been on in a sustained and focused manner, being incorporating the ideas behind the JTI tool willing to take a risk or to proactively seek into the annual performance review. guidance and feedback. “The performance review is about setting “It begins with ourselves and with realising development and career milestones, while how we act and which new roads we can take JTI is focused on identifying each individual’s to become even more successful at what we strong points and preferred way of learning are already doing. Encouraging employees to and cooperating. Hence, the two tools proceed with what is already working while are interconnected. Knowing each other’s also setting the bar for their further developpreferred response patterns helps strengthen ment at the right height is one of the managthe dialogue between manager and employee er’s key tasks”, says Mette Lock Carlsson. and makes it easier for the manager to support his or her employees through change and development”, says Mette Lock Carlsson, Head of Human Resources. Stronger feedback and collaboration culture Over the past year, JTI has also been implemented in a number of other support tools – all designed to enhance collaboration. These tools include the feedback forms that constitute the basis for the continuous performance evaluations of assistant attorneys and attorneys, and the “Collaboration Compass” used to analyse management team interaction. Supported by the Human Resources Department, a number of teams also decided to put special focus on crossorganisational collaboration in the past year. These programmes help clarify how we can strengthen relations by becoming better at adjusting our expectations and giving each other feedback. Know yourself, know your colleagues Employees and managers are now very open about the JTI profiles, which are also actively used by individual teams. “We are much more aware of our own and our colleagues’ preferred response patterns and strengths, and understand them much better. We are more aware of how each of us reacts in a specific work situation, and it has become easier to ask for help and guidance from colleagues with a different approach. The better we know ourselves and our colleagues, the easier it is to reach out, establish relations and get support for doing things in new ways. This definitely helps strengthen in-house collaboration and develop high-quality solutions for our clients”, says Mette Lock Carlsson. Full Engagement Manage your energy, not your time NO MATTER HOW DIGITAL WE CAN BECOME, PEOPLE WILL, BY VIRTUE OF THEIR ENERGY AND ENGAGEMENT, ALWAYS BE THE MOST IMPORTANT FACTOR. In May, we invited all our staff on a threeone of our departments, the employees day teambuilding trip to Morocco. It was an re-energise by doing the plank for three unforgettable trip during which all emplominutes every day, while others hold inyees were introduced to Full Engagement, house meetings while walking in the open a concept focusing on how to manage your air rather than sitting in a conference room. energy rather than your time, under the tutelage of Implement Consulting Group. “As employees, we will be in the labour market for quite a number of years. We need to Full Engagement is based on the idea that be able to navigate change and do it in a way we as human beings can optimise our that ensures our durability as human beings energy by examining our current habits and and as employees. The Full Engagement conroutines – intentional and unintentional – cept offers not only self-reflection tools but and creating a better balance between the also a common language for interacting with choices we make for ourselves in normal friends and colleagues. With this initiative, we everyday life. This helps us engage more are taking yet another step towards becoming fully in multiple aspects of our lives and a sustainable working environment”, says sets us up to deliver top-notch performanMette Lock Carlsson. ces. The programme was illustrated by a variety of practical exercises focused on four energy dimensions: physical, emotional, mental and spiritual. Many of our employees have subsequently been inspired by the programme to make changes to their worklife. This has prompted us to consider how we can continue the process, and we are currently contemplating setting up a working climate group to develop new ideas and initiatives. On an experimental basis, we have set up yoga and meditation classes and a running club, and efforts are being made across the organisation to build new good habits. In Phillip Giede Bøving Assistant Attorney Corporate Regulatory & Compliance “The Morocco trip was amazing. Getting We support each other in developing sound out of the office and being in such an exotic routines and staying active, for instance by setting gave a new perspective on everyday running after work or attending morning worklife. Having an informal and relaxed time yoga classes at the office. We have also introwith colleagues far away from our busy workduced a daily team challenge to burn some ing environment was also great. physical energy at midday. In my department, we have become more The central lesson for me personally is the aware of energy levels and how one type of importance of considering how you use your energy can affect another type. We have also energy, which goals you wish to pursue and realised that everyday things are extremely how you organise your workday in order to important in the context of an entire working reach these goals. Sound, energising routines life. A one degree change can lead to huge in your private and your working life are a positive results. good investment and the key to performing to the best of your ability.” Tanja Mou Jakobsen Executive Assistant “The trip to Morocco with my colleagues was And it’s important to remember to recharge a great experience and an energy booster for your batteries so you don’t just discharge all of us. The house was buzzing with new energy throughout the day. You need to energy Monday morning after the trip – which evaluate whether doing what you do gives was really great to see! you good energy, because if it does, you are building a surplus that you can draw on when In my opinion, working with Full Engageyou really need to work at full throttle.” ment is a healthy reminder to all of us to not only be present, but to also show presence of mind. If your mental presence is somewhere else than your physical presence, you’re wasting your energy. R E A D M O R E A BO U T PL E S NE R S P O L ITI C S O N THE E NV I RO NME NT AND C L I MAT E Environment and climate Reducing our environmental footprint remains one of our CSR goals, and we remain committed to optimising our energy consumption, purchasing, waste handling and canteen services. We are more than 400 people in a 17,000 sqm domicile, and while we cannot move mountains in terms of our environmental behaviour, we wish to continually improve our efforts and do the best we can. DURING THE PAST YEAR, PLESNER HAS TAKEN A GIANT LEAP TOWARDS AN EVEN HEALTHIER FOOD PROFILE. JUST A FEW MONTHS INTO THE PROGRAMME, PLESNER’S GREEN LINE HAS BECOME A SUCCESS THANKS TO A WIDESPREAD READINESS FOR CHANGE. We changed caterers during the reporting cused on healthier food and less food waste period, with our canteen now run by Fazer. in order to benefit the climate, the environWe maintain our silver ecolabel and have ment and our health. defined a number of key action areas foMore greens, less meat, less food waste – and much more activity LE SS ME AT – M O R E G R EEN S . 25-30 KG O UR DA I LY M E AT CO N SUM P TI O N I S DOWN FRO M 2 5 -3 0 KG TO 1820 KG . 18-20 KG FOO D S ERVED I N P O RTI O N S . TH E H OT D I S H O F THE DAY I S S E RV E D I N P O RTI O N S , A S A R E SULT O F W H I C H W E E AT L E SS ME AT A ND FOO D WA S T E H A S B E E N R E D U C E D. FRU IT AND V EG E TAB L E J U I C E . E V E RY DAY, SU R PLUS F RU IT AN D VEG E TAB L E S A R E J U I CE D TO SO -C AL L ED H E ALTH Y S H OT S , WH I CH A L SO H EL PS R ED U C E FOO D WA S T E . L E SS FO O D WA S T E . E V E RY TH I R D M O NTH , O U R C AT E R E R S ME A SU R E O U R FO O D WA S T E . THE G OA L I S TO G R A D UA L LY R E D U C E FO O D WA S T E . 9 0% New habits LED low energy everywhere Not everyone agrees that variety is the Six years ago, Plesner began a gradual spice of life – and food is no exception! transition to LED lighting. Back then, exNevertheless, our new and much greener perts said that LED could “potentially” lead profile has proven a great success after just to massive energy savings. This has proven a few months. correct, and LED is still the optimal energy solution. We have therefore continued the Choosing and stipulating the requirements work to replace more light sources with for our new caterers gave us occasion LED during the past reporting period. Low to consider how we could inspire and energy solutions are advancing fast. We are contribute to a sustainable environment monitoring these developments and always including our in-house environment. This seek to use the most eco-friendly low-enerled to the establishment of an Activity gy light sources. Committee, which in the past reporting period set up yoga and meditation classes, step training, a badminton club, distance running, team training on the “Fitness roof” and, through the WannaSport app, access for all employees to book ball games and other activities. The new activities are in great demand. Biodegradable packaging Due to our purchasing policy, our main focus when selecting suppliers through the past many years has been on the environment. For each purchasing transaction, we determine the specific environmental standards we wish to pursue. We thus made it clear to our new caterers, for instance, that we will definitively switch from plastic packaging to biodegradable packaging during the coming year. Our goal is to gradually increase the recycled share of our total waste volume. In the reporting period, approximately 90% of our volume of waste was recycled. The UN Global Compact’s 10 principles Plesner’s CSR initiatives HUMAN RIGHTS: HUMAN RIGHTS: • Our firm should support and respect the protection • Pro bono legal advice of internationally proclaimed human rights within its • The School Project sphere of influence • Further and supplementary training of employees • Leadership programme • Our firm is to make sure that it is not complicit in human rights abuses EMPLOYEE RIGHT: • Employee satisfaction surveys EMPLOYEE RIGHTS: • Women and their careers • Our firm should uphold the freedom of association • Employee performance reviews and the effective recognition of the employee’s right • Quarterly reviews of assistant attorneys and legal to collective bargaining interns • Our firm should support the elimination of all forms THE ENVIRONMENT: of forced and compulsory labour • Reduction of energy consumption • Reduction of paper consumption • Our firm should support the effective abolition of • Electronic processes child labour • Environmentally labelled products • Our firm should support the elimination of discrimi• Environmentally correct removal of waste nation in respect of employment and occupation • Organic products in the staff canteen THE ENVIRONMENT: ANTI-CORRUPTION: • Our firm should support a precautionary approach to • Policy implemented – constant compliance with environ mental challenges legislation • Our firm should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Our firm should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION: • Our firm should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Plesner Advokatpartnerselskab| Amerika Plads 37 | DK-2100 Copenhagen | Tel +45 33 12 11 33 | www.plesner.com
