Annual & sustainability report Contents 04 4 The year in brief 6 Axis at a glance 8 President’s comment 10 Axis operations and financial goals 14 Success built on breadth and depth 16 Axis market segments 18 Axis worldwide 20 Looking beyond expectation 22 Securing IT takes unbroken commitment 24 Axis risk management 28 The share 30 Sustainability report 2017 32 Sustainability strategy, governance and organization 34 Stakeholder dialogue 36 Materiality analysis 38 Responsibility along the entire value chain 40 Customer cases 42 Responsible business conduct 44 Anti-corruption 46 IT security and protection of customer privacy 47 Personal integrity among users of Axis’ products 48 Customer satisfaction 50 Environmental responsibility 59 Carbon offsets for business trips 60 Intelligent solutions reduce power consumption and save costs 63 A long-term sustainable supply chain 67 Conflict minerals 68 Social responsibility 73 Pink Programming 74 Axis in figures 76 Social responsibility charity and sponsorship 78 GRI Content Index 80 80 Administration report 87 Financial reporting 94 Notes 120 Corporate governance report 2017 127 Board of directors and auditors 128 Management team 4 Årsredovisning The year in brief >> SEK 8.6 billion in revenue Operating profit/EBIT >> 11.8 percent profit margin >> Continued growth and global 1,000 expansion 800 >> Investments in R&D equivalent to more than 18 percent of revenue SEK 1,014 M 600 SEK 640 M SEK 715 M SEK 881 M SEK 885 M >> More than 120 new products and solutions, for example: 400 -Radar technology as a complement to 200 video surveillance -Further development of Wide Dynamic Range for better image quality and 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Zipstream for more efficient data compression -A new generation of positioning cameras Key ratios -Development of Axis offering to the retail sector with Axis Loss Prevention Group, SEK M 2017 2016 (unless otherwise stated) Solution and Axis Store Optimization Net sales 8,603 7,386 Solution Operating profit 1,014 885 -Three new explosion-protected Profit before tax 1,011 884 cameras Profit after tax 736 639 -Several new products in network audio Earnings per share, SEK 10.59 9.20 Cash and cash equivalents 1,538 858 at the end of the period Dividend paid, SEK 0.92 0.64 2,865 Sales per region, SEK M Region 2017 2016 Americas 4,495 3,856 EMEA 3,087 2,646 employees Asia 1,020 884 6 Annual report Axis at a Employees in more than 50 glance countries Partners in Axis enables a smarter and safer world by creating networked solutions that provide insights for improving security and optimizing business 179 countries performance. As the industry leader in network video, Axis offers products and services for video surveillance, access control and audio systems, as well as video analytics, distributed throughout the world in a global More than 90,000 partner network. Revenue 2017 SEK 8,603 M Asia 12% partners EMEA 36% Revenue per region 2017 Americas 52% 2,865 employees in the Group 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 8 Annual report Constant focus for security and companies’ legitimate need to understand their customers’ behavior on the one hand, and the risk that comes with the Measures implemented to reduce environmental impacts include phasing out PVC from even more camera models. We have adopted in a changing world rise of digital interfaces on the other. new environmental goals and new goals for how we work with our suppliers. We have also tightened our Suppler Code of Conduct. For Axis, it is therefore crucial to earn customers’ trust through open Audits and training to ensure that the new supplier requirements are and transparent communication that our products and solutions are followed will occur during 2018. safe. We achieve this by having an in-depth understanding of the security needs of our customers and public requirements for privacy Strength in who we are and security. Axis shall have an offering that adds such a degree of Our qualified employees and strong corporate culture have been value that our customers will want to provide us with the businessvery important for Axis’ successful growth. We aim to advance In many ways, 2017 was a year of contrasts. In the ongoing globalization critical information required to deliver the solution. our positions for improved equality and greater diversity and we process, we see signs of national protectionism. A good market situation is participate in various initiatives to boost interest in technology among creating challenges and longer delivery times for electronics components. Acting now for a better women. We train women in programming and help integrate new And while digitalization implies ever-smarter solutions, cybersecurity is tomorrow arrivals into the labor market. in greater focus. At the same time, sustainability is becoming even more Considering the global trends important. These are all challenges that Axis is well-equipped to meet. and the challenges we face, An ethical approach is fundamental. Almost all employees have sustainability is a crucial issue. received training regarding what is implied by Axis’ anti-corruption Sustainability is an integrated policy, and have renewed the agreement where they undertake not Living up to the potential helped matters either. This continues to impose part of Axis’ operations and is to accept bribes or participate in any other type of corruption. The When I look back at 2017, I can confirm that Axis has continued its demands for careful planning of our sourcing and important for our successful continual work on maintaining and developing the strong corporate successful progress, with focus on sustainability, and performed in I expect the component market to also remain development. We want to act culture with common values is of course the most important initiative line with our expectations. Our main business – network cameras – strained during 2018. as a model in sustainabilityin this area. continued to be a natural choice for customers requiring high quality, related matters, and as a stability and innovation. In addition to this, our new businesses, Security based on trust leading market player we have We have a continual dialogue with our stakeholders and during the including the acquisitions in 2016 of 2N, Citilog and Cognimatics, The positive development of the Internet of things good opportunities to influence year we carried out a global survey among our partners. This showed displayed rapid growth. and powerful online services is proceeding while those around us. We take that 82 percent of the respondents are highly satisfied with Axis. cybersecurity has naturally emerged as a highlong-term economic, social and Cognimatics’ solutions are now fully integrated with Axis’ offering. priority area. We are encountering these threats in environmental responsibility for Customers and partners are requesting more environmentally-friendly 2N's products complement Axis’ overall solution for IP door stations products, and they are imposing demands that we operate in a with communication solutions, IP-based network video door stations sustainable way. Axis is well-positioned to meet these demands. and speakers. In addition to this, all of Axis’ video-related releases and our new radar technology were well received in the market. We are continuing to take account of sustainability considerations in our business and are striving to reach our sustainability goals, which Successful Finding solutions in new connections include reducing our environmental impact, having an attractive and I have high expectations from our investment in IP audio. This safe workplace defined by equality and diversity and having an ethical includes horn speakers and background music speakers in stores and approach in all our business relationships. In this way, we are creating other public environments. The many millions of speakers in such progress, sustainable products and solutions for a smarter and safer world. environments around the world today are usually traditional analog installations that offer poor flexibility. The potential to replace these with IP speakers may be compared to the shift from analog to with focus on Growing to meet the future All in all, Axis is operating in a world, which is undergoing strong and network cameras ten years ago. sustainability rapid change, where globalization is occurring in parallel with signs of protectionism in key markets. In these circumstances, it is encouraging Taken together, our broader range is generating new opportunities to be able to report a sales growth in local currencies close to 15 to develop overall solutions in close collaboration with our percent. In profitability terms, we are in line with the previous year, customers. This is a long-term strategy where we aim to listen to which implies stable margins and sound long-term profitability. and collaborate directly with customers, without compromising our successful business model with partners and distributors. Axis’ organization is growing with the expanding business volume. Innovation, quality and an increasingly solution-focused offering are various ways in different parts of the world. In the EU, comprehensive how our operations impact our stakeholders and we act in an ethical, During the year, we welcomed about 250 new employees to Axis. creating value that is safeguarding Axis’ leading position in a market sets of regulations are on the way that aim to protect the privacy of responsible and transparent way in our business relationships. Roughly speaking, these employees are equally divided between characterized by intense competition. individual citizens and consumers, and to improve the protection of research & development and sales. critical social functions, such as energy supplies and cybersecurity Our sustainability work and our sustainability strategy are based on The market situation is favorable. Demand for digital security infrastructure. the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of environment, Looking ahead towards 2018, Iexpect a market with continued strong solutions shows no sign of slowing down. The market for the Internet labor, human rights and anti-corruption. We signed the UN Global demand for our security products and solutions, which means that of things is generally showing a positive development. Unfortunately, The new regulations and stricter standards are essentially positive for Compact in 2007 and since then its principles have provided guidance Axis will continue to grow in terms of sales, innovation, new releases, a consequence of this is longer delivery times from our component Axis’ business but they are making great demands on our organization. for how we conduct our sustainability work. Through our sustainability continued recruitments and further development of our partner suppliers. Consolidation of the supplier market in recent years has not We have to handle the inherent conflict between society’s need efforts, we contribute to the UN’s sustainable development goals. network. 10 Annual report Axis operations and financial goals Business concept Financial goals Axis enables a smarter and safer world by Axis is a growth company with an ambition to creating solutions that combine intelligent maximize revenue growth with an operating technology with high-quality products margin above 10 percent. The current yearly and services. As the industry leader in growth ambition is 15 percent. network video, Axis drives development and continuously innovates to provide its customers with the benefits of improved safety and optimized business performance. Carried out in close cooperation with a global network of partners. 12 Annual report Vision Innovating A for a smarter, safer world. smarter, safer world Mission Together, we pioneer Axis challenges conventions and re-imagines security and business intelligent network optimization. This is a natural part of the company’s DNA. With curiosity and open minds, Axis develops connected solutions based on sight, sound technology and analytics to unlock hidden potential. As the industry leader in network video, Axis’ portfolio of today extends far beyond cameras, covering a creating unique whole new world of application areas, and there is much more to come. By combining intelligent technology and human imagination, Axis adds possibilities for new dimensions of insight, empowering people to interpret, predict and respond. Together with partners, Axis strives to shape the future, making partners, end users it smarter and safer than it was before and is today. and employees. 14 Annual report Success built on breadth and depth Axis is driving the development of network security solutions while the company is broadening its offering to include more areas, in order to create more value for the company's customers. The basis for this is a global market presence, long-term collaboration and continual development of innovative products, services and solutions. World-leading products are combined with local market knowledge through a broad network of partners and through Axis’ own global operations. This makes it possible for end users all over the world to benefit from solutions that brings enhanced security and new business possibilities. Axis’ strategy is based on three key cornerstones Axis identifies needs and requests through The development of the software that runs and – a global presence, sales via distributors and dialogue with partners and end customers and connects the security products is an important partners that are experts in their local markets, turns this into new innovation. In this way, the part of Axis’ innovation strategy. For Axis, it is and continual renewal and broadening of the overall offering can meet the needs of both large of great importance that the software is robust offering in the form of products and solutions. and small customers that can have different against hacking and a lot of effort goes into preferences depending on local variations in training of partners and customers so that Axis’ Global Stronger Smart, innovative different markets. solutions are used safely. market partner products and presence network solutions Axis has built up a market presence with its Long-term and loyal partnerships enable mutual Axis’ ambition as an industry leader and innovative own representatives in more than 50 countries exchange of competencies, a strong market force is to drive the rapid global development and through resellers in 179 countries, and presence and combined development of the of network security solutions. The offering Distributors is continuing to expand. The strategy is to market. This collaboration is being strengthened is continually broadened with new products, be a global market player while maintaining in line with Axis’ expanding offering, while accessories and overall solutions for customer a strong position in each market where the new partners are being added. New customer needs. As the market grows and matures, company operates. There is a strong focus segments, trends and business opportunities investments are continually being made to Resellers System integrators on strengthening the company’s presence are rapidly identified through open and close strengthen the overall offering and to assume in emerging markets. Meanwhile, continued dialogue in the partner network. greater responsibility for cybersecurity. investments are being made in order to get closer to end customers in more mature markets with the aim of creating innovative products and End customers solutions that meet changing customer needs. 16 Annual report 17 Axis market segments Enterprise Hyatt Hotels business With more than 700 hotels worldwide, Hyatt Hotels sought out a network video surveillance system, to more effectively protect its Axis’ largest segment consists of applications to create value guests and staff. Axis and its partner Milestone were responsible and enhance security for public environments such as cities, for a solution consisting of fixed and panoramic cameras that could airports, hospitals and universities. This segment is characterized be brought onto a powerful video management system along with by complex solutions where there are high demands for reliability further technologies such as access control and audio equipment. The and cybersecurity while ensuring flexible integration with other instant results from a move to IP video were major boosts in video security systems. quality and flexibility, for example configuration of cameras may now occur remotely. Medium Concón, Chile business The tourist resort of Concón on the coast of Chile was one of the places affected by a powerful earthquake and tsunami a few years ago. This is a fragmented segment with many different types of To better protect its citizens and visiting tourists, the city needed a end customers, including schools, stores and larger offices surveilance and warning system. Axis provided a system consisting of with 10-100 cameras and speakers. Axis has a broad range network cameras and loudspeakers, which now plays a vital role in the of solutions to meet the various needs in the segment. These event of natural disasters. Additionally, as a result of the installation may include advanced specially-designed overall solutions of Axis cameras and loudspeakers, Concón is also now able to prevent and standardized offerings. crime by rapidly identifying threats and alerting individuals via the speaker system. Small Pause Cat Café business Pause Cat Café, is a not-for-profit enterprise located in Bournemouth, This segment is characterized by smaller stores and offices with up England, where people and cats can enjoy each other’s company. to 10 cameras and speakers. The IP penetration rate here is lower With such a unique business model, the café owner needed to not than in the enterprise and medium business segments, which means only closely monitor the cats 24/7 to ensure their welfare, but also to that the growth potential is higher. Axis develops cost-efficient satisfy stringent compliance regulations set by the local council. With solutions for this segment, which is expected to grow faster than the AXIS Companion Line, in this instance consisting of five cameras, the market as a whole over the next few years, particularly in the the owner and nominated staff can check on the wellbeing and case of network speakers. whereabouts of the cats through mobile devices while the technology is contributing to improved security in general. 18 Annual report 5,000 4,495 4,000 Axis worldwide Americas 3,000 Axis is the market leader in North and Central America. The countries in these regions constitute Axis’ largest market where 2,000 Axis is driving the replacement of analog with digital technology, for example in the 1,000 audio and intercom fields. South America continues to have good potential where urbanization and IT development are driving Axis has more than 2,800 employees in more than 50 0 an increasing demand for network solutions. countries. In cooperation with a global partner network, 13 14 15 16 17 Axis can offer its products and services to customers in 179 countries. The global market is divided into the three regions Americas, EMEA and Asia. 3,500 Asia 12% 3,000 3,087 2,500 EMEA Axis has a leading position in EMEA. 2,000 The region is a fragmented market with considerable differences in demand between Americas 52% 1,500 Central Europe and the Middle East. While Europe is driven by the conversion market 1,000 and cybersecurity, demand in the Middle East has slowed down due to financial and 500 political turbulence with investment restraint as a consequence. 0 13 14 15 16 17 EMEA 36% Sales per region 2017 1,200 1,000 800 1,020 Asia China is the world’s largest market for 600 network video and has great potential along with the rest of Asia. There is strong interest 400 for city surveillance solutions in many parts of the region. Axis is continuing to invest here, to a large extent by increasing its local 200 presence and expanding the partner network. 0 13 14 15 16 17 20 Annual report Research and development Looking beyond expectation Three new explosionprotected camera models Radar technology as a complement to video surveillance 120 new products were released Axis should create value for its customers by being the most innovative supplier during 2017 of network security solutions, which imposes strict demands on the company’s R&D operations. Products and systems are evolving and becoming increasingly New thinking in sophisticated and technically advanced, and it is a critical competitive factor for collaboration 59 people Axis to improve simplicity and user-friendliness during installation and operation. completed thesis work at Axis R&D The product release rate continued to grow during about how new technologies will be applied and Axis’ offering is increasingly moving from product Within the framework of its R&D operations, Axis ELLIIT during 2017 2017. Some 120 new products in total were how Axis can solve customer problems in an offerings to solutions, and in this way different has extensive collaboration with universities and One of the research centers designated by the government for released in the market, including entirely new innovative way. comprehensive offerings are being developed for colleges around much of Sweden and within a strategic research. Participants include LTH, Linköping University, applications and better performance in existing customers. However, the products have a central number of different product areas. A list is provided BTH and Halmstad University. Axis has a representative on the solutions. Software development role in the solution offering. The broad offering also below of some selected examples of collaboration. Industrial Council. Within the software organization, development means that Axis must continually update and make A total of 59 students also conducted thesis work at Innovation and development imply staying one occurs within the software that is found in existing innovations within the entire product range. This various Axis departments during 2017. Software Center step ahead of the customers and continually products, but also within the applications that in turn requires a broadening of the skills among A large alliance of Chalmers University of Technology and testing and exploring what the market wants. bind together the solutions into complete systems. development staff. WASP – Wallenberg Autonomous Systems Program Swedish companies for research about rapid software Afterwards, this information is taken back to Innovation occurs in the form of technological This is a major research umbrella group including development and using data from users to control Axis in order to make changes based on customer advances on a small scale and also through larger IT security has become increasingly important in the Faculty of Engineering at Lund University their development. Axis connects internal needs. During 2017, Axis improved its innovation steps forward. A lot of innovation is about solving the market (read more on page 23). Internally, Axis (LTH) and Linköping University and the business development projects with this. 18% process in order to become quicker and more customer problems through a tailored and novel has worked in a secure way for many years, and community with Volvo, Saab and Kockums, financed of the group’s efficient. Updating of hardware products occurs at approach. much of the security thinking that characterizes by the Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation. An SOM – Smart Public Spaces sales were invested high speed, and Axis can rapidly meet the market cybersecurity is already part of Axis’ culture. In industrial doctoral candidate, partly financed by A research project financed by Vinnova. in research and demands. A large and key area of innovation is AI, artificial recent years, Axis has the increased the priority WASP, is employed at Axis. The doctoral candidate is Participants include Lund Municipality, the development intelligence, with several subareas such as deep of this area and has allocated significantly more researching how to control bandwidth in systems. City of Malmö, Trivector, Kraftringen and A natural channel for obtaining feedback learning and machine learning. One area in AI resources to cybersecurity because it has become LTH. Research into how smart cities and is via the mobile applications pertaining to that Axis has worked a lot with is video analytics. more important in the market. IoTaP – Internet of Things and People their infrastructure should look. Axis’ systems. There is already an existing This is a tool for performing better video analysis A research consortium with Malmö University and infrastructure for measurement and automatic and a technology which is broadly applied by the During the year, Axis established a software the business community in the region, including eHealth@LU feedback about how the products are used and company in many areas. It is an expanding area security group (SSG) and a security development Sony, E.ON and Dataductus. Axis is participating in Newly established platform for e-health research at user behavior. This is an easy and quick way to get where Axis is dedicating considerable resources model (SDM), which includes the entire method of projects about how cameras and sensors can work Lund University. 1,000 feedback that Axis is increasingly using. Similar for development and innovation. It is a system working for development of IT security. Technical together to produce information in order to help people feedback can also be obtained via the proprietary that can “teach itself”, for example in relation to security features involving encryption are only a people in office environments, for example to find applications. network load, where the system automatically small part of the overall solution when it comes the best workplace. SEK work with research and development at Axis, in Product development at Axis is carried out in guides customers if the load needs adjusting. The system learns what is normal behavior and reports to building secure products. The SDM controls how we develop products and complete systems ViaTech 1,486 M other words more than 30 was invested in percent of the group’s two areas: any deviations. In this way, it is possible to act so that they will be secure, particularly when Axis Vinnova-financed research project at the Blekinge research and employees Hardware development preventively and provide maintenance of products uses external code and if open source is used. It is Institute of Technology (BTH) where Axis in conjuncdevelopment Hardware development takes place for all of Axis’ and solutions directly to the customer. also important to ensure that customers receive tion with Ericsson provides advice about what BTH during 2017 hardware products. There is extensive innovation updates quickly and securely. should research and what experiments are suitable. 22 Annual report 23 Securing IT takes unbroken commitment IT security has gained an increasingly important role in society, and consequently for Axis and the company’s customers as Axis’ products and solutions are made to be part of a network. In recent years, Axis has developed a more focused strategy, provided additional staffing resources and has developed a structured process in order to able to offer increased security to the company’s customers when it comes to hacking over the Internet. Axis’ goal is to be the market’s most mature hacking. In larger organizations and companies, management is about what Axis does to reduce and also how the company uses its partners and company when it comes to IT security. The similar incidents may cause shutdowns, a lack of the risks of releasing products or systems with customers in order to increase understanding. company should be at the leading edge and confidence and large-scale financial losses. The possible weaknesses and the way that Axis acts Perhaps a solution does not exist at present, but handle incidents in the best way for the customer. risk of potential damage is greatest in the event of in order to reduce the risks when a weakness is through collaboration regarding various threats, Axis should help its customers to reduce their hacking of critical social functions, such as energy identified. Axis together with its partners and customers risks through training and high-quality products supplies and transport systems, where the general can develop a solution that solves the specific and services. And regardless of what it relates to, public may be affected. Since Axis’ offering is In recent years, Axis has handled incidents problem. Learning and cooperation can occur Axis should operate according to best practice to targeted towards small and large companies as according to a predetermined process with the through Axis Academy with both online and handle situations that arise. well as international organizations, Axis must be goal of providing answers and information within classroom training, lectures or workshops at able to adapt its IT security work depending on 48 hours. Among other things, it is important to industry seminars or through external blogs where Developments show it is not possible to the customer and the circumstances. The basis quickly classify the incident in order to decide how Axis publishes articles. Knowledge is built up in manufacture completely secure network products for Axis’ IT security operations is focused on three Axis should handle the communication. this way and everyone shares their know-how. for the long term. It is important to be constantly areas: protection, incident management as well as alert and perform continual updates. Axis has learning and cooperation Axis has produced a guide for how to strengthen The number of cameras in a system naturally plays developed processes for identifying possible a product, how to configure it and how it should an important role in IT security management. If weaknesses and also in order to continually Protection be installed and maintained, to make products there is only one or a few cameras, it is naturally improve them. Protection is about strengthening the security more secure. However, there is no such thing as easier to manage than if there are hundreds or of products and systems, such as password a completely secure product, especially if it is thousands of cameras, which requires carefully Handing IT security is about building confidence. management, updates of software and part of a network. It is only possible to continue prepared systematics and automation, for example Since it can be hard to assess and understand the configurations. The main challenge is not making it more secure than before through surrounding dispatch of updates and password potential threats of having systems connected installing the product in a secure way, but being various protective measures. managment. to the Internet, this causes concern for private able to maintain the security level over a longer individuals, companies and for society in general. period. New weaknesses are discovered and new When an incident is discovered transparency is AXIS Device Manager is a tool for customers to Increased reporting in the media has also created players enter the market, which increases the important and to take the situation extremely cost-effectively administer their security controls greater awareness. To avoid unnecessary concern, likelihood of external attacks. There are processes seriously and act quickly. It is also important to in the camera. Axis Connect is a service for smaller it is important to gain an overview of where the that Axis and the company’s suppliers and continually improve security surrounding products organizations, which includes various levels of real threats and risks lie. customers must follow and continually develop from third parties. Axis has therefore built up automation and basic configuration. Continuity updates around. external communication via a proprietary website. in cybersecurity also means ensuring that you Different types of organizations have different continually utilize and perform security checks, needs and different risk exposures. In small Incident management Learning and cooperation otherwise they will gradually break down. companies it is usually the individuals running the Despite the fact that everything has been done to Security can only be achieved if all of the involved business who are affected by possible incidents, maintain the best possible protection, weaknesses parties collaborate. Learning means how Axis’ when vulnerabilities in systems are subject to can arise that may be exploited. Incident organization learns and becomes more mature, 24 Annual report 25 Axis’ risk management framework Board Management Corporate strategy Risk management Monitoring Risk assessment Axis is an international group with operations and customers all over the world and is Internal thus exposed to many different risks. The group’s risk management aims to minimize control the risks but also to ensure that opportunities are utilized in the best way in order to facilitate continued strong growth and business expansion. During 2017, Axis took the decision to formalize its risk management work. The risk Risk Description of risk Management of the risk framework’s connection with the internal control and follow up was clarified. Axis External risks has already implemented an internal control framework based on COSO (Committee Natural disasters Natural disasters or accidents, which affect Axis, Axis’ suppliers, distributors or Axis is well-insured and has effective processes in place and of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission) with well-documented and accidents partners can impact Axis negatively. agreements with suppliers in different regions for redundancy and diversification of risks. controls, which are tested annually. During 2018, risk assessment will continue to be Market Market development Market development performed in relevant parts of the organization. development As a leading player in the network camera market, Axis is benefiting from contiAxis is broadening its customer offering through acquisitions and innovative proand competitive nued global market growth. A global market downturn would impact Axis negaduct development and is establishing a presence in new geographical markets. situation tively. Axis carefully monitors global trends in order to take necessary measures when conditions change. Axis risk management framework sustainability perspective. The risks are divided manager level. Management and coordination of Competitive situation Competitive situation Axis’ risk management framework based on its into external, strategic and business-related risks. financial and insurable risks is mainly carried out by Greater competition due to the market attracting additional players increases the Market shares and market leadership can be maintained through careful competirisk that Axis will lose market shares. tive intelligence, a capable global sales force, close collaboration with partners as corporate strategy, aims to identify, evaluate External risks are those arising from events in the group’s finance department. Function-specific well as vigorous and rapid product development. and prioritize risks related to Axis reaching the company’s external environment and which risks in the company-wide functions, Finance, IT, HR its commercial goals. Both a top-down and a are outside the company’s influence or control. and Operations are handled and coordinated within Political risks Political instability Political instability bottom-up approach are employed. The owners of Strategic risks are defined as risks that can prevent each function. Risks in the legal area are handled by Political instability in countries where Axis operates can impact Axis’ global exAxis follows developments closely in the countries where the company operates. the various risks are identified in this process. Axis from reaching the company’s strategic goals Axis’ legal department in cooperation with external pansion negatively. or that prevent the company from working towards lawyers. The exposure to intellectual property risk in Acceptance of camera surveillance Acceptance of camera surveillance Axis’ department for governance and internal these goals. Business-related risks are those that the patents area is managed by Axis’ specialists, in Less acceptance of camera surveillance and more privacy questions linked to this There are currently no known plans to Axis for significant changes with regard to control manages, follows up and evaluates the may result in losses due to inadequate or failed collaboration with external lawyers and advisors. can have a negative impact on Axis. laws or restrictions in the markets where Axis operates. Axis continually strives to monitor legislation in the area and to communicate the benefits of camera surrisks, in consultation with other departments and internal processes, human errors or defective veillance for a safer and more secure world. functions. Annual follow up and risk updates are systems. The list below shows identified risks, in no Strategic risks performed by group management, which takes particular order of importance. The list does not Risk related to Axis’ tendency to supplement its offering with new products and overall solutions, Axis recruits personnel, develops solutions and conducts a dialogue with its partners decisions regarding measures and handling. Annual The work on identifying, handling, following up claim to be exhaustive. broadening the can imply an increased risk when this occurs through entry into new markets with about new forms of collaboration, for sales of the company’s expanded offering. reporting occurs to the board, which handles the and evaluating the risk exposure that the group customer offering greater demands for adaptation and development. risks. is subject to is continually ongoing, at a group-, Risk of obsolete A lack of innovation could make Axis’ technology obsolete. Axis works in a focused way with research and development. More than 18 percent regionaland local level. External and strategic technology of the group’s sales were invested in R&D in 2017. Axis’ strong corporate culture, defined by an entrepreneurial spirit, contributes to a powerful climate of innovation. Risks risks are mainly handled at group management Customer Axis’ continued success depends on customers being satisfied with Axis’ products, Axis regularly conducts customer surveys among distributors, partners and end Risks are identified based on Axis’ overriding and board level. Business-related risks are primarily satisfaction risk solutions and support. If customer satisfaction falls, it would impact Axis negacustomers in order to listen to customers and implement improvements in accorstrategy, incorporating both a business and handled at group management and regional tively. dance with customer expectations and needs. 26 Annual report 27 Risk Description of risk Management of the risk Risk Description of risk Management of the risk Reputation risk If Axis is not perceived as a reliable business partner or employer due to the fact Axis works actively with business ethics, IT security and compliance. Axis evaluPersonal integrity If Axis cameras are used in a way that violates personal integrity and human End users are responsible for how surveillance cameras are utilized and for how that Axis as a company, the company’s employees, suppliers or partners do not act ates and continually updates internal processes and controls, performs supplier rights, it can impact Axis and its stakeholders negatively. video material is stored. Axis is careful with its choice of partners and informs its ethically and sustainably in all respects, it could impact Axis and its stakeholders audits and informs and trains its employees and partners. partners to ensure as far as possible that network cameras and solutions are innegatively. stalled and used correctly, that video material is protected and stored securely and that personal integrity is safeguarded. Technological functions enable anonyBusiness-related risks mization and functionality restrictions. Risks in the Environmental impact, working conditions, human rights and corruption Environmental impact, working conditions, human rights and corruption Legal risks and New and stricter legislation New and stricter legislation supply chain Environmental impacts occur in all manufacturing processes, including energy All Axis’ suppliers shall comply with laws, regulations and Axis’ Supplier Code of compliance If Axis does not comply with relevant legislation, the company may be subject to Axis agrees to comply with relevant applicable legislation nationally and interrelated to consumption, hazardous waste and carbon emissions. Risks for the employees Conduct. This includes having control of environmental impacts, fighting corcompany fines and subpoenas, which may affect Axis in a negative way. nationally. The company follows the development of new relevant legislation and environmental include the working environment and working conditions. Overtime implies a risk ruption, ensuring good working conditions and that no form of child or compuladjusts products and operations to new requirements. Examples of control in this impacts, working to employee health and a product risk in respect of quality. If human rights are sory labor occurs. Suppliers should be ISO 14001 certified or have a management respect are the company's export compliance program, ongoing analysis of comconditions, violated and corruption occurs, it may impact Axis and its stakeholders negatively. system in accordance with ISO 14001. Suppliers are initially evaluated using a petition law and internal training in competition law issues. Axis also collects exhuman rights and self-assessment form and Axis conducts regular audits to ensure that suppliers ternal expertise in different legal areas. corruption meet the requirements in the Supplier Code of Conduct. In Axis Supplier Academy, suppliers are trained in relation to sustainability questions. If Axis breaches any country’s export controls or competition law rules, this may Internal frameworks for control, an Export Compliance program, an anti-trust poresult in fines and affect Axis negatively. licy, thorough processes and controls, Trade Compliance Department meetings, Conflict minerals Conflict minerals training and external advice help to ensure compliance. If conflict minerals, in other words gold, tantalum, tin or tungsten, which finance Axis has a structured process for ensuring that the minerals used by suppliers conflicts, are found in components for Axis products, it can impact Axis and its and subcontractors are not conflict minerals. All suppliers have undertaken to Intellectual Axis is party to various disputes as part of its day-to-day business operations, inThe exposure to intellectual property risk in the patents area is managed by Axis’ stakeholders negatively. have a process in place for ensuring that conflict minerals are not used. Suppliers property risks cluding in the patent field. Costly and protracted disputes can impact Axis specialists, in collaboration with external lawyers and advisors. shall also control their own supply chains and inform Axis if conflict minerals are negatively. Axis conducts an active patent strategy in order to safeguard investments in core found. technology and intellectual capital. Axis currently holds 333 active patent and registered design families. Environmental The operations’ environmental impact The operations’ environmental impact risks Transports, energy consumption in the operations and business trips give rise to Axis’ environmental policy prescribes that Axis shall minimize environmental imBusiness ethics Corruption Corruption environmental impacts and emissions run the risk of damaging water, air and pacts in its product lifecyles and throughout the entire value chain. Awareness is If Axis’ personnel, suppliers, distributors and partners involve themselves with briAll employees and the board shall comply with Axis’ Code of Conduct, anti-corland. Unless Axis helps to reduce the operations’ environmental impact, it can imraised among employees through environmental training. bes or another type of corruption, or in another way act unethically, it may impact ruption policy and insider policy. Employees shall sign the anti-corruption policy pact Axis and its stakeholders negatively. Axis is streamlining logistics flows and has clear goals for reducing carbon emisAxis and its stakeholders negatively, as well as potentially constitute a violation and participate in anti-corruption training. Axis also has a whistleblower and insions from transports and reducing energy consumption from the operations. of the law. quiry function, an e-mail address which employees can write to and address quesAxis uses carbon offsets for business trips and encourages less travel. tions relating to corruption and report suspected cases of irregularities. Product environmental impact Product environmental impact Unethical context Unethical context The risk of overutilization of finite resources is affected by the design and choice Axis strives to increase the proportion of recycled material in its products. Design If Axis’ cameras are used in an unethical context, it may impact Axis and its Axis’ personnel participate in training. Axis informs it partners, in order to ensure of materials. Unless Axis helps to reduce the products’ environmental impact, it regulations encourage environmentally friendly design. stakeholders negatively. as far as possible that its products and solutions are installed and used properly. can impact Axis and its stakeholders negatively. Risks connected Corporate culture Corporate culture Hazardous material Hazardous material to the workplace, The corporate culture is an important factor behind Axis’ successful performance. Axis works systematically on strengthening its corporate culture and on reinforIf Axis’ products contain substances that are hazardous to health and the enAxis lists hazardous substances, which are not permitted and substances where employees and If Axis does not succeed in retaining its unique corporate culture, it can adversely cing its core values, for example through training, during kickoffs, meetings, revironment or Axis’ environmental performance is poorer than the competitors or use shall be restricted. Axis checks the material content in its products in order talent supply affect the company’s future success. cruitments etc. Axis does not meet customer requirements concerning materials, it would impact to ensure that requirements are met. Axis is working proactively on phasing out Axis and its stakeholders negatively. hazardous materials from its products. Axis also has a goal of offering products, Talent supply Talent supply which are free from brominated and chlorinated flame retardants. Axis is growing strongly. If Axis does not manage to attract and retain talented Axis has a very careful recruitment process, including recruitment training for personnel in order to reach its goals, it would impact Axis negatively. all managers. Axis offers good career and training opportunities and competitive Energy consumption Energy consumption working conditions. Product use implies energy consumption that gives rise to environmental impacts Axis is working to develop more energy-efficient products and solutions, while and emissions that run the risk of damaging water, air and land. Unless Axis helps maintaining functionality. Lack of diversity, equality and discrimination Lack of diversity, equality and discrimination to reduce energy consumption, it can impact Axis and its stakeholders negatively. A lack of diversity and too homogenous a workforce can mean that personnel are Axis conducts activities and initiatives in order to promote increased diversity and Material Shortages of components and input materials can have a negative impact on Axis. In order to minimize risks in the supply chain, Axis works with several subconnot quite as innovative or dynamic as they could be. If employees or jobseekers equality and to fight discrimination. The grandfather principle applies during retractors that are equally important from a competency and capacity perspective. cannot be afforded the same opportunities due to gender, ethnicity, religion, sexcruitment and salary process. An equality analysis of salaries in Sweden is perforual orientation, age or other factor, apart from possibly constituting a violation of med. All employees and the board shall follow the company’s diversity policy, equQuality and Product quality helps to ensure continued satisfied customers and safe handling Axis works to ensure the highest possible quality in its products and has a well the law, it may impact Axis and its stakeholders negatively. ality policy and Code of Conduct. product safety and use of the products. Defective product quality, which can cause injuries to pedeveloped process for handling product defects. ople, the environment or property, can impact Axis and its stakeholders negatively. Leadership Leadership Technical risks Defects in Axis’ IT and business systems could impact Axis’ operations negatively. Axis has well tested systems and processes for follow up and control. If Axis fails in its leadership succession planning, it would affect Axis negatively. Axis has a number of management training courses, policies and action plans in IT security and Ensuring good IT security in products and solutions is crucial in protecting custoIn Axis’ research and development operations, great importance is attached to order to strengthen leadership and future succession planning. protection of mer privacy during incidents. If Axis’ products are not perceived as safe, it can improducing very safe products and solutions. In addition, Axis works continually Occupational If occupational accidents or other types of illheath occur at the workplace, besiAxis works sytematically on creating a safe and pleasant working environment. customer privacy pact Axis and its stakeholders negatively. with training of partners and end customers in relation to how products, soluhealth and safety des being negative for the individuals concerned and potentially constituting a viThere are safety committees in Sweden and regular safety committee meetings tions and services should be installed and used safely. When defects are discoveolation of the law, it may affect Axis negatively. are held. Axis carries out safety and fire prevention training, working environment red, Axis has an organization and routines in place to immediately take corrective training for managers and offers occupational healthcare. All employees follow measures. policies such as Axis’ global working environment policy etc. 28 Annual report 29 The share The share’s performance in 2017 Dividend represented 99.0 percent (99.2) of the number of Axis was listed in 2000 and since January 1, 2013 Axis’ majority owner Canon Inc has informed outstanding shares in terms of capital and votes. Shareholders December 29, 2017 Trend in share capital is part of the Large Cap segment on the Nasdaq the company’s board of directors that Canon The proportion of shareholders resident outside Number of shares Share capital and votes Year Number of shares Nominal amount (SEK) Share capital (SEK) Stockholm exchange. The final price paid on Inc at the 2018 Annual General Meeting (AGM) Sweden was 6.9 percent (127 persons), with a Canon Inc. 60,175,282 86,6 % 2000–2004 68,900,000 0.01 689,000 December 29, 2017 was SEK 339.90 (340.60). The will vote that no dividend shall be paid to the combined shareholding of 99.5 percent. The BNYMSANV RE GCLB RE BARCLAYS 2,521,868 3,6 % 2005 68,925,000 0.01 689,250 highest market price, SEK 380.00, was recorded shareholders. In light of this information, Axis’ largest shareholder countries were Japan, UK and CAPITA 2006 69,252,700 0.01 692,527 on January 17. The lowest market price of the board of directors and President have decided not Austria. The proportion of shareholders resident RAIFFEISEN BANK INTERNATIONAL AG 2,396,000 3,4 % 2007 69,372,200 0.01 693,722 year, SEK 323.00 was recorded on March 15. to propose any dividend at the 2018 AGM and in Sweden was 93.1 percent (1,708 persons) with BARCLAYS CAPITAL SECURITIES LTD 961,805 1,4 % 2008 69,373,700 0.01 693,737 The number of outstanding shares amounted to that the earnings at the disposal of the AGM shall a combined shareholding of 0.5 percent. SSB CLIENT OMNIBUS AC OMO7 859,250 1,2 % 2009 69,375,700 0.01 693,757 69,461,250 on December 31, 2017. The total share be carried forward. Övriga 2,547,045 3,8 % 2010 69,461,250 0.01 694,612 Employee stock option program turnover on Nasdaq Stockholm during the period Totalt 69,461,250 100,0 % 2011 69,461,250 0.01 694,612 Total yield Axis has no outstanding stock option programs. January 1, 2017 December 31, 2017 amounted 2012 69,461,250 0.01 694,612 Total yield refers to the real performance of an to 0.2 million shares (1.4). This is equivalent to a Financial information 2013 69,461,250 0.01 694,612 equity investment and consists of alteration in turnover rate of 0.3 percent of the total number Axis’ ambition is to continually provide the stock 2014 69,461,250 0.01 694,612 price including reinvested dividends. Axis’ total of shares. The average number of shares traded market, shareholders and other stakeholders 2015 69,461,250 0.01 694,612 yield for 2017 was 0.1 percent. The annual total per day during the period amounted to 721 to a with correct, consistent and relevant information 2016 69,461,250 0.01 694,612 yield has amounted to 18.7 percent over the past value of SEK 0.2 M. The market capitalization on with the aim of increasing understanding of 2017 69,461,250 0.01 694,612 five years. December 31, 2017 amounted to SEK 23,610 M the company. Financial information is mainly (23,659). Ownership provided in interim reports, year-end reports and At year-end, Axis had 1,835 registered annual reports. Major events that can materially Ownership December 29, 2017 Per-share data shareholders (1,726). The largest individual impact Axis’ business are communicated via 2017 2016 Holding Number of Number of Holding Votes Market value shareholders at year-end were Canon Inc with press releases to the media, capital market and shareholders shares (%) (%) (SEK ’000) Profit after financial items, SEK 14.55 12.73 86.6 percent of the share capital, followed by other stakeholders. Printed versions of interim 1–500 1,557 163,213 0.23 0.23 55,590 Cash flow, SEK 9.78 -2.27 BNYMSANV RE GCLB RE BARCLAYS CAPITA reports and the annual report are distributed to 501–1,000 88 70,838 0.10 0.10 24,127 Shareholders’ equity 44.28 33.87 with 3.6 percent and RAIFFEISEN BANK shareholders upon request. Press releases, interim Share price at end of period, SEK 339.90 340.60 1,001–5,000 60 127,274 0.18 0.18 43,350 INTERNATIONAL AG with 3.4 percent. The reports, year-end reports and annual reports are Price/equity, percent 767.6 1,006 5,001–10,000 6 49,679 0.07 0.07 16,921 combined holdings of the ten largest owners available on the company’s website www.axis. Dividend paid, SEK 0.92 0.64 10,001–15,000 0 0 0.00 0.00 0 com in Swedish and English in accordance with P/E-ratio 32 37 15,001–20,000 2 38,042 0.05 0.05 12,957 the regulations of the stock exchange. Result, SEK 10.59 9.20 20,001– 13 69,012,204 99.35 99.35 23,505,557 Number of outstanding shares (thousands) 69,461 69,461 Total 1,726 69,461,250 100.0 100.0 23,658,502 Average number of shares (thousands) 69,461 69,461 30 Sustainability report Sustainability report 2017 Significant events during the year > Almost all employees renewed the agreement where they undertake not to accept bribes or participate in any other type of corruption and received training about what is implied by the anti-corruption policy > A global survey among partners was completed, which showed that 82 percent of respondents were very satisfied with Axis > New environmental goals were drawn up > Several new PVC free camera models were developed such as the AXIS M2026, a number of variants of the AXIS P3327 series, and the AXIS Q3517 series > Improvements were initiated regarding energy consumption in the product use phase > New carbon offsetting project in Uganda for forestry development at a local level > New goals for supplier audits > Tightening of Supplier Code of Conduct > A new global diversity policy was drawn up > New goals were adopted for anti-discrimination, health and safety in the workplace and for greater equality and diversity > Initiatives to train women in technology and to promote greater interest in technology among girls 32 Sustainability report 33 Sustainability strategy, governance and organization Sustainability is an important and natural part of Axis’ operations, where the company’s innovative solutions contribute to a smarter and safer world. Axis takes long-term responsibility in relation to end customers, distributors, partners, suppliers, employees, investors and owners and also takes a social responsibility. As a leading market player, Axis acts from a Framework Sustainability project group position of strength and has good opportunities to The sustainability work and strategy are based The Sustainability project group is responsible for influence those around it in sustainability matters. on the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the development of sustainability initiatives and Axis strives to be the driving force in the industry when it comes to technological innovations as the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Axis signed the UN Global activities in various areas, and has operational responsibility for the sustainability reporting. The About Axis’ well as business ethics. Compact in 2007 and its principles have provided guidance for how Axis conducts its sustainability group is composed of representatives from the following functions: Human Resources, Sales, sustainability report Sustainability strategy work ever since. For a list of the ten principles, Quality and environment and Communication. Sustainability is an integrated and natural see page 78. Axis also supports the UN’s global The Sustainability project group is led by the part of Axis business strategy and operations. Sustainable Development Goals. Corporate Communications Manager. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The sustainability report The company takes long-term environmental, also constitutes the company’s Communication on Progress report to UN Global Compact. Axis has produced social and economic responsibility and acts in Axis follows all applicable national and Environmental council sustainability reports according to GRI’s (Global Reporting Initiative) guidelines since 2010. an ethical, transparent and responsible way in international laws and guidelines such as the Axis’ Environmental Council works with overall relation to its target groups. Axis’ goal is to take Swedish Corporate Governance Code. Axis has a environmental questions and initiates projects The sustainability report contains the economic, environmental and social topics, which are most important sustainability into consideration in all business number of policies, including a code of conduct, aimed at minimizing Axis’ environmental for Axis and the company’s stakeholders and where the impacts are greatest, the topics' boundaries and a processes and to promote sustainable conduct in which all employees and the board shall follow. impacts and integrating environmental description of the Management Approach. The sustainability report covers the 2017 fiscal year. The entire group the entire value chain. Axis’ Code of Conduct defines the values and aspects into the product development process. is covered, including Citilog, 2N and Cognimatics that were acquired in 2016, unless otherwise stated. Date of guidelines upon which Axis conducts its business. The Environmental Council is composed of the most recent report is March 30, 2017. Axis publishes its sustainability report annually. It is not externally Axis strives to minimize its climate impact, pursue representatives from the following functions: audited. good working conditions and also oppose corrupGroup management ensures that business is R&D, Quality and environment, Product As of the fiscal year commencing after 31 December 2016, large companies shall establish a sustainability report tion and violations of human rights. This work is conducted in a responsible way and in accordance management, Communication and Operations and according to the Annual Accounts Act chapter 6,11§. The sustainability report shall contain the sustainability conducted through sound corporate governance. with good business ethics, the Code of Conduct, representatives from group management. information needed for understanding the company's development, position and results and the impact of the policies and management systems. business, including information on environmental, social, employees, human rights and anti-corruption issues. Axis creates value for its stakeholders and makes Social responsibility council This sustainability report constitutes the group's and the company's statutory sustainability report. a positive contribution to society by developing Each department is responsible for the The Social responsibility council drives innovative solutions for a smarter and safer sustainability work in its unit. This work is sustainability efforts in the social responsibility world. Axis takes long-term responsibility and coordinated by the Environmental Council and the area. It sets goals, is responsible for following UN’s Global Sustainable Development Goals creates value by paying tax and investing in social Council for Social Responsibility together with the up targets, has an advisory and decision-making Axis supports Agenda 2030 and the UN’s 17 Global Sustainable Development Goals, which were adopted initiatives in the markets where the company Sustainability Project Group. role and also promotes cooperation between by the UN in 2015, and the company is striving to contribute to these goals. Axis has analyzed these operates, creates job opportunities, offers a secure various departments on questions such as goals and has identified the following goals that the company is actively contributing to through its workplace with competitive employment terms, The steering group for sustainability has overall working environment, diversity, anti-corruption sustainability work: pays for material and services to suppliers and responsibility for sustainability matters, in and sponsorship etc. The functions included creates value for shareholders and investors. dialogue with the board. in the council are representatives from group Strong and enduring profitability and financial management, Global sales, Human Resources, stability ensure that Axis can continue to be a The sustainability organization R&D, Communication and Legal. long-term and stable business partner for its Sustainability steering group distributors, partners and suppliers. The Sustainability steering group has overall Safety committees in the health and safety area responsibility for sustainability questions. This Axis has two health and safety committees in Thorough environmental work shall minimize Axis’ includes ensuring that Axis’ Code of Conduct Sweden. One safety committee is composed of direct and indirect environmental impacts, which and other policies are implemented in the the managers of each CLC (Configuration and helps to protect local and global ecosystems. organization as well as monitoring and follow-up Logistics Center), a trade union representative, a Product development, manufacturing, distribution of the work and activities conducted. The safety representative and a representative from and sales shall occur in a sustainable way, where Sustainability steering group is mainly composed Human Resources. The other safety committee environmental impacts shall be limited in these of representatives from Axis’ group management, is composed of representatives from Facilities, phases and when the cameras are used. including the President. Human Resources and a safety representative. Axis participates in the above organizations. 34 Sustainability report 35 Stakeholder dialogue ONG -TERM RE S L SPO KE NS Axis takes a long-term responsibility for how its operations affect TA s Di I ee st Y employees, distributors and partners, end customers, suppliers, investors, AX oy & paribut LIT owners and the local community in the markets where Axis operates. Axis IS pl rtn o BI conducts a continual dialogue with its stakeholders aimed at building Em me ntal responsibili ty e rs s long-term relationships, increasing understanding of what is important for on r vir stakeholders and to continually improve its sustainabilty efforts. En ic Axis on om S u p p li e r s E Ec values: custon ders Respo responsibility Act as one. sin Stakeholder dialogue 2017 m Always open. Stakeholder Dialogue Key questions n sible b u Think big. group ess on it c du bil y ct si spon rs to r Employees Web survey with all employees in companies acquired in >> Occupational health and safety 2016, employee survey, performance reviews, continual >> Non-discrimination of employees So S ocial re s e I n v w ne s dialogue with trade unions, in-depth interviews about Axis’ >> Child labor and compulsory labor cie ty &o sustainability work, Intranet, meetings etc. >> Customer satisfaction Distributors Web-based survey with distributors and partners in all regions >> Customer satisfaction and partners where Axis has operations, training, webinars, events, in>> Market presence depth interview about Axis’ sustainability work, newsletters >> Protection of customer privacy and IT security etc. >> Anti-corruption >> Child labor and compulsory labor End customers Continuous evaluations, newsletters. >> Energy consumption in the products >> Non-discrimination of employees >> Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions >> Personal integrity among users of Axis’ products Suppliers In-depth interviews about Axis’ sustainability work, training, >> Evaluation of environmental impacts, human rights Axis aims to conduct a regular and open dialogue UN Global Compact, key external trends and input for the company’s materiality analysis. webinars, supplier audits. and labor law and supply chain conditions >> Child labor and compulsory labor with its stakeholders: employees, distributors challenges, its own strategy and its risks and goals. Further dialogues were conducted in the form >> Customer satisfaction and partners, end customers, suppliers, investors of employee surveys, satisfaction surveys, >> Anti-corruption and owners and representatives of the local During the year, Axis conducted a web survey customer meetings, discussions and various >> Compliance with laws and regulations community and trade associations, in order to find among the employees in the companies Axis types of collaboration etc. Axis is a member of out what expectations stakeholders have of the acquired in 2016 regarding what expectations trade associations such as the Security Industry Investors and Meetings, board meetings, interim reports, annual report, >> Customer satisfaction company’s sustainability work and what questions they have of Axis’ sustainability work and what in Sweden, SIA (Security Industry Association) in owners annual general meeting, interview about Axis’ sustainability >> Compliance with laws and regulations they think are most important for Axis to work sustainability questions are most important the USA and ONVIF, which are good platforms for work. >> Product environmental impact with from a sustainability perspective. for them. The equivalent survey was conducted conducting dialogue and discussing important >> Energy consumption in the products among Axis employees and other stakeholder questions for the industry. >> Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions During 2017, Axis’ Sustainability Project Group groups during 2016. >> Energy consumption in own operations held internal workshops to plan how the dialogue See table “Stakeholder dialogue 2017” for more with the various stakeholder groups should be As part of its strategy to communicate with its information about the dialogue with each Society In-depth interviews about Axis sustainability work with >> Anti-corruption conducted. Both internal and external factors stakeholders and validate what questions are stakeholder group. representatives from local authorities and trade associations, >> Personal integrity were considered. Axis drew on the stakeholder important for these groups, Axis also conducted membership of local and international trade associations, >> Standards collaboration with universities, trade exhibitions and other >> IT security dialogues, which were conducted in previous in-depth interviews during the year with one or activities for students. >> Environmental impact from products and services years. Axis has also taken account of regulations two representatives of each stakeholder group. The >> Compliance with laws and regulations such as GRI (Global Reporting Initiative), interview responses provided Axis with valuable 36 Sustainability report 37 Economic responsibility Strong and enduring profitability and reaching financial goals are of central importance for Axis and for the company’s stakeholder groups and constitute the basis for the long-term sustainability efforts. Tax is an important part of Axis taking responsibility. Tax contributes to development of the countries where Axis has operations and Axis pays tax in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. Responsible business conduct Axis has long-lasting relationships with its distributors, partners and suppliers and this is a central part of the company’s business model. Close collaboration helps to ensure ethical conduct in all respects in the entire value chain. Read more on page 42. The key issues are: >> Anti-corruption >> Customer privacy and IT security >> Personal integrity among users of Axis’ products >> Customer satisfaction Materiality analysis Environmental responsibility Axis’ impact on and responsibility for the environment extends from a direct impact in its own operations to an indirect impact outside of the organization, related to manufacturing of the products and to energy consumption during the product use phase. Axis works to make improvements and to The materiality analysis is based on the outcome of the reduce environmental impacts in the entire value chain, with a focus on the areas where the company dialogues with the stakeholders and shows the most important has the greatest potential to exert an influence and make a difference. Read more on page 50. issues for Axis’ stakeholders and for the company. Axis focuses its sustainability efforts on the most important issues, and where The most important issues are: >> Materials it has the greatest impact. >> Energy consumption in the products >> Carbon footprint -Emissions The stakeholder dialogues provide Axis with principle of materiality, Axis also describes other -Energy consumption in own operations information about what economic, environmental areas in the report, which are of importance for -Transports and social issues are most important for the the operations. -Suppliers’ environmental impact company’s different stakeholder groups. For Axis, it is a miminum requirement to comply Social responsibility The results from the dialogues have been analyzed with applicable laws and the company will and weighed against what is most important and continue to report on whatever is required to Axis’ social impact and responsibility involves safeguarding human rights and ensuring good working where Axis’ economic, environmental and social comply with these rules – but the goal with the conditions in the company’s own operations and at suppliers. This also means that Axis shall take a impact is greatest. sustainability report is to raise the bar further. long-term responsibility to contribute to society in the markets where the company operates. Read Axis has signed the UN’s Global Compact, whose more on page 68. The materiality analysis was conducted by ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the Sustainability Project Group and was then environment and anti-corruption provide guidance The most important issues are: discussed in the Sustainability Steering Group, for how Axis should pursue its sustainability work. >> Occupational health and safety which is mainly composed of representatives from >> Diversity and equal opportunities for employees Axis’ group management. The materiality analysis Axis’ sustainability work is divided into the >> Non-discrimination of employees is validated every year. following focus areas: economic responsibility, >> Human rights and working conditions in the supply chain responsible business conduct, environmental Apart from the topics Axis reports on in its responsibility and social responsibility. sustainability report, in accordance with the 38 Sustainability report 39 Responsibility SubContract Resellers / End along the entire suppliers manufacturers CLCs AXIS Distributors System integrators customers value chain Anti-corruption Axis’ business model with long-lasting and close relationships with its partners has been – and is – very Customer privacy and IT security important for the company’s successful growth. The value chain extends from suppliers of components, and Personal integrity among users of Axis’ products contract manufacturers and sales through distributors and partners, such as resellers and system integrators, Customer satisfaction to end users of the company’s products. Materials Axis has six contract manufacturers, a large for Axis’ sustainability work only covers the Through long-term and close collaboration with number of strategic component suppliers all company’s own operations, Axis strives to ensure suppliers, distributors and partners, risks can Energy consumption in the products over the world and about 90,000 partners in 179 that suppliers, distributors and partners shall be minimized and the company can focus on countries. take an environmental, economic and social taking advantage of opportunities, for continued responsibility including working for good business innovation, global expansion and long-term Carbon footprint Axis’ indirect business model constitutes a ethics. The negative impact shall be minimized sustainable growth. core part of the company’s strategy. Sales of and risks handled at all stages in the value chain. Suppliers’ environmental impact Axis’ products and solutions take place via Key issues distributors that sell on to resellers and system For a description of how sustainability risks are The issues, which are most important from a integrators, that in turn sell to end customers. managed, see page 25. sustainability perspective impact all or parts of the Occupational health and safety This indirect business model means that the value chain. Axis has reviewed where the risks are direct responsibility for manufacturing, sales, Axis informs and regularly audits suppliers, and greatest from a sustainability perspective in the Diversity and equal opportunities for employees distribution and installation largely rests with trains and informs its distributors and partners. value chain and where the issues have the most suppliers, distributors and partners. This ensures that sourcing and development, impact. manufacturing, sales, distribution and use of the Non-discrimination of employees Axis is actively engaged in all parts of the value company’s products occur in as responsible a way chain. Even though the legal responsibility as possible. Human rights and working conditions in the supply chain The image illustrates where in the value chain the topics are relevant. 40 Customer cases Safety is first but efficiency is also very important security for residents and the time it takes for Axis donated thermal cameras, network horn for measuring and observing this natural Kotkaklubi also wants to inform and increase Increased safety and for the taxpayer, says Anthony Cox, Deputy emergency vehicles to arrive at an accident site speakers combined with scalable video analytics phenomenon regardless of the flow conditions. public awareness about the need to protect reduced carbon footprint Superintendent, Rock Hill, S.C., Schools. has decreased. The security system can also for surveillance and protection along the these nests, and to provide basic data to prevent traffic incidents, and the authorities can perimeter of the reserve. The cameras are adapted Tenevia’s software solution together with Axis decision makers for future legislation concerning Improved safety with significant costs and quickly resolve incidents that occur, regardless for outdoor surveillance and can handle poor network cameras, mounted above the surface of protection of biodiversity. Rock Hill Schools in South Carolina, USA, energy savings of whether it relates to a crime, a suspect that lighting conditions including darkness. the water, was installed at Météo-France’s Flood deployed Axis low light network cameras Safety has improved in the 27 schools, and fewer needs to be identified or if something happens in Forecasting Service (SPC) on the territory of the As it is forbidden to visit the birds nesting sites, for a “campus blackout” strategy to deter incidents have been reported. Meanwhile, energy public transport. As the nature reserve is in an isolated location SPC East Mediterranean waterways. The solution there is no other way to directly observe these vandalism and save energy. consumption has decreased, which has delivered there is no internet connection. Network is used for measuring the water height and species of birds than from a distance. large cost savings for the school district. Caen, France connectivity was enabled using solar panels to surface flow speed using images in real time. On average, 83,000 vehicles per day pass generate electricity and these were installed Discret video surveillance through the Calix viaduct at Caen. Almost 2,500 together with the network cameras, the analytics Météo-France has gained totally new possibilities Kotkaklubi allowed network cameras to be Sustainable solutions for incidents occur here each year, due to traffic jams, app Perimeter Defender and network horn to monitor water levels, and is better prepared installed, where the main camera unit is smart and safe cities accidents, wandering animals, etc. speakers. Axis visits the sanctuary regularly and to inform the public if there should be a risk concealed and only a small sensor unit is placed performs maintenance. for flooding. Météo-France can compare beside the birds’ nests. As the camera is barely Intelligent surveillance solutions contribReal-time image analysis allows detection measurements, and process and analyze images visible, the video surveillance is very discreet and ute to increased safety and security for alarms to be sent automatically to the operators. Effective surveillance system in real time. The solution provides a more precise the birds are not disturbed. citizens, companies and organisations, The operators can immediately take the right The installation makes surveillance of the nature and reliable interpretation of data. and can manage, monitor and improve measures, alert the police or other emergency reserve possible and saves rhino lives. The reserve The cameras and sensor units offer HD quality, traffic flows, control traffic lights to avoid vehicles when required and also inform road has gained a more effective warning system that – Providing flood management crisis supervisors can handle backlight and images with poor lines of vehicles, protect critical infrausers, other citizens and public organizations. detects intruders earlier. There have been threats with images of the situation in real time is a lighting conditions and are weather-proof. structure, provide alerts in emergency Since the smart surveillance system was installed, but so far no poachers have shot any rhinos. definite improvement, explains M. Martin, Rock Hill Schools was looking to upgrade its video situations and detect accidents quicker patrols’ intervention time has been cut in half and project manager at the East Mediterranean surveillance system while aligning with its efforts so that rescue personnel can arrive on precise information can be transmitted quickly to Flood Forecasting Service and MétéoFrance’s to save energy. Thus, the challenge for Rock Hill site promptly. Better affected users and public organizations. southeast interregional department. This solution was to find a video surveillance system that flood protection is appreciated by those of us who are links in the could produce high image quality and operate alert chain and by the community. If a town in effectively on a dark campus. Protection of rhinos Météo-France, the French meteorological the region is about to be flooded, having a view against poaching agency has gained improved of the sector(s) where the waterway is flooding is Sustainability is an important part of the overall possibilities to monitor water levels, and important for making decisions and managing the strategy at Rock Hill because it not only saves Axis is supporting South African national better inform the public if there should crisis more effectively. taxpayer money but also reduces the school sysparks and is helping to protect rhinos be a risk for flooding. tem’s carbon footprint and environmental impact. from poaching. See rare eagles and A team of administrators determined that a black storks in real time “campus blackout” approach was effective in Rare bird life in real time deterring crime and saving energy. However, Axis’ network video cameras make it Thanks to Kotkaklubis’ work and website, the quality of traditional video footage on a possible to see wild birds online in ornithologists from all over the world can observe dark campus can be an issue and decrease the Jihlava, Czech Republic Estonia in real time. Enthusiasts can the birds live, through video streaming, see them effectiveness of identifying perpetrators. The city of Jihlava decided to install a unified study eagles and black storks from a getting their nests ready, see young birds hatching network camera solution in the city, which has distance, without disturbing the wildlife. etc. Kotkaklubis’ work has spread to other bird Seeing clearly in the dark helped to solve crimes and violations of the law forums around the world. Rock Hill Schools installed Axis network and an overall security system has facilitated the The non-profit organization Kotkaklubi (the Eagle cameras in 27 schools with Lightfinder or Axis' administration of the city. The cameras have a club) studies, observes and works to protect – We have material for research, training, OptimizedIR technology that provides clear private masking function, which blurs faces and eagles and black storks. The aim is to ensure including civic information and basic data in images in near complete darkness without conceals some parts of the images, making it One of Météo-France's missions is to monithe continued survival of black storks as well as order to help protect the areas where the birds additional light sources. Axis’ Lightfinder possible to safeguard personal integrity. Axis donated network cameras and speakers in tor the flow of the waterways and to measure certain species of eagles in Estonia. are found, says Urmas Sellis, Kotkaklubi. It is technology enables surveillance cameras order to protect rhinos that are threatened with and anticipate flooding. The organization uses important that we share our experience with to produce high-resolution, color images in Vicente López, Argentina extinction in a sanctuary in Limpopo, South Africa’s hydrometry, observation and measurement with Kotkaklubi installed network cameras to make other enthusiasts to educate and increase the extremely low light; in as little light as 0.18 lux Vicente López in the northern part of greater northernmost province. About 100 rhinos live here. underwater flow sensors. it possible for the club themselves and other understanding of the protection needs of those (and sometimes less). Buenos Aires has installed more than 800 Axis Poachers arrive in helicopters with automatic interested persons to see the rare birds in real species and wildlife in general. network cameras in government buildings, along rifles to poach the desirable rhino horns. The This can be tricky, difficult and sometimes time, in order to study and learn more about the The system that had the best crime-deterring public roads, in public transport as well as in guards living in the sanctuary were not able to even dangerous because of how quickly floods life of the birds. capability was also very good with sustainability. emergency vehicles. This has led to increased protect the rhinos properly before. can arise. Météo-France wanted a solution 42 Sustainability report 43 Responsible business conduct Axis has long-lasting and close relationships with its distributors, partners and suppliers, which helps to ensure ethical business conduct in the entire value chain. All business relationships should be handled in a responsible, transparent, credible and consistent way. Axis works in a focused way on prioritizing Successful business model followed up and Axis’ policies are regularly employee surveys and discussions. Axis’ strong Rules about special export restrictions, capital market, Axis’ board adopted an updated sustainability issues and aims to increase Axis’s indirect sales model involves more than reviewed in order to reflect developments in the corporate culture and values contribute to sanctions and embargoes insider policy during the year. Due to suspicion awareness of them, not just in its own operations 90,000 partners in 179 countries. The direct sustainability field. openness, honesty and transparency. Special export restrictions apply to products, which of an insider offense in connection with the but also among the other players in the value responsibility for manufacturing, distribution, are intended for civilian use but that have such public offer made by Axis’ largest shareholder chain. Axis’ proactive approach in sustainability sales and installation largely rests with Axis’ Axis’ Code of Conduct Suppliers, distributors and partners properties that they can also be used for other Canon Inc. during 2015 for the shares in Axis, the issues is appreciated and positively received by suppliers, distributors and partners such as resellers Axis’ Code of Conduct establishes the values and All Axis’ suppliers are expected to sign and non-peaceful purposes. In addition to this, there Swedish Economic Crime Authority instituted the company’s stakeholders. For more information and system integrators. Axis communicates the guidelines on which Axis conducts it business and comply with Axis’ Supplier Code of Conduct, are also restrictions from time to time in relation three different indictments, but none of those about customer relationships, see page 49. importance of acting ethically and in a sustainable how the employees should act in business-related which is based on Axis’ Code of Conduct and to trading with certain countries through special indicted have been employed at Axis. Nor have the way generally, to all of the above parties. situations, internally and externally. The Code of the UN Global Compact’s ten principles. This sanctions and embargoes. Axis, which is covered by investigations directed any criticism towards Axis’ Conduct is based on the UN Global Compact’s ten includes requirements prohibiting any form of the rules on special export restrictions, sanctions handling of the insider issues which arose when Ethical policies and guidelines principles, the UN Declaration of Human Rights child or compulsory labor, ensuring good working and embargoes, monitors the development and the offer was made by Canon Inc. All business transactions and the International Labour Organization’s conditions, keeping a check on environmental application of these rules. During the year, Axis was Axis takes a holistic approach to involving Axis shall be conducted Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights impacts and fighting corruption. In those subject to an audit by US authorities in relation sustainability issues, has good in a responsible way. It is not just at Work. cases where suppliers do not sign Axis’ Code of to export of certain Axis’ products from the US to a matter of meeting requirements Conduct, but instead refer to their own Code of Mexico. The result of the audit during the year was knowledge of the issues that are under prevailing legislation such Employees Conduct, Axis has reviewed it to verify that the that Axis reached an agreement with the authority, material for the company, and also as anti-corruption laws and All employees, as well as board members, are requirements in Axis’ Supplier Code of Conduct which meant that Axis paid a fine for certain Axis has good processes for integrating sanctions and export controls, expected to follow the Code of Conduct, have are met. products that were exported to Mexico and for two these issues into the operations. but it is also about other rules an ethical approach and work according to cases of non-registration. The audit is expected to and regulations that Axis follows, Axis’ values. The watchwords are responsibility, Axis’ distributors and partners are encouraged to be completed in its entirety during 2018. Cecilia Alenius as well as Axis’ own ethical professionalism, openness and honesty. follow the requirements in Axis’ Code of Conduct Group CSR Officer guidelines such as the company’s Information about what is implied by our Code and are informed about what it implies. For Insider policy Securitas AB Code of Conduct and antiof Conduct is part of the introduction program more information about undertakings from Axis’ As part of its work on maintaining a high level corruption policy. Changes in laws for new employees. Compliance is ensured distributors and partners with regard to bribes and of ethics and ensuring that Axis maintains a and regulations are continually through internal controls, policies and guidelines, corruption, see page 45. good reputation in the eyes of the public and 45 Anti-corruption Axis has zero tolerance against all types of bribery and other forms of corruption. Axis works continually to advance its positions in its work on fighting corruption in both its own operations and in relation to distributors, partners and suppliers. Goals and target fulfilment Anti-corruption All employees shall maintain the very highest helps to clarify Axis’ standpoint both internally of Conduct. Employees can also communicate If this does not happen, the supplier is phased out standards when it comes to correct ethical and and externally. The policy covers all employees information about how they solved problems. and replaced. So far this has not occurred. Axis has zero tolerance against all types of bribery and moral conduct, in all business relationships. and the board, as well as consultants and other The aim of the e-mail function is to obtain other forms of corruption. persons who work on behalf of Axis. information if anything happens that may Almost all distributors have signed a supplement to In the business environment were Axis operates, it contravene the Code of Conduct, improve the the distributor agreement where they undertake to >> All employees, including the company is not possible to rule out that Axis employees can Recurrent training in anti-corruption is sharing of knowledge and create an understanding act according to applicable laws and rules relating management, shall sign an agreement to comply come into contact with corruption, both in the compulsory for the employees and almost all of what issues are relevant for employees. This to bribes and other types of corruption and to with Axis’ anti-corruption policy and participate company’s own operations and in relationships have particpated in web-based training. All new also helps to develop working methods for how follow Axis’ anti-corruption policy. For a distributor in training in what Axis’ anti-corruption policy with distributors, partners and suppliers and with employees should participate in training about Axis can further improve its work on ethical agreement to be renewed, the distributor must implies. All employees regularly participate in their customers. Axis therefore works actively to what is implied by Axis’ anti-corruption policy, questions, and contributes to continual training in have signed the supplementary agreement. If a training and sign the agreement again. identify and handle risks relating to conflicts of and sign an agreement where they undertake not ethical issues. distributor should breach the anti-corruption -During the year, almost everyone apart from interest, bribes, and other types of corruption, to accept bribes or participate in any other type of policy, the distributor agreement is not renewed. those who were not present at work due to a in order to protect both the individual and the corruption. All employees regularly participate in A description of the e-mail function and how So far this has not occurred. leave of absence, parental leave or long-term company. training and sign the agreement again. During the it works is available on the Intranet. The e-mail sick leave, signed it and participated in training. year, almost everyone apart from those who were address goes to representantives from Human The partners are expected to follow Axis’ In 2015, practically all employees also received Policy and training not present at work due to a leave of absence, Resources, Legal and the company management. anticorruption policy. All new partners at a training in the anti-corruption policy and Axis anti-corruption policy stipulates that all parental leave or because they are on longgold and silver level and all new Application signed the agreement. business relationships shall occur in a responsible, term sick leave, signed the agreement again and Policies and agreements for suppliers, Development and Technology partners agree to -No cases of bribery or other corruption were transparent, consistent and credible way and received training. During the year, the board has distributors and partners comply with Axis’ anti-corruption policy. If a identified during the year. Nor did the company that employees should not offer, accept or also signed the agreement again. Axis continually informs its suppliers in order to partner should breach the anti-corruption policy, become aware of any cases of corruption during participate in any activity that includes any form ensure that they act in accordance with the antithe partner agreement is not renewed. So far this 2015 or 2016. of corruption. Whistleblower and inquiry function corruption policy. For example, this occurs in the has not occurred. Axis continuously informs its Axis has an e-mail address that employees regular meetings that Axis has with its suppliers. partners to ensure that they act in accordance Nor does the policy allow employees to make can write to in order to get support and ask with the anti-corruption policy. For example, contributions to political campaigns. Donations questions relating to corruption as well as ethical The Supplier Code of Conduct includes zero this occurs at partner conferences, through web to charity and sponsorship must be carefully dilemmas and challenges, report suspected cases tolerance against bribes and corruption. If a seminars and in newsletters. documented and be in line with the company’s of irregularities concerning the company and supplier should breach the Code of Conduct, the sponsorship policy. The anti-corruption policy suspicions about conduct that violates the Code supplier gets a chance to implement improvements. 47 IT security and protection Personal integrity among users of of customer privacy Axis’ products Axis’ security solutions enable a smarter and safer world. Axis continually works and invests in different measures to ensure the best possible security in Use of surveillance solutions for increased security and protection as well as smart solutions, e.g. for traffic monitoring Goals its products and solutions, and in Axis’ own IT systems, in order to safeguard and for various types of intelligent analysis shall always and target fulfilment partners' and end customers' privacy. safeguard personal integrity. Customer privacy For Axis and the company’s partners, it is security have also gained a more prominent role stricter requirements regarding the handling of Use of cameras for increased safety and security them in order to ensure as far as possible that >> Axis shall handle customer privacy extremely important that customer privacy are in the dialogue with distributors and partners. personal data, among other things. Axis has carried also gives rise to discussions about a potential the company’s network cameras and solutions and personal integrity in a correct and handled correctly, by protecting information Axis has initiated work on becoming certified out extensive preparatory work during 2017 due to impact on personal integrity. Axis is extremely are installed and used properly, and that video secure manner. technically and having good ethics in relation to according to the ISO27001 information security the GDPR. All employees shall comply with Axis’ IT careful about protecting customer information material is protected and stored securely. When -During 2017, one product-related these questions. standard. This certification is expected to be security policy. and safeguarding personal integrity. partners and end users act in accordance with vulnerability was detected, that could affect customer privacy. As complete in 2018. Axis’ recommendations and guidelines and soon as it was discovered, Axis Ensuring good effective security with the aim Training and dialogue Use of security cameras can prevent and solve with national and international laws, the risk of immediately rectified the problem. of protecting customer information and being a Protected systems Axis trains its partners in the form of seminars crimes. A survey coordinated by LUSAX at Lund improper camera use is reduced. Axis had processes in place and reliable business partner are crucial for Axis’ longAxis’ network cameras and solutions are and workshops, and has produced instructional University and commissioned by Securitas, showed promptly informed all partners and term competitiveness. components in security systems. Axis works materials. Axis also offers targeted training to its a very positive attitude to security cameras: Technological innovations in network video enable customers that could have been preventively and strives to eliminate all types of installers to ensure that video surveillance system 90 percent of the general public in Sweden anonymization and functionality restrictions, affected. The Internet of Things, means that devices are vulnerability before an incident is likely to occur, installations are as safe as possible. are positive about the use of security cameras which increase personal integrity protection. -During 2016, one similar incident increasingly becoming interconnected, collecting regardless of whether it concerns the vulnerability on streets and squares (KANTAR SIFO, August Together with its partners, Axis has developed occurred. No such incident or and transferring data via the Internet. This creates of an individual camera or of a larger solution. At Axis’ partner meetings, questions relating to 2017). 83 percent of respondents stated that the advanced software solutions, which when complaints occurred in 2015. many advantages and business opportunities, but customer privacy and IT security in the company’s presence of security cameras in public places does implemented in surveillance systems, may be used also implies greater security risks, imposing new Axis conducts regular checks and evaluations to products are continually discussed. not violate their personal integrity. to further enhance data protection and to ensure demands on IT systems, products and solutions. ensure that customer information is handled and that the cameras only record what is necessary. stored securely, and works continually to further Handling of incidents during the year An overview of research from seven different Privacy masking may be used in order to protect Customers are also imposing stricter demands enhance security. Axis’ research and development Questions relating to customer privacy and studies shows that monitoring with security personal integrity. This automatically blurs faces that information is well protected, in particular department attaches the highest priority to personal integrity are dealt with immediately cameras can reduce the number of crimes by and hides some parts of the images and also to ensure continuity in their operations. Stricter security and works to ensure that software and by the company and taken extremely seriously. between 24 and 28 percent in public places and includes time restrictions for recording. legislation also means that customer privacy is interfaces are robust and maintain a high level of During 2017, Axis published six security bulletins metro stations in the inner city (Alexandrie, G. becoming an increasingly important question. security. due to the dectection of vulnerabilities that had (2017). Surveillance cameras and crime: a review Axis conducts a regular dialogue with its partners an impact on a number of Axis’ products and of randomized and natural experiments. Journal and trade associations about the need to Questions relating to IT security are taken The company’s products and solutions support solutions. Such publications, as well as software of Scandinavian Studies in Criminology and Crime safeguard personal integrity. extremely seriously by Axis and incidents are dealt encryption, IP address filtering and also enable user updates to correct the problem, occur immediately Prevention). with immediately. authorization protection and multi-stage logins. when vulnerabilities are discovered. Axis has By carefully following national and international processes in place and in every case could inform Secure use and storage laws, applying sector-specific best practice Work during the year Axis complies with national and international all partners. End users are responsible for how surveillance and using technical innovations, the least During the year, Axis further increased its focus legislation and rules and will adapt to the EU’s new cameras are utilized and for how video material possible impact on personal integrity is ensured. on IT security and is working with the issue both General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which is stored, which are the two most important Meanwhile, customers can still obtain the internally and externally. Questions relating to IT enters into force in May 2018. The GDPR will mean aspects of personal integrity. Axis is careful with increased security and protection offered by video its choice of partners, and works actively to inform surveillance solutions. 49 Global survey 2017 82% highly satisfied with Axis Customer 0 satisfaction 56 -50 50 Axis has long and close collaboration with its customers. Long customer relationships and satisfied customers are of great importance for Axis’ continued growth and success. NPS* Axis strives to continually improve its offering and Customer satisfaction Furthermore, users of Axis’ customer support to maintain a continued high level of customer Axis conducts regular surveys among distributors, continually have the opportunity to provide satisfaction and loyalty. Axis works to meet partners and end customers, in order to understand feedback after cases are closed. The responses -100 100 customer expectations and needs. their dynamics and expectations, as well as from these surveys are compiled every quarter. measure their satisfaction in the company’s The questions relate to whether the problem was Increased interest in sustainable products different business areas. resolved, if it was resolved reasonably quickly and Axis sees an increased interest in ethical, if the customer was satisfied with the service. * Net Promoter Score (NPS) is a method for measuring customer loyalty. It is calculated social and environmental questions among its The satisfaction surveys, conducted on a regular as follows: NPS = % Promoters % Detractors. The index ranges from -100 to 100, distributors, partners and customers. Customers basis, measure how satisfied different stakeholders If a customer is not satisfied, this is followed up which means that a figure over 0 is positive and a result over 50 percent is very good. are increasingly demanding sustainable and are with Axis and how they think that Axis can as far as possible. If the customer perceives that environmentally-friendly products, such as improve its products, solutions and working the product is unsatisfactory in some respect or PVC free network cameras with low energy methods. The results are evaluated against is dissatisfied with any documentation or the way consumption and are also requesting recycling previously conducted surveys. The information is a case was handled, this information is relayed to programs for worn out products. then taken back to the relevant departments in the the relevant department for further action. organization, so that Axis can make improvements. Axis collaborates with its distributors to offer Employees are also encouraged to interact with sustainable solutions to their customers. In During the year, a global survey was conducted customers to obtain information about how they regular meetings and seminars with distributors, in 51 countries, where about 12,000 partners perceive the collaboration with the company and Axis provides information and discusses responded. 82 percent were highly satisfied their view of Axis’ products and solutions. In this expectations and requirements from partners with Axis. Among other things, Axis received top way, Axis can further develop and improve its and end customers in relation to ethical, social marks for high product quality, efficient solutions, customer relationships, in order to ensure satisfied and environmental questions. At meetings with knowledgeable support and honest, skilled and and loyal customers in the future. partners and end customers, Axis also maintains customer-focused personnel. Axis is also highly a continual dialogue regarding sustainabilityregarded for its leadership within IP technology, its related questions. professionalism and understanding of the market. 50 Sustainability report 51 Environmental responsibility Environmental initiatives 2017 During the year, Axis carried out a number of measures to reduce its environmental impact. These included: >> continuing to phase out PVC from products >> using a higher proportion of recycled plastics in products Axis strives to minimize the environmental >> identifying improvements regarding energy impact from its own operations and in the consumption in the product use phase company’s products and solutions. Most of Axis’ environmental impact occurs indirectly >> drawing up new environmental goals and is related to manufacturing, transports >> conducting environmental training of personnel in and energy consumption when the products the units Operations, Research and Development, and solutions are used. This means that Axis Marketing, Sales, Logistics and of other persons aims for improvements along the entire value who in their role can contribute to reducing the chain and throughout the entire life cycle of the company’s environmental impacts products and solutions. 53 Axis product life cycle from an environmental perspective Manufacturing & assembly Produce Raw materials & Transportation components Long-term environmental purchasing responsibility Product development Axis works with suppliers, distributors and partners in order & Business operations to minimize direct and indirect environmental impacts. Recycle Use This involves systematic work to ensure that product development, material choice, material origin, components Production collection Product usage & recycling and packaging meet quality and functionality requirements, while minimizing environmental impacts. Axis performed life cycle analysis on various projects. In this way, environmental considerations Material free from brominated and chlorinated PVC in the housings for the AXIS M3044/5-V and Energy consumption in products and solutions products, in order to see where the greatest are integrated in an even better way into the flame retardants PVC can emit toxic substances, is harmful to both AXIS M3046-V 2.4 mm. The cameras’ energy consumption is a significant environmental impact lies in the products’ product development process. In the electronics industry, halogen-free material human health and the environment and is difficult part of their total environmental impact. life cycle. Measures to reduce environmental is defined as material that does not contain to recycle. PVC is found in outdoor cables for Axis The packaging material for the products is Life cycle analysis performed by Axis, show impacts include using recycled material, Smart material choice brominated or chlorinated flame retardants (BFR cameras, among other things. Axis aims to phasecomposed of recycled material to some extent. that between 60 and 80 percent of the total reducing the number of product parts, choosing Axis’ products contain different material and CFR). out PVC from its products and has been successful environmental impact of network cameras is low-weight components, minimizing material such as aluminium, zinc, steel, stainless in these efforts. During the year, several new PVCLegislation, guidelines and Greensoft related to energy consumption by end users. waste, optimizing packaging, improving energy steel, polycarbonate/acrylonitrile-butadieneAxis has now chosen to use the terminology BFR/ free camera models were developed, such as the Axis complies with applicable legislation and consumption efficiency in own operations styrene polymer, polycarbonate, polyamide, CFR-free products, as these substances are in AXIS M2026, several variants of the AXIS P3327 rules, such as the EU’s RoHS directive (Restriction During the year, work was carried out in order to and in the company’s products, streamlining polymethylmethacrylate, polyurethane, silicone, focus. This means that so-called homogeneous series and the AXIS Q3517 Series. of Hazardous Substances) and the EU’s REACH identify improvements and recommendations for logistics flows and as far as possible choosing thermoplastic elastomer and rubber. material in all parts (excl. printed circuit boards) regulation (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization how energy consumption can be reduced when environmentally friendly transports. contains <1,000 ppm of bromine if the bromine In 2017, 93 percent of network camera and and restriction of Chemicals). Axis also applies the products are used. A workshop was held with Axis works systematically to ensure that material source is from brominated flame retardants and encoder sales were PVC-free. In total, about 80 the precautionary principle, for example when it the aim of producing goals and recommending Environmental policy and Green Design choice and material origins meet quality and <1,000 ppm of chlorine if the chlorine source is percent of Axis’ network cameras and encoders comes to choice of material. measures. Evaluation Form functionality requirements while minimizing from chlorinated flame retardants. All printed are PVC-free. Axis’ environmental policy prescribes that Axis environmental impacts. This includes using circuit boards meet the following threshold values In addition, Axis limits the use of other Axis continually works to further improve energy shall minimize environmental impacts throughout recycled instead of newly produced plastic, for homogeneous material: bromine <900 ppm Recycled material substances, such as phthalates and beryllium. The efficiency in surveillance systems, while retaining its product and solution life cycles and along the minimizing waste of materials, ensuring that only and chlorine <900 ppm or in total (bromine and Recycled material conserves natural resources list of substances where use should be restricted functionality, which can present a challenge. entire value chain. conflict-free minerals are used, ensuring that chlorine) <1,500 ppm. and reduces environmental impacts. Axis works is updated regularly and was updated during the Some of the technologies developed by Axis, help products do not contain any substances that are continually to phase in new recycled material into year. to reduce energy consumption in the product use The Green Design Evaluation Form is Axis’ hazardous for people or the environment and During 2016-2017, Axis prepared a business case its material library, in order to increase the use and phase. These include Axis’ Lightfinder technology, scorecard for evaluation of the products’ phasing out health-impairing material. regarding the cost and potential of removing all proportion of recycled material in its products. Greensoft which enables cameras to reproduce sharp color environmental impact. The aim is to establish even brominated and chlorinated flame retardants Greensoft makes it possible for Axis to more images even when it is dark, at 0.18 lux and clearer goals, requirements and guidelines in Axis’ Furthermore, about 95 percent of the material from the AXIS P3225-VE network camera. Critical Axis has continued to develop products with systematically collect and validate data relating even lower. This eliminates the need for external product requirement specifications. The scorecard in Axis’ products is recyclable or combustible in components and the cost of replacing these recycled plastic. In 2017, Axis released the to product content. Axis thereby gains a better illumination. Read more about technologies to makes it easier to evaluate different aspects, for accordance with Swedish recycling standards. were identified. In 2017, Axis decided to start AXIS M3047-P, AXIS M3048-P and AXIS M3046-V overview of the content in various materials, reduce energy consumption when the cameras are example, use of recycled material, optimization of Recycling can occur either in the form of energy developing a number of products free from BFR 1.8 mm, where 70 percent of the plastic is which helps to increase use of materials, which used on page 60. product weight and volume and reduced material or reuse of material. and CFR. Such development was initiated in 2018. recycled. Axis has also changed to recycled plastic have lesser environmental impacts. waste. The score card is used in all development 54 Sustainability report 55 Scope 1 Scope 1 includes Axis’ direct emissions, Scope 2 includes indirect emissions such as energy Scope 2 consumption. In Scope 3, indirect emissions due to sourcing of goods or services, transports Scope 3 from suppliers and business trips, are reported. Emissions from 2N and Citilog and inbound transports for a contract manufacturer. Ton CO2e per sales 4 Ton CO2e per employee4 Ton CO2e per scope4 40,000 Energy consumption in the operations4 At the Lund headquarters, where 58 percent Green lease 5 5 35,000 Energy consumption in the operations increased of all the employees are based, the goal is to Axis has a green lease since 2015 with one of its 30,000 globally, due to inclusion of acquired companies, reduce electricity consumption by five percent property owners for the headquarters in Lund. 4 4 expansion of a logistics center and an increase per employee compared to 2016. During the year, The lease means that Axis and the property 25,000 in the number of offices. Energy consumption is the electricity consumption per employee at the owner shall work actively together to reduce Ton CO2e per SEK 100 M the environmental impact of the premises and Ton CO2e per employee 3 3 the third largest source of Axis’ total emissions, headquarters fell from 2.9 MWh to 2.5, in other 20,000 accounting for about 11 percent of all emissions. words a decrease of 14 percent. This was due to property. This plan means that the property owner 15,000 In terms of energy intensity, the energy increased awareness among employees, to the will survey what areas are not in use, conduct 2 2 consumption per employee has fallen, thanks to energy-saving measures and to more efficient use office lighting controls, review the ventilation Ton CO2e 10,000 our energy saving measures. Energy consumption of the office spaces. and arrange bicycle service. During the year, 1 1 per full time employee globally, excluding logistics Axis continued to replace light sources with LED 5,000 centers decreased from 2.95 to 2.6 MWh per full lighting and optimize use of laboratory equipment 0 0 0 time employee in 2017. and ventilation systems, among other initiatives. 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Ton CO₂e per 3.6 3.4 4.1 Ton CO₂e/FTE 2.3 2.2 2.3 SEK 100 M Axis’ carbon footprint Carbon footprint meet customer demand for certain products. Several activities related to Axis’ operations Axis’ carbon emissions increased during the year Emissions related to sales and to employees3 , due generate carbon dioxide emissions, which have an from 26,035 to 35,068 tons CO₂e1, an increase of to energy consumption in the business, paper use, impact on the climate. Axis’ ambition is to take about 35 percent compared to 20162. The increase leased vehicles, business travel etc., increased (see Ton CO2e per activity4 responsibility in these areas, to reduce the overall was mainly related to a very sharp increase in diagram). carbon footprint and impose clear demands on the emissions related to inbound transports. The 31 company’s suppliers, to the same extent as Axis company also displayed strong growth during Business travel 30 takes responsibility for the manufacturing and 2017 with a significant increase in sales, more Business trips are the fourth largest source of Axis’ Paper 55 design of the company’s products. employees, more offices and the carbon footprint total emissions, accounting for around ten percent from acquired companies was included in the of all emissions. 3 854 Through annual monitoring and reporting of the reporting this year. 3 141 Premises company’s carbon dioxide emissions, Axis gains To address this, Axis initiated carbon offsets in 2 585 an insight into which processes generate the most Increase in emissions from inbound transports 2015 for all business travel. In 2017, the offset emissions and where Axis needs to focus its efforts Emissions due to third party deliveries accounted was 2,987 tons of CO₂e from business trips by air. 952 to reduce its impact. for 76 percent of total CO₂e emissions. If this figure is deducted from Axis’ total CO₂e 688 Leased vehicles emissions, the emissions per employee would be 734 The 2017 Carbon Footprint report focuses In 2017, emissions from inbound and outbound lower and would result in a total 1.5 tons CO₂e per 15 236 on emissions related to transports, energy freights increased by about 39 percent compared employee. To read more about carbon offsetting at Inbound deliveries 8 946 consumption of premises, leased vehicles, business to 2016. Inbound transports accounted for most Axis please see page 58. 7 693 travel and paper consumption. of this increase and rose by 70 percent compared to 2016. The main reason was that Axis took Axis’ travel policy encourages less travel, 3 476 The carbon footprint report this year also includes over responsibility for inbound transports from a whenever possible. During the year, Axis Business travel 2 987 2017 the acquired companies Citilog and 2N and contract manufacturer in December 2016. About conducted tens of thousands of hours of webinar 2 974 inbound transports from one of Axis’ contract 75 percent of the increase in inbound transports training seminars and virtual meetings around the 2016 manufacturers. The report also includes emissions was related to transports from this contract world, which helped to reduce business trips. Axis 11 505 2015 from all Axis-controlled inbound transports, in other manufacturer. launched a new goal for CO₂ emissions during the Outbound deliveries 10 225 words transports from contract manufacturers to year: to reduce CO₂ emissions in the operations by 9 875 The remainder of the increase was related to the 20 percent per sold unit from 2016 to 2021. Ton CO₂e Axis’ Configuration and Logistics Centers (CLC) and emissions from all outbound transports, in other company’s growth and to the fact that air freight 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 words transports from CLCs to distributors. was used instead of ship or road transports to 1 Carbon dioxide equivalent or CO₂e is a metric for describing how diﬀerent greenhouse gases, of a given quantity, contribute to the greenhouse eﬀect and impact global warming, 4 The acquired companies 2N and Citilog are not included in the figures for 2016, but are included in the figures for 2017. measured in the equivalent amount of CO₂ . 5 The figure has been updated due to an adjustment of consumption at the headquarters and in the US offices. 2 An adjustment was made to the figures for 2016, which meant that total CO₂e for 2016 increased from 24,840 to 26,035. 3 Inbound and outbound transports are excluded. 57 Goals and target fulfilment Product environmental impact >> Improving the environmental performance of the products -Axis has prepared a business case for a BFR/CFR-free AXIS P3225-VE network camera model and also decided on a Logistics and transports strategy for implementation of BFR/CFR-free products. Two projects were initiated during the year, with the aim of developing BFR/CFR-free network cameras. -Axis has increased knowledge during development of more energy-efficient products and systems. A workshop was held with the aim of producing goals and proposals for improvements. Material Axis continually reviews and streamlines its logistics chain, >> Increasing the proportion of recycled material. including transports from contract manufacturers to the -In 2017, Axis released the AXIS M3047-P, AXIS M3048-P and AXIS M3046-V 1.8 mm, where 70 percent of the company’s Configuration and Logistics Centers (CLC) and plastic is recycled. Axis also changed to recycled plastic in the housings for the AXIS M3044/5-V and AXIS M3046-V transports from CLCs to distributors. 2.4 mm. Energy consumption in products and solutions Axis uses sea and road transports rather than Reduction of carbon emissions from outbound of the products sold, should consist of sea and >> Minimizing energy consumption throughout the product’s entire life cycle, from product development to use by end users. air freight as far as possible. Configuration of transports is going according to plan. However, road freight. -Axis continually works to further improve energy efficiency in the cameras, while optimizing functionality. the products at various CLCs and manufacturing carbon emissions from inbound transports Energy consumption in the operations should occur as close to the markets as possible, increased due to more air transports than planned. Carbon offsetting >> Reducing electricity consumption by five percent per employee at the headquarters in Lund compared to 2016. in order to have good flexibility as well as short The reason for the increase was strong demand for Axis continues to carbon offset all courier freight. -During the year, Axis reduced electricity consumption per employee from 2.9 MWh to 2.5. In 2017, electricity transport times and lead times. Axis aims to keep camera models where there has been a shortage Carbon offsetting occurs in accordance with consumption in the headquarters decreased by 2 percent compared to the previous year. down transports costs and carbon emissions, of certain components. Axis needed to use air the independent international standard − the Emissions caused by product transports. Customer needs and freight to meet customer demand. CarbonNeutral Protocol. For each ton of CO₂ that >> Reducing CO₂ emissions in the operations by 20 percent per sold unit from 2016 to 2021. requirements should be met while reaching the set Axis offsets, the company pays for the reduction of -During the year, CO₂ emissions in the operations per sold unit increased by 2.5 percent. environmental targets. Overall, CO₂ emissions increased by about 6 a ton of CO₂ equivalents in a carbon offset project. percent to 6.93 kg CO₂ per sold unit. To meet this >> Reducing CO₂ emissions from transports by 20 percent per sold unit from 2016 to 2021, measured in kg CO₂ per sold unit. During the year, Axis increased production in kind of sharply increased demand, Axis is investing Compact packaging Mexico, in order to get closer to the US, which is to boost production capacity among its existing Axis continued its work on optimizing packaging -During 2017, CO₂ emissions from transports increased by 6 percent, measured in kg CO₂ per sold unit. Axis’ largest individual market. This has reduced suppliers. Axis has also initiated collaboration boxes so that they correspond more closely to the >> 65 percent of inbound transports, in terms of the total weight of the products sold, should consist of sea and road carbon emissions, thanks to shorter transport with new suppliers. products’ size. freight. routes. -62 percent of all inbound transports measured in terms of the total weight of the products sold were sea or Air freight Inflatable packaging material is increasingly road transports and 38 percent were air transports. In 2016, 68 percent of all inbound transports were sea or road Cardboard manufacturing machines were installed During the year, Axis increased the proportion used in packaging, for more product families. The transports and 32 percent were air transports. In 2015, 62 percent of all inbound transports were sea or road of inbound goods, in other words, goods from inflatable packaging material is lighter than other transports and 38 percent were air transports. at four of Axis’ five CLCs, which means that Axis is sourcing less cardboard packaging for its CLCs. contract manufacturers to Axis’ CLCs, due to packaging material and takes up less space during Responsibility, training and analysis Cardboard boxes for outbound transports are shortages of certain components (see above), transports. In addition, this material is reused >> The Environmental function will take over responsibility from research and development in relation to chemical optimized; the packaging is becoming leaner when compared to the previous year. when the products are repacked for transport to substances in electronic and mechanical standard components. manufactured for specific transports. customers. -During the year, the Environmental function began the work on taking this responsibility. Overall, Axis used more sea and road transports >> More than 60 people will be trained in sustainability questions. New goal than air freight during the year; 62 percent of Optimization of packaging contributes to lower -During the year, 71 employees participated in training. Axis has established a new goal for reducing all inbound transports measured in terms of the carbon footprints and lower transport costs. >> Performing a GAP analysis for ISO 14001 in order to gain better knowledge about how Axis can make improvements. carbon emissions which measures CO₂ emissions total weight of the products sold were sea or road -During the year, a GAP analysis was performed. per unit. The goal is to reduce CO₂ emissions transport and 38 percent were air transport. This by 20 percent per sold unit from 2016 to 2021, can be compared to the sub-goal that 65 percent measured in kg CO₂ per sold unit6. of inbound transports, in terms of the total weight 6 In determining the baseline for the transport goal, Axis has allowed for inbound transports from contract manufacturers that are not controlled by Axis. For this reason, the goal follow-up is not impacted by the increased level of inbound transports. 58 Sustainability report 59 Trees of Hope, Malawi The project aims to improve knowledge and awareness of climaterelated questions among farmers, and to provide training in tree planting and nurturing of trees. There is a great need for sustainable forest farms in Malawi as most of the population are small farmers. Carbon offsets for business trips Axis has used carbon offsets for all business trips by air since 2015. In 2017, Axis offset 2,987 tons CO2 equivalents from air travels. The carbon offsetting is conducted through Plan and nurturing of trees. There is a great need for Vivo, in the Trees for Global Benefits in Uganda sustainable forest farms in Malawi as most of the and Trees of Hope in Malawi projects. population are small farmers. Trees for Global Benefits, Uganda Apart from the fact that trees absorb CO₂, this By developing agroforestry at a local level, the project run by the Clinton Development Initiative, families in this project in western Uganda can get has delivered other benefits to farmer families: timber and fuel from the forest as well as fruit and they obtain food and fruit for consumption and vegetables. sale, as well as wood and fodder for livestock. In addition, biological diversity is safeguarded, The project is run by EcoTrust and is certified exposure to extreme weather conditions and soil according to Plan Vivo. Since 2003, more than erosion are reduced, the soil is protected and 1 million tons of carbon sequestration has been water is conserved in the ground better, which documented through improved agricultural is important as Malawi occasionally faces severe techniques, expanded forest areas and reduced droughts. deforestation. During 2017, a third-party audit was conducted Training is also conducted regarding HIV and AIDS, by the Rainforest Alliance, which confirmed that entrepreneurship and global warming as part of the project is being successfully run according to the project. plan and that it meets the requirements imposed by Plan Vivo. Trees of Hope, Malawi The project aims to improve knowledge and awareness of climate-related questions among farmers, and to provide training in tree planting 61 Intelligent solutions reduce power consumption and save costs IP video surveillance systems can reduce power consumption and save costs when the cameras are used. Effective power consumption in products is Smart recording and storage solutions The software will need to be installed on a PC or important for reducing carbon emissions and With new technologies, the methods for laptop in order to commission the system but for environmental impacts. Intelligent solutions recording and storing data in surveillance the purposes of monitoring and viewing images, contribute to a responsible use of resources, solutions have improved significantly in terms of this can be done from an alternative device such provide better cost control and savings and also reliability, cost and performance. With IP network as a smartphone or tablet. reduce environmental impacts. cameras, the solution’s total power consumption requirements can be lowered and costs saved. The table to the right shows a direct comparison AXIS Camera Application Platform between a DVR solution and AXIS Camera AXIS Camera Application Platform is an open AXIS Camera Companion Companion, which is a serverless solution platform that makes it possible for application AXIS Camera Companion is the market’s easiest or where the server is located elsewhere, for developers to market and sell Axis-compatible video surveillance solution for small systems from example cloud-based. applications. 1 to 16 cameras. With AXIS Camera Companion, you can choose The platform supports video analytics applications With AXIS Camera Companion, all video is whether to only use an SD card or an that provide the products with intelligent recorded on SD cards in the cameras, without the AXIS Camera Companion recorder. The example capabilities such as recognition, counting, need for a DVR (Digital Video Recorder) or server shows the SD card solution. detection and tracking etc. directly on the camera. based recording platform making each camera One of the key benefits other than adding value a smart, independent video recording device. The AXIS Camera Companion saves 85 percent in and business intelligence to the camera is the system consists of standard Axis cameras, SD annual power costs. It is worth noting that for significant reduction in hardware and cost. A new cards, software clients for PC and smartphones, the purposes of the exercise both systems used serverless architecture saves hardware costs and and standard network equipment. the same cameras being performed in the same energy costs are reduced. operational environment. As this is a DVRor server-less solution, it The table shows an example from Axis’ developremoves the risk of operational stoppages and ment partner Digital Barriers. The is no difference of the solution having a single point of failure. in performance between the two solutions. Based on 4 IP cameras (outBased on 10 fixed IP cameras Server-based Video Analysis Edge-based Video Analysis DVR Solution AXIS Camera Companion door) with video analytics on (24x7 operaton at 30 fps) (e.g. original SafeZone Server product) (SafeZone edge product) 4 channels (24x7 operaton) Annual energy savings amount to approximately 71 percent. Annual energy savings amount to 86.5 percent. Annual power consumption 857 kWh 252 kWh Server specification, power consumption and support costs Annual power consumption 2 926 kWh 394 kWh Server specification, power consumption and are based on Dell PowerEdge R210 II (Source: Dell.co.uk) support costs are based on DVR with RAID5 storage. 62 Sustainability report 63 A long-term sustainable Axis’ Supplier Code of Conduct is based on Axis’ Code of Conduct and the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. supply chain Axis has long-term collaboration with its suppliers. Suppliers are regularly audited to ensure that they meet Axis’ requirements relating to taking social and environmental responsibility in their operations and that they fight corruption. Axis’ ambition is that all product manufacturing 120 of the 269 suppliers are considered to have should occur in an environmentally, socially and a major impact on Axis from a sustainability ethically responsible way. The company aims to perspective. 94 of these are based in Asia, 22 in have long-term collaboration and partnership Europe and 4 in North America. During the year, with its suppliers. Axis gained 15 new suppliers.71 Axis’ customers also impose requirements on how Axis carefully selects its suppliers for the company works with its suppliers; for instance manufacturing and assembly of the company’s control by Axis that manufacturing occurs in a products. This selection is made according responsible way and that suppliers work with to the criteria quality, price, business ethics, social and environmental questions. environmental impact, working environment, flexibility, employee working conditions such as the Axis has a total of 269 suppliers. Six of these are right to sign collective agreements and freedom to contract manufacturers, which are located in China, join a trade union, and respect of human rights, in Korea, Mexico, Thailand as well as two in Poland. no particular order of importance. When selecting suppliers, selection criteria include closeness to Contract manufacturers produce printed circuit a contract manufacturer, a Configuration and boards and assemble the products. Axis’ strategic Logistics Center (CLC), or a purchasing office. component suppliers, which cast chassis and manufacture cameras lenses and electronic components, among other things, are found all over the world. 7 New suppliers include suppliers that have been phased in and where collaboration has commenced during 2017. 64 Sustainability report 65 Impacts and risks with ISO 14001, and otherwise meet Axis’ Foreign labor in Malaysia has been identified as a Both first-tier suppliers and contract environment generally. Axis ensures that suppliers Environmental impacts in the supply chain include requirements. special risk category concerning compulsory labor. manufacturers are screened as well as second-tier address and handle the environmental risks, which mining of minerals and metals, extraction of oil For this reason, Axis has conducted more frequent component suppliers. Suppliers are classified based are considered to be significant, resulting in fewer for plastic, consumption of biomaterial and timber Initiatives 2017 supplier audits and training there, in order to on risk level, taking account of country, credibility risks in these areas. and use of chemicals. Energy is consumed in During the year, Axis updated its Supplier Code ensure that no violations of human rights occur. and previous evaluations. manufacturing and hazardous waste and pollution of Conduct and tightened the requirements Audits during 2017 occurs. for control of overtime. Extensive overtime is a Initial evaluation Of Axis total of 15 new suppliers during the year, During an audit of several Chinese suppliers, it commonly occurring problem among suppliers in All new suppliers are initially evaluated using 6 have a material impact on Axis’ operations was discovered at random inspections that some Employee risks include heavy work, exposure Asia. Axis’ goal is to take care of employees’ health a self-assessment questionnaire, before from a sustainability perspective, and all of them employees worked more overtime that permitted to chemicals and long working days with a lot and safety, and Axis imposes stricter demands in collaboration begins. The questionnaire, which were screened locally and/or via self-assessment under Chinese law. Axis has demanded an action of overtime as well as forced labor. Overtime some countries than required by law. Axis’ view suppliers should fill in, contains information about questionnaires in respect of environmental plan from the suppliers where breaches of the law implies a risk to employee health and safety as is that too much overtime is connected with risks environmental considerations such as chemical impacts, labor conditions, human rights and antihave occurred. well as a risk in terms of product quality. Thus it is to employees’ health and safety and in relation to management, air and water emissions and social corruption. extremely important to have thorough health and work performance. responsibility, including working conditions such At a strategic component supplier in Malaysia, it safety directives at the workplaces. as working hours and employee health and safety. The audits are followed up regularly. This ensures was discovered that the supplier seized passports The new requirements in the Supplier Code of that the supplier meets Axis’ requirements and in from foreign workers, which is regarded as All Axis suppliers are expected, besides complying Conduct are based on the Responsible Business Contract manufacturers and strategic component those cases where measures are needed that they compulsory labor by the UN. This supplier will also with laws and regulations, to follow Axis’ Supplier Alliance's code of conduct regarding working hours. suppliers to be audited also need to fill in a are also implemented. make improvements. Code of Conduct. This means that suppliers shall comply with all further document regarding how they meet Axis’ Goals relevant laws and rules regarding working hours requirements relating to the environment, quality During the actual inspection, environmental and If the suppliers do not implement improvements Supplier Code of Conduct and rest days. However, a working week shall not and employee safety. quality engineers from Axis visit the factory. according to Axis’ requirements, the suppliers will Suppliers are expected to sign and comply with exceed 60 working hours (including overtime), The inspections usually take one or two days. Axis be phased out and replaced. and target fulfilment Axis’ Supplier Code of Conduct, which is based even in cases where local law permits more. The Thorough supplier audits examines the supplier’s entire production process on Axis’ Code of Conduct and the UN Global control of weekly working hours is tightened while The supplier audits aim to follow up and ensure right up to final delivery. However, no collaboration with suppliers was Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rest days and compensation for overtime shall be that suppliers meet the requirements in the terminated during the year due to suppliers failing rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. guaranteed. Supplier Code of Conduct. The audit covers the factory’s environmental to meet Axis’ requirements. >> At least 95 percent of new suppliers impact and employee working conditions. This should be screened in respect of the This includes requirements prohibiting any form of The new requirements shall be communicated and includes working hours and routines, incidence of Apart from the audits, Axis also conducts supplier environment, working conditions and child or compulsory labor, ensuring good working specified in writing in employees’ contracts of child labor or compulsory labor, noise levels, fire training in order to inform them about the human rights. conditions, keeping a check on environmental employment. safety, waste and chemical management as well company’s values and requirements, including -During the year, all new suppliers impacts such energy consumption, management as identifying and measuring different types of within the Axis Supplier Academy framework. were screenedin respect of these of waste, chemicals and emissions and having a Axis has sent the new Code of Conduct to all emissions. criteria. well-functioning water purification system. Other suppliers, which must sign it. Supplier Academy requirements also include good business ethics Furthermore, Axis reviews that processes and Axis Supplier Academy is a program where Axis >> During 2017, six suppliers,which are and responsible sourcing of minerals in order to The suppliers that do not immediately meet the systems are in place to ensure that the operations trains suppliers locally in environmental, working critical from an environmental and avoid conflict minerals. requirements have until December 2018 to carry are conducted in an ethical way in every respect environment and other sustainability matters. sustainability perspective, shall be out measures and shall provide an action plan. and that corruption does not occur. Interviews are The training program aims to increase awareness trained. In some cases, suppliers do not sign Axis’ Supplier Follow-up will occur through audits and training conducted with the management and employees. about and understanding of the requirements Axis -During the year, two suppliers were of Code of Conduct, but instead refer to their own during 2018. imposes and is particularly addressed towards trained that are critical from an code. This is reviewed by Axis in order to verify If it should become apparent that a supplier does the suppliers that are most critical to Axis from a environmental and sustainability that it corresponds with the requirements stated not meet Axis’ requirements, then the supplier has sustainability perspective. perspective. in Axis’ Supplier Conduct of Conduct. three months to implement corrective actions. If the measures are not carried out after further During the year, Axis trained two component Axis introduced its Supplier Code of Conduct discussions with Axis, then the supplier will not suppliers in China within the Supplier Academy UK Modern Slavery Act in 2011 in order to increase and clarify supplier get any new business. In the next stage, the framework. requirements. The introduction has meant that Axis has operations in the UK and is thus affected by the UK Modern Slavery Act. Axis works suppler will be phased out. most suppliers collaborating with Axis have actively to counteract all forms of modern slavery, child labor, forced labor and trafficking in improved their sustainability work. its business, and imposes demands on suppliers that it should not exist in their operations. Positive effects from Axis audits include reduced chemical emissions in waste water and better Suppliers should either be ISO 14001 certified or Axis’ suppliers are expected to demand that modern slavery, child labor, forced labor or safety for the employees in their workplaces, with have a management system in accordance trafficking does not exist in their suppliers’ operations. reduced risk of accidents and an improved working 66 Sustainability report 67 Conflict minerals During the year, Axis did not find any case where conflict minerals were used in the components or products supplied to the company. Axis works systematically to ensure that the company’s products do not contain any conflict minerals, in other words gold, tantalum, tin, or tungsten that finance conflicts in any country around the world. Conflict minerals are a very important social and Suppliers must report the orgin of the minerals ethical question. Their extraction creates disputes and describe how they are working to ensure and trading in the minerals finances armed that their components and products only contain conflicts and can result in child and compulsory conflict-free minerals. This means that suppliers labor. must identify and inform Axis about all smelters in the value chain that supply gold, tantalum, tin and Axis’ conflict mineral policy prescribes that tungsten. Axis does not accept, tolerate or engage in any sourcing activities, which may finance conflicts or Furthermore, Axis expects all suppliers to act in involve any form of violation of human rights or accordance with Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank compulsory labor. Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, when applicable. Suppliers must also have policies Axis follows recommendations and guidelines and measures of due diligence in place, enabling from the electronic industry organization the Axis to ensure that the products and components Responsible Business Alliance and the Global supplied to Axis are conﬂict free. e-Sustainability Initiative regarding taking social responsibility in the entire supply chain. Suppliers are expected to report where the minerals in the products and the various Documented process components come from and any measures taken, Axis has a well-documented process for by using the Conﬂict-Free Sourcing Initiatives ensuring that the minerals used by suppliers and reporting tool – Conﬂict Minerals Reporting subcontractors are conflict free. In accordance Template. More than 80 percent of Axis’ suppliers with Axis’ Supplier Code of Conduct, all suppliers have reported via this reporting tool. have undertaken to have a process in place for mapping their supply chain in order to ensure that During the year, Axis did not find any case where conflict minerals are not used. conflict minerals were used in the components or products supplied to the company. If Axis would Suppliers sign “The Confirmation of Agreement discover that conflict minerals are used by any Concerning Conflict Minerals”, which means that supplier, Axis will send a document to the supplier, suppliers must investigate their own supply chain providing details and an action plan to end this and advise Axis if conflict minerals are discovered. practice. If the measures are not implemented, Axis also collects further information from Axis will suspend collaboration with the supplier contract manufacturers. in question. 68 Sustainability report 69 Social responsibility Axis is a leading player in network video and has employees in more than 50 countries. The products and solutions have a great impact on many people’s lives. Axis aims to act as a model and to offer an attractive and safe workplace. Axis takes long-term social responsibility and invests in social initatives that positively impact the company’s own operations and surroundings in the markets where the company operates. Axis should adopt a long-term approach in everything it does – in order to create a smarter and safer world. Attractive employer with motivated employees Careful and continual recruitment in all markets is >> Regular safety and fire prevention training is Governance As Axis is a globally expanding company, good employees get the chance to work in Axis should be an attractive, good and safe crucial for Axis’ continued growth and position as conducted at all offices. All employees, managers and the board are career development opportunities exist for another Axis office globally during a limited workplace with a working environment that is a leading market player. >> Annual safety inspections and safety covered by policies such as the company’s employees. There is a strong focus on increased period, either as part of a project or to learn defined by an entrepreneurial spirit, openness and committee meetings are held in Sweden. working environment policies, alcohol and drugs internal mobility and internal career paths, and a something specific. taking of responsibility. During the year, Axis employed 439 people, of policy, policy against harassment and policy for number of employees changed positions during -Live my day, which was launched during >> Employees have annual career development whom 29 percent (127) were women and 71 safety during trips, where Axis collaborates with the year. the year. This means that one person for discussions. Individual action plans are Committed and well-qualified employees are percent (312) were men. The total number of International SOS/Control Risks. a period of up to two weeks accompanies developed in connection with development important factors behind Axis’ successful growth. employees at year-end amounted to 2,865 (2,646). Training and development an employee during his/her working day to discussions. All employees are expected to be engaged and Collective agreements and Axis operates a number of different training and gain an insight into different kinds of work take responsibility. Motivated employees and A good and safe workplace >> All managers in Sweden are offered regular freedom to join a trade union development programs. These include: assignments and/or offices. strong leadership are also crucial for Axis to reach Axis wants to be an employer where people feel working environment training. All employees in Sweden and 61 percent of >> An introduction program at the headquar-Jobswap, which was also launched in 2017. its goals. happy and remain for a long time. The company’s the total number of employees are covered ters in Lund for all new employees, so that Employee surveys are conducted regularly in This means that two people who have view is that healthy employees do a better job and by collective agreements. All employees have they learn about Axis’ corporate culture, core order to gain an insight into and knowledge of similar jobs but in different regions can Axis is an attractive employer and offers a safe that a good physical and psychosocial working the right to join trade unions and to negotiate values, business strategy and gain an insight the employees’ view of the leadership and other swap positions with each other during a working environment, where employees are happy environment leads to greater creativity, more collective agreements, in accordance with local into the various operational areas. workplace-related questions. fixed period of time. and feel pride in their work. All employees should innovation and better results. legislation and what is applicable in each country. >> Axis Axchange programs, which include >> Axis Win Win Academy, a program for all have good opportunities to develop, irrespective of The latest employee survey was conducted in 2016 different job rotation programs. These aim to Key Account Managers and regional sales gender or background. Axis works strategically and proactively on Good career and development opportunities in Sweden The response rate was 89 percent. 91 help employees’ learn from each other and managers. continually improving its working environment. Axis offers good career and training opportunities percent of employees think that Axis is a very exchange ideas and experience to become Axis offers a safe and healthy working >> An occupational health service and health and competitive terms of employment in order good workplace. Axis received very good results in even more effective, gain new perspectives, Further training and initiatives, particularly for environment with a strong corporate culture, checks are offered at many offices. to attract and retain committed and skilled the areas of work environment, equal treatment, as well as personal and career development. salespeople and managers are conducted in all good career and development opportunities and employees. The company’s bonus program covers >> HR managers ensure that all offices respect the pride and wellbeing. Areas for improvement This includes: regions and adapted to the needs of the various competitive terms of employment. all employees. Salaries for all employees are working hours and that employees receive marinclude clarifying goals. The ambition is to -IP@Axis (Internal Projects at Axis), an regions and countries. reviewed annually. ked-related salaries, which follow agreements conduct the next employee survey in 2018. international exchange program where Axis offers interesting work assignments in an and local legislation at a minimum. industry with leading edge technology. 70 Sustainability report 71 Always open Act as one Training adapted to individual needs is also offered to Think big topics in order to conduct exercises and facilitate discussions with that Axis takes responsibility and upholds the equal value of all people. In turn, this results in Teknis, Introducing girls to engineering, Female Engineering Day, Datatjej and Female Engineering Non-discrimination of employees >> Ensure that the recruitment process, employees, in consultation with their teams and departments. The employees becoming ambassadors, models and Network. including advertising, doesn’t discriminate. their respective managers. toolbox is continually updated and good advocates for Axis. At Axis, more than 50 >> One educational action during the year Axis also has a number of replenished. different languages are spoken, which reflects the Due to the #metoo initiative – the global to raise awareness among our managers different training programs in diversity of the employees' backgrounds. movement addressing sexual harassment against globally regarding discrimination. order to strengthen leadership, leadership training has been crucial to maintaining innovation and Ethics and anti-corruption women – Axis reviewed its policy against Health and safety at the workplace for managers at the headquarters in Lund and a dynamism in a rapidly growing organization like Being an ethical company all the way is part of It should be just as easy for women and men to harassment, and carried out a further analysis of >> Maintain good overall psychosocial mentorship program. Axis. All employees are expected to be engaged the corporate culture. Axis has a policy of zero make a career. Axis aims to ensure that employees the company's employee survey. workplace environment for all employees. and take responsibility for what they do. tolerance against all types of bribery and other with equal qualifications should have the same >> One psychosocial health-enhancing action During the year, Axis employed two learning and forms of corruption. Almost all employees, apart salary for equal performance and responsibility. Policies and Code of Conduct per country/region during the year. development specialists, one in Global sales and Important work during the year included from those who are not present due to a leave of During the year, Axis drew up a new global diversity policy. Other policies followed by all Diversity and equal opportunities the other in Sweden, for quality assurance of implementation of the corporate culture in the absence, parental leave or those who have been During the year, several initiatives were employees, managers and the board include the >> Aim for a more balanced distribution in terms training and staff development. three companies acquired in 2016. ill over a long period, have signed an agreement implemented in order to promote greater equality policy against harassment, the equality policy, of gender in all teams and functions within where they undertake not to accept bribes or and diversity: These included participation in the policy against victimization and the Code Axis. Cooperation with schools Axis works systematically to strengthen the participate in corruption, in accordance with the Commitment Skåne and Talent without borders, of Conduct. The policies clearly lay down the >> Ensure that the recruitment process, Axis also collaborates with schools, colleges and corporate culture; it is of critical importance company’s anti-corruption policy. New employees which work to integrate new arrivals into the responsibilities of each person. including advertising, contribute to increased universities and offers internships for thesis work that the employees share the company’s values. sign the agreement when they are hired by Axis, community and participation in Pink Programming, diversity. and contributes to research projects at universities This cultural matching during recruitments is after participating in anti-corruption training. which aims to train women in coding (see article in Sweden and abroad. Axis’ employees provide extremely important and the recruitment process During the year, these agreements and training on page 73). New goals instruction at schools in order to inspire and is extremely thorough. The corporate culture and courses were updated. Read more about how Axis During the year, Axis has drawn up new goals, explain how it is to work as an engineer and about values are important parts of the introduction works to fight corruption on page 44. Axis has also initiated collaboration with the which Axis shall work according to in 2018. technology. program for new employees, and also in other diversity network MINE (Mentorship, Inspiration, These are: training and employee programs. Non-discrimination, equality and diversity Networking and Education). Corporate culture and values Axis’ starting point is that all people have Axis’ corporate culture, with strong values, Core values equal value, which is something natural in all MINE is south Sweden’s largest network of “The way Axis works with its core values is unique. represents the basis for all operations and is Axis’ core values Always open, Act as one and Think operational areas. Axis does not tolerate any form companies and public organizations that promotes The core values are guiding principles for how we constantly present in the day-to-day work and big are cornerstones in the culture work. This means of discrimination or harassment whatsoever, based increased diversity and inclusion in working life. behave in relation to one another but also for how leadership. All employees and the board should being open to the ideas of colleagues and customer on gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity, national Examples of activities conducted by MINE are we behave externally. follow the Code of Conduct and act according needs, working together to reach the company’s origins, religious belief, age, civil status, functional networking events, mentorship programs as well as to it and take responsibility for upholding the established goals, remaining at the leading edge impairment or other statutory reasons. advice and support during recruitment processes. Everyone is of equal value here at the workplace. It does company’s values. and creating the best products and solutions for not matter if you are a man or a woman, for example. customers. The values are also a key part of kickoff The company works actively to promote increased In the Axis Q Network, female employees in Everyone is equal. This unique corporate culture is a key factor events, are used as criteria in setting of salaries and diversity and equality and to fight discrimination. Sweden meet to network, get inspired and It’s great how we are fighting corruption and that we behind Axis’ successful performance and provides as decision data in career development discussions. Axis’ view is that equality and diversity with exchange experience and ideas with other women have this as a recurring training.” a basis for continued strong global growth and All employees should understand Axis’ goals, vision regard to background, competencies and other outside their own department. The network also for reaching the company’s goals. The corporate and values. All the company’s policies are based attributes fosters innovation, new thinking aims to facilitate career development. Axis is Ilhan Veli on the core values. A core value toolbox is used and employee wellbeing. This is a competitive working to increase interest in technology among Mechanical Engineer, Axis Communications AB culture is characterized by an entrepreneurial spirit, openness and responsibility and is and by managers. This includes modules containing advantage and helps employees feel proud of Axis girls and is engaged for example in Flickor på 72 Sustainability report 73 Pink Goals and target fulfilment Programming Non-discrimination, equality and diversity Axis is participating in initiatives to attract more women to >> Zero tolerance towards discrimination and harassment. work with IT and technology, such as Pink Programming. -During the year, one case of sexual harassment was Pink Programming is a not-profit association, which is reported. The case was handled according to Axis' routines and action plans. Measures were taken and working to increase the number of women that code. the investigation is completed. No such incidents occurred during 2016 or 2015. >> Advancing the company’s position as an employer with We are focused on women who otherwise would Pink Programming’s work targets women who regard to equality and diversity. not have dared to try coding, says Katarina Berg, are already working with development as well -The female network Axis Q Network has promoted project manager and software developer at Axis in as women who are thinking about starting exchange of knowledge and women’s careers. Lund and a volunteer at Pink Programming. training in the technology field. -Sweden and the US carried out a salary survey aimed at identifying unequal salaries. One day each week during working hours, Berg -Getting more women into the IT sector is not -Axis participates in initiatives such as Commitment works with Pink Programming, which Axis sponsors. just an important question for Axis but for Skåne and Talent without borders. society in general. A more uniform gender -We want to inspire more women to start coding. distribution benefits individuals, companies and >> Promoting external initiatives to raise the status of women in technology in society. We have created a forum with empathy and a society. This is also necessary since the labor positive atmosphere in focus. It is a welcoming market is crying out for more manpower, says -During the year, Axis helped with financing for and participated in Flickor på Teknis and Datatjej, among and inclusive environment for women and others Berg. I am convinced that the result will be Getting more women into other initiatives. who do not feel represented among programmers much better if more individuals with additional the IT sector is not just an on account of their gender identity, says Berg. qualifications and different perspectives important question for Axis Health and safety contribute to developments. but for society in general. >> Have an absence due to illness rate of 2.2 percent. Pink Programming is located in Stockholm, -In 2017, absence due to illness amounted to 2.9 Gothenburg, Malmö and Oslo. The association Berg arranges training camps, communicates Katarina Berg percent in Sweden. In 2016, absence due to illness was arranges training in the form of all-day events, with volunteers, handles administration and has project manager and software 2.5 percent and in 2015 it was 2.4 percent in Sweden. workshops and programming camps, which are worked as an instructor at camps. developer at Axis in Lund >> Work even more strategically and proactively with often combined with other activities such as and a volunteer at Pink Programming working environment questions. climbing or canoeing in summer and skiing in winter. -I am passionate about learning and questions -Axis conducts systematic working environment efforts like equality and getting more women into the in Sweden, follows up occupational accidents on a -It’s important to create environments that sector. A distorted gender distribution affects -We see a strong interest from companies to global basis, talks about the working environment are inviting and stimulating for the people we both me as an individual and the company support initiatives like ours. There is aslo a strong in career development discussions and performs risk want to reach out to. For example, we hold negatively, says Berg. drive on the part of participants and volunteers, analyses in Sweden. our summer and winter camps in beautiful which is fantastic. Pink Programming’s training >> Managers and employees should have a good insight surroundings in the countryside and we don’t She also emphasizes the importance of the right activities have delivered results. into how Axis handles working environment questions. just serve hamburgers and coca-cola but also values in order to attract more women and the -The company has conducted global information vegetarian food. Everyone should feel welcome, importance of female role models. Berg sees a -Many people that have attended camps or campaigns. says Berg. strong interest from the industry in questions such courses with us started to learn coding and now as improved gender distribution: work with technology. It’s great to see, says Berg. 74 Sustainability report Axis in figures Incl. Citilog, 2N and Cognimatics that were acquired in 2016 Definitions 2017 2016 2015 Employees Number of employees 2,865 2,646 2,139 Proportion women/men, % 27/73 26/74 27/73 Permanent employees and fixed term employees for at least six months. Employees are expressed as head counts as of December 31, 2017. Citilog, 2N and Cognimatics, which were acquired in 2016, are included in the statistics for both 2016 Group Management* 2 women, 8 men 2 women, 8 men 2 women, 7 men and 2017. Board of Directors 2 women, 8 men, of whom 2 women, 8 men, of whom 1 woman, 7 men 2 women and 3 men are 2 women and 3 men are of whom 2 men are Permanent employees employee representatives employee representatives employee representatives Permanent employees are expressed as head counts as of December 31, 2017. Substitutes who replace e.g. persons that are Employee turnover, % 9.4 8.6 7.3 on parental leave or on a leave of absence are not included. Workplace accidents 17 of which 0 fatal accidents 17 of which 0 fatal accidents 7 of which 0 fatal accidents Number of accidents with lost 1 8 N/A Part-time employees workdays as a result Number of lost workdays 40 61 N/A Only part-time employees in Sweden are included in the statistics. Summer substitutes, hourly-paid employees and substitutes are excluded. Absence due to illness in Sweden, % 2.9 2.5 2.4 Average age 39 39 39 Employees who are not employed by Axis (contracted) Age distribution, employees, % Under 30 years 15 16 14 These account for a small proportion of the overall workforce and consist of consultants, primarily within research and development, among others. 30-50 years 70 73 76 Over 50 years 15 11 10 Data collection Age distribution, Group Management* % Under 30 years 0 0 0 All data is collected in a global system and is compiled centrally. 30-50 years 40 60 80 Over 50 years 60 40 20 Absence due to illness Age distribution, Board of Directors, % Permanent employees and fixed term employees for at least six months are included. Under 30 years 0 0 0 30-50 years 30 50 50 Injuries Over 50 years 70 50 50 Employees with 79 79 80 Work-related injuries. Minor injuries, which can be remedied solely with first aid are not included nor are non work-related university education, % injuries or illnesses that have occurred at the workplace. *Malin Ruijsenaars, Axis Chief Personnel Officer, has been on sick leave during the year and has not participated in the management team. The function as Chief Personnel Officer has been maintained by two senior staff at the HR department and Axis' CEO has been responsible for HR issues at management team level. 76 Sustainability report 77 Germany Social responsibility Axis donated cameras to a school in western Germany. The school faced serious problems with vandalism and drug use in its grounds. Axis and the company’s charity and partner Bechtle donated and installed network cameras at the school. Shortly Axis participates after this, the school noticed improvements and fewer incidents. in Commitment Skane, whose purpose is to sponsorship facilitate and shorten the time it takes for new arrivals to enter thelabor market Belgium The organization ljsedal offers employment to people that may find it and to promote faster integration into difficult to enter the regular labor market, including people with functional society. impairments. ljsedal had problems with theft and wanted to improve Axis takes social responsibility through security. Axis donated seven network cameras to ljsedal. This has resulted in several improvements. Potential intruders can be captured on video and charity and sponsorship. Axis contributes to hopefully the cameras also have a deterrent effect. The cameras will also the local community in the markets where enable ljsedal to monitor and analyze daily traffic in the parking area and to the company operates, including through make operational improvements. sponsorship of educational projects and sports associations, local environmental Axis donated horn Republic of Korea speakers for both initiatives and through donations to Sweden indoor and outdoor Axis employees knitted woollen caps for infants for the non-profit organization Save the Children Fund. The caps charitable organizations. Axis sponsors sports associations, sporting and cultural events such use to the not-foras the Lundaloppet run and various educational initiatives. Through profit organizahelp to keep the infants warm at night and thus prevent Svenska Kunskapsförlaget, Axis sponsors educational materials tion Dubai Autism deaths, which can occur when children suffer a chill during Taking social responsibility and having a social commitment are Center in the United winter nights. relating to science and the environment for grade 4-6 pupils in part of Axis’ sustainability strategy. Charitable initiatives and Arab Emirates. Lund. Axis participates in Commitment Skåne, whose purpose is to sponsorship are usually initiated and conducted at a local level. The facilitate and shorten the time it takes for new arrivals to enter the projects contribute to the local community and also benefit Axis labor market and to promote faster integration into society. In 2017 and the company’s employees. Some of the initiatives undertaken Axis donated money to Médecins Sans Frontières and the Swedish and projects completed during the year are described here. Childhood Cancer Foundation. Dubai The Ramadan Share Fridge is an initiative to help less USA advantaged community and building workers to gain access Axis contributed to the non-profit organization Mission 500, to free food and drinks during the month of Ramadan. The which helps poor children, among other initiatives. Axis donated idea began with one fridge in 2016 and has now grown to 150 rucksacks with food for schools, for pupils in need, in the local fridges. Food and drinks are available for fasting and non-fasting area. At the Mission 500 Security Softball sports event, money was persons after a long day. It is a Dubai-based initiative, under raised for the organization. Axis also raised money for a family that Axis has the Red Crescent’s umbrella and in collaboration with Open built bicycles for was severely affected by hurricane Harvey in Texas. Arms UAE, which brings together people from different parts of school children society to share some time together and show appreciation and in Cambodia. South Africa respect for one another. This year, Axis contributed five fridges In Johannesburg, South Africa, Axis participated in South Africa’s along with fresh fruit, juice, yoghurt, biscuits and water. inaugural Xtreme Chair Race. The competitors had a modified non-motorized office chair with at least two wheels, which can Axis also donated horn speakers for both indoor and outdoor also be fitted out with other functions. The aim of the event was use to the not-for-profit organization Dubai Autism Center in Cambodia to help the QuadPara Association of South Africa, a not-for-profit the United Arab Emirates. Dubai Autism Center is a non-profit Axis carried out a project where paintings, which were organization, to raise funds for wheelchairs for paralyzed people. organization that provides information, support, advice and previously created in an event together with children Wheelchairs make it possible for these people to live as normal a training to working people and parents of autistic children. The from New Hope Community Services, were auctioned off. life as possible, which includes returning to work and school. center wants to help integrate autistic children into society, and Funds raised through the auction went to a project to help also boost awareness surrounding autism. The children can listen young people. Axis also built bicycles for school children in to music with the speakers and they facilitate communication Cambodia, together with the non-profit organization HUSK. of scheduled information and can also be used for providing It is easier for the childen to get to and from school using warnings in crisis situations. the bicycles. 78 Sustainability report 79 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page UN Global Compact GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page UN Global Compact Omissions Omissions Standard Number Title number(s) Principles Standard Number Title number(s) Principles GRI 101: Foundation 2016 Material Topics GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 GRI 200 Economic Standard Series ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 102-1 Name of the organization Cover GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 44-45 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 44-45 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 6, 20-21 102-3 Location of headquarters 131 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 44-45 102-4 Location of operations 18-19 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 44-45 102-5 Ownership and legal form 28-29, 121 2016 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 45 102-6 Markets served 6-7, 16, 18-19 GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series 102-7 Scale of the organization 6-7, 88 MATERIALS 7, 8, 9 Data not available. Axis is in the process of implemenGRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 53 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 53, 57 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 74 ting a new global IT system with the ambition that further information will be available in the future. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 53, 57 102-9 Supply chain 38-39, 62-67 10 GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-2 Recycled input materials used 53, 57 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 28-29, 62-65 ENERGY 8, 9 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 53 7 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 53, 55, 57 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 53, 55, 57 102-12 External initiatives 32-33, 43 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 53, 55, 57 102-13 Membership of associations 33 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 55, 57 STRATEGY 302-3 Energy intensity 55, 57 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 8-9 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 55, 57 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 24-27 EMISSIONS 8, 9 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 54-59 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 32, 42-45 1,2 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 54-59 GOVERNANCE 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 57 102-18 Governance structure 32-33, 120-125 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 54-57 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 54-55, 57 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 34 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 54-59 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 69 3 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 54-57 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 34-35 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 54-59 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 34-35 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 8, 9 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 34-37 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 62-67 REPORTING PRACTICE Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 62-67 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 107 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 65 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 36-39 GRI 308: Supplier 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 65 Environmental Assessment 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 62-67 102-47 List of material topics 37 2016 102-48 Restatements of information 33, 54-55 GRI 400 Social Standards Series 102-49 Changes in reporting 33 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 102-50 Reporting period 33 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 68-72 102-51 Date of most recent report 33 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 68-72 102-52 Reporting cycle 33 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 68-69, 72 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 131 GRI 403: Occupational 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absente72, 74 Data not available. 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 33 Health and Safety 2016 eism, and number of work-related fatalities 102-55 GRI content index 78 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 1, 2, 6 102-56 External assurance 33 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 68-73 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 68-72 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 68-72 The UN Global Compact Ten Principles GRI 405: Diversity and Equal 405-1 Opportunity 2016 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 74 Principle Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability statement NON-DISCRIMINATION 1, 2, 6 To the general meeting of the shareholders of Axis AB, GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 68-72 corporate identity number 556241-1065 HUMAN RIGHTS Approach 2016 Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 103-2 The management approach and its components 68-72 Engagement and responsibility proclaimed human rights; and 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 68-72 It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. statement for the year 2017 on pages 14, 24-27, 30-79 and that it has been GRI 406: Non-discrimina406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 72 LABOR prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. tion 2016 Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recogniSUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 tion of the right to collective bargaining; The scope of the audit GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 62-67 Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 62-67 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and RevU 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability statement. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 65 Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is GRI 414: Supplier Social 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 65 different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance Assessment 2016 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 62-67 ENVIRONMENTAL Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing CUSTOMER PRIVACY challenges; standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 46-47 sufficient basis for our opinions. Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 46-47 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 46-47 Opinions GRI 418: Customer 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of 46-47 technologies. A statutory sustainability statement has been prepared. Privacy 2016 customer data ANTI-CORRUPTION PERSONAL INTEGRITY 1, 2 Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion Lund 20 March 2018 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 47 and bribery. Ernst & Young AB Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 47 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 47 Johan Thuresson CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Authorized Public Accountant GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 48-49 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 48-49 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 48-49 Administration report 81 Administration report The Board of Directors and President submit the following financial statements and consolidated financial statements Axis AB is a public Swedish stock corporation with its registered office customers. Meanwhile, it is critical to remain at the leading edge with for the fiscal year January 1, 2017–December 31, 2017. in Lund, Sweden. The company is registered in Sweden under the high-tech, innovative and competitive products. corporate identity number 556241-1065. Since 2015, Axis AB is part of Unless otherwise stated, all amounts are in SEK millions. the Canon group with Canon Inc as the ultimate parent company. The 2017 was a year with a large number of releases of innovative products Information in parenthesis refers to the preceding year. hedge fund Elliott Capital holds, through direct or indirect ownership an and solutions. Axis introduced a motion detector, which is based on equity interest that exceeds 10 percent. These financial statements were radar technology, among other products. The technology can be used as approved by the board of directors on March 20, 2018. a complement to traditional surveillance solutions. The Wide Dynamic Contents Range technology was also advanced further. It increases the capability Operations of the camera to capture image details in challenging light conditions, Axis offers intelligent security solutions that enable a smarter and safer allowing surveillance operators to see forensic levels of detail in both dark world. As the market leader in network video, Axis is driving the trend and bright areas at the same time. The image compression tool Zipstream Administration report 80 Notes 94 in the industry by continually releasing innovative network products was further enhanced in order to support greater data streaming and based on open platforms, which deliver added value to customers and storage demands of 360-degree panoramic cameras and 4K resolution. Consolidated statement of Signatures 111 are distributed via an indirect business model through a global partner In addition, three new explosion-protected camera models were released comprehensive income 87 Audit report 112 network, also see page 14. Axis has long-term relationships with partners to meet the need for surveillance of remote, inaccessible, and sensitive Consolidated balance sheet 88 and provides them with know-how and groundbreaking network products areas. In the complementary product areas Network audio, Door stations Multi-year summary 116 in existing and new markets. and access control systems, several new products were released such as Consolidated statement of network horn speakers, microphones and an IP solution, which enables changes in equity 89 Quarterly data 118 Axis has more than 2,865 dedicated employees in more than 50 countries use of mobile telephony together with Axis access control solutions for Definitions 119 around the world, supported by a global network of over 90,000 partners. secure and easy entry and exit. Consolidated cash flow statement 90 Founded in 1984, Axis is a Sweden-based company and is listed on Parent company income Corporate governance report 120 Nasdaq Stockholm under the ticker AXIS. Axis’ offering is moving increasingly from product offerings to solutions, statement 91 where the products have a central role, however. Axis’ security cameras, Board of Directors and Auditors 127 Significant events during the fiscal year encoders, access control products and accessories can be integrated Parent company statement of Axis’ current strategy involves meeting customers’ security needs through with Axis’ proprietary video management system, and also with partners’ Management team 128 comprehensive income 91 overall solutions in a world where devices are increasingly connected. The products and services, and thereby create overall solutions for customers. Invitation to the Annual goal is to offer a broad range of the most relevant products and together As the market grows and matures, Axis’ investments are continuing in Parent company balance sheet 92 General Meeting with partners supply product packages and services relating to security order to strengthen the overall offering and assume greater responsibility. solutions that contain more than just network video. After almost 20 Parent company statement of Financial information 2018 years of work with the “Internet of Things”, Axis is also well-equipped to Axis’ growth strategy is primarily to grow organically but also to work changes in equity 93 take a leading role in future developments. with acquisitions as a complement. During 2016, we made three Parent company cash flow strategic acquisitions aimed at broadening our overall offering. All statement 93 The solution-oriented business model means that Axis is taking greater acquisitions performed well during 2017 and delivered strong and broader service responsibility in relation to partners and end growth and profitability. The office network was expanded Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 82 Administration report Administration report 83 with two new offices in the US (Texas and Florida) and a number of of our customers and partners combined with public requirements for Research and development operating profit. Working capital improved by SEK 380 M (-51), which upgrades and extensions of existing offices occurred. privacy and security. During 2017, 18.2 percent (17.7) of the group’s sales were invested in was largely due to lower inventory levels. Net investments during the research and development within both hardware and software. Research year amounted to SEK 620 M (832) driven by the construction of the new Our geographical markets, EMEA, Americas and Asia, showed a stable Sustainability and development expenditure increased by SEK 253 M (247) compared office building in Lund. Total cash flow amounted to SEK 679 M (-157) performance during the year but with some variations. Sales growth in Sustainability is an important and natural part of Axis’ operations. Axis to the preceding year and amounted to SEK 1,486 M (1,233). Expenditure after dividends paid of SEK 64 M (44). local currencies amounted to about 15 percent in all three regions. Asia takes environmental, social and economic responsibility. Axis shall always on development work totaling SEK 79 M (77) was capitalized during the is a region, which is dominated by intense local competition and strong act in an ethical and transparent way in all its business relationships. year. The capitalization principle is described further in Note 1 to the Investments price pressure. In the mature markets in Europe and the US, products for financial statements. Axis’ technology is based on the proprietary ASIC Investments in property, plant and equipment amounted to SEK 399 M smaller and medium-sized installations were in special focus. In growth Axis has high ambitions of its own and customers are also imposing (Application Specific Integrated Circuit) platforms, which are at the heart (215), and in intangible assets to SEK 91 M (82). Net investments for the countries, the market is still primarily concentrated on larger clients. stricter requirements on the company to meet their expectations of of Axis’ products. The ARTPEC® chips are optimized for effective image year according to the consolidated cash flow statement amounted to SEK being a sustainable supplier from an environmental, ethical and social processing and image compression and are found in the majority of 620 M (832). Interest in network video and supplementary offerings is well spread perspective. Axis’ products. In conjunction with Axis’ software platforms, they form over a number of sectors and fields of application. During the year, a very flexible technology base on which world-leading products can be Change of control clause several interesting deals were completed with major chain stores, In 2007, Axis signed the UN’s Global Compact, which means that developed, rapidly and cost effectively. Work on development of future There are no significant agreements exist that the company is party to public authorities, hospitals and within the transportation sector. The Axis observes its ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, generations of ARTPEC® continued during 2017. and which take effect, change or cease to be valid if the control over close collaboration with partners, distributors, resellers and application environment and anti-corruption. Axis complies with global export the company changes as a consequence of a public takeover bid or developers continued during 2017. Within the partnership programs, the control regulations in order to ensure that all business is conducted in a Axis conducts an active patent strategy in order to safeguard investments agreements of such a nature that a disclosure would be likely to occasion members were trained in the benefits of network video in general and responsible and correct manner. A sustainability report has been compiled in core technology and intellectual capital. During the year, applications serious harm to the company. Axis’ product range in particular. At year-end, over 90,000 companies for the operations every year since 2010. This report has been prepared in for 9 new design families and 59 new patent families were filed, chiefly were part of the various partner programs. accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. related to camera technology. During 2017, 167 national patents and Long-term goals a number of registered designs were granted. Axis currently holds 396 The board of directors of Axis revised the group’s two long-term financial Axis’ delivery capacity is impacted by the generally strained electronics Axis implemented a number of measures during the year. These included active patent and registered design families. goals during the year. The long-term ambition is to maximize long-term components market. Long lead times and deferred deliveries of essential drawing up new environmental goals, development of several new PVC growth with an operating margin that exceeds 10 percent. The annual incoming electronics components resulted in minor disruptions in free camera models, improvement work concerning energy consumption During 2017, Axis improved its innovation process in order to be quicker ambition for growth is 15 percent delivery precision to some of our customers. However, effective work in during operation of the products was initiated and Axis participated in and more efficient. Product development at Axis is divided into hardware the production and logistics functions, helped to minimize the negative carbon offsetting projects in Africa. Almost all employees apart from development and software development. Within hardware development, Corporate governance effects. those who were not present at work due to a leave of absence, parental extensive innovation occurs in relation to how new technologies will be Axis has chosen to prepare a corporate governance report, which is leave or because they are on long-term sick leave, signed an agreement applied and how Axis can solve customer problems in an innovative way. separate from the Administration Report. The positive development of the Internet of things and powerful online to comply with Axis’ anti-corruption policy and participate in training in Within the software organization, development occurs of the software services is occurring while IT security has naturally emerged as a what the anti-corruption policy implies. In the work on promoting diversifound in existing products, but also of the applications that connect Earnings and position high-priority area. These threats are being countered in various ways ty, a new diversity policy was developed and goals for non-discrimination, the solutions into complete systems. Within the framework of its R&D Sales during the year totaled SEK 8,603 M (7,386), which represented in different parts of the world. Within the EU, implementation of two health and increased equality were established. Axis trains suppliers operations, Axis collaborates extensively with universities and colleges in growth of 16 percent compared to the preceding year. Foreign currency comprehensive regulations, GDPR and NIS was approved. These aim and conducts audits to ensure that they meet Axis’ strict requirements Sweden and within a number of different product areas effects impacted sales positively by SEK 137 M. The Video product area, to protect the privacy of individual citizens and consumers, and to relating to environmental impacts, working conditions, human rights and which corresponds to more than 94 percent of sales, increased by 14 improve the protection of critical functions, such as energy supplies and fighting corruption. During 2017, new goals for this work were drawn up. Personnel percent from SEK 7,068 M to SEK 8,075 M, while other sales increased to infrastructure in relation to cybersecurity. The recruitment rate was relatively high during 2017. At year-end, the SEK 528 M. Gross margin increased from 50.2 percent to 51.8 percent. In accordance with the Chapter 6, Section 11 of the Annual Accounts Act, number of employees totaled 2,865, which represents a net increase The new regulations and stricter demands are basically positive for Axis’ the company has chosen to prepare the statutory sustainability report of 219 people since December 31, 2016. Most of the increase occurred The group’s operating profit amounted to SEK 1,014 M (885), which was business but they are making great demands on the organization. The as a separate report from the annual report. The sustainability report in sales and marketing as well as in research and development. Of the an increase of SEK 129 M compared to the preceding year. Operating inherent conflict between society’s need for security and companies’ was submitted to the auditor simultaneously with the annual report. employees, 1,639 (1,495) people are employed in Sweden and 1,226 margin amounted to 11.8 percent compared to 12.0 percent in 2016. legitimate need to understand their customers’ behavior on the one hand, The sustainability report is presented on pages 30-79 in this printed (1,151) in other countries. Foreign currency effects had a positive impact on operating profit of SEK and the abuse that is enabled by the rise of digital interfaces on the document. Risk management is described on pages 24-27. The company’s 17 M. Profit before tax amounted to SEK 1,011 M (884), which representother, must be handled. business model can be found on page 14, sustainability governance on Financing and cash flow ed an increase of SEK 127 M compared to the preceding year. page 32, ethics and anti-corruption on pages 42-47, environmental topics Axis had total cash and cash equivalents of SEK 1,537 M at its disposal For Axis, it is therefore crucial to earn customers’ trust that our products on pages 50-61, supply chain on pages 62-67 and social topics including on December 31, 2017. Consequently, Axis is in a very strong financial The Group’s financial position is strong. Cash balances increased and solutions are safe through open and transparent communication. This working conditions and human rights on pages 68-77. position approaching 2018. Cash flow from operating activities amounted during the year from SEK 858 M to SEK 1,538. The equity ratio is achieved by having an in-depth understanding of the security needs to SEK 1,364 M (721). The strong cash flow was mainly due to the strong amounted to 61.4 percent (58.7). Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 84 Administration report Administration report 85 Condensed income statement who are offered to participate in the program may, provided that (i) regarding risks see pages 21–24 in the printed annual report. The group’s Business-related risks are those that may result in losses due to inadeQ1 Q2 Q3 Q4 TOTAL certain performance criteria being met during the period 1 January risk management aims to minimize the risks but also to ensure that quate or failed internal processes, human errors or defective systems. In 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2018 – 31 December 2021 (the “four-year period”), (ii) he/she is employed opportunities are utilized in the best way, in order to facilitate continued all manufacturing, some environmental impacts occur, which may include Net sales, SEK M 2,027 2,119 2,253 2,204 8,603 by a group company throughout (or, under certain circumstances, during strong growth and business expansion. energy consumption, various emissions and hazardous waste, among Gross profit, SEK M 1,034 1,087 1,186 1,152 4,459 the majority of) the four-year period and (iii) he/she is still employed by other things. The risk of overutilization of finite resources is affected by Gross margin, % 51.0 51.3 52.7 52.3 51.8 Operating profit, SEK M 234 209 365 206 1,014 such company, and has not received nor given notice of termination, at During 2017, Axis took the decision to formalize its risk management the design and choice of material. IT security in products and solutions Operating margin, % 11.6 9.9 16.2 9.3 11.8 the date of payment in March 2022, receive a long-term remuneration work. In 2018, a risk assessment will be performed in relevant parts is crucial in protecting customer privacy in the event of incidents. An Profit before tax, SEK M 234 208 364 205 1,011 (bonus) amounting to a maximum 388 percent of the annual salary. The of the organization. The risk framework’s connection with the internal important risk area in the business-related risks is that Axis manages to Profit margin, % 11.5 9.8 16.1 9.3 11.8 performance criteria are based on revenue growth in local currencies control and its follow up was clarified. Axis has already implemented an maintain and advance its unique corporate culture. All employees are and earnings before interests and taxes (“EBIT”) at group level – revenue internal control framework based on COSO (Committee of Sponsoring culture bearers, and thus it is of the greatest importance to continue growth 12-18 percent and EBIT 6-12 percent. Maximum bonus is paid Organizations of the Treadway Commission) with well-documented identifying, recruiting and retaining employees with the right competenProposal regarding principles for determination of salaries where revenue growth is equal to or exceeds 18 percent at the same controls, which are tested annually. cies and with values aligned to the corporate culture. and other remuneration to the President and other time as EBIT is equal to or exceeds 12 percent all four years. Deviation members of the company management from the requirement of employment throughout (or, in some cases, the Risks for Axis’ operations are identified based on the group’s overriding Financial risks are mainly defined as financing, foreign exchange and The Board of Directors proposes the following principles for determination majority of) the four-year period, and payment in advance, may occur strategy, which incorporates both a business and sustainability perspeccredit risk. Interest risk is assessed as being limited. For further informaof salaries and other remuneration to the President and other members in in certain “good leaver” situations. Long-term remuneration (bonus) tive. The risks are divided into external, strategic, business-related and tion refer to Note 2 to the financial statements. The group’s international of the company management. The principles shall apply to employment may be paid to senior executives under a bonus program based on the financial risks. operations involve a number of financial risks which are handled contracts entered into after the general meeting’s resolution on the above main principles and within the said frames. Senior executives who according to the policies adopted by the board. The overriding goal of the principles, and in cases where changes are made in existing terms and are resident in countries where participation in such bonus program is External risks are those arising from events in the company’s external group’s finance function is to provide financing to group companies on an conditions after the general meeting’s resolution. With the exception not suitable, may be offered an alternative incentive solution instead, environment and which are beyond the company’s influence or control. ongoing basis and handle financial risks so that potential negative effects of what is stated below regarding long-term variable remuneration, the which, as far as practically possible, shall be designed using comparable Axis is impacted by global macroeconomic trends, like most multinational on the group’s results are minimized. The group is primarily exposed to principles essentially correspond to the principles that have been applied conditions. companies. Although the global economy performed well generally during financing, foreign exchange and credit risk. up to date. For information regarding terms of remuneration for 2017, 2017, macroeconomic challenges remain in several of the regions where please refer to Note 20, Personnel. The retirement age for the President shall be 65. The pension insurance Axis conducts operations. Macroeconomic uncertainty indirectly affects The work on identifying, handling, following up and evaluating the premium shall amount to 35 percent of the pensionable salary up to a customers’ willingness to invest, investment capability and financing risk exposure that the group is subject to is continually ongoing, at a Remuneration to the President and the other members of the company maximum of 28.5 basic amounts. For a salary in excess of 28.5 basic possibilities. Terrorism and political turbulence in many countries can group, regional and local level. External and strategic risks are mainly management (i.e. the persons who together with the President comprise amounts, a premium of 25 percent shall be paid. The ITP agreement shall also naturally have an adverse impact on Axis’ global expansion. Another, handled at group management and board level. Business-related risks the group management) (“senior executives”) may consist of basic salary, be applied for other senior executives, with a retirement age of 65. partly political question, is social acceptance of camera surveillance as are primarily handled at group management and regional manager level. shortand long-term variable remunerations and pension. Other benefits In the event of termination of employment, a six-month mutual notice well as the privacy issues which may arise in this context. Globally, Axis Management and coordination of financial and insurable risks is mainly and other remuneration shall be received on the same basis as for other period shall apply for the President. In the event of termination of encounters everything from a very positive attitude to a more skeptical carried out by the group’s finance department. Function-specific risks in employees. employment of the President by the company, termination benefits view of camera surveillance. As a leading player, Axis is constantly the company-wide functions, Finance, IT, HR and Operations are handled corresponding to up to twelve cash monthly salaries may be paid after exposed to competition from other companies. The market is undergoing and coordinated within each function. Risks in the legal area are handled The objective for the company’s remuneration policy for senior executives the end of the notice period. In the event of termination by the President, a consolidation phase where credibility with customers, transparency and by Axis’ legal department in cooperation with external lawyers. The shall be to offer compensation that increases the company’s possibility no termination benefits shall be payable. A mutual period of notice of high quality are crucial for how well a company can increase or maintain exposure to intellectual property risk in the patents area is managed by to retain and recruit qualified expertise. The basic salary should be three to six months shall apply between the company and the other senior market shares. Among the external risks are risks of natural disasters and Axis’ specialists, in collaboration with external lawyers. determined on the basis that it should be competitive. The absolute level executives. In the event of termination by the company, termination accidents, which can lead to various disruptions in the product supply should depend on the specific position and the individual’s performance. benefits corresponding to twelve cash monthly salaries can be paid. In chain. Outlook the event of termination by any of the senior executives, no termination The market activity and inflow of new projects means that Axis’ view on Short-term variable remuneration (bonus) to the President and the other benefits shall be payable. Persons who are resident outside Sweden may Strategic risks are defined as risks that can prevent Axis from reaching the current market growth rate remains unchanged. An important factor senior executives shall be based on the financial goals of the group be offered notice periods and termination benefits that are competitive in the company’s strategic goals or that prevent the company from working for continued strong growth is increased penetration in installations and shall be calculated as a function of the sales growth and the profit the country where the persons are or have been resident or to which they towards these goals. Axis’ strategy to broaden the customer offering with for smaller systems and in emerging markets. In order to meet market margin for the year in question. Short-term variable remuneration may, have a substantial connection, preferably solutions equivalent to what new products and overall solutions and thus partly to enter new markets demand and retain its position as the market-leading supplier of network as regards the President, amount to a maximum of 240 percent of the applies for senior executives resident in Sweden. is resulting in increased requirements for adaptation and development. video solutions, Axis will continue to develop and release a large number annual salary and, as regards the other senior executives, amount to a As a leading player, the group’s continued success depends on customers of innovative products, refine the partner network, recruit more employmaximum of 80 percent of the annual salary. Deviations from the principles described above may be approved by the being satisfied with the products, solutions and service. In this context, ees and continue to expand globally. board of directors, if there are specific reasons in individual cases. it is therefore important that Axis is perceived as a reliable business The Board of Directors has, subject to a resolution by the general partner and employer. In a large multinational business, there is a risk meeting on principles according to this proposal, resolved to implement Material risks and uncertainties that employees, suppliers or partners do not act ethically and sustainably a long-term bonus program for senior executives in the company (“LTI Axis is an international group with operations and customers all over the in all respects. 2018/2021”), mainly based on the following principles. Senior executives world and is thus exposed to many different risks. For further information Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 86 Administration report Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 87 Parent Company Consolidated statement of comprehensive income (SEK M) The parent company’s operations are primarily focused on company-wide Note 2017 2016 administration. The parent company has no employees. Sales to group companies amounted to SEK 131 M (119). Purchasing from group Net sales 3 8,602.6 7,385.7 companies has not taken place. Operating profit amounted to SEK 63 M Cost of goods and services sold -4,143.8 -3,678.9 (58). Gross profit 4,458.8 3,706.8 Proposed appropriation of profits in the Parent Company At the disposal of the annual general meeting: Selling and marketing expenses -1,547.1 -1,353.0 Administrative expenses -351.7 -298.9 Research and development expenses -1,486.4 -1,233.4 Accumulated profit and other non-restricted SEK 1,212,878,277 Other income and changes in value 8 -59.7 63.5 reserves Operating profit 4.5.6.7 1,013.9 885.0 Net profit for the year SEK 774,157,107 TOTAL SEK 1,987,035,384 Financial income 2.7 1.7 The board of directors and the President propose that the profits at the Financial expenses -5.6 -2.5 disposal of the annual general meeting be appropriated as follows: Financial items – net -2.9 -0.8 Profit before tax 1,011.0 884.2 to be carried forward SEK 1,987,035,384 TOTAL SEK 1,987,035,384 Income tax 10 -275.2 -245.5 Axis’ majority owner Canon Inc has informed the company’s board of NET PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 735.8 638.7 directors that Canon Inc at the 2018 Annual General Meeting (AGM) will vote that no dividend should be paid to the shareholders. Based on this Other comprehensive income* Items that will not be transferred to the income statement information, Axis’ board of directors and the President have decided not to propose any declaration of dividend at the Annual General Meeting 2018 and that the profits at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting Items that later could be transferred to the income statement shall be carried forward. Exchange differences 51.3 16.6 Other comprehensive income for the year, net after tax 51.3 16.6 Total comprehensive income for the year 787.1 655.3 Net profit for the year attributable to: The parent company’s shareholders 735.8 638.7 Total comprehensive income attributable to: The parent company’s shareholders 787.1 655.3 Earnings per share before and after dilution, SEK 11 10.59 9.20 Number of shares before and after dilution, average, thousands 69,461 69,461 *The items in other comprehensive income above are recognized net after tax. Disclosure is provided in Note 10 of the tax that is attributable to each component in other comprehensive income. Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 88 Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated statement of changes in equity 89 Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated statement of changes in equity (SEK M) (SEK M) ASSETS Note Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Share capital Other paid-in capital Other reserves Retained earnings Total equity Non-current assets Opening balance at January 1, 2016 0.7 279.2 -1.8 1,463.4 1,741.5 Property, plant and equipment 4 850.6 791.4 Intangible assets 5 618.2 319.6 Comprehensive income Deferred tax assets 12 44.3 48.5 Net profit for the year 638.7 638.7 Other financial assets 2.15 49.0 8.4 Total non-current assets 1,562.1 1,167.9 Other comprehensive income Exchange differences 16.6 16.6 Current assets Total other comprehensive income 16.6 16.6 Inventories 13 803.3 1,106.5 Total comprehensive income 16.6 638.7 655.3 Trade receivables and other receivables 14 1,019.9 876.7 Current investments 2 89.2 Transactions with owners Cash and cash equivalents 16 1,537.5 858.3 Dividend -44.5 -44.5 Total current assets 3,449.9 2,841.5 Total transactions with owners -44.5 -44.5 TOTAL ASSETS 5,012.0 4,009.4 Closing balance at December 31, 2016 0.7 279.2 14.8 2,057.6 2,352.3 Opening balance at January 1, 2017 0.7 279.2 14.8 2,057.6 2,352.3 EQUITY & LIABILITIES Note Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Comprehensive income Equity Net profit for the year 735.8 735.8 Capital and reserves Share capital 0.7 0.7 Other comprehensive income Other paid-up capital 279.2 279.2 Exchange differences 51.3 51.3 Other reserves 18 66.1 14.8 Total other comprehensive income 51.3 51.3 Retained earnings 2,729.5 2,057.6 Total comprehensive income 51.3 735.8 787.1 Total equity 3,075.5 2,352.3 Transactions with owners Liabilities Dividend -63.9 -63.9 Non-current liabilities Total transactions with owners -63.9 -63.9 Borrowing 19 0.9 1.9 Retirement benefit obligations 20 13.1 10.8 Closing balance at December 31, 2017 0.7 279.2 66.1 2,729.5 3,075.5 Deferred tax liabilities 12 251.5 282.5 Other provisions 21 92.2 76.2 Other non-current liabilities 19.6 Total non-current liabilities 357.7 391.0 Current liabilities Borrowing 19 1.2 1.2 Trade payables and other liabilities 22 1,530.5 1,251.8 Current tax liabilities 47.1 13.1 Total current liabilities 1,578.8 1,266.1 Total liabilities 1,936.5 1,657.1 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 5,012.0 4,009.4 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 90 Consolidated cash flow statement Parent company income statement Parent company statement of comprehensive income 91 Parent company income statement (SEK M) Consolidated cash flow statement (SEK M) Note 2017 2016 Note 2017 2016 Net sales 3 131.3 118.6 Gross profit 131.3 118.6 Operating activities Cash flow from operations 28 1,639.9 931.6 Administrative expenses -68.6 -60.6 Interest paid -5.6 -2.5 Operating profit 4 62.7 58.0 Interest received 2.7 1.7 Income taxes paid -273.0 -209.4 Financial income 23 31.8 0.9 Cash flow from operating activities 1,364.0 721.4 Financial expenses 24 -5.5 -29.0 Financial items – net 26.3 -28.1 Profit/loss after financial items 89.0 29.9 Investing activities Acquisition of subsidiaries, less acquired cash and cash equivalents 31 -534.9 Appropriations 25 904.5 542.2 Purchase of intangible assets 4 -90.9 -82.3 Profit before tax 993.5 572.1 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 5 -399.3 -214.7 Purchase of current investments -129.7 0.3 Income tax 10 -219.3 -126.7 Cash flow from investing activities -619.9 -831.6 Net profit for the year 774.2 445.4 Financing activities Dividend paid -63.9 -44.5 Amortization of loans 19 -1.0 -2.7 Cash flow from financing activities -64.9 -47.2 Cash flow for the year 679.2 -157.4 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 858.3 1,015.8 Parent company statement of comprehensive income Change in cash and cash equivalents 679.2 -157.4 (SEK M) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 16 1,537.5 858.3 Note 2017 2016 Net profit for the year 774.2 445.4 Other comprehensive income for the year 0 0 Total comprehensive income for the year 774.2 445.4 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 92 Parent company balance sheet Parent company statement of changes in equity Parent company cash flow statement 93 Parent company balance sheet Parent company statement of changes in equity (SEK M) (SEK M) Share Share premiumAccumulated Total ASSETS Note Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 capital reserve profit equity Non-current assets Opening balance at January 1, 2016 0.7 4.1 871.8 876.6 Intangible assets Patents and other rights 4 8.9 4.8 Net profit for the year 445.4 445.4 Total intangible assets 8.9 4.8 Total comprehensive income 445.4 445.4 Financial assets Other comprehensive income Participations in subsidiaries 26 39.6 39.6 Receivables from group companies 29 26.6 27.0 Transactions with owners Other financial assets 2 44.3 Dividend -44.5 -44.5 Total financial assets 110.5 66.6 Total transactions with owners -44.5 -44.5 Total non-current assets 119.4 71.4 Closing balance at December 31, 2016 0.7 4.1 1,272.7 1,277.5 Current assets Receivables Opening balance at January 1, 2017 0.7 4.1 1,272.7 1,277.5 Receivables from group companies 29 1,695.5 1,902.7 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 2.4 1.3 Net profit for the year 774.2 774.2 Total receivables 1,697.9 1,904.0 Total comprehensive income 774.2 774.2 Current investments Other comprehensive income Other current investments 2 89.3 Total current investments 89.3 Transactions with owners Dividend -63.9 -63.9 Cash and bank balances Total transactions with owners -63.9 -63.9 Cash and bank balances 16 959.3 312.1 Total cash and bank balances 959.3 312.1 Closing balance at December 31, 2017 0.7 4.1 1,982.9 1,987.7 Total current assets 2,746.5 2,216.1 Number of shares at December 31, 2017 totaled 69,461,250. The quota value was SEK 0.01 per share. At the Annual General Meeting on April 18, 2018, the board of directors will propose that no dividend should be paid in respect of the 2017 fiscal year. During 2017, SEK 0.92 per share was paid in respect of the fiscal year 2016 TOTAL ASSETS 2,865.9 2,287.5 Parent company cash flow statement (SEK M) EQUITY & LIABILITIES Note Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Note 2017 2016 Equity 17 Operating activities Restricted equity Cash flow from operations 28 61.3 69.3 Share capital 0.7 0.7 Financial expenses paid -5.8 -29.0 Total restricted equity 0.7 0.7 Financial income received 31.8 0.9 Non-restricted equity Income taxes paid -149.9 -136.5 Capital surplus 4.1 4.1 Cash flow from operating activities -62.6 -95.3 Accumulated profit 1,208.7 827.3 Net profit for the year 774.2 445.4 Investing activities Total non-restricted equity 1,987.0 1,276.8 Acquisition of subsidiaries, less acquired cash and cash equivalents -38.8 Total equity 1,987.7 1,277.5 Purchase of intangible assets 4 -7.9 -2.5 Purchase of current investments -133.4 Untaxed reserves Cash flow from investing activities -141.3 -41.3 Tax allocation reserve 30 775.8 973.0 Accumulated additional depreciation 2.1 3.0 Financing activities Total untaxed reserves 777.9 976.0 Dividend paid -63.9 -44.5 Group contributions received 25 707.9 676.1 Liabilities Group contributions paid 25 -1.5 -1.4 Current liabilities Change in receivables, group companies 207.6 -760.9 Liabilities to group companies 29 3.3 2.3 Change in liabilities, group companies 1.0 1.3 Tax liabilities 83.2 13.8 Cash flow from financing activities 851.1 -129.4 Other liabilities 6.2 6.6 Accrued expenses and deferred income 7.6 11.3 Cash flow for the year 647.2 -266.1 Total current liabilities 100.3 34.0 Total liabilities 100.3 34.0 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 312.1 578.2 Change in cash and cash equivalents 647.2 -266.1 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 2,865.9 2,287.5 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 16 959.3 312.1 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 94 Notes Notes 95 Notes IFRS 16 Leases replaces IAS 17 Leases and the related interpretations IFRIC 4, SIC-15 mainly operates (functional currency). In the consolidated financial statements, the and SIC-27. The standard requires assets and liabilities relating to all leases, with Swedish krona (SEK) is the parent company’s functional currency and the group’s some exceptions, to be recognized in the balance sheet. This recognition is based on presentation currency. the approach that the lessee has a right to use an asset for a specific period of time Note 1 Accounting policies Property, plant and equipment and concurrently has an obligation to pay for that right. Recognition for the lessor Subsidiaries’ assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the end of In addition to the depreciation described in the “property, plant and equipment” will essentially be unchanged. The standard will be applied for annual periods begineach reporting period. Items in the income statement are translated at the exchange Axis AB is a public Swedish stock corporation based in Lund. The company is registesection in the group, the parent company recognizes appropriations in the income ning on or after January 1, 2019, but early adoption is permitted. The group will not rate on the transaction date approximated to the average exchange rates. The red in Sweden under the corporate identity number 556241-1065. Since 2015, Axis statement for tax depreciation in accordance with Swedish tax legislation. These early adopt the new standard. The introduction of IFRS 16 will have an effect on the translation difference is recognized in other comprehensive income. AB is part of the Canon group with Canon Inc as the ultimate parent company. The items are carried as untaxed reserves in the balance sheet. group’s financial reporting, but the extent has not yet been evaluated. The group will hedge fund Elliott Capital holds, through direct or indirect ownership an equity inteperform a detailed analysis during the coming year in order to evaluate the effects of During consolidation, exchange differences, which arose in consequence of the rest that exceeds 10 percent. These financial statements were approved by the board 1.1.1 Changes in accounting policies and disclosures the new standard. translation of net investment in foreign operations and of borrowings and other curof directors on March 20, 2018. Axis offers intelligent security solutions that enable (a) New and amended standards adopted by the group as of January 1, 2017 rency instruments which have been designated as hedges of such investments, are a smarter and safer world. As the market leader in network video, Axis is driving the IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows has been implemented but has not had a material None of the other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations which have not yet become efrecognized in other comprehensive income. On divestment of a foreign operation, trend in the industry by continually releasing innovative network products based on impact on the consolidated financing statements. fective, are expected to have any material impact on the group.. in part or entirely, the exchange differences recognized in equity are posted to the open platforms, which deliver added value to customers and are distributed via an income statement and recognized as a part of the capital gain/loss. indirect business model through a global partner network. (b) New and amended standards adopted by the parent company as of January 1, 1.2 Consolidation 2017 Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the group When the parent company or other group company carries out hedging measures to 1.1 Basis of preparation No new or amended standards and interpretations are expected to have a material has control. The group controls an entity when it is exposed to or has the right to a offset and protect against exchange differences on net investment in a subsidiary, The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the impact on the parent company’s financial statements. variable return from its holding in the entity and can affect the return through its the exchange difference on the hedging instrument is recognized against the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and IFRIC interpretations as control of the entity. Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial stateequivalent translation difference for the subsidiary. adopted by the EU, and also in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (c) New standards and interpretations that will be adopted by the group from January ments from and including the date on which control is transferred to the group. They and the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1. The most 1, 2018 and subsequently are to be deconsolidated from and including the date on which that control ceases. Exchange gains and exchange losses attributable to financial items are recognised in important accounting policies applied when these consolidated financial statements IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will replace IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition The purchase method is used for recognition of group’s business combinations. The the consolidated statement of financial position as financial income or expenses. All were prepared are presented below. and Measurement. IFRS 9 deals with classification and measurement of financial cost of an acquisition of a subsidiary consists of the fair value of the transferred other exchange gains and exchange losses are recognized in the item other income instruments, hedge accounting and impairment losses. The standard will be applied assets, liabilities incurred by the group to the previous owner and the shares issued and changes in value in the operating profit The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018, but early adoption is by the group. The cost also includes the fair value of assets or liablities, which are a of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise permitted. The group has chosen not to early adopt the standard. During 2017, the result of an agreement on contingent consideration. 1.6 Inventories its judgement in the the process of applying the group’s accounting policies. group evaluated the effects of introducing IFRS 9. The new standard is not expected Goods for resale are valued at the lower of cost and the net realizable value Areas which involve a high degree of judgment, which are complex or areas where to have a material impact on either the group’s classification and measurement of Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a bu(realizable value less estimated selling expenses) on the closing date using the FIFO assumptions and estimates are of considerable significance for the consolidated financial instruments or on the group’s hedge accounting. The new model for calsiness combination are measured initially at fair value on the date of acquisition. For principle. Internal profits on sales between group companies are eliminated. financial statements, are specified in 1.20. culating credit loss provisions is based on expected credit losses, rather than actual each acquisition, the group determines if non-controlling interests in the acquired losses. Axis will apply the simplified approach, which will result in earlier recognition entity are recognised at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate 1.7 Trade receivables The financial statements of the parent company have been prepared in accordance of credit losses, but the effect is expected to be insignificant as the group historically share of the acquiree’s net assets. Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for merchandise sold or services with the Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recomhas had few credit losses. The preliminary assessment is currently based, on the performed in the ordinary course of business. If payment is expected within one year, mendation RFR 2. information available and is subject to change as a result of further analysis or as Costs related to the acquisition are expensed as they arise. they are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets. future information becomes available to the group. Differences between the group and parent company accounting policies are descriThe amount by which the consideration, any non-controlling interest and the fair Trade receivables are initially recognized at fair value and subsequently at amortized bed below. The accounting policies described below for the parent company have IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS value of previous shareholdings on the date of acquisition exceeds the fair value of cost using the effective interest method, less any provision for impairment. been applied consistently for all periods presented in the parent company’s financial 11 Construction Contracts and all the related interpretations (IFRIC and SIC). Under the identifiable net assets acquired, is recognized as goodwill. If the amount is less statements, unless otherwise stated. IFRS 15, revenue is recognized when the customer obtains control over the sold than the fair value of the acquired net assets, in the event of a lower price, the difThe group applies net accounting of trade receivables in cases where Axis’ coungoods or services, which replaces the previous principle that revenues are recognized ference is recognized directly in the statement of comprehensive income. terparty in turn has claims on Axis in the form of accrued discounts connected to Subsidiaries when risks and rewards have been transferred to the purchaser. The core principle purchasing from Axis. Participations in subsidiaries are recognised in the parent company in accordance in IFRS 15 is that a company recognizes revenue in the way that best reflects the Inter-company transactions, balance sheet items, as well as unrealized gains and Trade receivables are also recognized net against any trade payables to Axis’ with the cost method. This means that transaction costs are included in the carrying transfer of the promised goods or services to the customer. Recognition occurs losses on transactions between group companies, are eliminated. Where appropriate, counterparties. amount of holdings in subsidiaries. Should the fair value be lower than the carrying using a five-step model. The standard will be applied for annual periods beginning the accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed to ensure the consistent amount, the participations are written down to the fair value if the decline in value on or after January 1, 2018, but early adoption is permitted. A company can choose application of the group’s principles. 1.8 Property, plant and equipment can be assumed to be permanent. between “full retrospective” adoption or to apply the standard prospectively with Property, plant and equipment is recognized at historical cost less accumulated further disclosures. The group plans to apply the standard from January 1, 2018 In the event of different measurements of assets and liabilities at group and depreciation and any impairment losses. Historical cost includes expenditure which Financial assets and liabilities and will then apply the standard prospectively. In 2017, Axis continued its work on company level, the tax effect is taken into account, and this is recognized as a longcan be directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. Due to the relationship between accounting and taxation, the rules on financial mapping the effects that IFRS 15 is expected to have on the consolidated financial term receivable or liability. No account, however, is taken of deferred tax on group instruments are not applied in accordance with IAS 39 in the parent company as a statements. Axis mainly supplies network video products, which are sold in sepagoodwill. Additional expenditure is added to the asset’s carrying amount or is recognized as legal entity, but the parent company applies the cost method in accordance with the rately identifiable contracts. In contracts with customers where the sale of goods a separate asset, depending on what is most suitable, only if it is probable that the Annual Accounts Act. In the parent company, financial assets are therefore measured is the only performance obligation, the continued assessment is that the standard 1.3 Classification future economic benefits associated with the asset will accrue to the group and that at cost less any impairment and financial current assets according to the lower of is not expected to have any effect on the consolidated income statement. Revenue Non-current assets and non-current liabilities including related provisions consist the cost of the asset can be measured in a reliable manner. cost or market rule. will be recognized when the customer obtains control over the sold goods, which is of amounts that are expected to be recovered or paid more than 12 months from generally when the goods are delivered. closing day. Current assets and current liabilities including related provisions consist The carrying amount for the replaced portion is derecognized. All other forms of Shareholders’ contributions and group contributions of amounts that are expected to be recovered or paid within 12 months from closing repair and maintenance expenditure are expensed during the period in which such Shareholders’ contributions are carried directly in equity in the case of the receiver Some contracts with customers include the right to returns and discounts. The group day. Deviations from this principle are described in Notes to the relevant items. expenditure arises. and capitalised in shares and participations by the grantor, to the extent that imrecognizes revenue from the sale of goods at the fair value of what was received pairment is not required. Both group contributions received and paid are recognized or will be received, less returns and discounts. The transaction price thus contains, 1.4 Segment reporting Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method on the original cost and is as appropriations in accordance with the alternative rule. what IFRS 15, calls variable consideration. Variable consideration should only be Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting based on the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: included in the transaction price if it is very unlikely that a significant portion of the provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker is Untaxed reserves revenue will be reversed. Axis has diverse forms of variable consideration (including the function responsible for allocation of resources and evaluation of the operating segEquipment and fittings 3–5 years In the parent company, untaxed reserves are recognized including deferred tax liapartner and project discounts). These are taken into account through provisions. Our ments’ results. In the group, this function has been identified as the group management. Improvement measures in leased properties 3–10 years bility. In the consolidated financial statements, on the other hand, untaxed reserves final assessment is that IFRS 15, in this respect, will not lead to a significant change are divided into deferred tax liability and equity. in when our revenue will be recognized in the group. IFRS 15, however, will result in 1.5 Foreign currency translation In the event that the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated increased disclosure requirements, which will have an effect on the group’s financial Items included in the financial statements of the various units in the group are recoverable amount, the asset is immediately written down to its reporting. The work involving the increased disclosure requirements has continued measured in the currency used in the economic environment in which each company recoverable amount. and will be presented in the interim report for Q1 2018. Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 96 Notes Notes 97 1.9 Intangible assets 1.12 Financial instruments Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities are oﬀset if there is a legal right to oﬀset curThe group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been Financial instruments are classified into the following categories: financial assets rent tax assets and tax liabilities and when the deferred tax assets and tax liabilities paid. The contributions are recognized as personnel expenses in the period in which (a) Goodwill measured at fair value via profit or loss, loans and receivables, as well as financial pertain to taxes charged by the same tax authority and where there is an intention they are earned. Goodwill resulting from business acquisitions is included in intangible assets. instruments which are available for sale. The classification is dependent on the aim to settle the balances through a net payment. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment annually or more frequently for which the instrument was acquired. Management determines the classification Deferred tax assets in respect of a loss carryforward are recognized to the extent Defined benefit pension plans in the group mainly consist of the ITP 2 plan’s defined if events or changes in circumstances indicate a possible impairment. Goodwill is of instruments on the initial accounting date, and reviews this decision at every that it is probable that the loss carryforward can be set off against a surplus for benefit benefit obligations for retirement and family pension. The ITP 2 plan is measured at acquisition cost less any accumulated impairments. reporting date. All financial instruments are recognized from the transaction date. future taxation. secured through insurance with Alecta. According to statement UFR 10 from the Swedish Financial Accounting Standards Council’s Emerging Issues Task Force, (b) Capitalized development work (a) Financial assets measured at fair value via profit or loss (in the item Other income Untaxed reserves are recognized in the parent company. We have allocated the Recognition of the ITP 2 pension plan, which is financed through insurance with Axis’ technology is based on the proprietary ASIC (Application Specific Integrated and changes in value) untaxed reserves between equity and deferred tax in the consolidated financial Alecta, this is a multi-employer defined-benefit plan. For the fiscal year 2017, the Circuit) platforms, which are at the heart of Axis’ products. Research expenditure aiFinancial assets which are held for trading are carried at fair value via profit or loss. statements. company did not have access to the information required to report its proportional med at obtaining new technological knowledge is expensed as it arises. Development A financial asset is to be classified in this category if it was acquired principally for share of the plan’s obligations, plan assets and costs, which means that it has not expenditure, where research results or other knowledge is applied in order to the purpose of selling in the short-term or if this classification is determined by 1.15 Cash flow statement been possible to report it as a defined benefit plan. produce new or enhanced products, is recognized as an intangible asset if it is likely management. The consolidated cash flow statement has been prepared in accordance with the The ITP 2 pension plan is therefore recognized as a defined contribution plan. to generate future economic benefits for the group. In order to be capitalized, the indirect method. Changes for the year in cash and cash equivalents are divided up intangible assets must be technical and commercially applicable and that the group (b) Loans and receivables into operating activities, investing activities and financing activities. The starting 1.20 Important assumptions and estimates has resources to complete development and subsequently use or sell the intangible Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable point for the indirect method is the operating profit or loss adjusted for transactions asset. It must also be possible to reliably measure the expenditure during the devepayments that are not quoted in an active market. Characteristically, they arise which do not involve receipts or disbursements. Warranties lopment phase. The development of new platforms is continually capitalized over when the group supplies money, goods or services direct to a customer without the The group offers a three-year warranty on all its network products, with the possithe development period. Network applications, based on created platforms, such as intention of trading the resulting receivable. They are included in current assets, The term cash and cash equivalents refers to cash in hand, deposits held at call with bility of purchasing a further two-year warranty. Management makes an estimate network cameras, are treated as adaptations of the core products. Adaptations of with the exception of items with maturities more than 12 months after the end of banks and investments in securities with original maturities of three months or less. of the provision required for future warranty requirements based on information platforms for different network applications are not capitalized. Proprietary devethe reporting date, which are classified as non-current assets. Loans and receivables All items included in cash and cash equivalents can be readily converted to cash. regarding historical warranty requirements. lopment work that is capitalized is recognized at cost less accumulated amortization are included in the item Trade receivables and other receivables in the balance sheet and impairment. The carrying amount includes directly related expenditure such as (see Note 14 Trade receivables and other receivables). 1.16 Leasing Intangible assets for material and services and remuneration to employees. Capitalized development Leases are classified as either finance or operating leases. Leases where substantially Group management makes the assessment that the necessary technological knowwork is written off when the asset is ready for use. Amortization occurs on a (c) Short-term investments all of the economic risks and rewards, which are associated with ownership have ledge and financial strength exists in order to complete the capitalized intangible straight-line basis over the useful live, which is deemed to be 3 years. Short-term investments are continuously valued as the lowest of purchase value and been transferred to the lessee are classified as finance leases. In other cases, the assets into marketable products. The market for future products is expected to be net realizable value. lease is an operating lease. The group has no signifcant financial leasing and therethe same as where the group’s products are sold today. Capitalized development also includes know-how and technologies (such as source fore all leases are recognized as operating leases and the lease payment is allocated code) that were acquired as part of a business combination. Acquired development (d) Long-term liabilities on a straight-line basis over the leasing period. The group mainly holds leases for Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life or intangible assets work is recognized at the fair value on the acquisition date and amortized on a Long-term liabilities are reported at accrued purchase value, which corresponds rent. For further information about minimum lease payments refer to Note 9. are tested annually, or more often, for possible impairment. An impairment loss is straight-line basis over the useful life, which varies between 6 and 11 years. to the present value of future payments discounted by the effective interest rate recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its calculated at the time of purchase.. 1.17 Revenue recognition recoverable amount. The annual impairment test for goodwill and other intangible (c) Patents, trademarks and other rights Revenue is measured at the fair value of what was received or will be received, assets with an indefinite useful life, including performed sensitivity analysis, did not Patents, trademarks and other rights that were acquired separately, are recognized At the end of each reporting period, the group assesses whether there is objective and corresponds to the amounts received for goods sold and services rendered less reveal any impairment. See Note 4 for more information. at cost. Patents, trademarks and other rights that were acquired through a evidence that an impairment need exists in respect of a financial asset or a group discounts, returns, VAT and similar taxes. The group recognizes revenue when the business combination are recognized at fair value on the acquisition date. Patents, of financial assets. Where such an impairment need has been identified, the asset is amount can be measured reliably and it is probable that future economic benefits Accrued discounts trademarks and other rights are recognized at cost on the acquisition date less any impaired to its fair value. will accrue to the company. Axis’ sales model contains a discount element which is adjusted after delivery. The accumulated amortization and impairment. Trademarks with an indefinite useful scale of the discounts depends on a number of factors, including volume and what life are not amortized but tested annually for impairment in connection with testing 1.13 Provisions The group’s revenue mainly consists of product sales. Revenue from product sales type of partner the distributor sells the products to. Management makes an estimate goodwill for impairment. Patents, trademarks and other rights with definite useful Provisions for obligations, such as legal requirements and product warranties, are is recognized when the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to of the provision required for accrued discounts based on information regarding lives are amortized over their useful lives, which vary between 3 and 20 years. recognized when the group has an existing legal or constructive obligation in conthe buyer, which normally occurs when the products are delivered. Revenue from historical discount levels and expected outcomes. sequence of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required services rendered is recognized when the services have been performed. Revenue (d) Customer contracts to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the from sales of extended warranties is recognized on a straight-line basis over the Acquisitions Customer contracts acquired as part of a business combination are recognized at obligation. contract period. Acquisitions require estimates from management where a major portion relates to fair value on the acquisition date and amortized over their useful lives, which vary the allocation of purchase price to acquired assets and liabilities and the necessary between 6 and 7 years. If there are a number of similar obligations, the probability that an outflow of The recognition of interest income is allocated over the term in question using the adjustments to the group’s accounting policies. In connection with the acquisition resources will be required for the settlement of this group as a whole is assessed. A effective interest method. analysis, several assumptions were made, including future cash ﬂows, growth, 1.10 Impairment of non-financial assets provision is recognized even if the probability of an outflow in respect of one specific discount rate and the choice of Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life or intangible assets item in this group of obligations is low. See Note 3 For further information about the group’s revenue. meansurement model. not ready for use are not amortized but are tested annually, or when there is an indication of a decrease in value for possible impairment. Assets which are impaired The provisions are measured at the present value of the amount that is expected to 1.18 Borrowing costs Deferred tax assets are assessed for a decrease in value whenever events or changes in circumstances be required to settle the obligation. All borrowing costs, apart from those related to a qualifying asset, are expensed Deferred tax assets relating to deductible temporary differences and loss carryforindicate that the carrying value may not actually be recoverable. An impairment loss continually as they arise. Borrowing related to qualifying assets is capitalized. wards are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that they will be utilised. is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its 1.14 Income taxes Significant assessments are required to estimate future tax surpluses and when recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value Recognized tax expense includes tax payable or recoverable in respect of the current 1.19 Pensions these will occur in time. less costs to sell and its value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, year, adjusted for prior years’ tax as well as changes in deferred tax. All tax liabilities The group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans. assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separate identifiable and tax assets are measured at their nominal amount in accordance with the tax A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the group pays fixed Loss carryforwards amounting to SEK 87.9 M are attributable to a subsidiary, where cash flows (cash-generating units). For assets (other than goodwill), which have laws and the tax rates enacted or announced and which there is a considerable contributions into a separate legal entity. The group has no legal or constructive group management estimates that the deficit does not give rise to a deferred tax previously been amortized, a review is performed on each reporting date for possible degree of certainty will be enacted. For items recognized in the income statement, obligations to pay further contributions if this legal entity has insufficient assets to asset. See Note 12. reversal. the associated tax consequences are recognized in profit or loss. The tax consequenpay all remuneration to employees that is connected with the employees’ service during current or prior periods. A defined benefit plan is a pension scheme that is not ces of items which are recognized directly against equity are recognized against defined contribution. Characteristic for defined benefit plans is that they state the Note 2 Financial risk management 1.11 Cash and cash equivalents equity. Deferred income tax is recognized, using the liability method, on temporary Cash and cash equivalents include, in the balance sheet and in the cash flow differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amount of the pension benefit an employee will receive after retirement, generally 2.1 Financial risk factors statement, cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other investments in amounts. Tax relating to items in other comprehensive income is recognized in other based on one or more factors such as age, period of service and salary. Risk management is handled by a central treasury department in accordance securities with original maturities of three months or less. Measurement of other comprehensive income. with the policies adopted by the board of directors. The treasury departinvestment in securities takes place at amortized cost. For defined contribution plans, the group pays contributions to public or privately ment identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close cooperation managed pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. with the group’s operating units. The board has drawn up written Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 98 Notes Notes 99 principles both for overall risk management and for specific areas, such as foreign Excess cash and cash equivalents are invested in fixed-interest securities with a hedging transactions in the evening out of fluctuations in the fair value or cash flow The group’s common technology platform is the foundation for the entire innovative exchange risk, interest risk, credit risk, the use of derivative and non-derivative maximum remaining term of one year, and an average term of no more than 6 of hedged items. Should a hedging measure prove ineffective, recognition immediand broad product portfolio in network video. Continuous global sales forecasts are financial instruments and the investment of excess liquidity. months. At December 31, 2017, SEK 137 M (2016: 0) was invested in fixed-interest ately takes place via profit or loss (Other income and changes in value). Changes in compiled by a separate production planning function located at the headquarters in securities. The interest risk in the excess cash and cash equivalents is handled so that the hedging reserve in equity are shown in Note 18 Lund. A central purchasing department is responsible for sourcing of critical comThrough its operations, Axis is exposed to a number of different financial risks: a) the average interest rate on all investments must not exceed 6 months. ponents and procurement and placing of production among contract manufacturers market risk (including foreign exchange risk, price risk and interest risk), b) credit (a) Fair value hedge around the world. The very close cooperation with contract manufacturers risk and c) liquidity risk). The group’s overall risk management policy focuses on the Sensitivity analysis At December 31, 2017, (2016) Axis had no derivative instruments that were used for creates a good insight into manufacturing and quality assurance processes. unpredictability of the financial markets and aims to minimize potential adverse The table below indicates the effect of the most important factors on the group’s fair value hedges. Production takes place in essentially the same way at all manufacturers. effects on the group’s financial performance. results for the fiscal year 2017. Apart from currency exposure, the factors assessed as having the greatest effect on results are purchase prices and payroll expenses. As (b) Cash flow hedge Axis has an indirect sales model, which means that sales take place via distributors (a) Market risk a substantial part of sales and purchasing are made in USD, Axis has a natural match At December 31, 2017 (2016), Axis had no derivative instruments that were used for that sell on to system integrators that in turn sell to the end users. The ambition is The group’s finance policy defines how foreign exchange risk should be optimized. for currency exposure in USD. cash flow hedges. first to work with a small number of distributors in each country, and then achieve Foreign exchange risk is divided into two main categories: a) transaction risk and scalability in the second stage through a very large number of system integrators. b) translation risk. Transaction risk means the risk that fluctuations in exchange Factor Change. % Effect on operating profit. SEK M (c) Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation The number of partners currently identified by Axis amounts to over 90,000 globally. rates on the net cash flow in foreign currencies may have a negative impact on the Currency. SEK/USD +/-5 +/92 From fiscal year 2010, Axis has amended the finance policy to not hedge net investThe sales model is identical and is applied in the same way throughout the world. group’s results. Translation risk means the risk that exchange-rate fluctuations in the ment in foreign subsidiaries. The outcome of previously entered into hedges remains Sales are monitored and analyzed in a company-wide CRM system. Distribution Currency. SEK/EUR +/-5 +/68 group’s net investments in subsidiaries may have a negative impact on the group’s in equity. Accumulated gains and losses in equity are recognized in the income occurs through a small number of logistics centers placed in logistically suitable Purchasing +/-5 +/156 results. statement when the foreign operation is sold. locations around the world. Personnel +/-5 +/124 From January 1, 2010 the finance policy does not prescribe any hedging requirement. 2.3 Fair value measurement Legal requirements in the form of local rules and regulations exist but are not (b) Credit risk No hedging was conducted during 2017. The fair value of financial instruments which are traded on an active market, such deemed to impact the group appreciably. Stricter legal requirements from public Credit risk is managed on a group basis. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equias derivative instruments quoted on a market, is based on quoted market prices at authorities in specific areas can imply new business opportunities and may sometivalents, derivative instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as Price risk arises when the group’s costs rise as a result of suppliers increasing the the end of the reporting period. The quoted market price for the group’s financial mes also limit the possibility of operating in just that local market. Through a central well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and commitprice of goods and services. By using several suppliers, we ensure that our purchaassets, is the current purchase price while the quoted market price for the financial development department it is possible, when required, to rapidly adapt specific ted transactions. Only independently rated banks and financial institutions that have sing prices are market competitive. liabilities is the current selling price. products to new demands. obtained the long-term rating A or better, in accordance with Moody’s or Standard & Poor’s, are accepted as counterparties. The short-term rating must be Moody’s P1 or The board has defined interest risk as the risk that fluctuations in market interest The fair value of financial instruments which are not traded on an active market is Through a uniform global approach regarding product development and sales model, Standard & Poor’s K1 or A1. If customers have been credit assessed by independent rates have a negative impact on the group’s net financial items. The finance policy determined using measurement techniques. The group uses a number of different the three geographical regions lack real significance. From a group and network raters, these assessments are used. In cases where no credit assessment exists, a risk states that the Treasury department must minimize the interest expense as much as methods, and makes assumptions based on the prevailing market conditions at the video perspective, they have a similar economic basis. The network video market is assessment is performed of the customer’s credit worthiness where their financial possible. The average interest rate refixing period for short-term financing must not end of the reporting period. Other techniques, such as discounted cash flow measudriven by an underlying global technology shift from analog to digital technology, position is considered as well as previous experience and other factors. Individual exceed 6 months. Under the financial policy, the Treasury department may deploy rements, are used to determine the fair value of the remaining financial instruments. among other things. Growth opportunities, margins and risks do not differ signifirisk limits are adopted on the basis of internal or external credit assessments in acinterest rate derivatives to ensure that interest rates are fixed on average for a maxiThe fair value of currency future contracts is determined through the use of market cantly between the three segments. cordance with the limits established by the board. The use of credit limits is regularly mum of 6 months. At the end of 2017, the group had short-term interest-bearing prices for currency futures at the end of the reporting period. monitored. Advance payments or letters of credit are employed when the risk is liabilities of SEK 1 M (1). In light of the above reasoning, the group only recognizes one segment. Accordingly, considered too high. For trade receivables and trade payables, nominal value, less any reservations, is the segment information consists of the group as a whole. assumed to equal their fair value. Fair value of financial liabilities is measured by Group 2017 2016 For risk assessment of trade receivables, see the age distributed accounts receivable discounting the future contracted cash flow at the current market interest rate The acquisitions made during 2016 did not lead to any change in reporting routines. Financial assets Carrying Fair Carrying Fair ledger in Note 14. available for the group for similar financial amount value amount value Net sales per geographical market 2017 2016 instruments. Other non-current securities* 49.0 49.0 8.4 8.4 (c) Liquidity risk EMEA (Europe. Middle East. Africa) 3,087.3 2,645.7 Other current securities* 89.2 89.2 The group’s liquidity position is continuously analyzed in order to minimize liquidity Americas 4,495.4 3,855.7 At the end of 2017 ( 2016), the group had no financial instruments of the type that risk. The finance policy states that the treasury department should ensure that the Asia 1,019.9 884.3 138.2 138.2 8.4 8.4 must be disclosed based on the fair value hierarchy in IFRS 7. group always has access to SEK 200 M in cash and cash equivalents or unutilized Total 8,602.6 7,385.7 credit facilities. At December 31, 2017, Axis had SEK 1,538 M (858) in cash and cash 2.4 Capital risk management equivalents and unutilized credit facilities of SEK 0 M (50). Financial liabilities The group’s goal as regards the capital structure is to secure the group’s ability to Revenues per country 2017 2016 continue its operations, so that it can continue to generate a return to shareholders Sweden 10.3 15.0 Interest-bearing liabilities, 0.9 0.9 1.9 1.9 The credit facilities are contingent on special requirements of the banks. These reand value for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure for non-current quirements state that: a) the interest coverage ratio, expressed as EBITDA/Financial USA 4,235.7 3,561.7 reducing the cost of capital. Interest-bearing liabilities, 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2 Net Payable, (profit before net financial items, taxes, depreciation and impairment Other countries 4,356.6 3,809.0 current losses on non-current assets in relation to financial net expenditure) measured every Total 8,602.6 7,385.7 To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group may adjust the amount of end of quarter as a rolling twelve-month value does not fall below 4; b) Net Debt/ 2.1 2.1 3.1 3.1 dividends paid to the shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets, reduce or increase Revenues have been allocated per country based on where the customers are EBITDA (interest-bearing liabilities less cash and bank balances and other short-term indebtedness. located investments in relation to profit before net financial items, taxes, depreciation Parent company 2017 2016 and impairments of non-current assets) measured every end of quarter as a rolling Non-current assets by country 2017 2016 Axis holds a AA rating according to Bureau van Dijk. Financial assets Carrying Fair Carrying Fair twelve-month value does not exceed 3. For details regarding the group’s and the Sweden 901.7 562.4 amount value amount value parent company’s liquidity trend refer to the cash flow statement for the group and Czech Republic 445.8 426.4 the parent company. Note 3 Segment information Other non-current securities* 44.3 44.3 Other countries 121.3 122.1 The group management has been identified as Axis’ chief operating decision-maker. Total 1,468.8 1,111.0 Other current securities* 89.3 89.3 2.2 Recognition of derivative instruments and hedging measures Operating segments have been determined based on the information that is consiNon-current assets have been allocated per country based on where they are loca133.6 133.6 When Axis holds derivative financial instruments, primarily currency futures, it is dered by group management and which is used as a basis for allocating resources ted. Goodwill and surplus values from business combinations have been allocated to with the aim of protecting sales and procurement in foreign currency, as well as net and evaluating results. Axis’ group management controls, manages and monitors the country where the acquired company is domiciled. assets in foreign subsidiaries. the operations based on three geographical regions; EMEA, Americas and Asia, with Financial liabilities sales growth as the main focus. In light of what is stated below, Axis considers that The parent company’s sales refer entirely to sales to group companies. When the transaction is entered into, the group documents the relationship between Interest-bearing liabilities, it fulfills the requirements for aggregation of the three geographic regions into one the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with the objective of the risk non-current segment. management and the strategy Interest-bearing liabilities, for taking other hedging action. The group also documents its assessment, both current when the hedge instrument is taken out and during its term, of the effectiveness of the derivative instrument used in * Refers to corporate bonds Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 100 Notes Notes 101 Note 4 Intangible assets Parent company 2017 Patents and other rights Total Group Opening acquisition value 22.2 22.2 Capitalized Patents, trademarks Investments 7.9 7.9 2017 Goodwill development work and other rights Customer contracts Total Closing acquisition value 30.1 30.1 Opening acquisition value 353.1 552.4 102.6 28.6 1,036.8 Opening accumulated amortization -17.5 -17.5 Investments 79.0 11.9 90.9 Amortization for the year -3.7 -3.7 Acquisition of business (Note 31) Closing accumulated amortization -21.2 -21.2 Sales/disposals -0.6 -0.6 Carrying amount 8.9 8.9 Reclassifications -8.9 6.0 1.0 6.1 4.2 Translation differences 23.4 8.1 6.8 2.0 40.3 Closing acquisition value 367.6 645.5 121.7 36.7 1,171.6 2016 Patents and other rights Total Opening accumulated amortization -208.4 -33.9 -3.0 -245.3 Opening acquisition value 19.7 19.7 Amortization for the year -60.8 -7.3 -5.6 -73.7 Investments 2.5 2.5 Sales/disposals Closing acquisition value 22.2 22.2 Reclassifications Opening accumulated amortization -15.0 -15.0 Translation differences -0.6 -1.1 -0.3 -2.0 Amortization for the year -2.5 -2.5 Closing accumulated amortization -269.8 -42.3 -8.9 -321.0 Closing accumulated amortization -17.5 -17.5 Carrying amount 367.6 375.7 79.4 27.8 850.6 Carrying amount 4.8 4.8 In the income statement, depreciation/amortization is included in cost of goods sold of SEK 0.8 M (0.6), in selling and marketing expenses of SEK 2.0 M (0.6), in administrative expenses of SEK 4.8 M (2.9) and in and research and development expenses of SEK 66.1 M (43.8). Note 5 Property, plant and equipment Capitalized Patents, trademarks Group 2016 Goodwill development work and other rights Customer contracts Total Improvement measures Constructions Opening acquisition value 387.4 38.0 425.4 2017 Land Equipment & fittings in leased properties in progress Total Investments 76.8 5.6 82.3 Opening acquisition value 50.6 489.4 105.1 55.1 700.1 Acquisition of business (Note 31) 343.7 85.6 58.9 27.8 516.0 Investments 90.7 16.1 292.5 399.3 Sales/disposals -5.4 -5.4 Acquisition of business (Note 31) Reclassifications Sales/disposals -46.2 -46.2 Translation differences 9.4 2.6 5.5 0.9 18.5 Reclassifications 2.2 13.2 -7.7 7.7 Closing acquisition value 353.1 552.4 102.6 28.6 1,036.8 Translation differences -2.0 -4.6 -0.3 -6.9 Opening accumulated amortization -169.0 -30.8 -199.8 Closing acquisition value 50.6 534.0 129.8 339.6 1,054.0 Depreciation for the year -39.6 -5.2 -3.1 -47.9 Opening accumulated depreciation -332.2 -48.4 -380.5 Sales/disposals 5.4 5.4 Depreciation for the year -82.1 -20.1 -102.2 Reclassifications Sales/disposals 42.5 42.5 Translation differences 0.2 -3.4 0.1 -3.1 Reclassifications 2.5 -2.5 Closing accumulated amortization -208.4 -33.9 -3.0 -245.3 Translation differences 2.3 2.2 4.4 Carrying amount 353.1 344.0 68.6 25.7 791.4 Closing accumulated depreciation -367.0 -68.8 -435.8 Carrying amount 50.6 167.0 61.0 339.6 618.2 Impairment testing of goodwill The Group examines each year if any impairment need for goodwill exists. Goodwill In the income statement, depreciation/amortization is included in cost of goods sold of SEK 13.9 M (10.8), in selling and marketing expenses of SEK 28.9 M (22.1), in admi2017 2016 nistrative expenses of SEK 0.5 M (1.1) and in research and development expenses of SEK 58.9 M (53.9) and intangible assets with indefinite period of use have been allocated to a respective cash-generating unit (CGU) (see below). The cash-generating units are thus Acquisitions Average Long-term Average Long-term Improvement measures Constructions included in the same segment (Video) as other Axis operations. Recovery values for weighted capital market weighted capital market 2016 Land Equipment & fittings in leased properties in progress Total the cash-generating unit have been determined by calculation of value in use, which cost before tax growth cost before tax growth Opening acquisition value 423.2 72.6 495.8 requires that certain assumptions must be made. In these assumptions, discounted 2N 11.80% 2% 11.10% 2% Investments 50.6 81.4 28.0 54.7 214.7 forecasted future cash flows have been calculated by taking an average weighted Citilog 12.80% 2% 13.80% 2% Acquisition of business (Note 31) 7.8 1.3 9.1 capital cost before tax into account. When calculating average weighted capital Cognimatics 12.50% 2% 13.70% 2% Sales/disposals -28.5 -1.2 -29.7 cost, risk free interest, market risk premium, size of acquisitions, company-specific Reclassifications -0.2 1.7 -1.6 -0.1 capital structure and current tax rate in each country for the acquisition have been An impairment test has been carried out in which the normalized long-term market Translation differences 5.6 4.0 0.7 10.3 taken into account. growth is reduced by one percentage point, at the same time as the average weighClosing acquisition value 50.6 489.4 105.1 55.1 700.1 ted capital cost is increased by one percentage point and EBIT for the whole forecast In the calculations for the first five years, the management has estimated that sales Opening accumulated depreciation -280.4 -31.2 -311.6 period is decreased by one percentage point. The result of the test shows a will grow with an average of 13.1% (17.1%) and that the gross margin is estimated surplus and therefore there is no impairment loss of goodwill. Depreciation/amortization for the year -72.7 -15.2 -87.9 to be 64.3% (78.3%). As the companies operate in a volatile growth industry with Sales/disposals 25.4 0.6 26.0 high growth during the first years, an estimation for the next five-year period, Reclassifications -0.1 -0.1 based on a normalization of business operations, before assumptions about terminal Translation differences -4.4 -2.5 -6.9 value and long-term market, is made. For these five years, sales has been estimated Closing accumulated depreciation -332.2 -48.4 -380.5 to increase by an average of 5.3% (5.7%) and the gross margin is estimated to be Carrying amount 50.6 157.2 56.7 55.1 319.6 64.7% (78.3%) on average. The cash flow after this ten-year period is extrapolated with the growth rate of two percent as an assumption of long-term market growth. The estimated use value has then been compared with the carrying amount and this comparison shows that no impairment requirement exists. Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 102 Notes Notes 103 Note 6 Costs allocated per type of cost Group Note 12 Deferred tax Note 14 Trade receivables and other receivables 2017 2016 The group’s temporary differences have resulted in deferred tax assets and deferred 2017 2016 Group Minimum lease payments Minimum lease payments tax liabilities in respect of the following: Depreciation and impairment losses -175.9 -135.8 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Leasing within 1 year 157.4 154.9 Group Expenses for remuneration to employees -2,201.0 -1,779.8 Trade receivables 792.9 672.7 Leasing between 1 and 5 years 286.9 306.8 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Cost of purchasing and handling goods for resale -4,143.8 -3,678.9 Provision for doubtful trade receivables -12.2 -16.2 Leasing more than 5 years 74.4 35.1 Deferred tax receivables Other external expenses -1,008.3 -969.7 Trade receivables-net* 780.7 656.5 518.7 496.8 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 6.5 4.1 -7,529.0 -6,564.2 Advance payments to suppliers 33,7 52,3 Loss carryforwards 23.2 22.5 Other receivables 90,3 81,6 Agreements mainly refer to rent for premises. Financial instruments 2.7 2.7 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 115.2 86.3 Note 7 Audit fees *Relates to operating leases pertaining to normal agreements for the operations within stated Inventories 6.6 8.9 1,019.9 876.7 range regarding non-cancellable leases and other operating leases. Most lease agreements Accrued discounts 9.1 13.0 The 2017 AGM resolved to elect Ernst & Young AB as the group’s auditors for the regarding premises contain terms and conditions that give the right to extend the lease in quesOther accrued expenses 15.7 23.4 *The amount includes contract manufacturers of SEK 13.3 M (1.9). Contract manufacturers period until the next AGM. tion during a predetermined period, and do not contain any transfer of ownership to the property Other items 1.8 1.1 issued to subcontractors when products are sent for reprocessing. at the end of the term or any economic benefits regarding appreciation in value of the leased Group property. Total deferred tax assets 65.6 75.7 Axis applies net accounting of trade receivables in cases where Axis’ counterparty 2017 2016 in turn has claims on Axis in the form of accrued discounts connected to purchasing EY Note 10 Income taxes Amounts offset against deferred tax liabilities -21.3 -27.2 from Axis. At December 31, 2017, the effect of this net accounting, is a reduction in The audit assignment 3.1 1.9 Net deferred tax assets 44.3 48.5 trade receivables of SEK 384 (382). Audit work apart from the audit assignment 0.3 0.3 Group Parent Company Tax consultancy 2017 2016 2017 2016 Deferred tax liabilities Changes in the provision for uncertain receivables are as follows: Other services Current tax -307.0 -200.2 -219.3 -126.7 Tax allocation reserve 170.7 214.1 Group 3.4 2.2 Deferred tax 31.8 -45.3 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 101.9 93.4 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 PwC -275.2 -245.5 -219.3 -126.7 Other items 0.2 2.2 Opening balance -16.2 -7.2 The audit assignment 0.1 0.4 Total deferred tax liabilities 272.8 309.7 Provision for doubtful receivables -1.5 -10.0 Audit work apart from the audit assignment 3.0 Reconciliation between theoretical tax expense and recognized income tax Amounts offset against deferred tax assets -21.3 -27.2 Receivables written off during the year that are 0.3 0.7 Tax consultancy 0.6 Group Parent Company not recoverable Other services 0.3 Net deferred tax liabilities 251.5 282.5 2017 2016 2017 2016 Reversed unutilized amount 5.2 0.3 0.1 4.3 Tax according to current tax -222.4 -194.5 -218.6 -125.9 Closing balance -12.2 -16.2 Grant Thornton (minority auditor) rate in the parent company Group The audit assignment 0.6 1.7 Tax effect relating to -31.9 -24.3 -0.7 -0.8 Age distribution of trade receivables Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 0.6 1.7 non-deductible items Opening deferred tax assets/tax liabilities* -234.0 -178.5 Group Other auditors Tax effect relating to 10.0 4.2 Change during the year in: Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 The audit assignment 2.8 2.9 non-taxable items – property, plant and equipment and intangible -6.1 -42.2 Not due 736.4 630.3 Audit work apart from the audit assignment Differences in foreign tax -30.9 -30.9 assets Tax consultancy 0.3 0.8 rates Due for up to 3 months 53.1 42.3 loss carryforwards 0.7 22.5 Other services 0.2 0.6 Recognized income tax -275.2 -245.5 -219.3 -126.7 Due over 3 months 3.4 0.1 – inventories -2.3 -3.4 3.3 4.3 Total trade receivables 792.9 672.7 *The current tax rate for 2017 is 22.0 percent (22.0). – accrued discounts -3.9 -0.2 Group total 7.4 12.5 Provision for doubtful receivables -12.2 -16.2 – other accrued expenses -7.7 Recognized trade receivables 780.7 656.5 The tax, which is attributable to components in other comprehensive income – other items 2.7 -2.6 The audit fees and other fees to the parent company’s auditors have been charged in their amounted to the following: – tax allocation reserve 43.4 -29.6 entirety to the subsidiary, Axis Communications AB. The recovered customer losses during 2017 amounted to SEK 4.5 M (confirmed 2017 2016 Closing deferred tax assets/tax liabilities -207.2 -234.0 customer loss -1.6). Note 8 Other income and expenses Before Tax After Before Tax After * The amount includes SEK 0 M (0) which refers to income tax attributable to components in tax effect tax tax effect tax other comprehensive income (Note 10). Credit rating, customers (according to Bureau van Dijk) Group Exchange differences 51.3 51.3 16.6 16.6 Group Loss carryforwards 2017 2016 2017 2016 51.3 51.3 16.6 16.6 Unutilized loss carryforwards for which no deferred 87,9 88.9 Risk range Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Exchange differences -61.3 61.0 tax assets has been recognized Lowest risk 45.9 180.5 Other items 1.6 2.5 Note 11 Earnings per share Potential tax benefits 29,9 30.2 Low risk 183.6 65.0 -59.7 63.5 Medium risk 336.8 284.3 2017 2016 The unutilized loss carryforwards relate to a subsidiary where there is uncertainty as High risk 207.1 14.8 Note 9 Lease obligations* Earnings attributable to the parent company’s 735.8 638.7 to whether they will generate taxable income in the foreseeable future There are no Highest risk 19.5 8.9 shareholders time limits regarding the use of the loss carryforwards. Leasing costs for the year amounted to SEK 181.9 M (165,8) in the group. Unclassified 119.1 Weighted average number of outstanding ordinary 69,461 69 461 No Bureau van Dijk data The cost refers to minimum lease payments in its entirety as no variable payments or further letting occurs. Contracted future rental and leasing agreements are due shares, thousands Note 13 Inventories Total 792.9 672.7 Earnings per share before and after dilution, SEK 10.59 9.20 Group for payment as follows. Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Goods for resale 803.3 1,106.5 803.3 1,106.5 Write-down of inventories to net realizable value amounted to SEK 72 M (112). The impairment was recognized in the income statement as cost of goods sold. Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 104 Notes Notes 105 Note 15 Other financial assets Non-current 0.9 1.9 Gender distribution among senior executives up to 100 percent of the gross annual salary. Half of the remuneration was paid 2017 2016 on June 30, 2016 and the other half on June 30, 2017. This remuneration is not Current 1.2 1.2 Group Number at Women Number at Women pension-qualifying. 2.1 3.1 the balance the balance Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 sheet date sheet date Depositions 3.4 3.7 The results for the 2017 fiscal year have been charged with SEK 6.6 M (2.6) in bonus Board of Directors 8 13 % 8 25 % for the President and CEO and SEK 8.6 M (6.6) to the other senior executives. Corporate bonds 44.1 Opening balance 3.1 Other 1.5 4.7 Group Management* 10 20 % 10 20 % Cash flows -1.0 Remuneration and other benefits in respect of the board of directors and senior 49,0 8,4 Non-affecting cash flow changes *Malin Ruijsenaars, Axis Chief Personnel Officer, has been on sick leave during the year executives are shown in the table below. and has not participated in the management team. The function as Chief Personnel Basic Other Pension Other All non-current receivables fall due within five years of the end of the reporting Exchange differences Officer has been maintained by two senior staff at the HR department and Axis’ CEO 2016 salary/fees* Bonus benefits expense remuneration Total period. 2.1 has been responsible for HR issues at management team level. Board of Directors Biörn Riese 0.8 0.8 Note 16 Cash and cash equivalents Note 20 Personnel Salaries and other remuneration allocated among senior executives and others (Chairman) Board of Directors, Toshizo Tanaka Group Parent Company Average number of employees President and other Håkan Kirstein 0.4 0.4 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 senior executives Others Total 2017 Of whom men 2016 Of whom men Bert Nordberg 0.4 0.4 Cash and bank 1,533.5 858.3 955.3 312.1 Parent Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Martin Gren 1.0** 0.3 1.3 balances Parent Company (employed by Axis) Argentina 2 1 2 1 Short-term 4.0 4.0 Subsidiaries 39.7 32.3 1 655.1 1 333.8 1 693.0 1 365.1 Australia 18 13 16 13 investments Group total 39.7 32.3 1 655.1 1 333.8 1 693.0 1 365.1 Brazil 21 14 22 15 Group Management 1,537.5 858.3 959.3 312.1 Canada 24 17 24 15 Ray Mauritsson 3.3 2.6 1.4 0.3 7.6 Chile 4 4 5 5 Salaries and other remuneration above include remuneration to the board member (President & CEO) Credit rating of cash and cash equivalents and senior executives who are employed in the group. Salaries and remuneration to China 77 50 75 49 Others persons in the 18.3 6 0.2 4.8 0.2 30.1 Group the President and CEO and the board member who is employed in the group were Group Management Colombia 4 2 3 2 paid through the subsidiary company, Axis Communications AB. Dec 31, 2017 Rating 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Rating 2016 (9) Croatia 1 1 1 1 HSBC 196.7 AA190.4 AASalaries and other Social security (of which pension 24.2 9.2 0.2 6.5 0.5 40.6 Czech Republic 266 198 146 111 remuneration contributions expenses) Nordea 1,251.2 AA622.8 AA2017 Basic Other Pension Other Finland 1 1 2 2 salary/fees* Bonus benefits expense remuneration Total Others 85.6 45.1 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 France 60 42 53 38 Board of Directors 1,533.5 858.3 Parent Company Germany 47 30 43 27 Biörn Riese 0.8 0.8 Subsidiaries 1,693.0 1,365.1 508.0 414.7 132.9 106.5 Hong Kong 26 15 29 15 (Chairman) As of December 31, 2017, Axis has SEK 4 M (0) in short-term investments. Axis has Group total 1,693.0 1,365.1 508.0 414.7 132.9 106.5 India 18 15 18 14 Toshizo Tanaka during the year terminated its unutilized credit facility of SEK 50 M (50). The credit Italy 21 17 20 16 Håkan Kirstein 0.4 0.4 facility was valid until December 31, 2017 and is subject to special requirements Remuneration to the board of directors Group from the bank. There have been no violations of these requirements during 2017. Japan 33 18 34 17 Bert Nordberg 0.4 0.4 Kenya 2 2 2 2 2017 2016 Martin Gren 1.0** 0.1 0.3 1.4 Korea 12 8 11 7 Directors’ fees 2.0 2.0 (employed by Axis) Note 17 Share capital Malaysia 6 3 6 4 2.0 2.0 The company’s share capital consists of 69,461,250 (69,461,250) shares of the same Mexico 24 16 20 12 Group Management*** class. The share’s quota value amounts to SEK 0.01. Nederlands 23 20 21 17 Remuneration to the Board and other senior executives Ray Mauritsson 3.5 6.6 1.4 0.3 11.8 Norway 1 1 1 1 The board received directors’ fees for 2017 of SEK 2.0 M in total in accordance (President & CEO) Note 18 Other reserves in Equity New Zealand 3 3 4 4 with the resolution of the AGM. Of the approved fees, SEK 800,000 is payable to Others persons in the 19.2 8.2 0.3 4.8 0.8 33,3 the chairman of the board, and SEK 400,000 to each of the other board members Group Management Poland 9 7 6 4 Hedging Translation However, no fees are payable to Toshizo Tanaka. (9) Qatar 2 2 1 1 reserve reserve Total 25.3 14.9 0.3 6.5 1.1 48.1 Russia 26 16 27 17 Remuneration to the President and other members of the company management Opening balance, January 1, 2016 -8.5 6.7 -1.8 Singapore 44 23 43 22 (namely, the nine persons who together with the President comprise the group The bonus shown in the tables includes the bonus that relates to the current fiscal Translation differences 16.6 16.6 South Africa 15 9 19 11 management) may consist of basic salary, variable remuneration and pension. The year and which is disbursed during the next fiscal year as well as “stay on board” Closing balance, December 31, 2016 -8.5 23.3 14.8 Spain 18 14 15 12 remuneration to the nine persons in the group management also currently includes remuneration to the nine members of the group management. Bonus for fiscal year Sweden 1 576 1 185 1 398 1 052 “stay on board” remuneration, which was agreed and introduced in accordance with 2017 will be disbursed during 2018. Bonus of SEK 4.0 M (1.6) for the fiscal year Opening balance, January 1, 2017 -8.5 23.3 14.8 the guidelines for remuneration adopted at the 2015 AGM. Other benefits and other 2016 was disbursed during 2017 to the President and CEO and a total of SEK 10.2 Taiwan 12 4 11 4 Translation differences 51.2 51.2 remuneration are received on a corresponding basis to other employees. M ( 7.1) to the other senior executives. Of this sum, SEK 0.8 M represented “stay on Thailand 7 3 8 3 Closing balance, December 31, 2017 -8.5 74.5 66.0 board” remuneration to the President and “stay on board” remuneration of SEK 3.4 Turkey 5 2 4 2 The objective of Axis AB’s remuneration policy for senior executives shall be to offer M to the 8 other members of the group management. The amount in respect of cash flow hedges, which has been transferred from equity UK 40 30 35 27 compensation that helps to recruit skills and expertise and to retain it in the company. to the income statement during the year is recognized net after tax and totaled SEK United Arab Emirates 31 24 31 24 * Of the directors’ fees approved by the AGM. 0 (0). USA 304 227 258 199 The basic salary for the senior executives should be determined on the basis that it ** Of which, directors’ fees SEK 0.4 M. Group total 2 783 2 037 2 414 1 766 should be competitive. The absolute level depends on the specific position and the *** Malin Ruijsenaars, Axis Chief Personnel Officer, has been on sick leave during Note 19 Borrowing individual’s performance. Variable remuneration (bonus) to the President and other the year and has not participated in the management team. The function as Chief Koncernen senior executives is based on the financial goals of the group and shall be calculated Personnel Officer has been maintained by two senior staff at the HR department and as a function of the sales growth and the profit margin for the year in question. The Axis’ CEO has been responsible for HR issues at management team level. 2017-12-31 2016-12-31 bonus to the President is maximized at 240 percent of the annual salary and for the Opening balance 3.1 other senior executives the highest individual bonus amount is maximized at 80 Pensions Borrowing 5.8 percent of the annual salary. The group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans. The Amoritization -1.0 -2.7 majority of the employees in the foreign units have defined contribution pension Closing balance 2.1 3.1 In 2015, the nine persons who were members of the management team at the time plans. The ITP agreement applies for employees in Sweden, which is an agreof Canon Inc’s public offer, each received “stay on board” remuneration of 3 monthly ement between the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Council salaries. In September 2015, the board in connection with Canon Inc’s public offer for Negotiation and Co-operation (PTK) governing salaried employees’ approved “stay on board” remuneration to the nine members of the management occupational pension. The ITP agreement contains two parts; ITP 1 team. For the President, the amount of remuneration is 100 percent of the gross and ITP 2. ITP 1 is a defined contribution pension plan while ITP 2 annual salary. For the other senior executives concerned, the remuneration varies has a defined benefit retirement and family pension. Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 106 Notes Notes 107 The ITP 2 plan’s defined benefit retirement and family pension obligations are secuthe President and other members of the company management, which were adopted Note 26 Participations in subsidiaries red through insurance with Alecta. According to statement UFR 10 from the Swedish by the AGM as well as ongoing and completed during the year programs for variable Financial Accounting Standards Council’s Emerging Issues Task Force, Recognition remuneration to the company management as well as remuneration structures and Carrying amount of the ITP 2 pension plan, which is financed through insurance with Alecta, this is a rates of compensation in the company. Shares owned by the parent company Registered office Corporate Share of votes Number of shares Par value Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 multi-employer defined benefit plan. registration no and equity Note 21 Other provisions Axis Alfa AB Sweden, Lund 556599-4547 100.0% 500 0.1 0.1 0.1 For the fiscal year 2017, the company did not have access to the information requiAxis Communications AB Sweden, Lund 556253-6143 99.9%* 1,599 0.2 0.3 0.3 red to report its proportional share of the plan’s obligations, plan assets and costs, Group which means that it has not been possible to report it as a defined benefit plan. The Axis Gamma AB Sweden, Lund 556599-4562 100.0% 500 0.1 0.1 0.1 ITP 2 pension plan secured through insurance with Alecta is therefore recognized Dec 31. 2017 Dec 31. 2016 Axis Stockholmsledet 11 AB Sweden, Lund 559011-4384 100.0% 1,000 0.1 38.9 38.9 as a defined contribution plan. The premium for the defined benefit retirement and Warranty provision 146.2 119.6 Axis Technologies AB Sweden, Lund 556485-0765 100.0% 500 0.1 0.1 0.1 family pension is individually calculated and depends on factors such as salary, Of which short-term portion* -54.0 -43.4 Gren & Karlsson Firmware AB Sweden, Lund 556304-6209 100.0% 500 0.1 0.1 0.1 previously earned pension and anticipated remaining period of service. The pension 92.2 76.2 2N Holding AB (tidigare Axis Beta AB) Sweden, Lund 556599-4588 100.0% 500 0.1 0.1 0.1 contributions for the ITP 2 insurance with Alecta amounted to SEK 38 M in 2017 Axis Communications de Argentina SA Argentine 10.0%* 50,000 0.1 0.0 0.0 (30.0). Expected fees for the next fiscal year amount to SEK 45 M. The group’s share Axis Comunicaciones Chile Limitada Chile 1.0%* 0 0.1 0.0 0.0 of the combined fees to the plan is negligible. At year-end 2017, Alecta’s surplus in Group Axis Video Systems India Private Limited India 0.1%* 1 0.0 0.0 0.0 the form of the collective consolidation level was 154 percent1) (148). The collective 2017 2016 Axernet Communications Kenya Limited Kenya 1.0%* 10 0.0 0.0 0.0 consolidation level is defined as the market value of Alecta’s assets as a percentage Provisions brought forward 76.2 61.2 of the insurance commitments calculated according to Alecta’s actuarial calculation 39.6 39.6 Changes during the year, warranty provision 16.0 15.0 * The remaining share is owned by other group companies. assumptions, which do not correspond to IAS 19. 1) Preliminary number. Provisions carried forward 92.2 76.2 Shares owned by subsidiaries Registered office Corporate registration no Share of equity Axis Communications AB Sweden, Lund 556253-6143 0.1%* * Refers to the portion which is expected to be settled within one year. The short-term portion of The retirement age for the President and CEO is 65. The pension insurance premium the warranty provision is classified under trade payables and other liabilities. See Note 22. Axis Network AB Sweden, Lund 556505-3450 100.0% for the President and CEO amounts to 35 percent of the pensionable salary up to a Axis Peripherals AB Sweden, Lund 556505-1785 100.0% maximum of 28.5 basis amounts. For salary in excess of 28.5 basic amounts, the Note 22 Trade payables and other liabilities Cognimatics Aktiebolag Sweden, Lund 556644-9996 100.0% premium amounts to 25 percent. For other senior executives, the ITP agreement is Group Axis Communications de Argentina SA Argentine 90.0%* applied with a retirement age of 65. 2017-12-31 2016-12-31 Axis Communications Pty Ltd Australia 100.0% Termination benefits Trade payables 633.2 621.3 Axis Communications Com e Serv Ltda Brazil 100.0% In the event of termination of employment, a six-month mutual notice period shall Other liabilities 99.4 80.0 Axis Communications Inc. Canada Canada 100.0% apply for the President. In the event of termination of employment of the President Short-term portion of warranty provision 54.0 43.4 Axis Communications s.r.o. Czech Republic 100.0% by the company, termination benefits corresponding to up to twelve cash monthly 2N Telekomunikace a.s Czech Republic 100.0% Accrued salaries and holiday salaries 347.5 227.2 salaries may be paid after the end of the notice period. In the event of termination Axis Comunicaciones Chile Limitada Chile 99.0%* Social security contributions and other taxes 171.0 102.3 by the President, no termination benefits are payable. A mutual period of notice of Axis Communications Ltd China, Hong Kong 100.0% three to six months shall apply between the company and the other senior executiDeferred income 31.7 23.0 Accrued expenses 193.7 154.6 Citilog Asia Pacific Limited China, Hong Kong 100.0% ves. In the event of termination by the company, termination benefits corresponding Shanghai Axis Communication Equipment Trading Co. Ltd China, Shanghai 100.0% to up to twelve cash monthly salaries may be paid. In the event of termination by 1,530.5 1,251.8 any of the senior executives, no termination benefits shall be payable. Axis Communications Colombia SAS Colombia 100.0% Axis Communications d.o.o. za usluge Croatia 100.0% Persons who are resident outside of Sweden may be offered notice periods and terNote 23 Financial income Axis Communications Oy Finland 100.0% mination benefits that are competitive in the country where the persons are or have Axis Communications SAS France 100.0% Parent Company been resident or to which they have a substantial connection, preferably solutions Citilog SAS France 100.0% equivalent to what applies for managerial employees resident in Sweden. 2017 2016 Axis Communications GmbH Germany 100.0% Interest income, internal 0.1 Axis Video Systems India Private Limited India 99.9%* Change of control-clause Interest income, external 1.5 0.4 Axis Communications S.r.l. Italy 100.0% No agreements exist, with the exception of employment contracts, the essential Exchange differences 30.2 0.5 contents of which have been commented upon above, between the company and Axis Communications KK Japan 100.0% 31.8 0.9 Axernet Communications Kenya Limited Kenya 99.0%* the directors or employees, which prescribe that remuneration shall be payable if they: give notice; are served with notice without reasonable grounds; or if their Axis Communications Korea Co. Ltd Korea 100.0% employment is terminated for various reasons. Note 24 Financial expenses Axis Communications Video Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100.0% Axis LAC S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100.0% Preparation and decision-making process Parent Company Axis Communications BV Netherlands 100.0% Subsequent to the AGM on April 20, 2017, the board established a remuneration 2017 2016 Axis Communications Norge AS Norway 100.0% committee composed of Biörn Riese and Bert Nordberg. During the period between Interest expenses, external -4.3 -1.8 Axis Communications New Zealand Ltd New Zealand 100.0% the AGMs on April 13, 2016 and April 20, 2017, the entire board constituted the Exchange differences -1.0 -27.0 Axis Communications Poland Sp. z.o.o. Poland 100.0% remuneration committee. Other financial expenses -0.2 -0.2 Axis Communications OOO Russia 100.0% During the year, the remuneration committee advised the board of its recom-5.5 -29.0 Axis Communications (S) Pte Ltd Singapore 100.0% mendations in respect of principles for remuneration of senior executives. The Axernet Communications SA Spain 100.0% recommendations covered the proportions between fixed salary and variable Note 25 Appropriations Axis Communications SA Pty Ltd South Africa 100.0% remuneration, and the size of any salary increases. The remuneration committee also Axis Communications Taiwan Co.. Ltd Taiwan 100.0% proposed criteria for assessing bonus outcomes etc. The board discussed the remuParent Company Axis Communications (Thailand) Ltd Thailand 100.0% neration committee’s proposals, and reached decisions in line with the committee’s 2017 2016 Axis Komünikasyon Hizmetleri Ve Ticaret Ltd Şirketi Turkey 100.0% recommendations. Additional depreciation 0.9 1.7 Axis Communications FZE United Arab Emirates 100.0% The 2017 AGM resolved to adopt the board’s proposal for guidelines regarding Provision to tax allocation reserve -192.0 Axis Communications (UK) Ltd UK 100.0% determination of salary and other remuneration to the President and CEO and other Reversal from tax allocation reserve 197.2 57.8 Axis Communications Inc USA 100.0% members of the company management. Group contributions received 707.9 676.1 Citilog Inc. USA 100.0% Group contributions paid -1.5 -1.4 2N USA LLC USA 100.0% During the period after the AGM 2017, the board followed and evaluated the * The remaining share is owned by Axis AB. 904.5 542.2 application of the guidelines for determination of salaries and other remuneration to Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 108 Notes Notes 109 Note 27 Contingent liabilities Pilot studies are currently ongoing regarding potential purchasing synergies that The goodwill arising through the acquisition is related to Citilog’s strong position in Revenue and profit in acquired business could benefit Axis, access to know-how and technology components from Canon the market. No portion of the acquired goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax 2N contributed revenue of SEK 165 M and a net profit of SEK 4 M to the group for Group Parent Company and regarding Axis’ use of know-how and cross-licensing agreements in the Canon purposes. the period May 30 to December 31, 2016. If the acquisition had been carried out group. If these pilot studies should result in agreements and financial transactions on January 1, 2016, the consolidated pro-forma for revenue and profit would show Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, between Axis and Canon, these will also be based on market-related and favorable Revenue and profit in acquired business SEK 290 M and SEK 16 M respectively on December 31, 2016. These amounts were 2017 2016 2017 2016 terms for Axis. Citilog contributed revenue of SEK 51 M and a net profit of SEK 1 M to the group for calculated using the subsidiary’s results while adjusting for differences in accounting Customs bond 6.0 6.0 the period January 31 to December 31, 2016. If the acquisition had been carried out policies between the group and the subsidiary. 6.0 6.0 Not 30 Tax allocation reserves on January 1, 2016, the consolidated pro-forma for revenue and profit would show SEK 56 M and SEK 0 M respectively on December 31, 2016. These amounts were Acquisition-related expenses Note 28 Cash flow from operations 2017 2016 calculated using the subsidiary’s results while adjusting for differences in accounting Acquisition-related expenses of SEK 4.2 M are included in the operating profit and in policies between the group and the subsidiary. operating activities in the statement of cash flows. Tax allocation reserve income year 2011 0.0 197.2 Group Parent company Tax allocation reserve income year 2012 124.9 124.9 Acquisition-related expenses 31.3 Cognimatics AB 2017 2016 2017 2016 Tax allocation reserve income year 2013 126.8 126.8 Acquisition-related expenses of SEK 3.9 M are included in the operating profit and in On June 3, 2016 Axis Communications AB acquired 100 % of the shares in Net profit/loss for the period 1,013.9 885.0 62.7 58.0 Tax allocation reserve income year 2014 127.5 127.5 operating activities in the statement of cash flows. Cognimatics AB. Cognimatics is a leading company within solutions primarily for before financial items store optimization for retailers. The company provides a suite of video analytics Tax allocation reserve income year 2015 204.6 204.6 Adjusted for: 31.2 2N Telekomunikace a.s. applications that are used to increase knowledge about customer behavior and Tax allocation reserve income year 2016 192.0 192.0 – depreciation of property, 102.2 87.9 On May 30, 2016, Axis Beta AB (now 2N Holding AB) acquired 100 percent of the movement patterns, thereby improving the customer experience and providing 775.8 973.0 plant and equipment shares in 2N Telekomunikace a.s. and 2N USA LLC. 2N is a leading player in the IP more efficient and secure operation of the stores. Access to Cognimatics’ knowledge – amortization of intangible 73.7 47.9 3.8 2.5 intercom field and is also active in other areas such as IP audio and communication and technology strengthens Axis’ offering in the fast growing retail segment. Axis assets Note 31 Acquisitions solutions for lifts. The company has well-established sales channels, through elecCommunications and Cognimatics have collaborated for several years when it comes – other items not affecting 69.8 -38.5 tricians and telecom installers as well as lift manufacturers, which will complement to technology and sales in order to offer integrated solutions to a number of comNo business acquisitions were carried out during 2017. During 2016, three significash flow* Axis’ present global sales channels. Together with 2N, Axis can meet the increased mon customers. cant business acquisitions were completed, consisting of Citilog SAS, demand for integrated solutions based on open standards that deliver increased se2N Telekommunikace a.s. and Cognimatics AB. Change in working capital curity. An important shared mission is to accelerate the shift from analog to IP-based Purchase price cash outflow intercom systems and to develop new opportunities. The market is growing and Axis The purcahse price amounted to SEK 61.7 M which was paid in cash. – inventories 303.2 -25.4 31.1 Citilog SAS can continue to drive the market trend through this acquisition. – trade receivables and -143.2 -261.2 -1.1 1.0 On January 31, 2016, Axis Communications AB acquired 100 percent of the shares in other receivables Citilog SAS, a leading provider of video monitoring solutions for the transportation Initial cash purchase price 61.7 Purchase price cash outflow – trade payables and other 220.3 235.9 -4.1 7.8 sector. The acquisition broadens Axis’ product portfolio with reliable video analytics Less: acquired cash balances -7.2 The purchase price amounted to SEK 475.9 M, of which SEK 437.8 M was paid in cash liabilities tools for transportation monitoring. The group can thus offer a more comprehensive Net outflow of cash and cash equivalents 54.5 on the acquisition date. The remainder of the purchase price will be settled in two Cash flow from operations 1,639.9 931.6 61.3 69.3 traffic solution, generating increased opportunities in the fast-growing traffic investing activities parts, the first half of which shall be paid 12 months after the acquisition date and analytics market. the other half 24 months after the acquisition date. * This item includes foreign currency translation effects. Fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities on the acquisition date Purchase price cash outflow Initial cash purchase price 437.8 Intangible assets: trademarks 0.2 Note 29 Related parties The purchase price amounted to SEK 91.1 M and was paid in cash. Intangible assets: contracts with customers 6.1 Less: acquired cash balances -20.5 On December 31, 2017, the parent company’s non-current receivables from Net outflow of cash and cash equivalents 417.3 Intangible assets: technology 8.9 Cash purchase price 91.1 group companies amounted to SEK 27 M (27) and current receivables from group investing activities Trade receivables 2.4 Less: acquired cash and cash equivalents -28.0 companies amounted to SEK 1,695 M (1,903). Current liabilities to group companies Other current receivables 0.3 amounted to SEK 3 M (2). Related party transactions are priced on market-related Net outflow of cash and cash equivalents 63.1 investing activities Fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities on the acquisition date Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 terms. Total assets 25.1 Property, plant and equipment 8.2 All group companies are described in Note 26 Participations in subsidiaries. Fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities on the acquisition date Intangible assets: trademarks 52.9 Deferred tax liabilities 7.1 Information about board members and members of the group management and Property, plant and equipment 0.5 Intangible assets: contracts with customers 22.7 Trade payables 0.8 remuneration of these members is reported in Note 20 Personnel. Intangible assets: trademarks 4.5 Intangible assets: technology 69.0 Other current liabilities 1.2 Intangible assets: contracts with customers 5.1 Intangible assets: rights 1.8 Total liabilities 9.1 Apart from the remuneration to board members and the group management that is Other financial assets 3.7 Intangible assets: technology 16.7 Total identifiable net assets at fair value 16.0 described in Note 20, no transactions with related physical persons have taken place. Inventories 54.7 Deferred tax assets 21.9 Goodwill 45.7 The group has not provided loans, provided indemnities or issued guarantees for any Other financial assets 0.6 Trade receivables 40.1 of the members of the board or other senior executives. Axis financial transactions Inventories 4.1 Other current receivables 4.8 with the majority owner Canon Inc or its subsidiaries have during the year amounted to SEK 42.5 million. Certain Axis group companies, from the time before Canon Inc’s Trade receivables 16.4 Cash and cash equivalents 20.5 Revenue and profit in acquired business offer, lease business equipment from subsidiaries to Canon Inc. During the year, Axis Other current receivables 4.0 Total assets 278.4 Cognimatics contributed revenues of SEK 12 M and a net profit of SEK 5 M to the and Canon have initiated a cooperation regarding manufacturing of Axis products in Cash and cash equivalents 28.0 Deferred tax liabilities 27.5 group for the period from June 3 to December 31, 2016. If the acquisition had been Canon’s factories, and Axis is since before reseller of Canon’s network video products carried out on January 1, 2016, the consolidated pro-forma for revenue and profit Total assets 101.8 Trade payables 29.3 in EMEA and the Americas. would show SEK 21 and SEK 9 M respectively on December 31, 2016. These amounts Non-current liabilities 6.6 Other current liabilities 18.1 were calculated using the subsidiary’s results while adjusting for differences in Deferred tax liabilities 8.7 Total liabilities 74.9 accounting policies between the group and the subsidiary. Axis continually has a number pilot studies and collobaration projects in progress with various companies. All pilot studies and collaboration projects are well-defiTrade payables 3.9 Total identifiable net assets at fair value 203.5 ned, are based on market-related terms, are of clear benefit to the Axis group and Other current liabilities 8.3 Goodwill 272.4 Acquisition-related expenses are governed when required by Non Disclosure Agreements or other agreements. Total liabilities 27.5 Acquisition-related expenses of SEK 1.7 M are included in the operating profit and in Prior to Canon Inc’s offer, Axis already had a number of pilot studies and collaboraoperating activities in the statement of cash flows. Total identifiable net assets at fair value 74.3 The goodwill arising through the acquisition is related to 2N’s strong position in tion projects with companies in the Canon group. In total, there are about 10 signed the market. No portion of the acquired goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax Non Disclosure Agreements and a small number of agreements. The most important Goodwill 16.8 purposes. agreements govern joint development projects, for example the development of the network camera with 20 megapixels resolution that Axis released during the year. Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 110 Notes Signatures 111 Note 32 Post-balance sheet events Signatures There are no significant events to report. The board of directors approved these financial statements and consolidated financial statements, including the sustainability report for publication on March 20, 2018. The Not 33 Appropriation of profits income statements and balance sheets of the parent company and the group will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting on April 18, 2018 for adoption. (Amounts in SEK) The board of directors and the President affirm that the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with international accounting standards, IFRS Suggested appropriation of profits in the parent company as adopted by the EU and provide a true and fair view of the group’s financial position and results of operations. The annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and give a true and fair view of the parent company’s financial position and results of operations. At the disposal of the annual general meeting: The statutory administration report for the group and the parent company provides a true and fair review of the development of the group’s and the parent company’s 2017 2016 operations, financial position and results of operations and describes material risks and uncertainties facing the parent company and other companies in the group. Accumulated profit and other 1,212,878,278 831,431,161 non-restricted reserves Net profit for the year 774,157,107 445,351,467 Total 1,987,035,385 1,276,782,628 Axis Aktiebolag (publ), 556241-1065, Lund, March 20, 2018 The board of directors and the President propose that the profits at the disposal of the annual general meeting be appropriated as follows: To be carried forward 1,987,035,385 1,276,782,628 Total 1,987,035,385 1,276,782,628 Biörn Riese Ray Mauritsson Chairman President and CEO Martin Gren Toshizo Tanaka Board member Board member Bert Nordberg Håkan Kirstein Board member Board member Mats Friberg Eva Svensson Board member, Employee representative Board member, Employee representative Malte Lennerstedt Board member, Employee representative Our audit report was submitted on March 20, 2018. Ernst & Young AB Johan Thuresson Authorized Public Accountant Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 112 Audit report Audit report 113 Audit report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Axis AB (publ), Revenue recognition corporate identity number 556241-1065 Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter Report on the annual accounts The revenues amounted SEK 8,603 M in 2017. The revenue recogDuring our audit we have evaluated the process of revenue recogniand consolidated accounts Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the nition principles are described in note 1.17 and 3. A revenue from sale of goods is recognized upon delivery and acceptance by the tion and accrual of rebates and other sales incentives. Amongst other procedures, we have tested the company’s controls over revenue Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent customer, which has occurred when the significant risks and benefits recognition and accounting for rebates and executed analytical audit Opinions have transferred to the buyer. The company’s sales model includes procedures over the historical accuracy of judgments made. We company and the group in accordance with professional ethics for rebates and other sales incentives which are settled in retrospective, have also performed analytics over product sales compared to the We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsias described in note 1.20. Due to the variety and complexity of prior year, compared sales trends to expectations, tested contractual Axis AB (publ) for the year 2017. The annual accounts and consolidated bilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes that, based contractual terms across the Group’s markets, and the magnitude of agreements, conducted sample testing over revenue cutoff at yearaccounts of the company are included on pages 81-111 in this document. on the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited services referred the data involved in making the estimations, we have considered the end and obtained external accounts receivable confirmations. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided estimation of rebates and other sales incentives recognised based on with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, to the audited company or, where applicable, its parent company or its sales during the year to be complex. We have therefore determined We have also evaluated the disclosures in the annual report. the financial position of the parent company as of 31 December 2017 controlled companies within the EU. the revenue recognition to be a key audit matter. and its financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group Other Information than the annual accounts and and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis as of 31 December 2017 and their financial performance and cash flow for Key Audit Matters consolidated accounts of accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors and the the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional This document also contains other information than the annual accounts Managing Director intends to liquidate the company, to cease operations, and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1-80, 116-119 and 127Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. The judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts or has no realistic alternative but to do so. 132. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts of the and consolidated accounts of the current period. These matters were this other information. annual accounts and consolidated accounts. addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion Auditor’s responsibility thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. For each matter Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does not annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided cover this other information and we do not express any form of assurance material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and balance in that context. conclusion regarding this other information. auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a sheet for group. high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s responIn connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated sibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report, accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified above in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report that has including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent with Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material been submitted to the parent company’s audit committee in accordance the performance of procedures designed to respond to our assessment the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements. The also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these results of our audit procedures, including the procedures performed to and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be materially annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Basis for Opinions address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the misstated. We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on accompanying financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are We also: Goodwill required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. >> Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the annual Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error, Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter the Managing Director design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and Goodwill amounted SEK 367.6 million in the consolidated accounts as of 31 In our audit we assessed and tested management’s proThe Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a December 2017 and corresponds to 7.3 % of the group’s assets. The company cesses for preparing the impairment test for example by preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misstateannually or at indication tests that the recognized goodwill amount does not assessing the accuracy of previously applied forecasts and they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act ment resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, exceed the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is determined by assumptions. We have also made comparisons towards and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, calculating the present value of future cash flows. Future cash flows are based other businesses in order to assess the reasonableness of adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. upon management’s forecasts and includes a number of assumptions such as the future cash flows and growth assumptions and through development in earnings, growth, investment needs and discount rate. support of our valuation specialists challenged the applied also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary >> Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relevant to discount rate and assumptions of long-term growth. We to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts our audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in Changes in assumptions result in a large impact on the calculation of the have also audited the company’s model and methodology that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion recoverable amount and the assumptions applied by the company and will thus of conducting the impairment test and evaluated the comIn preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Board on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. have large bearing on the assessment as to whether impairment exists. We have pany’s sensitivity analyses. We have furthermore assessed of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the assess>> Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the thus determined the accounting of goodwill to be a key audit matter. the appropriateness of the disclosures in the annual report. ment of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going concern made by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director. A description of the impairment test is included in note 4 and the section Important assumptions and estimates in note 1.20. Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 114 Audit report Audit report 115 >> Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the statutory administration report and that the members of the Board of As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of accounting in Directors and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for the standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and maintain preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We also financial year. professional skepticism throughout the audit. The examination of the draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, as to administration and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit whether any material uncertainty exists related to events or condiBasis for opinions or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional audit tions that may cast significant doubt on the company’s and the We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing procedures performed are based on our professional judgment with group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are furstarting point in risk and materiality. This means that we focus the material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our ther described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independexamination on such actions, areas and relationships that are material for auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the annual accounts and ent of the parent company and the group in accordance with professional the operations and where deviations and violations would have particular consolidated accounts or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical importance for the company’s situation. We examine and test decisions our opinion about the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Our responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. undertaken, support for decisions, actions taken and other circumstances conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of that are relevant to our opinion concerning discharge from liability. As a our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause a We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations company and a group to cease to continue as a going concern. appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. of the company’s profit or loss we examined the Board of Directors’ >> Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the annual reasoned statement and a selection of supporting evidence in order to be accounts and consolidated accounts, including the disclosures, and Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director able to assess whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts represent the The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations Act. underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes presentation. an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the Ernst & Young AB, Box 7850, 103 99 Stockholm, was appointed auditor of >> Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the requirements which the company’s and the group’s type of operations, Axis AB by the general meeting of the shareholders on the 20 April 2017 financial information of the entities or business activities within the size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s and the group’s and has been the company’s auditor since 13 April 2016. group to express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Lund March 20 2018 group audit. We remain solely responsible for our opinions. The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization and Ernst & Young AB the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among other We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, the things continuous assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of significant situation and ensuring that the company’s organization is designed so audit findings during our audit, including any significant deficiencies in that the accounting, management of assets and the company’s financial Johan Thuresson internal control that we identified. affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing Authorized Public Accountant Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to the We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement that we Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matters have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independtake measures that are necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting ence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters in accordance with law and handle the management of assets in a that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where reassuring manner. applicable, related safeguards. Auditor’s responsibility From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the most assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the important assessed risks for material misstatement, and are therefore Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about the matter. >> has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give rise to liability to the company, or Report on other legal and >> in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. regulatory requirements Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of Opinions the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accordance with the Companies Act. accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of Axis AB (publ) for the year 2017 Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit be rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the appropriated (loss be dealt with) in accordance with the proposal in the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 116 Multi-year summary Multi-year summary 117 Multi-year summary INCOME STATEMENT (SEK M) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 KEY RATIOS 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Net sales 4,716.8 5,449.7 6,634.7 7,385.7 8,602.6 Net sales growth, % 12.7 15.5 21.7 11.3 16.5 Cost of goods and services sold -2,286.6 -2,627.7 -3,262.2 -3,678.9 -4,143.8 Gross margin, % 51.5 51.8 50.8 50.2 51.8 Gross profit 2,430.2 2,822.0 3,372.5 3,706.8 4,458.8 Operating margin, % 13.6 13.1 13.3 12.0 11.8 Selling and marketing expenses -864.4 -1,019.6 -1,180.8 -1,353.0 -1,547.1 Profit margin, % 13.5 13.1 13.3 12.0 11.8 Administrative expenses -208.9 -226.7 -292.2 -298.9 -351.7 Depreciation/amortization, SEK M 55.4 72.0 103.6 135.8 175.9 Research and development expenses -708.6 -858.7 -985.7 -1,233.4 -1,486.4 Other income and changes in value -8.0 -1.6 -32.6 63.5 -59.7 Equity, SEK M 937 1,097 1,742 2,352 3,075 Operating profit 640.3 715.4 881.2 885.0 1,013.9 Equity/assets ratio, % 48.2 49.7 57.3 58.7 61.4 Net financial items -3.1 -1.5 -0.7 -0.8 -2.9 Balance sheet total, SEK M 1,943 2,207 3,038 4,009 5,012 Profit after financial items 637.2 713.9 880.5 884.2 1,011.0 Interest-bearing liabilities, SEK M 3 2 Tax on net profit -158.3 -174.6 -228.4 -245.5 -275.2 Net debt, SEK M 338 415 1,016 855 1,535 Net profit for the year 478.9 539.3 652.1 638.7 735.8 Capital employed, SEK M 937 1,097 1,742 2,355 3,078 Return on capital employed, % 67.9 70.5 62.1 43.3 37.4 BALANCE SHEET (SEK M) Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Return on equity, % 56.9 54.8 48.4 33.7 29.1 Non-current assets 270.5 338.3 452.9 1,167.9 1,562.1 Number of employees (average for the period) 1,532 1,797 2,065 2,414.0 2,783 Inventories 636.8 722.3 1,022.2 1,106.5 803.3 Sales per employee, SEK M 3.1 3.0 3.2 3.1 3.1 Trade receivables and other receivables 697.9 731.5 547.4 876.6 1,019.9 Operating profit per employee, SEK M 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Short-term investments 89.2 Cash and cash equivalents 337.7 414.6 1,015.8 858.3 1,537.5 Total 1,942.9 2,206.7 3,038.3 4,009.4 5,012.0 PER-SHARE DATA 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Profit after financial items, SEK 9.17 10.28 12.67 12.73 14.55 Equity 936.9 1,097.1 1,741.5 2,352.3 3,075.5 Cash flow, SEK per share –1.83 1.11 8.65 -2.27 9.78 Non-current liabilities 159.3 187.4 282.2 391.0 357.7 Equity, SEK per share 13.49 15.79 25.06 33.87 44.28 Current liabilities 846.7 922.2 1,014.6 1,266.1 1,578.8 Share price at end of the period 223.80 199.60 343.40 340.60 339.90 Total 1,942.9 2,206.7 3,038.3 4,009.4 5,012.0 Price/equity, percent per share 1,659 1,264 1,370 1,006 767,6 Dividend paid 5.00 5.50 0.31 0.64 0.92 P/E ratio 32 26 37 37 32 CASH FLOW STATEMENT (SEK M) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Earnings per share before and after dilution, SEK 6.89 7.76 9.39 9.20 10.59 Cash flow from operating activities before change in working capital 567.6 689.2 860.1 772.1 983.7 Number of shares before dilution, average, thousands 69,461 69,461 69,461 69,461 69,461 Change in working capital -90.1 -88.7 -56.9 -50.7 380.3 Number of shares after dilution, average, thousands 69,461 69,461 69,461 69,461 69,461 Cash flow from operating activities 477.5 600.5 803.2 721.4 1,364.0 Number of outstanding shares, thousands 69,461 69,461 69,461 69,461 69,461 Cash flow from investing activities -117.0 -141.6 -180.5 -831.6 -619.9 Average number of shares, thousands 69,461 69,461 69,461 69,461 69,461 Cash flow from financing activities -487.3 -382.0 -21.5 -47.2 -64.9 Cash flow for the period -126.8 76.9 601.2 -157.4 679.2 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 464.5 337.7 414.6 1,015.8 858.3 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 337.7 414.6 1,015.8 858.3 1,537.5 OPERATING CASH FLOW (SEK M) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Profit after financial items 637.2 713.9 880.5 884.2 1,011.0 Depreciation/amortization 55.4 72.1 103.6 135.8 175.9 Taxes -128.2 -103.8 -191.5 -209.4 -273.0 Total 564.4 682.2 792.6 810.6 913.9 Change in working capital -90.1 -88.7 -56.9 -50.7 380.3 Net investments -117.0 -141.6 -180.5 -831.6 -619.9 Operating cash flow 357.3 451.9 555.2 -71.7 ,674.3 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 118 Quarterly data Definitions 119 Quarterly data Definitions Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Full year Invoiced sales per product group (SEK M) 2016 2016 2016 2016 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 Capital employed Operating margin Video 1,546.9 1,714.9 1,864.1 1,941.8 1,901.4 1,998.1 2,116.5 2,058.7 8,074.7 Total assets less non interest-bearing liabilities including deferred tax Operating profit as a percentage of sales. Other 20.1 47.8 133.1 117.0 125.3 120.7 136.6 145.3 527.9 liability. Total 1,567.0 1,762.7 1,997.2 2,058.8 2,026.7 2,118.8 2,253.1 2,204.0 8,602.6 Return on equity Cash flow per share Profit after financial items and tax divided by average equity. Cash flow for the year divided by the average number of shares. Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Full year P/E Invoiced sales per region (SEK M) 2016 2016 2016 2016 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 Earnings per share Market value divided by profit after full tax. EMEA 585.7 565.2 671.0 823.8 732.4 695.6 793.6 865.8 3,087.3 Net profit for the year by the average number of shares. Americas 810.0 984.1 1,068.9 992.7 1,039.7 1,179.7 1,189.7 1,086.2 4,495.4 Profit margin Asia 171.3 213.4 257.3 242.3 254.6 243.5 269.8 252.0 1,019.9 Equity per share Profit after financial items as a percentage of sales. Total 1,567.0 1,762.7 1,997.2 2,058.8 2,026.7 2,118.8 2,253.1 2,204.0 8,602.6 Equity divided by the number of outstanding shares. Profit per employee Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Full year Equity ratio Operating profit after depreciation/amortization divided by the average Income statement (SEK M) 2016 2016 2016 2016 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 Equity including minority interest as a percentage of the balance sheet number of full-time employees. Net sales 1,567.0 1,762.7 1,997.2 2,058.8 2,026.7 2,118.8 2,253.1 2,204.0 8,602.6 total Gross profit 785.5 876.0 989.4 1,056.0 1,034.0 1,086.5 1,186.3 1,152.0 4,458.8 Return on capital employed Gross margin % 50.1 49.7 49.5 51.3 51.0 51.3 52.7 52.3 51.8 Gross margin Profit after financial items plus financial expenses divided by average Operating profit 153.1 166.8 312.2 252.9 234.3 209.0 364.7 205.9 1,013.9 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales. capital employed. Operating margin % 9.8 9.5 15.6 12.3 11.6 9.9 16.2 9.3 11.8 Profit after financial items 153.2 166.2 312.0 252.8 233.8 208.5 363.8 204.9 1,011.0 Net debt Sales per employee Net interest-bearing receivables and liabilities. Sales divided by the average number of full-time employees. Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 120 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report 121 Corporate governance report 2017 Axis Aktiebolag’s (publ) (hereafter “Axis”) Corporate Deviations from the Code Principal owners Attendance Annual General Meetings 2013-2017 Governance Report for 2017 is presented below. In light of the ownership structure in Axis where Canon Inc. for some Number of shares Share of equity and votes The report describes the division of responsibilities time owns 86.6 percent of the shares and votes, the 2017 Annual Number % within Axis and also how the company’s three deciGeneral Meeting (AGM) did not appoint a nomination committee. The Canon Inc. 60,175,282 86.6 % 250 100 sion-making bodies – the annual general meeting, company thus deviates from the Code’s rules with regard to a nomination BNYMSANV RE GCLB RE BARCLAYS 2,521,868 3.6 % CAPITA board of directors and President – operate and committee. The duties of the nomination committee under the Code will interact. RAIFFEISEN BANK INTERNATIONAL AG 2,396,000 3.4 % 200 80 be performed instead, where appropriate, by Axis’ largest shareholder Canon Inc. or by the company’s board of directors. As far as election BARCLAYS CAPITAL SECURITIES LTD 961,805 1.4 % Introduction and remuneration of auditors is concerned, the board has appointed a SSB CLIENT OMNIBUS AC OMO7 859,250 1.2 % 150 60 Corporate governance is the system whereby the owners, directly special group that prepares the procurement process. This group has Other 2,547,045 3,8 % or indirectly, govern and control the company. At Axis, governance, special experience in questions relating to appointment and remuneration Total 69,461,250 100.0 % 100 40 management and control are distributed among the shareholders, the of auditors, which is considered to be of benefit to Axis and raises the board of directors and the President in accordance with prevailing laws, quality level. 50 20 regulations and instructions. Share capital, voting rights and ownership 0 0 Axis is a public Swedish stock corporation with its registered office in Axis had 1,835 shareholders at the end of 2017 according to the share 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Lund, Sweden. Axis was floated on the Stockholm Stock Exchange in register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB. The company’s largest Number of shareholders Votes in % 2000 and is currently listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s main market. The owner is Canon Inc. (86.6 percent). Foreign investors’ equity interest was company follows the provisions of the Swedish Companies Act as well 99.5 percent. The five largest owners had total holdings corresponding to as the stock exchange regulations for listed companies in Sweden. The 97.9 percent of the share capital. For additional ownership data see pages company has not committed any breaches of Nasdaq Stockholm’s rules 28-29 in the printed annual report. The company’s share capital totaled Provisions in Articles of Association Axis does not apply any special arrangements as regards the running of and regulations or of best practice in the stock market. SEK 23,610 M at year-end. At December 31, 2017, the number of shares The company’s articles of association do not contain any limitations the AGM, either on account of provisions in the articles of association or, amounted to 69,461,250, all shares carry one vote and equal right to in respect of how many votes each shareholder may cast at a general as far as the company knows, shareholders’ agreements. Axis applies the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance (hereafter the share in the company’s assets and earnings. meeting of shareholders. There are no special provisions in the company’s “Code”). Axis does not deviate from the Code, with the exception of what articles of association regarding appointment and dismissal of board Annual General Meeting 20 April 2017 is expressly stated below. Information about the Code may be found on members or regarding amendment of the articles of association. The AGM, which was held in Lund on April 20, 2017 resolved as follows: www.bolagsstyrning.se. Annual General Meeting The AGM resolved in accordance with the principal owner’s proposals, The general meeting is Axis’ highest decision-making body, and the forum namely to elect five ordinary board members without any deputy board Control model through which the shareholders can exercise their influence over the members, to re-elect the board members Bert Nordberg, Biörn Riese, company. The ordinary general meeting where the board shall submit Håkan Kirstein, Martin Gren and Toshizo Tanaka, to re-elect Biörn Riese The shareholders the annual report and consolidated financial statements is called the as chairman of the board, and that directors’ fees shall be paid of SEK make up the Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting (AGM). The auditors submit the audit report 2,000,000 in total (unchanged) to be allocated as follows: SEK 800,000 and the audit report for the group at the AGM. The particulars of the to the chairman of the board and SEK 400,000 to each of the other Proposal AGM are governed by the Swedish Companies Act and by the articles members, however, fees shall not be paid to Toshizo Tanaka. of association. Axis’ AGM is held annually in the Lund area during the first half of the year. When and where the meeting will be held will be The AGM has not authorized the board to resolve that the company Annual General Meeting announced in connection with the interim report for the third quarter in should issue new shares or acquire its own shares. the preceding year. Information regarding the shareholders’ right to have Election Election Info matters addressed at the AGM is available on the company’s website Nomination Committee from the time of the report’s publication. The notice convening the AGM The AGM resolves on the appointment of a nomination committee in Board of Directors Info is published no later than four weeks prior to the AGM. At the AGM, applicable cases. In light of the ownership in Axis where Canon Inc. owns Remuneration Committee information is provided about Axis’ performance during the past year and 86.6 percent of the shares and votes, no nomination committee was Audit Committee resolutions are passed on important questions. The shareholders are given appointed at the 2017 AGM. the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about the Axis group and Goals External the results for the past year. Apart from the legal requirements concernProposals and views from shareholders concerning the composition of the Strategies Reports auditors ing the right of shareholders to participate in the AGM, preregistration for board may either be submitted in writing to the address: Axis AB, attn. Control instruments Control the AGM is required under Axis’ articles of association within the period Adrienne Jacobsen, Emdalavägen 14, 223 69 Lund, Sweden, or by specified in the convening notice. When applicable, notification should phone +46 46 272 18 00. The President & CEO Info also be provided if the shareholder intends to take along assistants. Those and Group Management shareholders who cannot personally attend may be represented by proxy. Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 122 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report 123 Board of Directors The formal work plan of the Board of Directors meeting. See table on page 122 in the printed annual report for meeting The President and CEO manages the day-to-day work, and is responsible Under the Swedish Companies Act, the board is responsible for drawing attendance. for keeping the board informed of the performance of the operations, During the period between AGMs, the board of directors of Axis constiup and evaluating Axis’ overall, long-term strategies and goals, adopting and for ensuring that they are being conducted in accordance with the tutes the highest decision-making body in the company. The duties of the the budget and taking decisions affecting the operations and major Axis has during the year adopted a new global diversity policy, which board’s guidelines and instructions. The President keeps the board and the board are governed by the Swedish Companies Act and by the articles of investments in Axis’ organization and operations. The formal work plan of applies to all employees including management and, with effect from chairman continually informed of Axis’ and the group’s financial position association. The current articles of association were adopted at the AGM the board is adopted annually by the board. The duties of the board and 2018, board members. In view of the company’s operations, phase and performance. The group management team held fourteen formal 2015 and are available in their entirety on www.axis.com. According the division of responsibilities between the board and the President and of development and conditions in general, the board has a suitable and a number of informal meetings during the year. Four of these were to the company’s articles of association, the board of directors shall CEO are described in the formal work plan and in the board’s instructions composition with respect to the directors’ competence, experience and extended strategy meetings where areas dealt with included; the longconsist of a minimum of three and a maximum of seven members, with a to the President and CEO. It is incumbent on the President and CEO, in backgrounds. The gender balance for the board members appointed by the term innovationand growth agenda, core values and their development, maximum of three deputy board members. consultation with the chairman of the board, to prepare the decision data, AGM is adjusted by the two female employee representatives. organization and employee development and efficient processes. the notification and the agenda for each board meeting. The notification The board members Bert Nordberg, Biörn Riese, Håkan Kirstein and and decision data are to be circulated to the board members in good time. A presentation of the board may be found on page 127 in the printed Remuneration to the Board, Auditor, President and Senior Martin Gren were present at the AGM on April 20, 2017. The board The minutes are to be circulated to the board members after the meeting, annual report. Executives member Toshizo Tanaka was not present. and a copy stored securely by the company. Committees Board of Directors Re-election occurred of the board members Bert Nordberg, Biörn The role of the chairman of the board of Axis AB, among other things, is Directors’ fees of SEK 2,000,000 are payable, according to the resolution Riese, Håkan Kirstein, Martin Gren and Toshizo Tanaka, Biörn Riese was to monitor the progress of the business, to organize and lead the work Remuneration Committee of the AGM on April 20, 2017. The chairman receives fees of SEK 800,000 re-elected as chairman of the board. The board of directors thus consists of the board and to be responsible for ensuring that the other directors Questions relating to decisions and guidelines regarding salary and and each of the other board members receives fees of SEK 400,000, of five members elected by the AGM. continually receive the information they require to carry out the work of other terms of employment for the company management (including however, no fees shall be paid to Toshizo Tanaka. the board with maintained quality and in accordance with the Swedish the President and CEO) and other employees are prepared by a special The board members Bert Nordberg, Håkan Kirstein and Biörn Riese are Companies Act. remuneration committee. The remuneration committee reports to the Auditor deemed to be independent in relation to Axis, the company management board that adopts the necessary resolutions The remuneration committee is Fees to auditors are payable according to approved invoice, pursuant to and to the major shareholders. Martin Gren is employed by the subsidiary The work of the Board during 2017 composed of Biörn Riese, Chairman, and Bert Nordberg. President and CEO the resolution of the AGM on April 20, 2017. Axis Communications AB and is thus not deemed to be independent The board has reviewed Axis’ compliance with the Swedish Corporate Ray Mauritsson is a co-opted member when dealing with certain issues. in relation to Axis and the company management but is deemed to Governance Code. The annual evaluation of the board’s work has been Employees from Axis’ HR department attend in a reporting and secretarial President and Senior Executives be independent in relation to the major shareholders. Toshizo Tanaka carried out. The evaluation was carried out by the chairman without the capacity. The principles for remuneration of the President and other persons in the is deemed to be independent in relation to Axis and the company involvement of an external party as decided by the board. As a basis for company management were determined by the AGM on April 20, 2017. management but not independent in relation to the company’s largest a discussion, each member of the board answered a questionnaire and The board follows and evaluates the application of the guidelines for The guidelines essentially correspond to the principles that have been shareholder Canon Inc. expressed his or hers view on issues like how the work within the board determination of salaries and other remuneration to the President and CEO applied to date. The objective of Axis AB’s remuneration policy for senior has been conducted, what measures that can be taken to improve the and the other members of the company management as adopted by the executives shall be to offer compensation that helps to recruit skills and Information regarding the remuneration to board members approved by work and what issues that should be given more or less attention. AGM. Further, during 2017 the board has followed the program for variable expertise and to retain it in the company. the AGM may be found in the table below and in Note 20, Personnel. remuneration to the company management adopted by the AGM. Based Other information about the board members may be found on page 127 According to the formal work plan of the board at least five ordinary upon the input from the remuneration committee, the board also monitors Remuneration to the President and other members of the company of the printed annual report. Information about the shareholdings of meetings shall be held annually in addition to the statutory meeting. remuneration structures and rates of compensation in the company. management (namely, the nine persons who together with the President board members may be found on page 127 of the printed annual report Apart from this, the board may convene when circumstances so require. comprise the group management) may consist of basic salary, variable and on the company’s website. During 2017, the board held 10 board meetings including the statutory Audit Committee remuneration, “stay on board” remuneration and pension. Questions relating to internal control and audit are handled by the board in its entirety and therefore no special audit committee has been appointed. Basic salary Composition of the Board of Directors Attendance The basic salary should be determined on the basis that it should be The President & CEO and Group Management competitive. The absolute level should depend on the specific position Name Year elected Independent Total fees Remuneration Board meetings Committee meetCommittee ings Axis’ group management consists of ten members*, and is led by the and the individual’s performance. Biörn Riese (Chairman of the Board) 2015 Yes 800,000 X 10 (10) 2 President and CEO, Ray Mauritsson (born 1962). Ray Mauritsson holds a Master of Science, Engineering physics from Lund University, and an Variable remuneration Bert Nordberg 2015 Yes 400,000 X 10 (10) 2 Executive MBA from the Institute of Economics, at Lund University. He Variable remuneration (bonus) to the President and other senior Håkan Kirstein 2015 Yes 400,000 8 (10) joined Axis in 1995, and took over as President and CEO in 2003. Prior to executives shall be based on the financial goals of the group and shall Martin Gren 1984 No 400,000 10 (10) this, Mauritsson held leading positions at TAC (now Schneider Electric). He be calculated as a function of the sales growth and the profit margin for Toshizo Tanaka 2015 No – 9 (10) has a directorship in HMS Industrial Networks but has no other significant the year in question. The bonus to the President shall be maximized at Cristian Ionescu-Idbohrn (employee representative for SACO, deputy) 2 (10) * assignments outside of Axis. Neither Ray Mauritsson nor related parties to 240 percent of the annual salary and for the other senior executives the Eva Svensson (employee representative for IF Metall) 2017 – 1 (10) ** him have any substantial shareholding or partnership in companies that Axis highest individual bonus amount shall be maximized at 80 percent of the Farzin Akbar Zadeh (employee representative for SACO, deputy) 2017 – 4 (10) *** has significant business relations with. annual salary. Other benefits and other remuneration shall be received on Haris Mustafic (employee representative for IF Metall) 3 (10) **** the same basis as for other employees. For information about the President’s and Group Management’s shareholdings Madhavi Kagganti (employee representative for SACO) 4 (10) * see pages 127-128 of the printed annual report and the company’s website. Pension Malte Lennerstedt (employee representative for SACO) 2017 – 6 (10) *** The retirement age for the President shall be 65. The pension insurance Marie Nässlind (employee representative for Unionen, deputy) 2015 – 7 (10) premium shall amount to 35 percent of the pensionable salary up to Mats Friberg (employee representative for Unionen) 2015 – 10 (10) a maximum of 28.5 basic amounts. For a salary in excess of 28.5 * Malin Ruijsenaars, Axis Chief Personnel Officer, has been on sick leave during the year basic amounts, a premium of 25 percent shall be paid. The ITP * Left the board 20/04/2017 ** Member of the board since 19/10/2017 *** Member of the board since 20/04/2017 **** Left the board 08/09/2017 and has not participated in the management team. The function as Chief Personnel agreement shall be applied for other senior executives, with Officer has been maintained by two senior staff at the HR department and Axis’ CEO a retirement age of 65. has been responsible for HR issues at management team level. Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 124 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report 125 Termination benefits The company’s system for variable remuneration to senior reporting has been delegated to the President and CEO, who in turn has Control activities In the event of termination of employment, a six-month mutual notice executives delegated function-specific responsibility to managers at appropriate period shall apply for the President. In the event of termination of levels in the group. The risks identified are handled e.g.by developing the control environemployment of the President by the company, termination benefits The President and CEO and the company management are covered by ment’s various policies and training material, but also by documenting corresponding to up to twelve cash monthly salaries may be paid after the same bonus program as other employees. The program is based on The basis of the control environment consists of a firmly-established and following up the most important business processes. There are both the end of the notice period. In the event of termination by the President, financial targets for the group and is based on sales growth and profit corporate culture and a number of company-wide policies as well as the general and more detailed control activities, aimed at ensuring efficiency no termination benefits shall be payable. A mutual period of notice of margin. For the 2017 fiscal year, the bonus amounts were maximized work of the internal control function. in the group’s processes as well as preventing, discovering and correcting three to six months shall apply between the company and the other senior at 240 percent of an annual salary for the President and CEO and the faults and deviations in the financial reporting. The activities include executives. In the event of termination by the company, termination highest individual amount for the other senior executives was 80 percent A. Corporate culture manual controls, controls embedded in IT systems and controls in the benefits corresponding to twelve cash monthly salaries can be paid. In of an annual salary. Resolutions regarding bonus programs are approved Axis has a strong and firmly-established corporate culture, which fundaunderlying IT environment, known as general IT controls. Appropriate the event of termination by any of the senior executives, no termination by the board for one year at a time. mentally encourages all employees to think creatively and innovatively, control activities have also been designed for operations that are benefits shall be payable. and to show respect for each other’s diversity. Everyone is encouraged conducted by third parties on behalf of the company. Audit to question, take the initiative and take responsibility, and to strive at all Persons who are resident outside of Sweden may be offered notice Axis’ auditors are elected by the AGM. At the AGM 2017, Ernst & Young times towards the common goals, guided by our watchwords – “Act as The company’s financial performance is monitored continuously by the periods and termination benefits that are competitive in the country Aktiebolag were elected as auditors with Johan Thuresson as auditor in one”, “Think big” and “Always open”. The corporate culture is founded on board through comprehensive monthly report packages, and through where the persons are or have been resident or to which they have a charge for the period until the end of the next AGM. Thuresson was born confidence, trust and personal responsibility. reports by the CFO at all board meetings. Compliance with the company’s substantial connection, preferably solutions equivalent to what applies in 1964 and has been an Authorized Public Accountant since 1995. finance policy is followed up monthly in the report package. A high level for managerial employees resident in Sweden. B. Various policies of transparency in the report material and financial processes enables any The company’s report on internal control over Responsibility and authority are defined in the delegation plan adopted by deficiencies in internal control to be identified and rectified. Deviations from the principles described above may be approved by financial reporting 2017 the board, attestation instructions, handbooks, other policies and codes. the board of directors, if there are specific reasons in individual cases. Information and communication Prior to the Annual General Meeting 2015, a deviation was made from The group’s most important policies relate to financial control, commuImportant guidelines, handbooks and similar information relating to the Introduction the principles adopted by the Annual General Meeting 2014, whereby The present report has been prepared in accordance with the Swedish nications issues and business ethics. The basis for financial control and financial reporting are updated and communicated to the employees a “stay on board” bonus was introduced for the then members of the Companies Act and the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance and follow-up consists of a company-wide finance and accounting policy. The concerned on an ongoing basis. There are both formal and informal management team. This was deemed particularly necessary due to the is limited to internal control over financial reporting. Axis’ process for aim of Axis’ communications policy is to ensure that external and internal information channels to the company management and to the board for then outstanding public offer for the company made by Canon, whereby internal control over financial reporting is structured in accordance with information disclosure is accurate and uniformly structured. Part of the important information from the employees. The board meets regularly specific reasons existed. This “stay on board” bonus complied with the the COSO framework (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the communications policy deals with Investor Relations, (IR), and is intended with representatives of the various central functions in the Axis Group remuneration principles subsequently adopted by the Annual General Treadway Commission), with the control environment as a base for other to ensure compliance with the appropriate laws and stock exchange rules, when they attend board meetings as well as through individual meetings. Meeting. An additional “stay on board” bonus was later introduced for the components and activities; risk assessment, control activities, information and to provide a reliable and accurate view of Axis and its operations The President and CEO and the CFO keep the board continuously informed members of the management team, pursuant to which payment would and communication as well as monitoring. to players in the financial market. Axis operates a Code of Conduct. The of the group’s financial position, performance and any areas of risk. There occur in two parts, on June 30, 2016 and on June 30, 2017, provided that purpose of the Code is to set out the approach, values and guidelines that are guidelines for external communication that ensure that the company the conditions for continued employment were met. Control environment Axis’ employees shall apply in matters of business ethics and also the meets demands for correct information. The board of directors has overall responsibility for establishing and approach to human rights and freedoms. Axis also has an anti-corruption The company does not operate any outstanding share-related or share maintaining an effective system for risk assessment and internal control. policy and an internal channel for questions about ethical business Monitoring price related incentive programs. The day-to-day work of maintaining an effective internal control decisions or reporting of violations of business ethics. This is handled Observance of internal policies, manuals and codes and of the environment and continuous risk assessment in respect of the financial by representatives from the management team and the group functions appropriateness and functionality of the established control activities Legal and HR. is continually validated, through the financial reporting and control, as well as through documented audits carried out by the internal control C. Internal control function function. The annual risk assessment provides the basis for planning of Axis’ internal control function works on developing, improving and follow-up activities. There is a special process for ensuring that reported securing internal control in the group. This involves proactive efforts deficiencies are remedied. Read more about Axis’ corporate governance Read more about how sustainability issues focused on the control environment as well as examining the design and are a natural part of Axis’ operations operational effectiveness of the internal control framework. During 2017, the internal control function made nine (five) visits to subsidiaries and to regional offices. The focus has been on performing Read more about Axis’ corporate governance on our website under Axis’ sustainability report for 2017 may be found on pages 30-79 Risk assessment management testing, i.e. ensuring that critical controls for the financial About Axis/Investor relations/Corporate Governance where the of the printed annual report. On Axis’s website you can read more The Board carries out an overall risk inventory on a regular basis. This reporting are performed in accordance with existing documentation. This following information may be found: about the company’s sustainability work. involves identifying, measuring and describing material risks related work will continue during 2018. >> Corporate Governance Reports to the overall group. The internal control function uses the board’s risk >> Articles of Association inventory and input from the controller functions in order to assess risks The internal control function continually reports the result of the >> Information from previous AGMs (convening notices, minutes, in the financial reporting and to compare them with established controls. performed internal control activities to the CFO, and annually to the resolutions) Errors can arise in connection with bookkeeping or in the valuation of board. The board of directors also approves the planning for the coming >> Information about the nomination committee assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. The risk assessment also includes year based on the performed risk inventory and risk analysis. >> Information about principles for remuneration to senior executives risks of e.g. fraud and favouritism to another party at the company’s >> The board’s evaluation of guidelines for remuneration of variable expense. remuneration programs >> Report on variable remuneration schemes Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 126 Board of Directors and Auditors Board of Directors and Auditors 127 The company’s auditors attend at least two board meetings per year, at which the auditors give their assessment and observations on the business processes, accounts and reporting. The chairman of the board also maintains continuous contact with the auditors. Board of directors The controller organization is evaluated on an ongoing basis by the Group Finance function and CFO with the aim of ensuring quality and efficiency. The CFO actively participates in the recruitment process of all qualified and auditors controllers. Axis does not have a separate internal audit function. Based on the work performed by the Internal Control function, a good control environment, external audits by auditors, the decision regarding and a special examiner, the board has decided that at present there are no special operational circumstances or other factors which would justify setting up such a function. Biörn Riese Martin Gren Bert Nordberg Employee Chairman of the Board since 2015 Born: 1962 Born: 1956 representatives: Board member since: 1984 Board member since: 2015 Born: 1953 Chairman of: Aktiebolag Grenspecialisten Chairman of: Innovativa Solutions Sweden Board member since: 2015 Board member of: Askero Sagoboks Förlag AB, Sigma Connectivity AB, Vestas Wind Mats Friberg Board member of: Jurie Advokat AB AB, Eikos Aktiebolag, Grenspecialisten Systems A/S Board member since: 2015 Education: Master of Laws (LL.M) and a Förvaltning AB, Handelsbolaget Dekad, Board member of: Aktiebolaget Electrolux, Employee representative for Unionen Graduate degree in Economics/Business AUDITOR’S STATEMENT REGARDING administration, Stockholm university H. Lundén Holding Aktiebolag, Tobii Technology AB LU Holding AB, Rothschild Nordic AB, SAAB Aktiebolag, SCA Hygiene AB, SkiStar AktieShares in Axis: 0 THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Work experience: Mannheimer Swartling Advokatbyrå AB, Carl Swartling Advokatbyrå, Education: Lund University, Honorary Doctor bolag, Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA Malte Lennerstedt HC, Lund University Education: Degree in Electrical Engineering District Court Service Board member since: 2017 Work experience: Founder of Axis from Malmö’s Tekniska Läroverk, Sweden To the Annual General Meeting of the shareholders of Axis AB (publ), corporate identity number Principal employment: Senior Adviser Employee representative for SACO Principal employment: Employed by Axis Work experience: Chairman and CEO Sony and lawyer, Jurie Advokat AB Shares in Axis: 0 556241-1065. Shares in Axis: 0 Communications AB Mobile Communications AB (previously Sony Shares in Axis: 0 Ericsson), Ericsson Group, Data General Corporation, Digital Equipment Corporation Eva Svensson Engagement and responsibility Principal employment: Various directorships Board member since: 2017 It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the corporate governance statement for the year 2017 Shares in Axis: 0 Employee representative for IF Metall Shares in Axis: 0 on pages 120-126 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Marie Nässlind The scope of the audit Board member since: 2015 Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor’s Employee representative for Unionen (deputy) examination of the corporate governance statement. This means that our examination of the corporate Shares in Axis: 0 governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance Farzin Akbar Zadeh with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe Board member since: 2017 that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. Employee representative for SACO (deputy) Shares in Axis: 0 Opinions A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2-6 the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are consistent with the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts and are in accordHåkan Kirstein Toshizo Tanaka ance with the Annual Accounts Act. Born: 1969 Born: 1940 Board member since: 2015 Board member since: 2015 Chairman of: Comapnies in the Eltel group, Board member of: Canon Inc. Auditors: Lund, March 20, 2018 The InfraNet Company AB Education: Degree in Economics from Keio Ernst & Young AB. Ernst & Young AB Board member of: Cherrystone AB, University, Japan Auditor in charge: Johan Thuresson, companies in the Eltel group Work experience: Various executive positions born 1964. Authorized Public Accountant. Education: M.Sc. in Economics, Stockholm in the Canon group Assigned to Axis since 2016. University, Sweden Principal employment: Representative Director Johan Thuresson Work experience: Niscayah Group AB, & Executive Vice President, Canon Inc. and StatoilHydro Sweden AB, Svenska Statoil AB, Chief Financial Officer, Canon Inc. and several Authorized Public Accountant Statoil Detaljist AB, Imtech Nordic AB, executive positions in the Canon group, incl. Imtech Nordic AB Vice Chairman of the Board of Supervisory Principal employment: President and CEO for Directors of Océ N.V. the Eltel group Shares in Axis: 0 Shares in Axis: 0 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 128 Management team Management team 129 Management team Ray Mauritsson Fredrik Nilsson President and Chief Executive Officer General Manager, North America Born: 1962 Born: 1967 Employed by Axis since: 1995 Employed by Axis since: 1996 Education: Master of Science, Engineering Education: Master of Science, Electrical Engineering, physics, Lund University and Executive MBA from Lund University of Technology, Economics studies at the Institute of Economics, Lund University Lund University and the University of Uppsala Previous employment: TAC Previous employment: ABB Directorships: HMS Networks AB Shares in Axis: 0 Shares in Axis: 0 Bodil Sonesson Malin Ruijsenaars Vice President, Global Sales Chief Personnel Officer Born: 1968 Malin Ruijsenaars has been on sick leave during the Employed by Axis since: 1996 year and has not participated in the management Education: Master of Business Administration, team. The function as Chief Personnel Officer has International Finance, Lund University and been maintained by two senior staff at the HR Konstanz University, Germany department and Axis’ CEO has been responsible for Previous employment: Lars Weibull HR issues at management team level. Directorships: Swedish Chamber of Commerce in Paris, Tomra Systems ASA Born: 1971 Shares in Axis: 0 Employed by Axis since: 2004 Education: PA program, Lund University, Master of European Studies Brügge, Belgium, Postgraduate studies, UC Berkeley, USA Previous employment: Mercedes-Benz Customer Assistance Center, DaimlerChrysler Denmark Sweden Per Ädelroth Fredrik Sjöstrand Johan Paulsson Directorships: Auranest Holding AB and RU Konsult Vice President, Operations Vice President, Finance and Chief Technology Officer Shares in Axis: 0 Born: 1966 Chief Financial Officer Born: 1963 Employed by Axis since: 1994 Born: 1969 Employed by Axis since: 2008 Education: Master of Science, Industrial Employed by Axis since: 1998 Education: Master of Science, Electrical Engineering and Management, Chalmers, Education: Master of Business Administration, Engineering, Lund University Gothenburg Lund University Previous employment: Ericsson, Anoto Previous employment: Accenture Previous employment: E.ON, PwC Directorships: poLight AS, SaFP and Directorships: Color your life by Elisabet Ädelroth Shares in Axis: 0 Winplantan AB AB, JLT Mobile Computers AB (publ) and JLT Mobile Shares in Axis: 0 Computers Sweden AB Shares in Axis: 0 Lars Åberg Jonas Hansson Peter Lindström Vice President, Marketing Chief Information Officer Vice President, New Business Born: 1966 Born: 1967 Born: 1970 Employed by Axis since: 2008 Employed by Axis since: 2000 Employed by Axis since: 2003 Education: Master of Business Administration, Education: Master of Science, Chemical Education: Technical Engineer, Lund University, Lund University, IFL Executive General Engineering, Lund University and Degree in Degree in Electro science, Executive MBA, EFL Lund Management Program, Stockholm School of Journalism, Lund University University School of Economics and Management Economics Previous employment: Netch Technologies Previous employment: Sony, BPE Broadcast Previous employment: Unilever, Ericsson Mobile Directorships: Creofant AB Professional Europe, GoPoint, Gandalf Data Communications, Bona Kemi Shares in Axis: 0 Directorships: Formpipe Software AB Shares in Axis: 0 Shares in Axis: 0 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 130 Sidhuvud Rubrik 131 Invitation to annual general meeting The annual general meeting will be held at the Notification and ordering the notice can occur company’s premises at Edison Park, Emdalavägen 14, >> in writing to Axis AB, attn. Adrienne Jacobsen, Lund, on Wednesday, April 18, 2018 at 3.00 p.m. The Emdalavägen 14, 223 69 Lund, Sweden or notification of participation must be received by Axis >> by phone on +46 46 272 18 00 to Axis AB’s AB no later than 4.00 p.m. on Thursday April 12, 2018. headquarters. The notification should include the shareholder’s name, Swedish civil registration or corporate registration The notification must also state the number of number, address and phone number as well as the assistants (however, not more than two) the sharenumber of shares represented. holder wishes to bring to the annual general meeting. If participation is through power of attorney, including Shareholders who wish to participate in the annual – in the case that the grantor of a power of attorney is general meeting must be listed as a shareholder in the a legal entity – a certified certificate of incorporation print-out of the share register produced by Euroclear or other document showing the competency of the Sweden AB on Thursday April 12, 2018. Shareholders authorised signatory, shall be submitted in good time whose shares are held through nominees, must get prior to the annual general meeting. the nominee to register the shares in their own name, The original power of attorney must be presented. The so that the shareholder concerned is registered in power of attorney form is available from the company the share register on Thursday, April 12, 2018. Such and on the company’s website www.axis.com. registration may be temporary. The final day for trading in the company’s shares The notice is available on www.axis.com and is sent including right to dividend is Wednesday, April 18, free of charge to shareholders on request to their 2018. specified postal address. Financial information Annual General Meeting: Wednesday April 18 april 2018 Interim report, January-March: Thursday April 19 2018 Reports may also be ordered from: Axis AB Interim report, January-June: Thursday July 12 Emdalavägen 14 Interim report, January-September: Thursday October 18 SE-223 69 Lund, Sweden Phone: +46 46 272 18 00 Fax: +46 46 13 61 30 E-mail: pressoffice@axis.com Financial information is available in Swedish and English on Axis’ website: Advisor & Copywriter, Sustainability report: Lof Group Sustainability and Communications www.axis.com Copywriter, Annual report: Aspekta Graphic design: Axis Communications / Brytmark & Partners Translation: Word of Mouth Communications Photo & Illustration: Axis Communications / Navigator Communications / Lars Owesson / Contact for the annual and sustainability report: Martin Olson / Pär Larshand / Mikael Lindström / Getty Images / iStockphoto / Johnér Bildbyrå Björn Hallerborn, PR & Corporate Communications Manager Printing: Exakta Print Phone: +46 46 -272 18 00 E-mail: pressoffice@axis.com Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB, corporate identity number 556241-1065 71679/EN/R1/1803 Axis Communications in perspective Axis enables a smarter and safer world by creating network solutions that provide insights for improving security and optimizing business performance. As the industry leader in network video, Axis offers products and services for video surveillance, access control and audio systems, as well as video analytics. Axis has more than 2,800 dedicated employees in over 50 countries and collaborates with partners worldwide to deliver customer solutions. Founded in 1984, Axis is a Sweden-based company listed on the NASDAQ Stockholm under the ticker AXIS. For more information about Axis, please visit our website www.axis.com. Corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB Emdalavägen 14 SE-223 69 Lund www.axis.com ©2018 Axis Communications AB. AXIS COMMUNICATIONS, AXIS, ETRAX, ARTPEC and VAPIX are registered trademarks or trademark applications of Axis AB in various jurisdictions. All other company names and products are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies. We reserve the right to introduce modifications without notice.
