SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Index For data regarding collective bargaining agreement, performance About the Sustainability Report .. ......................................................................... 12 reviews and employee satisfaction, data are collected through an A word from our CEO .................................................................................................. 13 internal survey were companies with less than 25 FTEs and Schibsted Defining sustainability for Schibsted ................................................................ 13 Product & Tech UK are excluded. How we act ........................................................................................................................ 16 Transparency, safety and integrity .................................................................... 17 Environmental data: Operational control is chosen as consolidation Our employees ................................................................................................................ 19 approach. All greenhouse gases are included in the emission Our environmental performance . . ....................................................................... 22 calculations and all scopes are included in intensity data. We have Prevention of corruption .. ......................................................................................... 25 implemented a new methodology of calculating data enabling Our societal impact through services and initiatives ........................... 25 traceability and comparability for future reporting. Companies with Sustainable supply chain ......................................................................................... 28 less than 25 FTEs and Schibsted Product & Tech UK are excluded GRI Index ............................................................................................................................. 28 from scope due to limitations in data collection process. Data used in the report derives from third party sources (suppliers), available internal reporting data or is calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Estimations based on previous consumption and About the Sustainability Report accounting standards are made for approximately 5 percent of the This is Schibsted’s first sustainability report in accordance with Global reported data. Reporting Initiatives (GRI) Standards for sustainability reporting, level Core. It also constitutes Schibsted’s Communication on Progress Omissions (COP) submission to the UN Global Compact. Our ambition with Employees this report is to be transparent and share our approach, perfor• GRI Standards 102-8 Data for employees not possible to split mance, progress and plan for the field of sustainability during on part-time workers, full-time workers and temporary workers the year 2017 and forward. The sustainability report refers to the due to limitations in reporting system. period from 1 January to 31 December 2017. Schibsted publishes • GRI Standards 403-2 Data do not include information on a Sustainability report on an annual basis; the previous report (not occupational disease rate, lost day rate since existing human according to GRI Standards) was published on 19 April 2017. resource system do not cover such reporting. Current system is also unable to provide data divided per region, gender and Data & Information external workers. The sustainability information is provided mainly in our Sustainability • GRI Standards 404-3 Data is not reported separated by report, but also in other chapters of the Annual Report. Please employee category and by gender due to limitations in internal see chapter GRI Index for further guidance. The structure of the reporting system. Sustainability report and its content is defined according to our Environment material aspects. • GRI Standards 302-1 Share of renewable energy is not disclosed due to limitations in information from energy providers. Scope & boundaries Anti-corruption Information presented in this report represent all operations in the • GRI Standards 205-2 Data not disclosed for 2017 due to Schibsted Media Group. The report includes data for our companies limitations in internal reporting system. that we have full ownership or operational control of; exceptions are Sustainable supply chain: stated for each chapter. Companies that have been sold during 2017 • GRI Standards 301-8 Data not disclosed for 2017 due to are not included in the report. Those that have been merged or acquired limitations in internal reporting system. are included for the period the company was owned by Schibsted. • GRI Standards 414-1 Data not disclosed for 2017 due to limitations in internal reporting system. Since we have adopted a new process and scope for our reporting on sustainability we are lacking supporting systems and standards Contact point for reporting in some areas. For coming years we aim to implement If you have any questions about the Sustainability report, you supporting functions and processes to support further possibilities are welcome to contact our Group Compliance Officer Britt Nilsen to monitor data and our performance. (britt.nilsen@schibsted.com). Scope and exceptions from above mentioned criteria, boundaries and omissions are stated below: Employee data: All data is stated in Full-Time Equivalents (FTE) and data is compiled 31 December 2017 using internal reporting systems. A restatement is made regarding FTEs for 2016 (7,560 FTE). 12 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse”. As an effort to achieve goal 5 and its targets ”End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls everywhere” and ”Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic and public life” we have set long-term and short-term goals for both group functions and the divisions in order to improve gender equality. Rolv Erik Ryssdal CEO Schibsted Media Group In addition to our efforts on gender equality and sustainable consumption, I am proud of the launch of the annual forum The A word from our CEO Power of Journalism, as well as our great efforts in the area of Having a greater purpose to our daily job is critical for a company transparency, safety and integrity for our users. to thrive and develop. To me, Schibsted is more than its content. It goes beyond our services and operations. Our journalism and In 2018 we will focus on initiatives that implement our sustainmarketplaces are important cornerstones for building a sustainable ability strategy in our new organization model, our focus will be: and democratic society. • Implement and define the sustainability strategy, common Due to our size and market presence in 22 countries, our services values and processes for our new organization. and operations have an important societal impact. As a provider of • Mandatory e-learning for all our employees regarding our journalism, marketplaces and as an employer we need to act in a Code of Conduct. responsible and sustainable manner. Our sustainability strategy is to • Map high risk areas and suppliers with regards to sustainability ensure that we consider and manage the environmental and societal throughout our global supply chain. impacts in all our business decisions and through our services em• Establish a new digital platform for HR support and insights. power people to make economic and sustainable choices. • Monitor our long-term and short-term goals to improve gender equality. Our ambition is high and we are determined to be a responsible • Improve our reporting process according to GRI Standards. and sustainable multinational company. As a participant member of the UN Global Compact we are highly committed to the ten principles With these words, I want to be clear about the direction we are heading of the UN Global Compact and support the UN Global Goals, parwhen it comes to conducting sustainable business. Sustainable ticularly goal 5: Gender Equality and goal 12: Ensure sustainable business is not an option, it is a must and a great opportunity. Due consumption and production patterns . to rapid growth recent years and a new organization model we still have work to do in several areas to become a leading company With this report and our sustainability strategy, we support goal 12 when it comes to sustainability performance and reporting. and its target “Encourage companies, especially large and transnational companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate I am confident that Schibsted has the prerequisites and opportunity to sustainability information into their reporting cycle”. By increasing make a difference thanks to our embedded values and our business the awareness of environmental benefits of second hand trade and models supporting sustainable and democratic societies. continuing our project Second Hand Effect we also show our support for the target “By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation Defining sustainability for Schibsted Sustainability strategy Stakeholders Schibsted’s sustainability strategy was adopted after a thorough Schibsted engages with all significant stakeholder groups that are process to ensure alignment with the business strategy. directly or indirectly affected by our business. The output from these dialogs went through internal feedback loops to fully underUsers, corporate customers, our people, investors, owners and stand the key aspects and how these impact our operations today, suppliers participated in multiple stakeholder dialog focusing on and how they will impact them tomorrow. As listed below, our their expectations and demands for our sustainability efforts. The stakeholders were given the opportunity to add aspects to our list topics derive from the four pillar areas of the UN Global Compact: which they consider important for Schibsted or which impact their respect for human rights, labor rights, environmental protection decisions and opinions. and prevention of corruption. 13 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Who did we engage with? How did we engage with them? What is most important to them? Customers (users of print and digital products and Focus groups User safety and fraud protection services, corporate customers) Brand-specific customer satisfaction feedback Skills development and knowledge sharing Social media Reduce environmental impact from energy use Blogs Web survey in selected countries Corporate customers (advertisers and Responding to formal and informal Compliance with UN Global Compact business partners) sustainability enquiries Our people Workshop with Schibsted executive team Empower people to make economic and Sustainability survey for employees sustainable choices Employee satisfaction surveys User safety and fraud protection Increasing diversity and equality Skills development and knowledge sharing Reducing carbon emissions Work–life balance Be an attractive employer Promote freedom of expression Owners and investors Interviews Sustainability in the business model Enquiries from analysts Promote freedom of expression and democracy Meeting with investors Transparency Roadshows Integrity Conferences and reporting Employee satisfaction Impact on users and society Privacy Media ethics Employees (talents, diversity, skills) Governance Reporting Industry peers Quarterly industry peer forum with Content impact Responsible Media Forum Diversity Privacy Sustainable development goals Regulators (media and publishing industries in Dialog through industry organizations (News Media ownership the EU, Norway, Sweden; data protection Media Europe, European Publishers Council, Privacy and data protection authorities; competition authorities; financial MBL (Norway), TU (Sweden) Tax regulatory authorities in Sweden and Norway) Dialog with internal subject-matter experts Competition law Dialog with national legislative bodies and Countryand companyspecific financial regulators (managed by each company) service legislation Anti-corruption Anti-money laundering Suppliers Dialog with selected key global suppliers Governance Anti-corruption Human rights Labor rights Environmental impact Privacy Cyber security 14 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Material aspects Our impact perspective was formed by an analysis performed by the Board in the US. Based on the output from our stakeholder dialogs Responsible Media Forum, of which Schibsted is an active member. and analysis of our impact we have defined a materiality analysis Schibsted has also incorporated the recommendations on sustainamatrix that forms the basis for our sustainability strategy and bility reporting developed by the Sustainability Accounting Standards reporting, as pictured in the pyramid below.* HOW WE ACT OUR PEOPLE ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIETAL IMPACT IMPACT BRAND User safety and fraud protection Be an attractive employer Empower people to make economic & Empower people to make economic & BUILDING sustainable choices sustainable choices Protection of Skills development and Reduce environmental Transparent user data knowledge sharing impact from energy use governance & FOCUS AREAS Promote freedom of expression Work life balance Reduce carbon emissions communication Increase diversity & equality Sustainable supply Health, safety Safe handling and Charity chain and integrity of minimize waste engagement BASE AREAS Active work against employees Efficient use of corruption materials and chemicals Reduce water usage * During 2017 the pyramid was adjusted to fit our business strategy and organization. The aspects Job creation, High-quality products and services, Promote intrapreneurship and innovation and Unconditional source protection were taken out since they are included in other strategies and are not considered as specific sustainability aspects. Three aspects were renamed to broaden or specify their scope: Safe handling of electronic waste was renamed Safe handling and minimize waste; Active work against bribery was renamed Active work against corruption; Improve transparency towards our users was renamed Transparent governance and communication. The aspect More efficient energy use was merged with the aspect Increase renewable energy use and renamed Reduce environmental impact from energy use. The pyramid above shows the updated version. Sustainability risks Lower trust for institutions Schibsted’s primary sustainability risks throughout our value-chain The increased penetration of social media as a news platform, fake are listed below. Constantly mitigating these risks and be aware of news-debate, press ethics failures and campaigns undermining the risk in our daily business is a key to a holistic successful business. mass media may result in lower trust for mass media channels. The risks are annually reviewed by the responsible management The lower trust may result in lower will to pay for content and use teams and constitute core elements in the requirements placed on of products produced by mass media. all responsible personnel. All senior managers have a responsibility to understand how sustainability risks intertwine with Schibsted’s Failure of mitigation and adaptation to financial, legal and reputational risks to ensure that we are new consumption patterns compliant and proactive at all times. Higher awareness among consumers regarding sustainability issues are changing current consumption patterns. Increased Cyber threat demand for buying sustainable products and renting, reusing and External cyber attacks and threats against our internal IT security may repairing instead of throwing away products will change traditional cause incidents of lost personal data, fraud, loss of sensitive business linear consumption patterns. For Schibsted there is a challenge in data and inaccessible or unreliable services. Occurrence of this type of mitigating and adopting new patterns to the business model to stay threats may cause reputational losses, litigation and serious leakage competitive. of sensitive personal data threatening the privacy of our users. 15 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT How we act We are here to win Mission and vision We must always strive to be better than our competitors at underSchibsted’s mission “Empowering people in their daily life” guides standing our customers and markets – that is the key to our continued us in everything we do, from product development to new business success. We want to win the hearts of our users. ventures, recruitment policy and running our everyday business. We also rely on our core values as they are articulated in four stateOwnership ments that guide us on a daily basis: The Tinius Trust is the major shareholder in the Schibsted Media Group. The trust was established in 1996 by Tinius Nagell-Erichsen, the We have integrity last active member of the founding Schibsted family. Through the Our company is based on a long tradition of independent news, trust, Tinius Nagell-Erichsen wanted to ensure that Schibsted information and transparent marketplaces. Trustworthiness and remained a media group characterized by independent journalism, quality are absolutely essential; people must be able to trust all credible and high-quality services, combined with long-term, solid our products and services. financial development. The Trust has close dialog with Schibsted Media Group when it comes to corporate social responsibility We are innovative through its position as Board Chair. We embrace innovation, it’s in our core. We go the extra mile to always put users’ needs first. Innovation can be anything from a Code of Conduct brilliant new concept to a minor – but no less important – improvement All people at Schibsted have a responsibility to uphold Schibsted in how we do things. Media Group’s reputation and principles. Through the way we interact with each other, meet our users and relate with our business We are a team partners, we build and strengthen Schibsted’s reputation as a group We believe in a friendly and open attitude. We also believe in the with high integrity. Our Code of Conduct outlines our principles strength of people and competencies coming together to achieve and standards for conducting business and serves as our key something great. The companies in our Group can achieve far better sustainability policy. The Code of Conduct applies to all entities in results together than alone. which we own more than 50 percent voting rights. 16 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Where Schibsted Media Group does not exercise such control, the Media houses board members appointed by Schibsted shall promote the main One of our main responsibilities as a media house is to ensure editorial principles outlined in the Code of Conduct. freedom and the right to freedom of speech. The free media plays a critical role in underpinning strong, viable democracies. The Code of Conduct is implemented through our on-boarding process for new employees, and training is performed when deemed necessary Schibsted’s Articles of Association state that the shareholders for targeted functions. The Code of Conduct is available to all shall enable Schibsted to operate its information business in such our people on the intranet and has a linked Speak-up function that a way that editorial freedom and integrity are fully ensured. In enables anonymous reporting on misconduct, breaches or potential 2011, Schibsted’s Editors’ Forum adopted a framework for editorial violations. In December 2017 an email was sent to all employees governance in the Group’s publishing businesses. This framework reminding them that the Code of Conduct is our key sustainability safeguards the principle of editorial freedom and defines it explicitly policy. During 2018 all employees will undergo an E-learning of for the benefit of Schibsted’s publishing companies in countries the Code of Conduct. where this principle is not enshrined in local law. Our guiding principles for sustainability are stated in our group In Norway and Sweden editors are accountable for any infringepolicies, these policies are further implemented in policies at ments of the law and self-disciplinary bodies have been established company level. Our group policies are; Corporate governance prinin both countries to uphold their respective codes of ethics. These ciples; Policy for risk management; Privacy policies & guidelines; self-regulatory systems are founded on the principle of freedom of Requirements for finance, accounting and control; Tax policy; Legal speech and independence from the state. Policy, Environmental Policy and the Discrimination, bullying and harassment policy. Growth As Schibsted has expanded into the personal finance sector, we Sustainability governance model: Group have also entered a business that is regulated by local financial The Board oversees and governs Schibsted’s sustainability perforservices authorities in Norway and Sweden. We have appointed mance. For information regarding the governance structure for the dedicated local compliance officers to ensure compliance with Board and its committees, see Corporate Governance in the Annual applicable regulatory requirements specific to the financial services Report. industry in the respective countries. Related expert functions at group level, such as legal, privacy and compliance, maintain close Britt Nilsen, Group Compliance Officer, has overall responsibility dialog with the local compliance officers. for guiding and communicating Schibsted’s strategy on sustainability internally and externally. She reports to the Schibsted Executive Marketplaces Team and the Board when needed, as minimum on a yearly basis. For our Marketplaces, there are no specific industry regulations except for national legislation. For 2018 the implementation of new In the light of integration of sustainability in our core business, the EU GDPR regulations is high on the agenda, see separate chapter Compensation Committee decided in 2017 to link executive peron Transparency, safety and integrity. formance to sustainability criteria. Privacy has been added as a non-financial criteria for determining performance-related pay for the Schibsted Executive Team. For 2018, performance on gender Transparency, safety and integrity equality will be added as a critera for evaluating performanceIn a digital age, transparency, safety and integrity are prerequisites related pay. for ensuring trust and a sustainable business model. This applies not only to our journalistic process and our online services, but also to Sustainability governance model: Operations other domains such as privacy, user safety and data protection. In the new divisions for Media and Marketplaces, CEOs Sondre Gravir in Marketplaces and Raoul Grünthal in Media have responsibility Privacy and integrity for implementing and communicating decisions and information on Schibsted’s strategic focus on technology and advanced data analytics sustainability. aims to create insights that benefit our users. This also implies a stronger focus on privacy and data protection. Based on our value The general managers in each company have responsibility for of integrity, we aim to be fully transparent and in compliance with supporting and monitoring each entity with rollout and implemenapplicable privacy regulations. Our work on privacy and integrity is tation of the code of conduct and other sustainability-related policies led by our Group Privacy Officer. and for retrieving necessary data and information required by law. Several entities have appointed a dedicated sustainability manager To enable full integration of our commitment to transparency and due to the maturity of the area. compliance, our Group Privacy Officer maintains close and proactive dialog with the Norwegian Data Protection Authority and other 17 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT relevant regulators. Employees receive privacy training to ensure marketing in one of our marketplaces. These matters were reported necessary awareness and competence in this area. and resolved. In 2017 we established a central, dedicated privacy engineering In Norway and Sweden our newspaper might get complaints reported team with responsibility for implementing privacy by design in to the Norwegian Press Complaints Commission and the Swedish our tech stack. Further, we have a privacy product team in place Press Council. In 2017 2 (7) of these complaints were upheld for focused on building end-user-facing features in order to give end Norwegian newspapers, and 1 (1) in Sweden. In total Schibsted users transparency and good control over use of their data. received 4 (4) reprimands, 4 (4) in Norway and 0 (0) in Sweden. Schibsted has an extensive privacy program in place User safety with the following key objectives: Our Global Fraud Protection program helps us exceed and develop a • Ensure compliance with our legal requirements and prepare for comprehensive fraud detection and review solution. The program aims the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) entering into to provide our users with a safe environment and high-quality, spamforce across EU/EEA in May 2018. free content and leads they can trust, and to help our companies • Guide Schibsted’s data-driven innovations. protect their business and reputation through high-quality, cost• Embed privacy into our corporate culture, tech stack and effective moderation tools that meet compliance and local regulation products. requirements. • Maintain and increase end-user and public trust. To protect our brand reputations and meet the data security expecWe have initiated reporting routines for complaints regarding tations Schibsted maintains an information security management breaches of customer privacy and loss of customer data. In 2017 across our group, supported within each division. Our work is cowe had three cases (2016: 1) of unauthorized access to personal ordinated through the Group CIO and our approach to data security data, two for Marketplaces and one for Media/Growth. Schibsted is to proactively integrate security across all layers of our business received one substantiated complaint of failure to remove recipients operations to proactively protect against cyber risks, threats and from a marketing e-mail list of users who had opted out of vulnerabilities. Our security management system is built upon 18 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT industry proven security best practices, integrating security controls Reference is also made to the Modern Slavery Act Transparency and principles from ISO 27001, ISO 22301 and OWASP security Statement, which is resolved by the Board. All our operations follow standards. national marketing legislation. Schibsted has defined security policies and guidelines that are All the online marketplaces operate under a set of rules to prevent implemented across our companies. This comprehensive security fraud and advertising of illegal or unethical goods. Our policy for system approach includes critical security controls within the our sites is to inform users of the terms and conditions of use and following security management domains: provide good and efficient information as well as control options for end users with respect to privacy and use of their data. Principles • Access Security Controls and guidance on consumer safety are also included on our market• Application Security Management place and service sites. • Product and Application Security Design • Network Security Management We practice a zero-tolerance policy with respect to fraud, and work • Vulnerability Lifecycle Management strategically on user security. We monitor and prevent planned, • 3rd Party Security Management unforeseen and actual cyber attacks to ensure that our products • Security Monitoring and Security Incident Management and services are always available to our users and that our users • Security Awareness and Security Training are safe while using our marketplaces and services. • Security Compliance User safety: Media Our employees Fraud detection and review of user content are important business Schibsted relies on highly skilled people to succeed. Acting responissues across many product areas, including our advertising, identity sible and offering an attractive working environment is crucial for and payment functions. Our media houses have implemented several attracting and retaining the right people. We therefore strive to measures to prevent harassment, threats, and hate speech. maintain the highest standards in what we and our stakeholders Our moderators monitor debates and remove comments that are believe should be prioritized in this area: health, safety and intedeemed inappropriate or illegal, and the comment fields for certain grity; diversity and equality; skills development and knowledge articles may be closed temporarily at the discretion of the publisher sharing and work–life balance. in order to prevent hateful comments and harassment. Our people All our operations follow national legislation for marketing. In Norway At year-end, Schibsted had 8,070 (2016: 7,460) employees (Full-Time the Marketing Act forbids marketing directed at children, and in Equivalents) in 22 countries. Most of our employees are full-time Sweden the Consumer Agency has compiled rules and practices white-collar workers. The exceptions are employees with shortgoverning marketing to children and minors. The responsibility for term contracts in our media operations, our newspaper distributors upholding laws related to responsible marketing lies firmly with in Norway and employees at our printing plants in Norway. our publishers and editors. Our Media houses in Norway also follow the Press Code of Ethics, which also contains rules on marketing. User safety: Marketplaces For our marketplace operations, responsible business implies creating marketplaces that are reliable, efficient, and safe for our users. Our classifieds sites work proactively to prevent various forms of undesirable activity such as advertising of illegal or unethical products, illegal marketing, and fraud. Total number of employees* Per region, age and gender AGE GENDER 2017 (Base year) < 30 year 30-50 year > 50 year Total Male Female Total Norway 479 16 % 1,749 59 % 716 24 % 2,944 1,960 67 % 983 33 % 2,944 Sweden 470 27 % 1,087 62 % 204 12 % 1,762 1,110 63 % 652 37 % 1,762 Other European countries 679 25 % 1,982 72 % 94 3% 2,754 1,692 61 % 1,061 39 % 2,754 Countries outside Europe 303 50 % 293 48 % 15 2% 611 337 55 % 274 45 % 611 Total 1,931 24 % 5,111 63 % 1,030 13 % 8,070 5,100 63 % 2,970 37 % 8,070 *For Schibsted group as a total, no sigificant part of our work are performed by seasonal workers or workers who is not employees (external consultants or freelance). 19 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT New employees* Per region, age and gender AGE GENDER 2017 (Base year) < 30 year 30-50 year > 50 year Total Male Female Total Norway 168 39 % 205 47 % 60 14 % 432 234 54 % 198 46 % 432 Sweden 220 52 % 176 42 % 25 6% 421 245 58 % 176 42 % 421 Other European countries 284 42 % 384 57 % 12 2% 680 409 60 % 271 40 % 680 Countries outside Europe 46 61 % 30 39 % 0 0% 76 44 58 % 32 42 % 76 Total 717 45 % 795 49 % 97 6% 1,609 932 58 % 677 42 % 1,609 * Data include transfers between companies within Schibsted Media Group Employee turnover* Per region, age and gender AGE GENDER 2017 (Base year) < 30 year 30-50 year > 50 year Total Male Female Total Norway 71 23 % 182 59 % 56 18 % 309 197 64 % 112 36 % 309 Sweden 159 49 % 150 46 % 16 5% 325 202 62 % 123 38 % 325 Other European countries 121 31 % 254 65 % 14 4% 389 244 63 % 146 37 % 389 Countries outside Europe 35 70 % 14 28 % 1 2% 50 30 60 % 20 40 % 50 Total 386 36 % 600 56 % 87 8% 1,074 673 63 % 401 37 % 1,074 * Data include transfers between companies within Schibsted Media Group People strategy At each workplace collective bargaining agreements or working In september 2017 Schibsted presented a new organizational setup environment committees are in place to ensure excellent working with the two operational divisions Marketplaces and Media. The conditions and to minimize discrimination among employees. 71 ambition is to enable Schibsted to further increase the speed of percent of all employees were covered by a collective bargaining development and increasingly leverage our local competence and agreement at the end of 2017. strong brands across our markets. At the same time, it will be possible to continue to capture the benefits of our global scale. Employees have been represented in the Board since 2009, currently by three representatives. Their function is laid down in the central In order to achieve our ambition we have moved parts of the Norwegian collective bargaining agreements. The employee responsibility from the global people function to the divisions. This representatives uphold the interests of all employees, both unionincludes leadership development, learning and development and ized and non-unionized, in cases that are dealt with at Group level. compensation and benefit. Two of three group employee representatives must be elected in Norway, the other in the country outside Norway where Schibsted The global people function will continue to be the partner for Group has its most extensive operations. This is currently Sweden. CEO in matters concerning employees, leadership and organization. We will have global leadership programs, succession management Diversity and equality and trainee programs on Group level. Compensation and Benefit By increasing diversity and equality among our employees, we will for top management and general policies will still be handled from ensure our innovation skills and fulfill our duty to offer all people the global people function. the same rights and opportunities at Schibsted. Schibsted's new organization focuses on the people function both Our Board is composed of 40 percent women, as required by the globally and in the divisions in order to enable the employees to Norwegian Limited Liabilities Companies Act. For senior leadertap into their potential. The goal is to build a world-class employee ship levels there has been a consistent gender inequality for the experience that is physical, emotional, intellectual, virtual and past five to six years. Despite a stable ratio of female leaders, we aspirational. As such, HR seeks to be a competitive advantage for have not been sufficiently successful at moving female employees Schibsted. further up the ranks. Gender equality is particularly challenged in operational leadership positions and in product and technology. Collective bargaining agreement and employee representation There are gender equality variations between functions: the editorial As stipulated in our Code of Conduct, Schibsted employees have roles in Media houses are well balanced with 50 percent female full freedom of association, and may organize themselves as they editors, but top management roles in the Media division and most senior choose. Schibsted’s European Works Council which currently commercial roles are held by men. Likewise in the Marketplaces consists of 35 representatives (20 men and 15 women) from 10 division, men hold the most senior operational leadership roles countries meets twice a year, serves as our forum for information, (Top management). dialog and consultation between employees and the Schibsted Executive Team. 20 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Composition of governance bodies and operations Per employee category, age and gender (Base year 2017) AGE GENDER < 30 year 30-50 year > 50 year Total Male Female Total Board of directors 0% 5 50 % 5 50 % 10 Board of directors 6 60 % 4 40 % 10 Operations Operations Male employees 1,166 23 % 3,223 63 % 710 14 % 5,100 Top management (part of 237 66 % 122 34 % 359 the management team) Media 421 19 % 1,275 56 % 580 25 % 2,276 Media 110 65 % 61 35 % 171 Marketplaces 567 27 % 1,397 68 % 102 5% 2,065 Marketplaces 104 68 % 48 32 % 152 HQ/Other* 178 23 % 552 73 % 28 4% 758 HQ/Other* 23 64 % 13 36 % 36 Other leaders 634 61 % 400 39 % 1,034 (managers and persons with key responsibilities) Female employees 764 26 % 1,887 64 % 319 11 % 2,970 Media 262 59 % 181 41 % 443 Media 303 23 % 763 58 % 245 19 % 1,311 Marketplaces 261 59 % 179 41 % 440 Marketplaces 419 29 % 978 67 % 63 4% 1,461 HQ/Other* 111 74 % 40 26 % 151 HQ/Other* 43 22 % 146 73 % 11 6% 200 Other employees 4,229 63 % 2,448 37 % 6,677 Media 1,904 64 % 1,069 36 % 2,973 Total 1,931 24 % 5,111 63 % 1,030 13 % 8,070 Marketplaces 1,700 58 % 1,233 42 % 2,933 Media 724 20 % 2,038 57 % 825 23 % 3,587 HQ/Other* 624 81 % 147 19 % 771 Marketplaces 986 28 % 2,375 67 % 165 5% 3,525 Total 5,100 63 % 2,970 37 % 8,070 HQ/Other* 221 23 % 698 73 % 39 4% 958 *HQ/Other includes Schibsted Product & Tech Numerous initiatives and metrics to measure and improve the gender as clearly stated in our Code of Conduct and in our Discrimination, equality have not yielded the desired results. Open and transparent bullying and harassment policy. This includes all forms of verbal, processes have been sacrificed for speed, which opens up for informal digital or physical harassment. To ensure a trustful environment structures and unconscious bias in appointments of senior roles. where both women and men feel safe at work, Schibsted has launched a number of countermeasures such as unconscious bias In 2017 we performed a mapping of the payment gap between the training, code of conduct training and setting clear goals on improving genders in parts of the group. In most places we have looked, there gender equality for both the divisions and the group functions. is a gender pay gap when comparing average pay levels, but this is largely attributed to more women working in low-pay positions (e.g. Health and safety support) and more men in leadership and high-pay positions. We Too ensure an attractive workplace and retain our employees we have not found evidence of significant pay gaps in places where constantly improve the workplace to be able to offer an environment more accurate data is available. This is an extensive project and it that encourages a balance between work and life, minimize stress will continue in 2018 before we are able to conclude and implement and ensure a safe and healthy workplace. necessary actions to cope with potential deviations. The Group's sickness absence rate was 2.5 percent of total working Schibsted has set clear goals against which actual progress will be hours. An important factor for keeping low absence rate is our measured. There are long-term and short-term goals on improving initiatives on work-life balance. There are several work-life balance gender equality for both divisions and group functions. Schibsted and flexible working arrangements in place. During coming years targets a 60:40 gender ratio in all leadership roles by 2020. We will we will continue to develop these working arrangements in all our have unconscious bias training, external and internal recruitment countries of operations. policies and succession planning benefitting gender equality. In addition female networks and programs will be reinforced. The CEO Of all the Group's companies, operations at the printing plants and is responsible for driving the changes that will ensure an improved newspaper distribution involve the highest risk of injury. In 2017 gender equaltiy at Schibsted. there were 3 (3) injuries that resulted in sickness absence and 10 (2016: 5; 2015: 10) minor personal injuries such as bruise injuries In the aftermath of the #metoo campaign Schibsted Sweden has and cuts at our printing plants. Schibsted distributes newspapers managed and scrutinized the operations in which misconduct has in Norway on behalf of both our own newspapers and other been reported. Several employees have given voice to severe publications. In our distribution units there were during 2017 59 breaches of acceptable behavior. These cases have been carefully (42; 39) injuries to employees, of which 51 (36; 35) resulted in sickness addressed. Schibsted has zero tolerance for harassment of any kind, absence. During 2017, there were no work related fatalities. 21 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Schibsted’s Group Security function is responsible for security and Schibsted is a participant member of the UN Global Compact and contingency planning in the Group’s divisions and subsidiaries. As a supporter of the UN Global Goals (focus on goal 12). Our approach consequence of increased terrorist threats, the main goal for Group to our environmental impact is stated in our Group Environmental Security has been to gain a better understanding of the threats we Policy. The policy is based on the principles of the UN Global Compact are facing. Another priority has been to implement specific security and states how we support the precautionary approach, promote measures for individuals, media houses and events hosted by greater environmental responsibility and encourage use of environSchibsted. In 2017 there has also been a focus on security on business mentally friendly technologies. Our strategy is to primarily implement travel, which will continue in 2018. the policy in our operations with largest environmental impact, and thereafter extend it to other parts of the operations. Britt Nilsen, Skills development and performance review Group Compliance Officer is responsible for our compliance with the Innovation and business success for tech and media companies are policy and the implementation of good environmental practices for dependent on highly skilled people. To ensure long-term sustainable all of our operations. growth and to offer an attractive workplace, we need to ensure that we offer opportunities for skills development and to continually share Our environmental impact has changed, and will continue to change our knowledge internally. along with the digital transformation. The decrease in demand for printed newspapers has lowered our use of paper as well as energy To develop Schibsted in line with our ambitions, our global people use for printing plants and physical distribution. At the same time, the function and local HR business partner offer several face-to-face demand for digital services has increased, causing higher electricity training programs: consumption in order to run and consume our services. Participants 2017 Skills development programs at group level: Environmental impact of our office operations • S-PACE (management and leadership) 208 (2016: 68) In our office operations we focus on monitoring and minimizing our • Schibsted Sales Academy – 78 (81) business travel, energy use and waste. During 2017 our business • Management Trainee Program – 27 (29) travel represented 12 percent of our total greenhouse gas emissions. • Schibsted Brand Academy – 18 (22) Since our operations are located in 22 countries, one of our challenges • Project Management Program – 61 (49) is to decrease business travel. We continuously work on minimizing • Travel Grant Program (sharing skills between brands) – 44 (30) the need for transportation between offices, mainly by improving our video conference facilities and monitoring our business travel. To ensure personalized development programs and well-being among our employees, we strive to conduct individual performance Our office operations and data centers consume energy and generate reviews at least twice a year, and more frequently in some functions waste 24/7. Our offices’ energy use and the energy use of external and countries. Our policy states that all employees should complete data centers accounted for 7 percent of our total greenhouse gas development dialog with their leaders at least once a year. During emissions in 2017. The amount of waste from our offices is limited, 2017, 74 percent of our employees performed performance reviews compared to our printing plants, and therefore is not a prioritized with their manager/managers. The outcome for 2017 did not meet aspect. Going forward we primarily plan to implement a process for our policy, the main reason for the deviation was cancelled reviews safe handling and recycling of electronic waste. due to our reorganization and lack of internal supporting systems for follow-up of reviews. To evaluate our role as employer, we freIn coming years, we will let the digital transformation guide our quently conduct employee surveys, during 2017 the overall trend priorities and focus. Ensure environmentally friendly energy, promote for employee satisfaction at our companies were unchanged, some efficient energy use and reduce our emissions from our travel is our companies had a negative trend compared to previous year, and priorities. As a first step, we have extended our scope for monitoring some with a positive trend. A reason for the negative trend for some electricity. For this report we included energy use for external data companies might be the uncertainty related to our reorganization. centers in our total energy data. In addition to above stated aspects, we are also aware of the increased Our environmental performance challenges related to water scarcity in several of our countries of From a life-cycle analysis perspective Schibsted has a great possi– operations. We have performed a high-level risk assessment of water bility and responsibility to minimize our negative environmental scarcity. Based on our assessment, current presence and type impact and maximize our positive impact. The fact that our services of operations, water scarcity is not considered to be a prioritized can empower readers and users to make more sustainable choices aspect for Schibsted Media Group. constitutes our great possibility to positively impact the environment. By informing our readers about environmental issues and enable Environmental impact from our printed newspapers second hand trade for our users we can contribute to consciousness Schibsted publish newspapers in Sweden and Norway. In terms of and environmentally friendly consumption patterns. environmental impact our use of paper, printing and the distribution 22 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT of these newspapers stand for 81 percent of our total amount of All paper used for our newspapers are certified according to FSC greenhouse gas emissions. As mentioned above, the digital transand PEFC and 81 percent of the paper used are certified according formation has led to less demand for printed newspapers. For our to EU Eco Label. None of the paper qualities used for our papers are Norwegian printing plants the transformation, and our focus on made out of recycled paper. lowering our environmental impact, has resulted in a decrease of 41 percent in energy use and a 63 percent decrease in the use of paper since 2012. Energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) for our operations* 2017 (Base year) Type of energy Consumption GHG emissions (tonnes CO2e) Direct (Scope 1) Consumption by own cars 179 of which diesel 52,846 litres of which petrol 17,969 litres Indirect (Scope 2) Consumption of electricity, heating, cooling of which electricity 37.6 gWh 1,602 of which district heating 4.6 gWh 202 of which district cooling 0.5 gWh 73 Indirect (Scope 3) Use of external cars, taxi, flights, external data centers and paper of which leased & privatly owned cars and taxi 1,589 of which diesel for leased and privatly owned cars 313,089 litres of which petrol for leased and privatly owned cars 336,540 litres of which ethanol for leased and privatly owned cars 80 litres of which flights 3,239 of which buses and train 649 of which energy for data centers** 781 of which paper used for printed newspapers 63,000 tonnes 29,696 TOTALT 38,010 2017 GHG intensity, Tonnes CO2e emissions/turnover NOK million 2.24 GHG intensity, Tonnes CO2e emissions/employees 4.71 Energy intensity, electricity consumption gWh/turnover NOK million 0.003 Energy intensity, electricity consumption gWh/employees 0.005 *Not possible to compare or calculate reduction of GHG emissions and energy use due to new base year **Due to non reliable data from data center suppliers, data on electricity consumption for external data centers is not included for the following companies: Segundamano (Mexico), Finderly (Austria) 23 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Materials Used Printed newspapers Norway Unit 2017 2016 2015 (base year) Paper* Thousand tonnes 44 53 59 Greenhouse Gas Emission 20,747 24,430 27,433 (tonnes CO2e) generated by production of paper of which Share certified FSC % 100 % 100 % Share certified PEFC % 100 % 100 % Share certified EU Eco label % 75 % 63 % Printing Ink** Thousand tonnes 1.1 1.3 1.5 of which Certified Nordic Eco Label Swan % 100 % 100 % Materials Used Printed Newspapers Sweden Unit 2017 (base year) 2016 2015 Paper* Thousand tonnes 19 Greenhouse Gas Emission 8,949 (tonnes CO2e) generated by production of paper of which Share certified FSC % 100 % Share certified PEFC % 100 % Share certified EU Eco label % 95 % Printing Ink Thousand tonnes of which Certified Nordic Eco Label Swan % 100 % *100% renewable material. ** not renewable material Printing plants Norway* Other Total Waste Year Recycled Recovered disposal weight Comment Paper (non-hazardous waste) 2017 6,314 129 6,443 Disposal method is selected and 2016 6,733 137 6,870 reported by waste contractor Aluminum (non-hazardous waste) 2017 234 18 252 Disposal method is selected and 2016 250 19 269 reported by waste contractor Waste water (hazardous waste) 2017 5 5 Disposal method is selected and 2016 10 10 reported by waste contractor Ink waste (hazardous waste) 2017 45 45 Disposal method is selected and 2016 30 30 reported by waste contractor Efficency for use of paper (share of material bought used in newspapers) 2017 2016 2015 91 % Waste (degree of sorting for waste contractor) 2017 2016 2015 Hazardous waste 100 % 100 % Non-hazardous waste 99 % 98 % Electricity Use 2017 2016 2015 Printing plants gWh 22.9 25.7 26.8 *Waste data is limited to waste from our own printing plants in Norway. This waste stands for the majority of our waste and hazardous waste. Base year is 2016, except for efficency for use of paper (2017) and electricity use (2015) Printed newspapers in Norway As of 31 December 2017, Schibsted owned two printing plants in In Norway, Schibsted runs a distribution network for printed newsNorway. Both are licensed under the Nordic Swan Ecolabelling papers. The network distribute the majority of our papers by road scheme. For our printing operations we focus on monitoring and transports, operated by subcontractors who transport newspapers minimizing our use of energy, paper, ink and waste. Processes from the printing plant to the distribution pick-up points using trucks involving polluting chemicals take place in closed systems, and the or vans. Newspaper delivery to households is performed using chemicals are recovered as far as possible. smaller vehicles. In terms of distribution, our focus is to minimize 24 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT mitigate the risk of corruption, and reviews applicable legislation in key markets. To ensure understanding and compliance, anticorruption is an integral part of our Code of Conduct training, and is tailored to address the risks faced by specific business areas and functions. If or when misconduct is identified or suspected, the general principle is that all cases of alleged or perpetrated fraud and corruption shall be brought to the attention of the Group Compliance Officer. Our societal impact through services and initiatives our energy consumption related to transportation. To minimize waste Over 200 million users around the world have access to our marketrelated to unsold newspapers in stores, newspaper companies in places for environmentally friendly second-hand trade, high quality Norway arrange a return and recycling program. journalism, job and real estate markets and consumer-friendly price comparisons. Such a large impact imposes considerable social Printed newspapers in Sweden responsibility. Our Swedish media houses procure all paper used for our newspapers, but have outsourced printing and distribution services Voluntary initiatives externally. We currently use the Swedish printing company V-TAB To demonstrate our commitment to increased transparency on for the majority of the printing. V-TAB operates a system of sustainability issues, Schibsted Media Group is a member of several environmental and quality control, and all their printing plants are global initiatives, such as the United Nations Global Compact and the ISO 14001:2004 and ISO 9001:2008 certified, as well as licensed Carbon Disclosure Project. We are also a member of organizations under the Nordic Swan Ecolabelling scheme. To minimize waste such as Transparency International and Responsible Media Forum. related to unsold newspapers in stores, newspaper companies in Sweden arrange a return and recycling program. Community engagement Our engagement and contribution to external organizations and initiatives give us the possibility to integrate with important stakePrevention of corruption holders groups, follow legislation, build networks and enable Long-term sustainable growth can never be built on unfair business non-profit projects that generate a positive societal impact. During practices. It is therefore our duty to ensure that our employees act 2017 Schibsted Media Group and its entities donated NOK 4.7 million responsibly in all kind of relationships. None of our people at operain cash donations and NOK 0.6 million through internally organized tional, strategic or governance level may accept or participate in campaigns, and worked 986 hours voluntary. any forms of corruption; furthermore each and every individual is responsible for preventing any kind of corruption in their daily work. Media: impact on society At its best, our journalism contributes to a functioning democracy Our Code of Conduct covers our principles related to bribery and faby diminishing the gap between what citizens know and what they cilitation payments, gifts, hospitality and conflicts of interests. The need to know about the world around them. The more efficient we Code of Conduct informs our employees, leaders, and board memare in exposing the squandering of resources and abuse of power, bers about the principles that are important to us. In addition, we in giving a voice to the silent, in highlighting the circumstances for have created a guideline giving practical examples. When entering the weakest, the better democracy can become. into agreements with new business partners, the legal and compliance function assesses the need to perform full or limited due At Schibsted we are very proud of our seven media houses that diligence procedures based on the nature and scope of the reach millions of readers, digitally and in print. With this impact acquisition. Group Treasury is always involved in transactions, and comes democratic responsibilities. The main responsibilities for our ensures compliance with our principles regarding payments to media houses are to ensure editorial freedom and the right to freedom low-tax countries and other payment-related concerns. of speech. Schibsted believes in the future of journalism and takes on the challenges that come with new habits and new technology. A strong set of steering documents and a well-functioning governance model to mitigate corruption does not mean that the risk is Our online services have dramatically strengthened consumers’ zero. Therefore, Schibsted continuously improves and evaluates the influence and power. Lendo, Compricer, Penger, Kundkraft and functionality of our policies, processes, controls and procedures to Prisjakt empower consumers to make informed decisions and 25 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT encourage companies to do their best. Whether you need to take patients were treated at this clinic. It turned out that 31 out of 38 out a loan or insure a car, the terms have changed thanks to digital patients had died. One in three Norwegians develop cancer during services where people are able to find the best available offer. their lifetime. More and more seek treatment abroad when the treatment they receive in Norway fails to work. They feel abanThe Power of Journalism doned by the Norwegian health service, and are willing to pay up to In 2017 we launched The Power of Journalism, a new annual open a million kroner from their own pocket. event and arena to share, discuss and learn about what we care about: the future of journalism. In 2017, 180 internal and 73 external On 5 August 2017, the Norway’s health minister Bent Høie ordered stakeholders participated at the event. Through The Power of Norwegian hospitals to implement a national system whereby Journalism we engage with partners and colleagues in the media severely ill patients can seek advice from an expert panel when industry and beyond. Schibsted strongly believes in the power of traditional treatment no longer has any effect. This means that journalism, and has a long history of building strong media houses, patients whose doctors have told them that they cannot be cured starting with Aftenposten in 1860. To achieve this it is crucial to can be considered for alternative treatment elsewhere in Norway develop new business models and embrace new technology. But the or abroad, paid for by public funds. It had been eight years since goal remains the same: a free and independent press that strengthens such an expert panel was first proposed. Each time, the Directorate of democracy and serves our users with trustworthy facts, news and Health said no. It took a series of articles in Aftenposten to provide the stories. most severely ill patients with such an offer. Ninni's story helped change the Norwegian health care system. Stories that made a difference Every year our journalists publish remarkable stories that contributes Exposed: The world’s largest online child sexual abuse forum. to social changes and debate. Below is a short summary of some It was run by the police. Verdens Gang (Norway) of the stories that made a difference during 2017. How far can the police go in fighting child abuse? For 11 months the Australian police unit Task Force Argos (TFA) ran the world’s The Allra investigation: A story of how one reporter improved the largest child sexual abuse website on the darknet, in collaboration Swedish pension system Svenska Dagbladet (SvD) (Sweden) with the US Department of Homeland Security as well as Canadian A year ago the Swedish pension company Allra was one of the largest and European police. pension funds in the country, handling SEK 19 billion for 130,000 customers. Allra was a true success story with the young Alexander Using unique methods of research, VG uncovered the active police Ernstberger as CEO and several well-known financial and political operation four months in. Combining our own analysis of the data figures on the board. on the website with information from TFA, US court documents and open sources, we were able to follow the operation as it unfolded But thanks to solid investigative reporting, SvD could tell a different and therefore scrutinize it independently. We discovered that the story about a company that lied about its returns and the costs of police shared child abuse images and posted comments that could the pension funds it managed, and about its involvement in financial be regarded as encouraging child abuse. During the time the police crime. SvD´s articles led to the arrest of the founder Alexander ran the site, it became the largest child abuse forum on the darknet. Ernstberger and marked the beginning of one of the most extensive financial crime investigations in Sweden of the past century. The story reveals how the police worked and how the founders of The Swedish government withdrew its appointment of the former the website were arrested in a spectacular operation in the US. minister of justice and Allra board member Thomas Bodström as UNICEF and Amnesty criticized TFA for violating children’s human the new Governor of Stockholm County. Allra was thrown out of rights by sharing images of abuse. The police said their goal was to the Swedish pension system, and SvD’s scoop also led to moves to identify abusers and victims. However, we found that two months review the whole pension system after TFA had closed the website, Scandinavian police had received no information about targets or victims from TFA. A story of how a widow changed the Norwegian health care system Aftenposten (Norway) While we found 30 Norwegian members and several other The 31-year-old father of two had cancer that had spread to his Scandinavians, TFA told its Scandinavian colleagues that there pancreas, intestines and to all his bones. The doctors in Norway were none. This underscores how important it was to have access were clear that they could not cure him, but his strongest wish was to our own data instead of relying solely on police sources. to live. A cancer clinic in Germany seemed to be the answer, but We identified a Norwegian who boasted of having abused a child. after 20 days at the clinic he died, with no family members present, We chose to report him to the police. He has since been arrested after spending 3.6 million kroner on treatment. and the child rescued. Even though he wrote in English and clearly described ongoing abuse, neither TFA nor its Nordic partners The man’s young widow, Ninni, told her story to Aftenposten, which managed to find him. then launched an in-depth investigation to find out how Norwegian 26 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT #METOO Aftenposten (Norway) would try to change the law so that the government can no longer Thousands of women had shared their stories as part of the decide the legal gender of individuals. ”We noticed a big change after international social media campaign #metoo when Aftenposten´s Mitt ID was published. It was like people couldn't hide from us anyprint edition devoted its entire front page and 12 pages to actresses more and we were suddenly being both heard and noticed at a political who shared their stories of sexual harassment in the petition level,” said Mia Mulder from the organization Transförsvaret. #stilleforopptak (quiet on the set). Mitt ID won the award for Norm-breaking Project at the 2017 Meg This marked the tipping point for the #metoo campaign in Norway. Awards. Nearly 600 actresses signed the first call to stop sexual harassment within the industry. For Aftenposten this marked the start of a Marketplaces: impact on society series of articles that placed the spotlight on sexual harassment in Our online marketplaces have created an arena for our users to different industries and parts of society. buy and sell second-hand goods and to find jobs and homes. We are proud of how our services contribute to society and empower Aftenposten has also been at the forefront of exposing sexual people to make economic and sustainable choices. harassment cases in Norwegian politics, including those within the Conservative youth party and the Christian Democratic Party. We In 2015 we rolled out the Schibsted Second Hand Effect project have also been the leading arena for opinion pieces, analysis and in cooperation with the Swedish Environmental Research Institute debate related to sexual harassment. (IVL). The purpose of the Schibsted Second Hand Effect project is to raise awareness among our users about the environmental MittID Aftonbladet (Sweden) benefits of reusing and repairing goods and minimizing waste. By ”I wish people could understand that I am for real, that I exist”. The calculating how much CO2 emissions is potentially saved by our quote comes from Pim, one of the transgender persons who was users’ second-hand trade at 7 of our marketplaces, we found out a part of Mitt ID (My identity), a project launched in March 2017. that the second-hand trade conducted through our sites saved 15 In three TV documentaries and a series of articles about gender million tonnes CO2e in 2017. This is the equivalent of the amount identity, Aftonbladet focused on a question that has rarely or never that could be saved by putting a total standstill on traffic in Paris for been asked in the Swedish media: what is it like to be a young 5 years. transgender person in Sweden? We described their hard struggle for their right to be themselves, and let this vulnerable and growing Initiatives that made a difference group in our society, which for a long time has been forced to fight In addition to the Second Hand Effect initiative, our marketplaces in the dark, to have their say. contribute to the society in several ways. Below is some of our initiatives that made a difference during 2017. When we told these stories, we challenged established norms and gave people insight into and knowledge about the concept of gender Finn.no: Ønskes kjøpt: Havplast identity. Pim, Cameron and Josefine invited the viewers and readers To minimize the plastic in our oceans Finn.no launched the caminto their reality – and the reactions were powerful. Our audit showed paign Ønskes kjøpt: Havplast (Wanted: Ocean plastic), timely prior that one in two transgender people has considered suicide, that the to the coastal cleanup day 2017. During the campaign people could number of gender reassignment processes is increasing by 100 order plastic bags from Finn.no, which were used when cleaning percent each year, and that people have to wait longer and longer up coastal plastic. When the bag was filled you sent it to the waste to get help with their transition. recycling and took a picture of the bag, which you later posted on Finn.no and earned NOK 100 per bag. In total 133 980 liters of “We can see the patterns in the US and in eastern Europe. When plastic waste was removed from the Norwegian beaches. Finn.no powerful people try to withdraw the rights of other human beings, is now challenging other corporations to do the same. we have to support those human beings. Or we will never be able to change anything in the world,” says Frida Söderlund, the AftonSchibsted Media Group: Techfugees bladet reporter who worked on the Mitt ID story. In 2016 Schibsted announced a strategic partnership with the global organization Techfugees. Techfugees focuses on improving life for Aftonbladet created a digital platform where all the content was refugees by developing technologies in five areas: infrastructure, published. We specifically wanted to target young people between education, identity, health and inclusion. Schibsted supports the 14 and 30, and the platform became an environment in which they organization by promoting its activities through our sites and media, felt comfortable. Our users wanted to interact and discuss the by supporting local chapters and by being active in the Global subject, and for one week we made it possible for them to engage with Techfugees Summit. Leboncoin’s CEO Antoine Jouteau spoke at experts, transgender people and reporters about the Mitt ID project. the 2017 summit in Paris, and Schibsted provided promotional We let the question of gender identity dominate our news coverage, support for the event and internal and external communications to and politicians were finally forced to react. They announced that they the organization. 27 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainable supply chain Schibsted supports and respects the protection of internationally implement our Supplier Code of Conduct, which was developed in recognized human rights. This means that we conduct our activities 2016 and was based on the UN Global Compact’s ten principles. in a manner that respects human rights as set out in the Universal Most of our supplies are sourced locally by each company, and the Declaration of Human Rights, and that we demand the same from main type of supplies are IT services, media and advertising, paper our business partners. See also our Modern Slavery Act Statement for our newspapers and consultancy services. Our Marketplaces published at our website. Leboncoin and Blocket have initiated supply chain analyses in their own operations, aimed at identifying risks and opportunities to ensure Schibsted has initiated the process to reach our target of a fully that the goods and services they receive are delivered on fair terms. responsible supply chain from a life-cycle perspective. We understand the scope and time this work will involve. Our first step has During 2018 Schibsted will introduce a project to identify the overall been to enter into dialog with key suppliers at the same time as we scope of our supply chain and identify high risk partners group wide. GRI Index For detailed information regarding scope, boundaries and omissions, see chapter About the Sustainability Report. GRI Standard Disclosure Page Notes FOUNDATION Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization 3 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 3 102-3 Location of headquarters 3 102-4 Location of operations 3 102-5 Ownership and legal form 3 102-6 Markets served 3 102-7 Scale of the organization 3, 7, 10, 80 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 19-21 Omission 102-9 Supply chain 28 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 5, 7, 12 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 22 UNGC Principle 7 102-12 External initiatives 13, 25 102-13 Membership of associations 25 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 13 UNGC Commitment Ethics and Integrity 16-19, 20-22, UNGC Principle 1, 2, 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 24, 28 4, 5, 6, 10 Governance GRI 102: General Disclosures (2016) 102-18 Governance structure 17 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 14 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 20 UNGC Principle 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 13-15 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 13-15 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 13-15 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 12, 77 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 12-15 102-47 List of material topics 15 102-48 Restatements of information 7, 12 102-49 Changes in reporting No previous GRI report 102-50 Reporting period 12 Previous report not 102-51 Date of most recent report 12 according to GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle 12 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 12 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 12 102-55 GRI content index 28-31 No external 102-56 External assurance assurance of report 28 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Material topics Page Notes HOW WE ACT User safety and fraud protection 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 17-19 GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 17-19 UNGC Principle 1 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 17-19 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling (2016) 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service 18 information and labeling Protection of user data 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 17-19 GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 17-19 UNGC Principle 1 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 17-19 GRI 418: Customer Privacy (2016) 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer 18 privacy and losses of customer data Promote freedom of expression GRI indicator not 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 25-27 applicable GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 25-27 UNGC Principle 1 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 25-27 Sustainable supply chain GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 28 UNGC Principle 103-2 The management approach and its components 28 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 10 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 28 Assessment (2016) 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Omission GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Omission Active work against corruption GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 25 103-2 The management approach and its components 25 UNGC Principle 10 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 25 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies Omission and procedures OUR PEOPLE Be an attractive employer 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 19-22 GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 19-22 UNGC Principle 3 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 19-22 GRI 401: Employment (2016) 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 20 Skills developments and knowledge sharing 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 22 GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 22 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 22 GRI 404: Education and training (2016) 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 22 Omission career development reviews Work life balance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 21-22 GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 21-22 UNGC Principle 3 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 21-22 GRI 403: Occupational Health and 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 21 Omission Safety (2016) and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 29 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Material topics Page Notes OUR PEOPLE Increase diversity and equality GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 20-21 UNGC 103-2 The management approach and its components 20-21 Principle 1, 2, 6 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 20-21 Opportunity (2016) 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 21 Health, safety and integrity of employees 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 21-22 UNGC GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 21-22 Principle 1, 3, 4 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 21-22 GRI 403: Occupational Health 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 21 Omission and Safety (2016) and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Reduce environmental impact from energy use 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 22 UNGC GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 22 Principle 7, 8, 9 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 22 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 23 Omission GRI 302: Energy (2016) 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 23 302-3 Energy intensity 23 Reduce carbon emissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 22 GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 22 UNGC Principle 7, 8, 9 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 22 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 23 GRI 305: Emissions (2016) 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 23 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 23 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 23 Safe handling and minimizing waste 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 24 UNGC GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 24 Principle 7, 8, 9 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 24 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste (2016) 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 24 Efficient use of materials and chemicals 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 24 UNGC GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 24 Principle 7, 8, 9 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 24 GRI 301: Materials (2016) 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 24 Reduce water usage 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 22 UNGC GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 22 Principle 7, 8, 9 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 22 30 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Material topics Page Notes SOCIETAL IMPACT Empower people to make economic and sustainable choices 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 25-27 GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 25-27 UNGC Principle 8 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 25-27 GRI G4 Media Sector Disclosures (2012) M7 Actions taken to empower audiences through media literacy skills 25-27 development and results obtained Transparent governance and communication 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 12, 17, 19-21 GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 12, 17, 19-21 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 12, 17, 19-21 Charity engagement 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 25 GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 25 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 25 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impact (2016) 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 25 31
