Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Parcel delivery network of Content We are DPDgroup Page 4 Employer of choice Page 14 Carbon neutral commitment Page 22 Smart urban delivery Page 36 Innovative entrepreneurship Page 42 Closer communities Page 48 DrivingChange in a nutshell Page 56 2 3 Our vision Two years after having committed DPDgroup better contribute to reducing pollution and to support the Ten Principles of the United Nacongestion in city centres. As a responsible tions Global Compact, I am pleased to provide and sustainable player, we are adapting our you with a progress update on human rights, processes and laying the foundations for new labour rights, environment and anti-corruption operating conditions, in order to improve the initiatives, as well as our DrivingChange CSR environment and quality of life in cities. priorities. We are passionate about combining innovative 2017 has been another year of rapid growth, technology and local knowledge to provide a driven by the ongoing expansion of eflexible and user-friendly service for recipients commerce. We have delivered more than and make their lives easier. We constantly 1.2 billion carbon neutral parcels, consolidating challenge ourselves to foster operational exour position as the second largest player on the cellence, customer satisfaction and sustainable European Courier, Express and Parcel market solutions for the low carbon transition. Our DPDgroup’s CSR ambitions consistently fointeractive delivery service, Predict, not only cus on four priorities closely related to our meets consignees’ expectations but also rebusiness and on which we can have a direct, duces DPDgroup’s ‘business to consumer’ last positive impact, such as our market-leading carmile CO2 emissions by 4%. bon neutral commitment. Supported by various efficiency programmes, we have met our 2020 Our commitment reflects the CSR strategy of carbon reduction target well in advance. This Le Groupe La Poste, our shareholder, which year, we decided to engage the company in aims to go beyond compliance, achieve exemthe Science Based Targets initiative, in order plarity and accompany society’s transformato define a new carbon reduction target in tion in terms of minimising its local footprint, line with scientific knowledge to combat promoting digital responsibility, and supporting climate change. the low carbon transition. We are a pragmatic partner. As a delivery This Communication on Progress also formally expert we are constantly striving to improve expresses our commitment to the Sustainable the way we operate. We focus our efforts on Development Goals and driving our sustainaWe are areas where we can have the most significant bility efforts in line with the UN’s 2030 vision. impact. In support of urban logistics projects, all European business units began building On behalf of DPDgroup, I hereby express my tailored urban logistics schemes, by adopting continued support for the UN Global Compact new urban locations and opting for low carbon and renew our ongoing commitment to the DPDgroup transport alternatives. This is a crucial step to initiative and its principles. Paul-Marie Chavanne President and CEO of GeoPost 4 5 DPDgroup at a glance Operational DPDgroup is the second largest international parcel delivery network in Europe. It combines innovative technology and local knowledge to provide a flexible and user-friendly service for both shippers and shoppers. 1.2 billion 4.8 With more than 68,000 delivery experts and a network of more than 32,000 local Pickup points, DPDgroup delivers 4.8 million parcels million parcels delivered per day +10% versus 2016 parcels daily through the brands DPD, Chronopost, SEUR and BRT. DPDgroup is the parcel delivery network of GeoPost, a holding company owned by Le Groupe La Poste. Activity (in volume) Who we are Operating through the brands DPD, Present through 61% 39% Parcels delivered to over Chronopost, SEUR and BRT own operations in 23 BtoB BtoC 230 countries countries 2nd Financial largest international parcel delivery network in Europe 68,000 delivery experts 32,000 Pickup parcel points Carbon neutral delivery 6.8 billion euros in revenue x2 in revenue in at no extra cost +11% versus 2016 the past 10 years 900 hubs and depots 1 st on the European voluntary offset market 6 7 2017 DPDgroup has achieved a Gold Level by EcoVadis DPDgroup committed to the Science Based Target initiative (SBTi) CSR EcoVadis, the international supply chain sustainability rating agency awarded DPDgroup a gold recognition medal for Having met its 2020 carbon target 4 years in advance, DPDgroup extended its commitment to define a new carbon reduction objective, setting out how DPDGroup highlights achieving a score of 62 points, which is 20 points above the sector average. will contribute to maintaining global temperature increase below 2 degrees. Employees voted for a seventh DPDgroup renewed its offset project in Brazil partnership with Ashoka As part of the group’s carbon neutral DPDgroup renewed its partnership target, employees from 15 business with Ashoka, a global network of units had the opportunity to vote for the social entrepreneurs. This shows seventh CO2 emissions offset project: the group’s commitment towards replacing shale oil with renewable Ever yone A Changemaker ™ supporting social entrepreneurs who biomass in a factory in Brazil. are a source of inspiration for all. DPD Poland was elected 2017 DPDgroup’s head office leader in Human Resources employees raised €14,000 for Management the Laurette Fugain association The Polish Ministry of EmployDPDgroup’s head office employees ment rewarded DPD Poland raised €14,000 for Laurette Fugain, as Leader in Human Resources an organisation fighting leukemia, Management for the second through blood donations, gift-giving year, acknowledging the group’s and sport challenges. dedication to creating an engaged and fulfilling workplace. SEUR rolled out a large fleet of Chronopost awarded for its alternative vehicles with SEUR Now commitment to reducing GHG emissions SEUR Now, a service available in Madrid and Barcelona deployed natural gasChronopost received the Best powered FIAT Fiorino vehicles to deliver Progression trophy from the on its two-hour delivery commitment. ADEME, with regards to its CO₂ Objective Charter. Over the last 3 years, Chronopost has reduced its CO₂ emissions intensity by 24.7%. GeoPost signed a global framework agreement with UNI Global Union DPDgroup published its GeoPost signed a global agreement with UNI Global first Global Compact Union on fundamental human rights. The agreement Communication on Progress applies to all entities and reaffirms the Group's commitment to international human rights principles. DPDgroup published its first CSR and COP report in 2017 to DPD Germany received an award for communicate on the progress an innovative workplace safety initiative made since joining the Global Compact. The report reached the Two apprentices designed a mobile heel protector Active level and was nominated for trolleys to limit the risk of accidents. The pair to the award of the First Best received the Golden Hand accident prevention COP category. award from the employers' liability insurance. 8 9 United Nations Global Compact DPDgroup and the Sustainable Development Goals The foundations of our DrivingChange programme rest In 2015, all 193 United Nations Member States combuting to the SDGs are therefore creating value that on our company’s strong values and culture of intemitted to the 17 United Nations Sustainable Developtruly matters to society by meeting the most crucial grity. ment Goals (SDGs), a set of objectives laying out an societal needs. agenda for achieving a brighter and more stable future In 2016, DPDgroup joined the United Nations Global by addressing our world’s most pressing challenges: DPDgroup, as a future-oriented company, is committed Compact and committed to its Ten Principles related extreme poverty, heightened inequality, exclusion, to supporting the UN Development Goals. to human rights, labour conditions, environmental preinjustice, climate change and biodiversity loss. servation and anti-corruption. To deliver on this commitment DPDgroup organised, Fulfilling these ambitions will require unprecedented with the UN Global Compact, a workshop made up of By embracing and incorporating the Ten Principles efforts from a wide range of actors governments representatives from each business unit. The aim was of the UN Global Compact into our operations, we and civil society cannot attain these SDGs on their own, to develop a common understanding of the SDGs and are notonly upholding our basic responsibilities to without the contribution of the private sector. to determine the specific goals for which the group communities and to the environment, but also setting could make a significant contribution in light of its core the stage for our group’s long-term performance and The SDGs provide a strategic framework for companies capabilities and business activities. The SDGs and assosuccess. seeking to create long-term value and take advantage ciated targets will be addressed further in the group’s of untapped market opportunity. Companies contristrategy going forward. As part of its commitment to the UN Global Compact, DPDgroup is required to communicate its progress on the Ten Principles. This report serves as DPDgroup’s Communication on Progress (COP). DPDgroup identified the 3 most relevant SDGs in light of the group’s impacts on society, opportunities and the existing DrivingChange programme: GOAL 8 GOAL 11 GOAL 13 Promote sustained, Make cities and human Take urgent action inclusive and settlements inclusive, to combat climate sustainable safe, resilient and change and its impacts economic growth, sustainable full and productive employment and decent work for all 10 11 CSR Governance Our DrivingChange programme Paving the way to a more sustainable business, and more efficient urban delivery solutions; driving DPDgroup is structured to enable efDrivingChange is DPDgroup’s CSR programme – a innovation inside and out; and building meaningfective management of environmenThe European programme inherent to who we are and how we do ful connections in the communities we work with. tal, social, and ethical topics at all levels: Operating Board business. the most senior decision makers are At the heart of these four priorities stands being an oversees the strategy, and meets involved in setting the CSR strategy and DrivingChange focuses on four priorities where we Employer of Choice. Providing a mindful, respecannually to review and validate the guaranteeing its implementation. CSR strategic orientations. feel we can make the most meaningful difference tful and ethical workplace for all employees and within parcel delivery and beyond: by reducing and partners is a foundation to our business and an aim to The strategy is designed to be in neutralising our carbon footprint; providing smarter which we all contribute in our day-to-day practices. line with Le Groupe La Poste in its search for exemplarity. Our strong domestic presence mainly in Europe requires fostering positive local footOur print, to become an effective and CSR network responsible digital player and to take The CSR is made up of 19 CSR responsibility in ecological transition. Carbon neutral Smart urban department correspondents, located in different European business commitment delivery is directed by a units. They are responsible for European Operating the operational implementation Being dedicated to making Improving everyday urban Board (EOB) member and of the strategy, and meet three every parcel we deliver life by giving greater responsible for defining times a year to share progress carbon neutral, for all our delivery choices, while and implementing the CSR and best practice. customers, at no extra cost. reducing our impact on the strategy, Driving Change, within the company and road. coordinates our CSR network. Closer Innovative Working with international standards communities Bringing people together entrepreneurship Sharing our expertise and DPDgroup adheres to a range of international CSR standards: to support and build the entrepreneurial spirit to  communities we are c losest help local enterprise thrive. to. We have been a member of the We follow the United Nations We have adopted the ISO 14001 Global Compact since 2016. The Environmental Programme’s management system standard Looking forward in 2018 Employer of choice 2017 CSR report is our second (UNEP) recommendations for within our operations to guarantee Communication on Progress (COP). a carbon neutral world by the a structured approach to the In order to respond to our stakeholders’ needs, and to Providing a mindful, respectful end of the century through our management of environmental drive positive change, we will be working in 2018 on and ethical workplace for all of partnership with EcoAct, and aspects. This standard covers 74% refining and improving our DrivingChange programme. our employees and partners. are developing a low carbon of employees. We will set ourselves both short and long-term objecstrategy based on the Science tives, among which a carbon reduction science based Based Target initiative to stay within a 2 degree trajectory in target, and we will further integrate the United Nations 2100. Sustainable Development Goals. 12 13 Employer Employer of choice of choice At DPDgroup, we believe that our greatest asset is our workforce. As an organisation made up of 68,000 we ensure each and every individual helps to create a responsible, innovative and empowered culture. delivery experts, our aim is to lead a responsible buBeing a responsible workplace also means doing business where everyone feels empowered to ensiness in an ethical manner at every level and within gage in the group’s mission and purpose, and able to every division of the company. This is the responsibility contribute to promoting business success and cusof both our business units and employees, and remains tomer satisfaction. By engaging with our workforce, an overarching commitment of DPDgroup. 100% Business Units have 78% staff are on permaDPDgroup trained 65% of implemented our code of nent contracts. its employees, represenbusiness conduct. ting 45,168 training days in total. How? On the path to being an employer of choice, we focus on two fundamental pillars of our business: Our people Ethics 14 15 Employer of choice Our people The Courier, Express and Parcel industry is a large employer that relies heavily on its workforce. At DPDgroup, each Interview business unit is responsible for adopting a tailored approach to human resources, in line with country requirements and local needs. “DNA is a cultural transformation This is proven by our award-winning DNA, a programme empowering each and every one of us to respond project designed to help people to effectively to the challenges and needs of each country. change. Defining DNA for SEUR was easier than I thought at the beginning because it was received very well. We Employee Empowerment (DNA) Interview decided to get as much employee The DNA programme is DPDgroup’s employee engaparticipation as we could to ensure it gement tool. Originally created for and by DPD UK, this “We established the DNA programme reflected our values. More than 140 programme aims to help each business unit engage its at DPD UK to help create a more employees participated and worked workforce around a compelling vision and strong leac o h e s i v e w o r k i n g c u l t u re . T h e with great enthusiasm to ensure dership. Starting with a unit-wide reflection around objectives of the programme were SEUR’s DNA was identifiable to all. mission, vision and values, each unit creates a simple four-fold: Now, the aim is that it really reaches communication plan. This is then integrated into eveevery corners of the company in ryday systems, processes and training, and rolled out 1. To motivate all employees order to achieve our vision: “To be the to all employees and contractors. This approach has Interview 2. To ensure all teams share one most desired company by customers helped transform DPDgroup from a logistics-focused culture to a service culture. single focus and employees in our industry.” We already have implemented DNA in six countries, 3. To support the development of Human rights employees Itxaso Larrangana with three more scheduled for 2018. People and CSR director, SEUR GeoPost signed a global agreement on human 4. To empower employees and rights and freedom of association with the value their contribution. UNI Global Union in March 2017, confirming its commitment to respect human rights in Identifying its DNA – its vision, mission line with the International Labour Organiand values – and communicating it zation's Fundamental Principles and Rights well, has led to 92% of employees at Work, and the UN Guiding Principles on understanding what they can do to Human Rights. contribute positively to the strategy. Additionally, DPD UK achieved its vision two years in advance, and was included in the Sunday Times Best Companies to Work For list in both “This agreement is a significant 2016 and 2017.” breakthrough, and is the first time that one of the delivery parcel giants has David Poole signed an agreement with a global HR and Training Direvctor at DPD UK, union.” creator of DNA programme. People and diversity As a major employer, DPDgroup employs over 68,000 Philip Jennings people, including employees and subcontractors. Of UNI Global Union General Secretary our total internal staff, 78% have permanent contracts. In a traditionally male dominated industry, 28% of roles at DPDgroup are held by women. This proportion reaches 54% in central support functions. Conscious of this disparity, we are taking action to help foster more gender diverse teams. 16 17 Employer of choice Health and wellbeing Interview Subcontracting DPDgroup is striving to become an employer of choice DPDgroup aspires to be the company of choice for our and crucial to our continued success, and we will for the sector in every location where we do business. “In 2017, DPD Poland won for subcontractors. Our aspiration is to establish a positive therefore forge a new programme to improve this We are doing this in multiple ways: through improving and mutually beneficial relationship with our partners. relationship. the second time the Leader in benefits to adopting a globally consistent set of values Driver commitment to amazing service is paramount Human Resources Management to promoting a sense of belonging and a good worklife balance. Award under patronage of the Ministry of Employment and DPDgroup signed the European Works Council (EWC) Civil Policy bringing further Agreement in 2008, followed by the European recomrecognition of our efforts to mendations on Quality of Life At Work in 2015. We are support our employees.” DPD Poland DPD United Kingdom committed to running an Employee Opinion Survey within all European Business Unit every two years, and Marta Westrych DPD Poland supports subcontractors DPD UK has a strong commitment that follow it with tailored action plans to improve emHR Director, by negociating a range of discounts on drivers will be the best paid in the industry. ployee satisfaction. In 2016, around 75% of DPDgroup DPD Poland products and services such as private DPD UK will also give all drivers the employees in 17 countries responded, with 80% voicing heath care programmes, phones, cars and opportunity to apply to change contract their satisfaction with their working environment. life insurance. type i.e. move between employed, Owner Driver Workers and Owner Driver Recognising the varying levels of maturity within diffeFranchisees. rent business units, we organise frequent HR seminars, as well as an annual European Work Council, gathering HR directors from each business unit, and sharing best practices from multiple countries. Skills and training Interview Training is an integral part of the way we do business. We believe that each and every one of us should bene“DPDgroup’s new e-learning fit from it. More than 21,000 employees participated in induction programme combines at least one training session this year. both technical and cultural Overall, DPDgroup provided more than 520,000 hours information. Training modules of training, of which 35% was delivered to subcontracare fun, interactive and easy to tors. Our focus on training forms part of a larger LISE remember. Also, you feel that (Learn, Improve and Share Expertise) programme: a you’re not only a part of your user-friendly platform that consists of e-learning national business, but also a part courses on service culture and soft skills for sales and of the wider DPDgroup!” customer service teams, drivers and managers. In 2017, we developed an induction programme based on four Ausra Laurinaviciene learning sessions. In 2018, we plan to translate the Training specialist, content at no cost for our business units and deliver DPD Lithuania shorter induction modules for drivers. 18 19 Employer of choice Ethics Corporate responsibility implies conducting business in a responsible way with a long-term view, going beyond commercial interests and compliance to make a positive impact in society. Business ethics relates to guidelines for Governance A focus on anti-corruption business conduct based on universally recognised standards of what is right and fair. DPDgroup has developed a governance As per our Code of Business Conduct and system that promotes the implementaconsistent with our commitment to the DPDgroup’s ethical stance, which can be defined as our Ethical business practice is also reflected in the four tion and respect of the Code of Business UN Global Compact Principles, DPDgroup global framework to the whole group, is based on the commitments of the group’s service culture: Conduct. At country level, each business prohibits all forms of corruption in our five values we share with GeoPost: unit has an Ethics Officer in place, while at dealings with stakeholders. We apply the corporate-level, the group benefits from three key principles that govern Le Groupe La an Anti-Corruption Officer and a CompePoste’s anti-corruption plan: Zero Tolerance, 1 tition Compliance Officer, roles created to Everyone Concerned and Everyone Vigilant. help implement our fair competition and In line with the French law Sapin II, introduced Care about the person, Solidarity not just the parcel anti-corruption programmes. in 2016, DPDgroup is implementing an anticorruption compliance programme. This Employees have various means at their disincludes a risk-mapping of our activities 4 2 posal to report breaches of the code: they finalised in 2017, internal whistle-blowing can contact any of the above offices directly, Transparency 5 Respect Create a smile with every 4 Recognise and respond to or use our whistle-blowing system, which systems for each business unit, employee training and supplier evaluations. values customer commitments each customer’s guarantees complete confidentiality. contact. needs Open-mindedness Accountability Think ahead and 3 act fast to reassure Our sustainable Personal data protection procurement approach To comply with the new General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), GeopPost In 2017, we developed a group-level is rolling out an action plan within DPDGSustainable Procurement Charter, based group, integrating data protection changes on the International Labour Organization throughout the organisation’s processes and and the UN Global Compact. We will roll it culture. out in 2018, requiring our suppliers to sign Code of conduct it. The Charter addresses issues relating to To do so, each European business unit has social and environmental practices, ethics been required to appoint a person in charge In order to integrate the group’s ethical stance into integrity, conflicts of interest, fair competition, and anti-corruption. In 2018, DPDgroup will of data protection. GeoPost supports the our daily work, GeoPost/DPDgroup has developed employee health and safety, diversity and persocontinue to share best practices within the GDPR community of DPDgroup by proa Code of Business Conduct, established in 2012. nal development. group and work on guidelines and training viding materials and assistance regarding This document can be used by employees and tools to raise awareness of the importance open points. Since beginning of 2017, any We review the Code frequently, and updated it in of sustainable procurement. partners at all levels of the company to guide their central projects involving personal data are 2017 with an anti-corruption chapter. decision-making and interactions with internal and managed in accordance with the privacy by The Duty of Care Act was enshrined in French external stakeholders. We require all GeoPost and DPDgroup employees design approach, as required by the GDPR. law in March 2017. It obliges large companies to adhere to the Code, as well as consultants, to establish and implement a vigilance plan Our Code of Business Conduct is inspired by various subcontractors and other external service proviwith measures to identify and prevent sources, from the Responsible Procurement Charders acting on behalf of the group. Compliance social, corruption and environmental issues ter to the Conventions of the International Labour with our Code of Business Conduct is a mandatory resulting from their activities and those of Organization (including on forced labour, health the companies they control, as well as the component of our employment contracts. and safety of workers, discrimination, pay, freeactivities of subcontractors or suppliers dom of association, and the right to organise and GeoPost business units are required to roll out the on whom they have a decisive influence. bargain collectively). It encompasses topics such Code of Business Conduct in line with their activiDPDgroup is contributing to the vigilance as respect towards others, confidentiality, privacy, ties and domestic laws. plan that will be made public in Le Groupe La Poste’s annual report. 20 21 Carbon neutral commitment Transportation currently accounts for around a quaracross Europe and to over 23 countries. This express ter of the world's energy-related carbon emissions. As delivery system, important to us and our clients, is also Carbon neutral freight transport activities are projected to increase by around 80% by 2050 compared to 2005, the delivery a large contributor to global greenhouse gas emissions. To address this challenge, the group has set itself an commitment sector is facing a great challenge to mitigate its environmental impact. Every day, DPDgroup’s 68,000 delivery ambitious commitment, inherent to our DrivingChange programme: to make every parcel it delivers carbon men and women deliver more than 4.8 million parcels neutral at no extra cost for its customers. How? We are mitigating our impact on climate change and have achieved carbon neutrality since 2012 by taking a three-step approach: We We We measure reduce offset 22 23 Carbon neutral commitment We measure We reduce Measuring our own impact Allowing customers to measure 3 Measuring emissions allows DPDgroup to understand and manage them effectively. As parcel volumes LEVERS The first step to managing and reducing DPDgroup’s their impact increase and the demand for delivery services grows, carbon emissions is having a thorough understanding a robust emission reduction plan is a first crucial step of the GHG emissions resulting from our operations. In addition to measuring the group’s overall emissions, on the path to making every parcel we deliver carbon The creation of an internal DPDgroup launched its Carbon Caculator tool in 2016, neutral. We are working on a new emission reduction carbon fund To achieve this aim, the group uses “RESPIRE”, an giving customers precise information on request on the target, aligned with the Science Based Targets initiative, internal reporting system allowing the collection of carbon footprint of their parcel, according to its exact in order to ensure our goals are ambitious and in line consumption data from transport, depots and hubs, in route. Although these emissions are later offset by the with scientific knowledge to limit global warming the 18 subsidiaries fully owned by DPDgroup. Quarterly group, this tool enables individuals and businesses to below 2C° by 2050. The use of alternative fuel vehicles reports allow each division to closely monitor its have a thorough understanding of their impacts. It also and fuel-efficient driving consumption and emissions. responds to the needs of the group’s growing base of In 2017, we continued to improve the efficiency of each environmentally-conscious clients. parcel delivered, achieving an average of 0.738 kg of We continuously improve the tool in order to ensure its CO₂e per parcel in 2017, a reduction of 11.24%, compared effectiveness and reliability – subsidiaries now benefit The analysis is performed for every single parcel that to 2013. This exceeds our target of reducing the CO₂e from new Avoided Emissions indicators, which allow enters the group’s logistic network. The tool was emitted per parcel by 10% by 2020. An increase in the load capacity them to measure gains from ongoing energy and fuel recently verified by SGS, a verification and certification of our transport vehicles. reduction initiatives. company, as a third body, against the requirements of This reduction is also notable within the sector: the the European standard EN 16258. average amount of tCO₂e emitted per million euros of The tool aligns with international standards such as ISO turnover by DPDgroup is three times lower than the 14064, the European standard EN 16258, the French sector average. standard BEGES and our internal protocol, and data is externally audited annually to ensure its accuracy. The Carbon Fund Total CO₂e emissions of DPDgroup Business units being completely autonomous in their This initiative has been successful, with subsidiaries fleet management, DPDgroup created a 500,000 euros investing more than €1.2 million to complement central Carbon Fund in 2017. The aim was to incentivise all funding and finance their carbon reduction plans. business units to deploy carbon reduction initiatives by providing funding for projects such as alternative Transport emissions represent: vehicles, fuel-efficient driving or efficient loading training and building energy management. 91.4 % Case study of the group’s total CO₂e emissions DPD Slovakia has used the funding to deploy two “After a successful test phase, electric Voltia eNV200 Maxi vehicles in Bratislava, the first company to do so in the country will we decided to deploy the first two deliver close to 128,OOO close to 128,000 parcels vehicles in standard operation in May over 4 years in an environmentally sustainable way. 2017. Our goal is to deploy this type of 6.8 % Buildings electrical supply in several big cities in the long run to contribute to reduce air 0.9 % Business vehicles pollution.” 0.5 % On-site freight Peter Pavuk, CEO, 0.4 % Paper consumption DPD Slovakia 24 25 Carbon neutral commitment We reduce We reduce Alternative fuel vehicles and fuel-efficient driving Maximising the capacity of This year, the road trains fleet has expanded to 23 vehicles, thus reaching the optimal number of trucks DPDgroup is expanding its fleet with a focus on Natural gas (LNG), Bio Natural gas (BNG), electric our fleet on the Dutch road network. This investment delivered environmental efficiency – we now operate more or electricity-assisted vehicles. Together with fuelmultiple social and environmental benefits: in addition than 300 alternative fuel vehicles, meaning that more efficient training sessions, this helped avoid more than Maximising truck loading capacity, specifically on to lowering road congestion, it prevented more than than 19 million kilometres were travelled by Liquefied 950 tCO₂e in 2017. in-demand routes, reduces the number of trucks 1,120 tCO₂e from being emitted in two years. DPD NL on the roads and therefore lowers emissions and is now looking into developing its fleet with LNG and environmental impact. As reported last year, DPD electric motors, an ongoing innovation. Given the sucExamples Netherlands has been investing in trucks reaching the cess of this initiative, a similar one has been deployed maximum allowed loading capacity of 162 m3. in Spain, with “SEUR megatrucks”. Interview France LPG 1 Electric 3 Christian Heyer “Doing the quiz on the DPD Go! Cargobike 3 app is really a great and funny DPD Switzerland driver since 2013 Natural gaz 29 on DPD Go!, DPDgroup’s driverway to learn about ecodriving! oriented app featuring interactive It allows me to do my bit for training to improve eco-driving the environment.” France and customer service. Cargobike 4 Natural gaz 8 Electric 31 Looking forward Spain In order to ensure we play our part in the transition to a low-carbon economy, we have decided to set new compared to pre-industrial temperatures. While we LPG 2 emissions targets in line with the Science Based Targets will only be able to begin reporting progress on this Natural gaz 6 target in two years’ time, we are continuing, nevertheElectric motorcycle 14 Initiative, i.e. with the level of decarbonisation required to keep the global temperature increase below 2°C, less, to pursue our emission reduction efforts. Electric 24 Cargo Bike 48 Walker 85 GHG emission per parcel Switzerland Czech Republic Germany Netherlands Natural Gas 1 Electric 1  atural Gas 1 N LPG 1 Natural Gas 34 Electric 2 Dual Fuel 3 LPG 3 Bionatural gaz 21 Cargobike 5 Natural Gas 32 Portugal Electic 1 Poland Dual fuel 1 Electric 1 Cargobike 1 Slovakia Slovenia Natural gaz 5 LPG 1 Belux Cargobike 3 LPG 14 Electric 4 Natural Gas 9 26 27 Carbon neutral commitment We offset We offset The final step of our three-pronged approach is to offset all remaining CO2 emissions from transport including Interview our indirect emissions from outsourced transport in order to achieve carbon neutrality. This makes DPDgroup Number 1 in the voluntary carbon market in the sector. Gerald Maradan What is your perception of What are the highlights of DPDgroup in terms of resDPDgroup’s carbon manageEmissions offset CEO and co-founder ponsibility? ment approach? at EcoAct Group, DPDgroup is a value-driven The Paris Agreement overall Since we launched our carbon neutral commitment Implementation mechanism are taken into consideraas well as co-founder company, while also being cusobjective is to reach carbon in 2012, we have delivered 4.8 billion carbon neutral tion. Additionally, every project is verified by a third party parcels. to guarantee accurate measures of CO2e savings. Both and Vice President of the tomer-oriented. neutrality by the second half environmental and socio-economic benefits are conNGO Entrepreneurs For Life. of this century. A host of counOur offsetting programme consists of seven projects In that sense, they are the litries have already committed sidered when choosing an offsetting project. With the aim https://eco-act.com related to renewable and clean energy production. ving-proof that a company can to carbon neutrality. of contributing to the energy transition, all of the projects In 2017, the seventh project in Brazil was added to do business in a responsible that we fund have a focus on renewable energy, energy efthe list after being voted for by employees from 15 way. Services such as Predict DPDgroup’s offsetting proficiency, or the circular economy. These are not tax-exempt Business Units. or Pickup are great examples gramme goes beyond the Paand we do not have equity investments in the projects. of the successful search for ris Agreement objectives, and We developed our offsetting programme, and the These seven offsetting projects have helped offthe right balance between buallows its customers to contriassociated projects, in partnership with EcoAct, set 912,731 tCO₂e. This investment not only offsiness and responsibility. On bute to these global goals at no a European leader on the carbon market. Only projects set 100% of our GHG parcel delivery emissions, it the supplier side, EcoAct works extra cost. which are verified by the most rigorous carbon stanalso drives social and economic improvements: with DPDgroup as a partner. Both companies strive to find What are your expectations dards on the market – the Verified Carbon Standard we participate to provide energy for more than 295,000 the best possible approach to regarding DPDgroup’s offset(VCS), the Gold Standard, and the United Nations Joint people across 7 countries and create nearly 200 jobs. DPDgroup’s responsibility. ting programme? How could it be improved? Is DPDgroup taking the appropriate steps to tackle its main Historically, DPDgroup have environmental impacts? devoted a lot of effort in managing carbon emissions. DPDgroup’s programme folHowever, this dedication is not lows the best practices in caralways exposed to the outside bon management. In light of world. the widespread endorsement of the Paris Agreement, all Lately, DPDgroup has stepped companies have a role to play. up its communication plan to DPDgroup demonstrates clishare its story and raise awarmate leadership in this respect, eness on its leadership position especially when compared to in terms of carbon emissions other actors within the CEP stewardship. (Courier, Express and Parcel) In order to complement its amindustry. At DPDgroup, transbitious offsetting programme, port is mostly subcontracted, DPDgroup should demonsresulting in a more complex trate the alignment of its goals roadmap to effective GHG rewith the United Nations Sustaiductions. Still, DPDgroup involnable Development Goals. ves its transport suppliers and constantly explores new innovative logistics solutions. Carbon offsetting 28 29 Carbon neutral commitment We offset We offset United Kingdom – UnitedShire Poland – Green Binders Improving the local energy mix by capturing Producing building materials from waste methane In a country in which the energy mix relies UnitedShire tackles the issue of abandoned highly on coal, the Green Binders initiative mines that still emit methane, a strong takes a circular economy approach. It uses greenhouse gas – using compression calcareous ashes emitted from the burning technology, the project produces power and of coal in the country’s electricity production heat, while preventing methane from being to create alternative construction materials, released in the atmosphere. Brazil – Dori Biomass thereby avoiding the need for the production Switching to renewable biomass in candy of new cementand lime-based materials. Germany – CleaningGround factories Improving the local energy mix by Dori Alimentos, a Brazilian confectionary and capturing methane nut manufacturer with more than 2,000 The emission of coal mine gases (CMM), such employees, has switched from deriving power as methane, is an unavoidable consequence from shale oil to using renewable power from arising from mining. CleaningGround captures eucalyptus trees. It has installed biomass CMM and compresses them to produce boilers, fed by eucalyptus woodchips, and the energy, which is sold to renewable energy ashes are used as fertilisers on the plantation providers – all the while limiting the negative sites. This has helped to avoid emissions impacts of mining by reducing the emission of equivalent to the energy use of 7,600 people CMMs by 90%. in Brazil. Turkey – Balikesir Wind Using wind to produce energy Fossil fuel is the biggest source of electricity generation in Turkey. Balikesir Wind has enabled important investments in wind turbines, leading to an average of 200,000 tCO2e being avoided per year – equivalent to the energy use of 35,000 people in Turkey. Czech Republic – Waste Energy India – Hindi Wind Producing energy from waste Using wind to produce energy In a country where landfill is the most Hindi Wind is supplying renewable electricity common method of waste disposal, Waste in rural India by installing 133 Wind Turbine Energy captures the GHG and toxic gas Generators (WTGs) to generate 190GWh of emitted from these landfill sites (which electrical power. This has led to an average significantly contribute to global warming) to of 160,000 tCO2e being avoided per year create energy, which is then transferred to the – equivalent to the energy use of 100,000 grid. people in India. 30 31 Along its delivery process, a parcel will go through DPDgroup’s business units are involved in a host several stages that involve other operations than transof initiatives to curb their environmental impacts. Other port. Although transport is by far DPDgroup’s primary environmental impact, the energy, paper, water and Information is collected from our offices, hubs and depots every quarter, via a company-wide reporting environmental waste that we use and produce during our operations also contribute to the group’s environmental impact, tool. Data is controlled internally and externally, and key performance indicators, such as carbon footprint, aspects representing around 10% of our carbon footprint. are then followed-up by each business units. 32 33 Water Energy Although DPDgroup’s activities Energy use, vital for DPDgroup’s proper functioning of depots and offices, is the group’s second environmental do not require large volumes Water impact after transport. This consumption is mainly related to the electricity used within depots and offices for of water, our business units consumption lighting, and operational transport equipment such as sorting systems. are taking action in this area. increased by 70% of our depots monitor We have a number of local initiatives in place to limit our energy consumption and to increase the energy their water consumption on 6% per m² produced from sustainable sources. a quarterly basis to identify versus 2016 potential major variation that Production of Renewable LED lighting Other could be linked to leaks. Additionally, a number of depots have implemented water reduction initiatives. We fitted our two most recently renewable energy contracts electricity modernisation environmental built depots in Aalter and Flémalle, Belgium with tanks designed to harvest rainwater, thereby reducing their water consumption. aspects 1,385,000 kWh produced in 2017 +39 million kWh from renewable electricity contracts Waste Depots are buildings where parcels To further the group’s carbon neuTo ensure timely deliveries for all transit before being transported to tral commitment, we rely on reour clients, depots are operated their final destination. The surface newable electricity contracts in around the clock, requiring effiDPDgroup’s business units of depots is often large enough many of the countries where we cient and constant lighting. We are play an active role in manato hold solar panels on the roof, operate. The principle is simple: equipping a growing number of deging their waste at both logiswhich will help reduce the impact the provider guarantees that a set pots with LED lighting, which yields tics hubs and offices. Paper, 95% of a site. proportion of electricity used orisignificant energy efficiencies. cardboard, plastics and woowaste was ginates from a renewable energy den pallets are sent for recydiverted source. cling. Hazardous materials, as from well as electric and electronic landfill waste, are also handled resin 2017 ponsibly, in compliance with legal requirements. DPD Netherlands DPD France DPD Poland At our Veenendaal depot DPD France has committed In 2017, DPD Poland in the Netherlands, we to meet 100% of its electricity upgraded its lighting syshave installed solar panels n e e d s w i t h re n e w a b l e tem at the Gdansk depot with a 65,000 kWh capacity sources. For every kWh used to reduce costs associated to power the building’s by DPD France, its electriwith frequent replacePaper heating and cooling, venticity supplier is guarantees ment and improve working lation and lighting systems. the injection of the equivalent conditions through better Solar panels are not the amount of electricity from lighting. It used 210 LED only sustainable attribute renewable sources into lights across the 5,000m² We closely monitor our of the Veenendaal depot the grid. depot. consumption of office paper, labels and external commu83 % the site is also fitted with a robust insulation infrastrucnication materials. Whenever of paper used ture, a heat recovery system, possible, our procurement in 2017 was and energy efficient lighting. team purchases paper from responsible sources, such as from Up to 60% FSC-certified, recycled or pasustainable energy savings are per neutral in carbon. sources expected over In various countries across 57,000 kWh 10 million kWh the next ten years Europe, DPDgroup offers produced in 2017 consumed in 2017 an e-billing service to its customers to lower paper 27 tons consumption. In the same spirit, delivery routes are 22 tons 810 tons of CO₂ will be saved no longer printed but directly uploaded to the comof CO₂ saved of CO₂ saved annually munications devices used by our drivers. 34 35 Smart urban delivery With more than 73% of Europe’s population, cities landscapes: Using service innovation and last-mile are buzzing hubs of innovation, culture and productilogistics, we are developing user centric solutions to Smart urban vity. However, this increasing urbanisation also brings its share of issues from denser city centres to air tackle urban issues. As one of our four CSR priorities, Smart Urban Delivery delivery pollution-related illnesses, causing more than 400,000 premature deaths in Europe each year. is looking to improve everyday urban life by giving customers greater delivery choices, while reducing our DPDgroup is looking to adapt to these challenges by impact on the road. contributing to the creation of new urban logistics How? We improve the impact We propose greater of our final We We delivery choices improve propose delivery fleet to improve everyday life. 36 37 Smart urban delivery We improve We improve We improve the impact In 2017 Case study of our final delivery fleet DPDgroup’s impact in urban areas is mainly attributed to its pick-up and delivery fleet. This fleet is composed of 38,000 vehicles, which travelled a total of 1.2 billion 38,000 kilometres in 2017. To make progress on its commitment to sustainable delivery, SEUR is taking action in By using light commercial vehicles for last mile operaurban logistics on many fronts. It has received tions and limiting the level of pollutants emitted, we are pick-up and delivery vehicles a Sustainable Ideas award from Actualidad able to minimise congestion and pollution in city centres. Económica, a Spanish business magazine, which selects the 100 best ideas launched during the year. In Barcelona, SEUR is trialling new urban These resources, managed by “micro depots” logistic projects, where it has identified high smaller logistics centers, located in the density areas and assigned deliveries to the heart of cities allow us to operate closer to 1.2 billion most appropriate delivery resource: recipients, shortening our delivery distances • Deliveries of 1 kg or under are conducted and minimising the emissions and other by a courier on foot. negative impacts associated with the “last kilometres mile”. In this way, SEUR has delivered 170,000 • Deliveries of 2 kg or under are conducted shipments via alternative means each month, by bicycle/tricycle. and has reduced its CO₂ emissions by 16% per • Deliveries over 2 kg are made by vans. package delivered. Finding sustainable solutions to urban logistics In 2017, DPDgroup launched an internal working group This has enabled the launch of multiple low emission dedicated to urban logistics, with the aim of finding soinitiatives, currently being trialled in 12 countries. lutions to a two-pronged challenge: the rise in demand Solutions include: for deliveries in city centres, coupled with stricter traffic restrictions in European cities. Deploying a low-emission delivery fleet: New modes of transpor are tested and deployed natural gaz, bio natural gaz, electric vehicles, bicycles and deliveries made by foot. Using “micro depots” and “urban depots”: Smaller depots, situated closer to high density areas, allow cleaner deliveries, such as bicycles or foot. Anticipating new legislation: Engaging closely with stakeholders allow us to anticipate and react quickly to up and coming legislation, such as the diesel ban, which is being increasingly set across Europe. 38 39 Smart urban delivery We improve We propose Limiting pollutants Greater delivery choices to improve everyday life. DPDgroup measures two air pollutants in particular Citizens are seeking ease and rapidity in all aspects of life. Services such as e-commerce, allow customers to save – both a direct consequence of our delivery activity: time, money and have access to a greater choice of products. particulate matter (PM) and nitrogen oxides (NOx). Unlike greenhouse gas emissions, which have a gloWhile just 5 out of 10 internet users in the European Union made an online purchase in 2007, this number reached bal impact, these pollutants, emitted by all vehicles, almost 7 out of 10 in 2017. This rise in online shopping and deliveries creates significant challenges in urban areas represent a local health hazard. DPDgroup is therefore – as they become denser, cities need to remain liveable and guarantee a good quality of life to their inhabitants. actively replacing its “conventional” diesel and petrol This is one of the challenges that DPDgroup set itself: to improve everyday life by offering greater delivery choices. delivery vehicles with alternatives, such as electric By listening to our customers, we have designed user centric solutions: innovative products and services that truly vehicles, bio gas vehicles or bicycles. respond to citizens’ needs, providing more flexibility and freedom to customers, while increasing delivery efficiency. We use the Euro Standard, which defines the acceptable limits for exhaust emissions and pollutants, to measure the impact of our fleet. The standard currently has 6 stages ranging from Euro 1 (worst performing vehicles) to Euro 6 (highest performing vehicles), and cities around Europe are increasingly taking measures Predict allows customers to stay informed Pickup offers customers flexibility in delito reduce pollutant concentration. We are taking active of the exact timeslot their parcel will be very, via the ability to receive parcels from steps to improve our fleet : 70% of our fleet meets Euro delivered. Specific delivery information the Pickup point of their choice. This service 5 or 6, and 2,000 new Euro 6 vehicles were deployed is sent via text or email the day prior to allows them to collect the parcel at their in 2017 – a third of the total fleet deployed. the delivery. This service – offered as an convenience, close to their work or home, option to our clients helps improve our while making our service more efficient by efficiency and our environmental impact consolidating several deliveries at a single – a first analysis show that CO2 and our location and thus reducing distances and environmental impact by increasing the emissions. We are constantly developing our first delivery success rate are reduced by Pickup network and now have over 32,000 an average of 4% compared to a standard Pickup points across Europe. delivery. DPD Estonia DPD Estonia has adopted a clause preventing the use of vans over five years old, and has negotiated a special agreement with car dealerships, encouraging subcontractors to use newer, more efficient vehicles. As a result, DPD Estonia has one of the newest DPD fleets globally, with an average of 2.58 years per delivery vehicle. 40 41 Innovative entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship and innovation are part of DPDgroup’s ficant opportunity for the group. At DPDgroup, we Innovative DNA. Through our history, innovation has always been an integral part of the way we do business. We grew believe that developing and empowering innovative entrepreneurs creates a positive impact and shared entrepreneurship through the acquisition of local delivery experts, created by entrepreneurs, and our decentralised value locally. We share our expertise and entrepreneurial spirit to help local enterprise thrive and support management structure allows our business units to innovative ideas. be highly autonomous. Given the evolving nature of To ensure a structured approach, we established an the CEP sector, with the rise of e-commerce and Innovation Team focusing on start-ups and e-commerce on-demand delivery, innovation also presents a signiin 2014. How? Our support for entrepreneurship has three objectives: WeWestimulate stimulate We empower We WE support employee employee social external SUPPORT innovation innovation entrepreneurs entrepreneurship 42 43 Innovative entrepreneurship We stimulate employee innovation We stimulate employee innovation No-one knows our business better than our employees. encourages employees to submit their boldest and With a dedicated innovation team in place, we are able to support employees in developing ideas that respond to Giving them the opportunit to develop and share new most innovative ideas. Winners have the opportunity the needs of the business. Through employee training, mentoring, HR support and adapted work timetables or business ideas is the best way to be innovative and to develop their project within the group and receive financial support, we back employees right from the outset of these new ventures. remain a leader in the CEP industry. Our innovation 12 months of support to demonstrate its business and CSR departments are joining forces with our parent potential, with a view to creating a subsidiary. Since company Le Groupe La Poste, and participating in its 2014, more than 3,000 employees have taken part, “20 projects for 2020” initiative. This annual initiative submitting over 1,000 projects. Below are examples of internal entrepreneurship at DPDgroup: Interview Interview Olivier Mercuriot “We came up with KeyOpsWithout DPDgroup’s Stéphanie Palluel “I co-created Accola, a and advice. In addition, we Tech along with my bufinancial and legal support, project that draws on were given the opportunity Ex-international director siness partner and fellow we simply wouldn’t have Ex-key account manager the community spirit of to work full time on our for Pickup and founder of DPDgroup employee, Leobeen able to set it up so at Chronopost, neighbours to make urban enterprise, transforming KeyOpsTech nel de la Bretesche. After fast. DPDgroup is now the now co-founder of Accola delivery more effective. our idea into a tangible working in remote, rural main shareholder. Accola ensures parcels start-up. areas in India, we decided are delivered when the to develop a solution to enWhile we currently solely recipients are away by We have already run a pilot able parcel delivery in areas operate in the Ivory Coast, entrusting their parcels to project in two areas of the with no reliable transport our aim is to be present in trustworthy neighbours. Ile-de-France region in infrastructure. 15 African countries in the October 2017. Following next five years.” We participated in this success, with a 15% Our digital solution Le Groupe La Poste’s increase in ‘first delivery’ connects formal and in“20 projects for 2020” success rate and a 75% formal transport actors, initiative, and as one drop in parcels returned to tracking the exchange and of the chosen projects, the post office compared delivery of post and parwe received financial to standard delivery, cels all the way from the backing from the group we will roll out an extended sender to the recipient. and benefited from pilot in September 2018.” We ensure security in parits expertise through cel transactions through mentoring programmes. an innovative, patented The great thing about it operating mobile app and was that it allowed us to methodology, offering the tap into a huge network best possible user expeof professionals willing rience, including customer to help: a wide range notification, real-time parof La Poste’s employees cel tracking and secure colhelped us strengthen our lection. project by sharing insights 44 45 Innovative entrepreneurship We empower social entrepreneurs We support external entrepreneurship DPDgroup supports social entrepreneurs who think Interview DPDgroup provides support to innovative external entrepreneurs, through a mutually beneficial logic. Our aim is outside the box to solve social challenges through our to help local entrepreneurs develop their projects through a range of actions, such as providing special rates or longstanding partnership with Ashoka, the largest glofree shipping services, granting awards or financial support, and enabling skills sponsorship. bal network of social entrepreneurs. Ashoka’s aim is to enable everyone to be a changema“After seven years of close collaboration, ker by supporting social entrepreneurs and accelerating DPDgroup has decided to make change through collaboration In 2017, DPDgroup and its partnership with Ashoka a core DPD Slovakia Ashoka renewed their partnership for a further three component of its CSR programme. at the Via Bona Festival years. The partnership has a strong relationship with This is a clear sign that the group DPDgroup’s core business. Together, we: now sees social innovation not just Thanks to its involvement in supporting small as a philanthropic act but as a real businesses and start-ups, DPD Slovakia was • Help social entrepreneurs in finding solutions to growth opportunity and a way to drive invited to join the jury of the Via Bona Festival, workforce inclusion, social cohesion, urbanisation, employee engagement. awarding responsible businesses. The prize local economic development, and low-carbon of Excellent Employer, was presented by related models; DPDgroup and Ashoka are embarking DPD Slovakia’s CEO, Peter Pavuk. on a new journey, and at its centre • Support social entrepreneurs facing logistical challenges. is an ambition for Ashoka to play an active role in the group’s societal DPDgroup is committed to selecting and supporting transformation efforts. I am confident at least three Ashoka Fellows financially between 2017 that we’re only at the beginning of a and 2019. fruitful and long-lasting partnership!” DPD Poland In parallel, Ashoka will organise six discovery sessions Partner of the E(x)plory programme focused in fostering inspiration and collective innovation aimed at DPDgroup employees across For the second year running, DPD Polska diverse entities and departments in Europe. The aim is Jean-Marc Guesné supported the E(x)plory 2017 competition, to encourage employees to embrace the potential of a unique initiative that promotes science Director of Ashoka France and innovation and supports young talented social innovation and develop co-creation opportunities with social entrepreneurs. scientists and innovators. This year’s awards were won by the creators of an electronic support system for beekeepers and a student who developed a herbal medicine to help treat cancer. DPD Lithuania and DPD Croatia empower local E-commerce entrepreneurs DPD Lithuania DPD Croatia is the principal sponsor of the country’s is an active member of the country’s first largest E-commerce event. Beyond financial E-commerce Association. DPD Croatia support, DPD Lithuania empowers budding provides training on the company’s social entrepreneurs by sharing valuable advice, accounts to up-and-coming businesses, and industry news, insights on emerging trends helps them to achieve media coverage. and much more. 46 47 Closer communities As a delivery expert, DPDgroup connects closely to Our committed people offer voluntarily their time, local communities on a daily-basis we have a unique skills and resources to support communities and grow opportunity to support the communities in which we together. Closer work. Our ambition is to make a positive contribution to the communities DPDgroup employees are able to put forward local communities we are the closest to. projects that are important to them. How? We support communities in two ways: Using our delivery and Solidarity Employee Sharing our time, passion logistic expertise to transport commitment and skills to back local support local initiatives communities 48 49 Closer communities Solidarity transport Using our delivery and logistic expertise to support communities where we operate Netherlands Driving with « Victor safe » 2,000 beneficiaries At the beginning of the new schoolyear, DPD Netherlands took part in the fight Estonia for road safety through the Victor Food for zoo animals Safe project. The project is to focus the attention of drivers on the safety 12 tons of leftover crops delivered of children playing on the streets by using bright yellow dolls. DPD’s drivers played their part by setting up the dolls Since 2012, DPD Estonia has been at strategic places along their routes. collecting leftover crops from farmers all over Estonia and delivering them to Tallinn Zoo, allowing farmers to eliminate food waste in a responsible manner. Farmers are also encouraged to specifically grow the crops for the animals. In 2017, animals benefitted from 12 tons of food. Portugal Switzerland Latvia Angel Tree Programme Selling and delivering oranges for the Heat the heart by warming paws wellbeing of children around the world 1,200 gifts donated to the Salvation 2.4 tons of goods delivered to Army and underprivileged children 38 tons of oranges delivered animal shelters Chronopost Portugal supported the For the fifth year in a row, DPD In 2017, DPD Latvia supported a number Salvation Army by delivering gifts to Switzerland worked with Terre des of animal shelters by doing, free of underprivileged children for Christmas. Hommes, the leading Swiss child relief charge, what it does best: delivering. The initiative allowed gifts to be doagency. DPD Switzerland supported the DPD couriers collected donations such nated via the “Angel Tree Programme” transport and sale of oranges to raise as food, blankets, toys and much more and sent to a Chronopost Pickup point. funds for the organisation. In 2017, it all over Latvia. People participating in The gifts were then collected and delidelivered approximately 38 tons of the initiative had the option of choosing vered to the Salvation Army. 26 of the oranges. The money raised will bring any of the country’s animal shelters as donors were group employees. access to medical care, nutrition and the beneficiary of their donations. hygiene to thousands of children. 50 51 Closer communities Employee commitment Sharing our time, passion and skills to support communities Ireland Czech Republic Access to employment Good heart 5 participating employees 9 participating employees Helping individuals find work. At DPD Czech Republic, employees can request grants for the initiatives for which In September 2017, DPD Ireland began a they volunteer. Selected projects are partnership with Seetec, an organisation granted a subsidy from DPD. that supports people in finding work by providing them with employability advice Beyond endorsing social causes, DPD and guidance. Through this initiative, DPD Czech Republic also encourages employee Ireland offers work opportunities and volunteerism and allows workers to placements to people who are receiving have their say regarding the company’s government welfare support. contribution to society. and Germany Hungary France Rest-cent Supporting people with disabilities Partnership with “Laurette Fugain” Slovenia 200 participating employees 200 participating employees 330 participating employees Gifts for hospitalised children DPD Germany launched a “Rest-Cent” Three people with disabilities Engaging employees in the fight against 430 children in hospital received initiative, giving every employee the gained access to work. leukaemia. Christmas gifts opportunity to donate the number of Through its four-year sponsorship of the cents after the decimal point of their Chronopost France & GeoPost/DPDgroup For Christmas, DPD Slovenia invited all Hand to Hand Foundation, DPD Hungary net salary to the charity of their choice. supports the Laurette Fugain Association, employees to donate gifts for children is providing work opportunities to people DPD’s employees raised €4,000 in 2017. an organisation fighting leukaemia. In 2017, in hospital, and organised the delivery of with disabilities. It organises training Employees can choose to make an Chronopost organised several initiatives the gifts to 430 children in four hospitals twice a year to help them understand the additional monthly donation, which can to raise awareness among its employees across Slovenia. Employees also orgabusiness world, and shares employment be cancelled at any time. and support the organisation’s patients. nised a Christmas play and visits of Santa opportunities within the company. DPD The employees of DPDgroup head particiClaus in each hospital, who gave the childhas become a reference for this initiative pated on a sport challenge to raise 14 000 ren their presents. in Hungary. Three people benefitted from euros for the leukaemia research. the scheme in 2017. 52 53 DPDgroup in a nutshell 54 55 DrivingChange in a nutshell Smart urban delivery Carbon neutral commitment 2017 Key Figures Key figures Average age Pickup points in Of CO2emissions per parcel in 2017 4.94 of fleet (vs 5.07 32,000 Europe (vs 28,000 -11.2% (vs.2013) in 2016) in 2016) Of our transport emissions offset in 2017 The fleet renewal allowed 100% (912,731 tCO2e) -2% -6% kg PM kg NOx a decrease in local pollutants per km per km (2016 vs 2017) in the sector on the voluntary #1 offset market 2017 Actions • The addition of 2,000 • The launch of an internal 7 Offset projects supported vehicles complying with working group dedicated Euro 6 standard to urban logistics Ambition Actions Pilot and deploy smart urban delivery solutions throughout • The creation of Carbon • Committed to the Science our 19 European Business Units Fund of 500,000€ in 2017 for Based Targets. all business units to deploy carbon reduction initiatives. Ambition Innovative entrepreneurship Set a new Science Based carbon reduction target and maintain our leadership in carbon neutrality. Key figures Closer community Social entrepreneurs from the Ashoka network 9 empowered by DPDgroup since 2014 Key figures 56,799 Distance travelled by solidarity transport KM 2 Intrapreneurs supported financially in 2017 530 Number of organisations supported European Business Units have an innovation 100% Champion Employer of choice 35,626 Employee participation Key figures Actions Actions Actions • Employees empowerment programme DPDgroup has extended its partnership with Ashoka DPDgroup trained 65% of through to 2019 • New actions identified by • Around 50% of the (DNA) has been implemented in 6 countries 65% its employees, representing employees in BUs allowed us to initiatives carried out 45,168 training days in total. support 96 community initiatives. last year have been • GeoPost has updated its Code of Business • 100% of Business Units had renewed in 2017 Conduct with a section dedicated to the Ambition detection and the prevention of corruption. Closer Community initiatives 78% Staff are on permanent Implement innovative entrepreneurship programme contracts. to foster social innovation and intrapreneurship Ambition Business Units have imFurther increase the level of involvement of our delivery 100% plemented our code of experts in local communities initiatives. business conduct. 56 57 About this report This is DPDgroup’s second Corporate Social Responsibility report. This report covers 19 business units across Europe, all under full ownership of DPDgroup. The current coverage represents 91.3 % of DPDgroup parcel volumes. We are working on a progressive inclusion of other business units fully owned or under financial control to the DrivingChange programme. Unless otherwise stated, this report only includes information related to 2017. DPDgroup operates under the following brand names: Chronopost, SEUR, DPD and BRT. The information in this report has been gathered through reporting tools, documented information and internal and external stakeholder interviews. Please direct questions on this report or topics related to our corporate social responsibility programme to drivingchange@dpdgroup.com Find our CSR indicators on www.dpdgroupdrivingchange.com 58 59 Parcel delivery network of 26, rue Guynemer 92130 Issy Les Moulineaux, France drivingchange@dpdgroup.com | dpdgroup.com
