UNLEASHING VALUE 2017 Activity Report UNLEASHING VALUE As we transform our business, we are working with our customers, partners and suppliers to drive productivity, efficiency and resilience into everything we do. The result: superior innovative and sustainable mobility solutions that create better ways to move the world. 2017 OVERVIEW $16.2B $1.4B 69,500 REVENUES 1 INVESTMENT IN EMPLOYEES 3 PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT 2 Corporate Profile On the Cover With over 69,500 employees across four business segments, Bombardier is a global leader in the Global 7000 aircraft transportation industry, creating innovative and game-changing planes and trains. Our products and ZEFIRO very high speed train services provide world-class transportation experiences that set new standards in passenger comfort, energy efficiency, reliability and safety. Opposite Page AVENTRA train Headquartered in Montréal, Canada, Bombardier has production and engineering sites in 28 countries across the segments of Transportation, Business Aircraft, Commercial Aircraft and Aerostructures and Engineering Services. 1. For fiscal year 2017. 2. Program tooling and R&D expense. As at December 31, 2017. 3. As at December 31, 2017. Includes Product Development Engineering, Corporate Office and other employees. All financial figures in this report are in U.S. dollars unless otherwise stated. Contents 2 President's Message 4 About Bombardier 6 Global Mobility 7 Our Performance 8 Strategy 10 Product Innovation 18 Operational Efficiency 20 Our People 22 Health, Safety and Environment 24 Corporate Citizenship 26 Governance 28 Notes BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT 1 PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE OUR TRANSFORMATION IS HITTING ITS STRIDE “ Bombardier is an extraordinary company. Our people and our products can be found in more than a hundred countries around the globe. Every three seconds, a Bombardier built airplane takes off somewhere ” in the world. Every day, more than 500 million people rely on our trains to carry them quickly and safely to their destinations. In capital cities and financial centres This year marks the mid-point of Beyond the C Series partnership, we see around the world, our products connect Bombardier’s five year turnaround plan; tremendous value creation opportunities people, support global commerce a plan designed to return Bombardier across our portfolio. We have strong and make urban development more to its position as one of the world’s franchises that are well positioned in sustainable. At Bombardier, we are leading industrial companies. Over the growth markets. helping to move the world forward by past two years we have made great We are reenergizing and refocusing designing, building and servicing the progress. Our foundation has been reset our attention on our regional platforms – most innovative and eco-efficient and we are now focused on execution the Q400 and CRJ Series regional jets. planes and trains. And, we are doing it and responsible growth. Our global rail business is poised for responsibly, ethically and profitably. There were many notable achievements growth with a more efficient and We strive to apply our approach and across Bombardier in 2017, including optimized footprint, a $34 billion backlog our high standards to every decision our strategic partnership with Airbus on and a world-class portfolio of rolling we make, everywhere we operate. Our the C Series program. This partnership stock, signalling and services solutions. results clearly show that our approach is expected to more than double the value We have one of the best business aircraft is working. We are executing on of the program. The global scale, strong franchises in the world, which will become our growth programs and our strategic customer relationships and operational even stronger when the all-new, classinitiatives; and we are delivering on expertise Airbus brings to the partnership defining Global 7000 enters service our financial commitments. are key ingredients for unleashing the later this year. And, we have world-class full value of the C Series program and ensuring that our remarkable aircraft realizes its full potential. 2015 2016 2017 OUR PATH FORWARD PHASE 1 DE-RISK Liquidity and Programs At mid-point of our 5-year turnaround, we are confident PHASE 2 that the structural elements are now in place to deliver on our 2020 financial goals. 2 BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT Alain Bellemare President and Chief Executive Officer research, design and manufacturing Bombardier’s Activity Report reaffirms I am incredibly proud of what the capabilities in our Aerostructures and our engagement towards the United Bombardier team accomplished over the Engineering organization. Nations Global Compact. It highlights past year and very excited about the our commitment to sustainability and opportunities ahead of us. Of course, In the years ahead, we see strong demand our leadership in the areas of product none of this would be possible without for more efficient trains and planes to innovation, operational efficiency, talent the unmatched dedication, talent and better connect the world. This will be development, corporate citizenship, integrity of our 69,500 employees driven by continued urbanization and governance, as well as our continuous around the world. Together, we’re middle class expansion. Bombardier is well dedication to ensuring a healthy and safe embracing change; overcoming positioned to respond to this demand. environment everywhere we do business. challenges; and applying a standard of The investments we’ve made in We focus on these areas because we excellence to all that we do to better technology and innovation give us the fundamentally believe they are necessary serve all our stakeholders. right product portfolio. The strategic elements for our future success and As demonstrated with our performance, moves we’re making will ensure we can to maintaining our position as a world we have the right team, the right unleash the full value of this portfolio. leader in rail solutions; a world leader in strategy and the ability to execute and And, the strong leadership team we’ve business and regional aircraft; a strategic achieve the goals of our turnaround assembled will make sure we do it the partner in commercial aerospace; and, plan and to unleash the full value of the right way; focusing on the highest ethical a leading aerostructures supplier. Bombardier portfolio. standards, on corporate citizenship and on environmental leadership. AT MIDPOINT, WE HAVE A 2018 CLEAR PATH 2019 2020 FORWARD ▼ BUILD THROUGH TRANSFORMATION Earnings and Cash Flow PHASE 3 DE-LEVERAGE Balance Sheet BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT 3 ABOUT BOMBARDIER GLOBAL TRANSPORTATION LEADERSHIP Based in Montréal, Canada, Bombardier is the world’s leading manufacturer of both planes and trains, with production and engineering sites in 28 countries and a global network of service centres. Our business segments consist of Business Aircraft, Commercial Aircraft, Aerostructures and Engineering Services, and Transportation – each focused on delivering efficient and sustainable solutions. Global 7000 aircraft CS300 aircraft BUSINESS AIRCRAFT COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT We skillfully design, develop, manufacture, market and We design, develop and manufacture a broad portfolio of provide aftermarket support for three class-leading families commercial aircraft in the 60to 150-seat segments, including of business jets – Learjet, Challenger and Global. Our business the CRJ700, CRJ900 and CRJ1000 regional jets as well as the jet portfolio spans from the light to the large categories. clean-sheet C Series mainline jets and the Q400 turboprops. With more than 4,700 aircraft in service, Business Aircraft We provide aftermarket services for these aircraft as well as has developed an extensive service and support network of for the 20to 59-seat segment. There are approximately 2,300 service facilities worldwide. of our aircraft currently in service. > Light business jets > Specialized aircraft > Single-aisle jets > Turboprops > Medium business jets > Aftermarket services > Regional jets > Aftermarket services > Large business jets 10,200 $5.0B $14.0B 5,125 $2.4B 433 EMPLOYEES 1 REVENUES 2 ORDER BACKLOG 3 EMPLOYEES 1 REVENUES2 ORDER BACKLOG (IN UNITS)3 Revenues Revenues $ billions $ billions >8.5 ~5.0 7.0 5.7 5.0 >5.0 2.4 2.6 2.4 ~2.7 GUIDANCE OBJECTIVE GUIDANCE OBJECTIVE 2015 2016 2017 2018 4,5 2020 4,5 2015 2016 2017 2018 4,5 2020 4,5,6 1. As at December 31, 2017, including contractual and inactive employees. Some 4,300 Product Development Engineering, Corporate office and other employees are not allocated to a reportable segment. 2. For fiscal year 2017. 3. As at December 31, 2017. 4. Forward-looking statement. Refer to Forward-looking Statements at the end of this report. 5. Financial guidance for 2018 and objec­tives for 2020 are under IFRS 15. 6. After the closing of its C Series partnership with Airbus, Bombardier will deconsolidate the C Series program. This change is not reflected in the 2020 objective. 4 BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT ● Headquarters ■ Countries with production and engineering sites C Series wing assembly OMNEO Electric Multiple Unit AEROSTRUCTURES AND ENGINEERING SERVICES TRANSPORTATION We offer complete and innovative aerostructure solutions to We offer an end-to-end portfolio of high-performing and both Bombardier and other original equipment manufacturers; innovative solutions in the rail industry. Transportation covers from fuselages and wings to cockpits and engine nacelles. the full spectrum of rail solutions, ranging from global mobility Our capabilities span design, build, integration, and aftermarket solutions to a variety of trains and sub-systems, services, services for these complex metallic and advanced composite system integration and signalling to suit the needs of the structural components. market. We have production, engineering and service centres around the world. > Aerostructures > System components > Rail vehicles > Operations > Engineering solutions > Aftermarket services > Signalling > Systems > Components > Services 10,025 $1.6B $87M 39,850 $8.5B $34.4B EMPLOYEES 1 REVENUES 2 EXTERNAL EMPLOYEES 1 REVENUES2 ORDER BACKLOG 3 ORDER BACKLOG 3 Revenues Revenues $ billions $ billions >2.25 >10.0 ~2.0 8.3 8.5 ~9.0 1.8 7.6 1.5 1.6 GUIDANCE OBJECTIVE GUIDANCE OBJECTIVE 2015 2016 2017 2018 4,5 2020 4,5 2015 2016 2017 2018 4,5 2020 4,5 1. As at December 31, 2017, including contractual and inactive employees. Some 4,300 Product Development Engineering, Corporate office and other employees are not allocated to a reportable segment. 2. For fiscal year 2017. 3. As at December 31, 2017. 4. Forward-looking statement. Refer to Forward-looking Statements at the end of this report. 5. Financial guidance for 2018 and objectives for 2020 are under IFRS 15. BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT 5 GLOBAL MOBILITY TRANSFORMING THE WORLD Our vision is to create better ways to transform how millions of people get around every day, by train and by plane. We endorse the United Nations' 17 Sustainable Development Goals and our efforts and activities mostly support three of them: #11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities, #13 – Climate Action, and #17 – Partnerships for the Goals. CREATING MOBILITY DESIGNING FOR LEADING THE SOLUTIONS THE ENVIRONMENT CONVERSATION Meeting global aspirations for mobility, In a world of carbon-conscious travel We recognize the important role we have the potential to improve the and resource constraints, we are focused we play to work together through lives and livelihoods of billions of people on product innovations that meet and partner­ships that advance the sustainable – their health, their environment, and exceed our customer expectations for the mobility goals. We continue to take a their quality of life. For us, this means most sustainable and high-performing leadership role within the rail and providing advanced products that solutions in the market. Our industryaero­space industry working in collabo­ enable access to people irrespective of leading eco-design processes ensure ration with various associations to backgrounds, social status, generation we embed an environmental mindset help solve the world’s ever-growing and physical abilities. at all phases of our product innovation need for mobility through innovation. life­cycle to offer a broad portfolio of high-performance products with best-inclass energy efficiency. CS100 aircraft 6 BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT OUR PERFORMANCE MEASURING OUR PROGRESS We are committed to providing accurate and transparent information about how we are performing as a business. The following table1 provides a brief summary of the indicators we track to measure our performance every year, covering both financial and non-financial information. FINANCIAL 2017 2016 2015 (in millions of dollars, unless otherwise indicated) (for fiscal years) Revenues 16,218 16,339 18,172 EBIT margin 1.5% (0.4%) (26.6%) Cash flows from operating activities 531 137 20 Investment in product development 2 1,366 1,362 1,966 Available short-term capital resources 3 4,225 4,477 4,014 SOCIAL Incident rate 1 1.3 1.6 1.7 Fatalities 0 1 1 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements (%) 56 56 57 Turnover rate (%) 10.8 11.5 9.7 Employee productivity (in thousands of dollars) 233 246 257 Diversity (% women) 19 19 18 ENVIRONMENTAL Energy intensity (GJ per million of dollars of revenue)1 271 270 259 GHG emission intensity (tCO2e per million of dollars of revenue)1 17 17 17 Renewable electricity (thousands of GJ) 701 718 747 Valorized waste (% total waste generated, hazardous and non hazardous) 81 78 76 Share Price 4 Employee Productivity Energy Consumption $ per share $ thousands millions of GJ 3.03 257 4.7 246 4.4 4.4 233 2.16 1.34 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 1. Refer to Our Performance section on our website for more detailed information and definitions of indicators. 2. Program tooling and R&D expense. 3. Defined as cash and cash equivalents plus the amount available under the revolving credit facilities. 4. Class B shares, in Canadian dollars. As at December 31. BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT 7 STRATEGY OUR PATH FORWARD This year, we made significant progress on our five-year turnaround plan, positioning us well to drive performance and profitable growth. To achieve business success, we take a long-term sustainability view. Doing so helps us improve our practices, develop superior innovative products, adapt to climate change and create positive change in society. EVOLVING TRENDS AND RISKS We regularly track the potential risks that could affect our business.1 These risks inform our business strategies and guide our decisions to ensure we build and strengthen a sustainable business for the future. Various sustainability related risks are shaping our operating environment, including: AVENTRA Electric Multiple Unit Talent Attraction Customer Product Health, Safety and Climate Change Employment market compe­ Innovations Environment (HSE) With increasing frequency tition is fierce for highly To remain competitive we Requirements and severity of weatherqualified and talented must develop, design and Our products, manufacturing related events, we could resources. This could impact improve our products in ways and service activities are experience disruptions to our ability to develop skills, that address and adapt to subject to legislation that our operations, impacts on retain employees and recruit changing customer needs may impact our operating the availability and cost of a skilled workforce. We have and global trends such as costs, including safety, materials, product operational placed an emphasis on hiring urbanization, changing greenhouse gas emissions, air, impacts, and damage to and developing top talent, demographics, and climate and noise pollution. Anchored infrastructure or properties. while working hard to ensure change. We engage with by our strict HSE policy and Our robust operations our employees are both our customers to understand preventive culture, we are management frameworks, engaged and enabled. their needs and tailor our operating to high standards supplier selection strategies, products and services to meet of HSE across the business. eco-design, and business a changing business context. continuity programs allow us to minimize these risks. 1. Refer to our 2017 Financial Report for complete description of risks and opportunities. 8 BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT UNLEASHING VALUE Our 2020 Goals1 $20B+ $2.25B+ $750M–$1B REVENUES EBITDA FREE CASH FLOW Our Execution Focus Areas Driving Value Creation HEALTH, PRODUCT OPERATIONAL OUR SAFETY AND CORPORATE INNOVATION EFFICIENCY PEOPLE ENVIRONMENT CITIZENSHIP GOVERNANCE Our Foundation CODE OF ETHICS CORE UN GLOBAL COMPACT AND BUSINESS CONDUCT VALUES PRINCIPLES Our Business Model To create a stronger, more sustainable As we build and strengthen our business, This report highlights our six execution business, we are directing our efforts in our ability to unleash value will be realized focus areas, describing relevant policies, six areas – product innovations, oper­a­ by achieving our 2020 strategic plan controls and programs in place to tional efficiency, our people, health, safety objectives and seizing the opportunities address emerging trends and potential and environment, corporate citizenship to make a meaningful difference in risks. It also provides information on and governance. Underpinning these society. Doing so, we will create a the progress we are making as we focus areas are our core values – integrity, stronger more sustainable business for navigate towards our 2020 objectives. commitment to excellence, customer the long-term. orientation and shareholder focus – as well as our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. 1. Forward-looking statement. Refer to Forward-looking Statements at the end of this report. BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT 9 PRODUCT INNOVATION DELIVERING PRODUCT INNOVATIONS Since our inception, we have built a legacy of leadership in category-defining mobility solutions. To meet evolving customer requirements and societal needs, we continue to invest in product development and new mobility innovations, focusing on eco-design, safety and technologically advanced solutions. LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE BUILT ON TECHNOLOGICALLY IN ECO-DESIGN CORE SAFETY ADVANCED SOLUTIONS We are incorporating the latest technology Providing safe and reliable products is To remain at the forefront, we are evolving and taking a pioneering approach to at the heart of everything we do, and our products with new capabilities designing the most innovative air and integral to the product safety culture we driven by big data and cloud computing rail products. Through our EcoDesign are embedding across the organization. to enable real-time monitoring and approach, we are investing in new fuel remote handling. Through R&D projects, Our Design for Safety guides us to ensure cell and battery technology for rail we are developing more electric aircraft we evaluate and address the safety of transportation and exploring the use of systems and studying autonomous our products throughout their lifecycle. sustainable alternative fuels in aerospace. flight capabilities by testing advanced We apply rigorous testing prior to aircraft configurations. Further advancements are also being entry-into-service. Once in service, we made to eliminate hazardous materials, work closely with our customers to In rail, we are designing interconnected use energy efficiently, and ensure the ensure the safe usability of our products, and integrated transportation systems recyclability and recoverability of our and maintenance of our equipment is with smarter sensors to provide better products at the end of their useful life. conducted in accordance with the relevant predictive insights on fleet operation. safety requirements. Virtual test runs are also improving the development of future advanced models to operate in a highly connected world. 10 BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT DISCOVER OUR RAIL AND AEROSPACE PRODUCT INNOVATIONS > CS100 aircraft INNOVIA Monorail 300 Challenger 650 aircraft BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT 11 PRODUCT INNOVATION > Transportation As a global rail technology leader, we are shaping the future with the most A FUTURE-READY SUSTAINABLE innovative and best performing products in an increasingly competitive, RAIL PORTFOLIO technology-driven and environmentally conscious world. Our goal is to lead the way and make sustainable transportation a reality for all. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS $34.4B 20% 500M BACKLOG 1 TO INCREASE IN PASSENGERS MOVED IMPROVE GLOBAL ORDER INTAKE EVERY DAY RAIL MOBILITY ACROSS ALL PRODUCT SEGMENTS 2 With the industry’s broadest portfolio of Addressing Urban Congestion Laurent Troger world-class rolling stock, signalling and services Our rail products – including monorails, people President, Transportation solutions, we are leading the next generation movers, metros, and light rail vehicles – are of sustainable transportation. We are focused helping cities increase capacity for fast, on leveraging our scale, technology and efficient and comfortable urban transport. “With more than 100,000 knowledge to drive profitable growth in the rail cars and locomotives Our products and services are benefiting years to come. delivered around the many emerging economies. In 2017, we globe, we are moving signed contracts for our driverless INNOVIA 500 million passengers Enabling Interconnected Travel Monorail 300 system for two rapid lines in every day and working The rail industry is reinventing itself to take a Bangkok, expected to ease congestion and with more than 500 more modern, green and innovative place in improve the commute for more than 400,000 customers in 70 different the future of cities and communities. To play people every day. countries. That’s our our part, we are building digital platforms and credibility – providing a developing partnerships to create a highly unique experience and Driving Sustainable Regional Travel connected, secure and seamless passenger long-term strategic Strong orders for our Electric Multiple Units experience. Our recently-developed goJoe app partnerships with most (EMU) in 2017 confirm the growing demand for enables travelers to find and reserve a seat, eco-friendly inter-regional and region-to-city of our customers.” check connections, receive upcoming transfers connections. OMNEO EMUs feature several and even alert train staff of emergencies. of our ECO4 technologies reducing energy consumption and CO2 emissions, as well as advanced aerodynamics. They are also made of 95% recyclable materials. Order Intake by Region for fiscal years; $ billions NEW ENERGY-SAVING ■ Rest of World PROPULSION TECHNOLOGY ■ Asia-Pacific ■ North America Our innovative rail technologies are ■ Europe breaking new ground in sustainable 12.6 mobility. Recently, we celebrated the successful demonstration of a new 10.2 silicon carbide (SiC)-equipped 8.8 8.8 8.5 MITRAC TC 1500 traction converter enabling up to 35% energy reductions on Stockholm's C20 metro. C20 metro 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1. As of December 31, 2017. 2. Compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. 12 BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT PRODUCT INNOVATION > Business Aircraft Our ability to re-imagine business aviation in an interconnected world is WELL POSITIONED WITH A STRONG positioning us well for the future. With class-leading technologies, we are PRODUCT AND embedding sustainability designs to support the transition to cleaner SERVICES PORTFOLIO fuels and meet current and future customer needs. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS $14.0B 140 4 INDUSTRY-LEADING AIRCRAFT AIRCRAFT SUCCESSFULLY BACKLOG 1 DELIVERIES TESTED ON SUSTAINABLE ALTERNATIVE JET FUELS Our line of Learjet, Challenger and Global Driving Fuel Efficiency Performance David Coleal aircraft is the most comprehensive in the Our aircraft are built to deliver best-in-class fuelPresident, Business Aircraft industry. Our focus is on maximizing our efficiency performance. Notably, the re-designed share of new demand, pursuing aftermarket canted winglets of our Challenger 350 reduce growth strategies, and ensuring our products fuel burn by up to 2% compared to the previous “Our leading product portfolio, are ready to support industry objectives model. Furthermore, our Global 7000 aircraft aftermarket strategy, and emission reduction on emissions reductions. thrust engines require 8% less fuel burn and capabilities will propel us offer reduced NOX emissions.2,3 forward for future growth. Personalizing the Customer Experience With an unrivalled focus We are on track to deliver our all-new Advancing Alternative-Fuel Flights on customer satisfaction, Global 7000 aircraft.2 As the world's largest In 2017, we successfully tested sustainable we are driven towards purpose–built business jet, the Global 7000 alternative jet fuels (SAJF) on our demon­ productivity and efficiency.” is unique in spaciousness, luxurious comfort stration fleet, consisting of the Learjet 75, and highly personalized design flexibility, all Challenger 350, Challenger 650 and while delivering an exceptionally smooth ride. Global 6000 aircraft. We also continued to support more than 4,700 customers through our aftermarket growth strategy. In 2017, we opened two new service centres in London and Tianjin, and invested in additional product and service capabilities. Deliveries by Category for fiscal years; in units INDUSTRY ■ Light COLLABORATION ■ Medium ■ Large Working through the GAMA4 Environment Committee and in 204 199 collaboration with industry associations, 180 we are also working with an industry 163 coalition to promote the usage 140 of sustainable alternative jet fuels in business aviation. Challenger 350 aircraft 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1. As at December 31, 2017. 2. Product under development. Refer to Disclaimer at the end of this report. 3. Compared to competing engines in its class. 4. General Aviation Manufacturers Association. BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT 13 PRODUCT INNOVATION > Commercial Aircraft As a key player in the aviation industry, we are leading the way with DEVELOPING INNOVATIVE new solutions aimed at minimizing the impact of our products on SUSTAINABLE the environment. Our C Series family of aircraft is a testament of our AIRCRAFT commitment to a more sustainable future for aviation. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS Historic 1.0 First PARTNERSHIP WITH BOOK-TO-BILL RATIO 1 AND ONLY AIRCRAFT AIRBUS FOR WITH ORDERS MANUFACTURER C SERIES PROGRAM ACROSS THREE TO RECEIVE EPDs AIRCRAFT FAMILIES Our broad range of single-aisle commercial Our ability to capture future market share is Fred Cromer aircraft includes the C Series, CRJ Series enhanced by our recent partnership with President, Commercial Aircraft and Q400 aircraft. Developing advanced Airbus that brings together an extensive sales, commercial aircraft underscores our unique marketing and procurement organization, as position in today’s marketplace. The replacement well as customer support services.2 Further “At Bombardier, we are of aging fleet, coupled with airline fleet demand for our Q400 and CRJ Series aircraft bringing to market optimization and fuel efficiency strategies is also looks positive in regional markets in innovative, sustainable expected to drive our business prospects Asia and Europe and set to grow with the aircraft that meet and for future growth.2 replacement cycle in North America.2 exceed our customer expectations. Doing so positions us well for Shaping a More Sustainable Future Meeting International Aviation Standards future growth, as profit for Aviation Through new technology, we are helping the maximization, fuel The C Series aircraft are at the forefront of aviation industry to meet its commitment to efficiency and environ­ technological advancement – they integrate a 50% reduction in carbon emissions from mental performance lighter materials, more than 20% fuel 2005 levels by 2050. In 2017, we received an become key drivers of burn advantage, and more than 10% unit Environmental Product Declaration (EPD) for airline fleet decisions.” cost advantage compared to similarly-sized the CS300, just one year after receiving one re-engined aircraft. Today, the C Series are for our CS100 aircraft. The EPDs demonstrate proving to be up to 3% more fuel efficient how we reduce the environmental impacts than the 20% advantage originally advertised, at all stages of the aircraft life. Today, our depending on the flight duration. game-changing C Series airliners already fully meet ICAO’s new CO2 emissions standard. Deliveries by Category3 for fiscal years; in units REDEFINING CABIN DESIGN ■ Commercial Jets ■ Turboprops Every inch of the CRJ Series ■ Regional Jets new ATMOSPHÈRE cabin has been carefully considered 84 86 to maximize efficiency. The 73 73 CRJ Series interior features larger bins, the largest windows 55 in its class and the first and only regional jet lavatory designed for passengers with reduced mobility. CRJ Series ATMOSPHÈRE cabin interior 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1. Ratio of net orders received over aircraft deliveries, in units. 2. Forward-looking statement. Refer to Forward-looking Statements at the end of this report. 3. Included 3, 2, and 3 Amphibious aircraft deliveries in 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively. 14 BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT PRODUCT INNOVATION > Aerostructures and Engineering Services Our focus is on developing new technologies, delivering on-time and A WORLD-CLASS EXPERTISE achieving costs savings to drive competitiveness of our current sustaining READY FOR programs and programs under development. GROWTH 2017 HIGHLIGHTS Launched Supported Won PRODUCTION OF C SERIES RAMP-UP CONTRACT WITH AIRBUS GLOBAL 7000 AS SUPPLIER OF NEW ENGINE COMPONENTS NACELLE PROGRAM We design and build structures such as every stage to produce the most sustainable Michael Ryan cockpits and all-composite wings for the and high-performing solutions, while mitigating President, Aerostructures and C Series aircraft program and the rear fuselage the risks of new technology integration. Engineering Services for the Global 7000 and Global 8000 aircraft. Meeting strict eco-design specifications has Through our aftermarket support, we also provide maintenance, repair and overhaul led us to develop some of the most advanced “We are growing momenstructures for the C Series aircraft, including tum on key value streams services for aircraft components made by us composite wings, cockpits and fuselage for Aerostructures, by and other manufacturers. sections, while using state-of-the-art robotic using innovative tech­ Our full breadth of Aerostructures and techniques. Notably, our composite wings, nologies and developing Engineering capabilities enables us to developed through patented technology, help ­existing capabilities to exploit a diverse global market that includes us deliver a best-in-class environmental embed high performance Bombardier and other aircraft and aerostruc­ scorecard for the aircraft. and environmental tures manufacturers. efficiency into our Delivering Improved Performance products and services.” Developing Advanced Aerostructures Building on existing capabilities, we are As a responsible developer of some of the leveraging our lesson-learned on other products. largest aerostructures, we adhere to a For example, the same patented technology strict product innovation lifecycle to ensure developed for the C Series is being used eco-design concepts are incorporated at to build a lighter horizontal stabilizer with improved aerodynamics for the Global 7000. CURRENT PRIORITIES RECOGNIZING ENVIRONMENTAL EXCELLENCE Continuing productivity and efficiency initiatives In 2017, our Aerostructures and Engineering Services’ Belfast site was recognized as a top performing organization in the annual Northern Driving C Series and Ireland Environmental Benchmarking Survey, Global 7000 ramp-up demonstrating the site’s commitment to envi­ron­mental excellence. Conducted by Business in the Community, the survey assesses the Diversifying level to which environmental practices are revenue streams embedded within corporate strategies and business operations. C Series wing assembly BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT 15 PRODUCT INNOVATION > Designing for Sustainable Mobility Our Product Innovation Lifecycle process ensures we take a holistic approach to creating economic, environmental and social benefits from the design and manufacture of our products to their end-of-life. This approach is aligned with global sustainable mobility goals for safe, efficient, accessible and environmentally-friendly rail and air transport solutions. 5 1 END-OF-LIFE DESIGN Bombardier Product Lifecycle 4 2 PRODUCT USE PRODUCTION 3 MANUFACTURING 1. DESIGN 2. SUPPLY CHAIN 3. MANUFACTURING 4. PRODUCT USE AND 5. END-OF-LIFE We consider safety, AND PRODUCTION AND TESTING MAINTENANCE We are working environment, accessi­ We undertake a We integrate health, We actively engage closely with industry bility and efficiency rigorous supplier safety and environment with our customers organizations, in the design phase of selection process to at every stage of to ensure a safe and researchers and our product lifecycle, ensure we source the the manufacturing accessible passenger suppliers to achieve enabling us to develop best materials and process, and conduct experience and the 100% recoverability innovative mobility technologies to bring rigorous product best environmental of all new products. solutions. our designs to life. testing to ensure performance. high performance. 16 BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY GOALS Universal Access Green Mobility Providing equitable and inclusive mobility for all to Reducing air and noise pollution and the impact support economic development and human well-being. of transport on climate change. Efficiency Safety Developing best-in-class, energy efficient, cleaner Ensuring safety and reliability is embedded and smarter mobility solutions. in all aspects of our product lifecycle. BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT 17 OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY DELIVERING ON OUR TRANSFORMATION Production of CRH1A-A high speed train for China Our solid, disciplined approach to accelerating operational excellence is making us stronger, leaner and more agile. Focusing on the entire value chain, we are optimizing our processes, reducing waste, and improving our resource efficiency, which in turn improves quality, and reduces our costs. HIGHLIGHTS Strengthening our Operational Foundation And, the third is to optimize inventories by To deliver on our five-year turnaround plan, improving material efficiency and reducing Reduced we are restructuring our business to pursue excellence from a functional perspective. This lead times. Together, these levers are helping us build the AIRCRAFT UNIT COST requires us to work together in a different way capabilities to effectively manage operating by developing cross-business improvements 50% capital and margins, reduce complexities that boost overall productivity and lower our in our business units, and drive economic working capital. OF SUPPLIER BASE efficiencies across our business. Through our STREAMLINED IN TRANSPORTATION Our efforts are focused on three key levers. continuous improvement culture, we plan to The first is to reorganize ourselves into accelerate operational excellence by creating Centres of Excellence (COEs) where we set and using disciplined processes to benefit our clear standards and leverage our scale to manufacturing and supply chain operations. share best practices. The second, is to partner within our supply chain to simplify our processes and consolidate suppliers. 18 BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT > CENTRES OF EXCELLENCE unit cost of our aircraft, which was driven To take advantage of our scale and maximize by the optimization of our supply chain, as well our extensive technical knowledge and as by the reduction of our manufacturing and RAILSPONSIBLE know-how, we are reorganizing ourselves into assembly costs. As we streamline our processes, DRIVING COEs – not just in manufacturing but also we continue to strengthen our capacity building SUSTAINABILITY in our human resources, finance, engineering with suppliers to ensure they meet our CONTINUOUS and procurement functions. Supplier Code of Conduct and comply with IMPROVEMENT relevant legislation, including regulations on Our COEs bring together cross-functional the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, teams working collaboratively to simplify our and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH). processes. For instance, in aerospace, complex subsystem COEs – like the one in Belfast for > INVENTORY MANAGEMENT C Series composite wings – will be positioned Our disciplined operational excellence close to engineering functions. At Transportation, approach also extends to how we manage our we plan to bring engineering together as inventories. Over the last year, we took action we reshape our product portfolio to better to regain momentum in our work-in-progress design and optimize rail solutions, while easing (WIP) inventory. These achievements were production at our manufacturing sites. made possible by rebalancing work, changing assembly sequence and reducing variability We are a founding member > SUPPLY CHAIN OPTIMIZATION in the process. of Railsponsible, an Working in collaboration with our suppliers, we industry-led initiative to made important progress last year consolidating Specifically, we are reducing lead times, support best practice our procurement processes and restructuring reconfiguring our assembly lines to take into sharing and capacity major contracts to create efficiencies and scale account high cost components and delivery building among rail the business. We’ve streamlined by half more points, and engaging suppliers to bring down suppliers and to promote than 10,000 suppliers within the transportation our material in stores. transparent reporting. business. Furthermore, in 2017, we reduced the Using a common assessment, suppliers report on sustainability practices to all Railsponsible members. In 2017, more than 600 railway industry suppliers agreed to take the assessment. Optimizing the Aircraft Assembly Process KEY PROGRESS INDICATORS PRIOR EBIT Global per workshare employee manpower ASSEMBLY PROCESS DELIVERY OPTIMIZED Our optimized process drives efficiency by: The result: Rebalancing work Changing installation sequence of major components WIP Reduction Aircraft Indirect unit spend cost Cash saved BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT 19 OUR PEOPLE ATTRACTING AND DEVELOPING THE BEST TALENT Bombardier pilots flying on the C Series aircraft We have extraordinary talent at Bombardier – the best in the business. To be successful in achieving our 2020 strategic goals, it’s critical that we unlock the full potential of our company and people, align our objectives and build on our high-performance culture. HIGHLIGHTS The Strength of our People our human resources dashboard to track Our 69,500 employees in over 46 countries workforce indicators, including diversity, 74% are the key to our success. Their commitment, motivation and talent are what makes it turnover and absenteeism. The dashboard allows us to measure trends PARTICIPATION RATE possible for us to deliver on our 2020 objectives. IN THE 2017 by business division and geographic regions ENGAGEMENT SURVEY We have a strong set of values, a culture based and provides our leaders with the information on performance and ethics and a focus on to develop actions, assess their impact and Reinforced talent and development. These things underpin our ambitions for the next phase of our continuously improve. SUCCESSION MANAGEMENT PROCESS turnaround plan. With all the foundational elements now in WITHIN EACH place, we are turning our focus on building the BUSINESS SEGMENT Embedding our High-Performance Culture capabilities we need to further deliver on our By building on our core principles and values, strategic goals. To do so, we will be working to we spent the past year following a clear incorporate continuous talent management, roadmap towards a high-performance culture. leadership development as well as succession We focused on linking our employees' planning capabilities across our business. daily activities to our strategy and reviewed 20 BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT > LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT > EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT > DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION AND SUCCESSION PLANNING In 2017, we launched a new approach to We are a global company operating in One of our competitive foundations engagement surveys globally. At halfway 46 countries, representing more than is to have great talent globally. To deliver through our turnaround plan, the survey 120 nationalities and 70 languages. on our 2020 strategic objectives, was pivotal in helping us gauge where Wherever we operate, and across every we follow an integrated Performance we are as a company and the ongoing part of our business, we strive to create Management Process. investment in our business trans­formation. a diverse and inclusive culture. This includes having a diversity of compe­ This process enables us to align our We now have a baseline to measure tencies, genders, ages, personal qualities, business strategies with employee goals, the impact of our employee engagement geographical representation, business competencies and behaviors, and ensure actions to achieve our business objectives, and cultural background, experience, and learning and development opportunities accelerate the turnaround, and give overall expertise. are optimized enabling us to become employees a direct voice to the manage­ world-class leaders and experts. ment team. From a gender perspective, we aspire to have at least 25% of management positions In 2017, a succession management process The survey reflected many strengths we held by women, as relevant positions was carried out within each business can continue to build on and opportunities become vacant and appropriately-skilled segment, through escalating talent review for making additional progress next year. candidates are available. At the end of sessions. In the coming year, we plan to Our leaders will work with their teams 2017, this ratio was of 19.4%, representing reinforce the process by strengthening to create relevant and measurable action a 0.6% increase since last year. our talent plans and accelerating the plans that are aligned with our business development of successors to enhance priorities and included in their 2018 their effectiveness, diversity, skills, personal objective plans. We will also knowledge, and leadership experience. ensure our work is aligned with business priorities and that we remain an agile organization that can anticipate and adapt quickly to changing circumstances. Leading Women in Aerospace and Rail We embrace the role of women in society, and promote gender diversity in the transportation sector. Within the aviation sector, we are a member of several diversity associations, including Women in Aviation International, and we offer scholarships to support the development of women in aviation. We are also a strong advocate of the Women in Rail community, and are active participants at conferences and work sessions to lead the conversation on practical ways for women to drive their careers forward. Employee at our Vadodara facility in India BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT 21 HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT LEADING AN HSE PREVENTIVE CULTURE LEADERSHIP AND ACCOUNTABILITY Management is accountable for, and demonstrates, HSE leadership STRONG HSE GOVERNANCE PRACTICE SHARING Strong and clear HSE experts management are coaches organization Our Long-term and influencers HSE Goals CONTINUOUS PREVENTIVE IMPROVEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT Leadership ensures Process continuous management improvement in place to through a set of proactively identify world-class KPIs and reduce risks Our vision is to be a leader in health, safety and environmental (HSE) preventive culture by building a common foundation of expectations for our people, limiting risks, and empowering every employee to take individual responsibility for creating a safe and environmentally-responsible workplace. HIGHLIGHTS Anchoring our Commitments Pursuing Long-term Goals With our company-wide transformation, To achieve our vision to be a leader in 34% we are taking a disciplined and systematic approach to HSE prevention. Our HSE policy HSE preventive culture, we defined five long-term goals that have united our focus INCIDENT RATE REDUCTION anchors our commitment to protect our across the business on: leadership and SINCE 2013 employees from occupational illnesses and accountability, strong governance, preventive work-related accidents, foster health in the risk management, HSE practice sharing, 8.2% workplace, and ensure we minimize the impact our activities have on the environment. and continuous improvement. By establishing a common set of HSE ENERGY REDUCTION SINCE 2013 Although we strive for zero harm, we regret expectations, the goals create greater that in early 2018, we experienced two consistency in our global practices, provide fatalities during our operations. Serious a benchmark to measure performance investigations are underway and the business and a platform to demonstrate leadership. continues to focus on our risk assessment Since rolling out our goals in 2013, we have process to ensure critical risks and activities made progress. Notably, we reduced our are effectively assessed. incident rate by 34%, standardized our health and safety risk assessments, and reduced our energy consumption by 8.2%. 22 BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT > LEADERSHIP AND ACCOUNTABILITY Our corporate executives alongside the business segment Presidents are embedding our HSE PREVENTING INCIDENTS preventive culture across the business. They Our STOP. THINK. ACT. awareness campaign regularly review our HSE performance during at Transportation encourages employees quarterly meetings, driving us to implement to observe potential risks and speak up to corrective actions, address business risks and report safety concerns. continuously improve our performance. Last year, we launched HSE preventive culture training programs to build the capacity of our managers to further embed our values and Incident Rate demonstrate HSE leadership. 2.0 2.0 1.7 > STRONG GOVERNANCE 1.6 Every year, we define strategic plans in line 1.3 with our aspirations to be a leader in HSE preventive culture. Performance against our plans is monitored on a regular basis with our leadership teams. Specifically, our corporate executives are formally tracking H&S incident 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Employee at our Crespin facility in France rates and energy consumption as part of their business scorecards. > PREVENTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT OPTIMIZING OUR ECO-EFFICIENCY We continuously improve our processes for Our environmental management teams are helping ensure we comply identifying and managing critical HSE risks. with all applicable legislation, while identifying opportunities to Standardized risk assessments are now deployed reduce costs and improve energy efficiency and resource optimization across our business, helping to strengthen in our operations and services. In 2017, we improved our energy HSE requirements in both existing and new and carbon efficiency from various building improvement projects. processes. Notably, last year, we enhanced our For example, improvements at our Toronto manufacturing facility are wayside rail safety directives, and reinforced being driven by our investments in energy-efficient technologies, HSE management of change during work including LED lighting, boiler upgrades, low CO 2 emitting IT equipment package transfers in Morocco. and modern air conditioning units. In 2018, we will define our next cycle of environmental objectives that > HSE PRACTICE SHARING will help reduce our environmental footprint, use resources more Developing the HSE competencies of our people efficiently, as well as drive greater efficiencies in our business and further is being achieved through monthly updates de-risk our value chain. that enable our HSE networks to share lessons learned, create synergies and build experiences Total energy on common issues and best practices. consumption ■ Energy consumption > CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT (millions of GJ) We have established formal processes to Revenue intensity (GJ/million dollars revenue) engage with our stakeholders to analyze trends on HSE performance, conduct internal audits, 271 264 259 270 241 and monitor compliance. These reviews help us continuously improve our HSE performance. 4.8 4.8 4.7 4.4 4.4 We also regularly conduct benchmarks against global peers, which has included a review of our HSE reporting and value creation approach. Global 7000 aircraft assembly 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT 23 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP SUPPORTING STRONGER COMMUNITIES As a global corporate citizen, we recognize the important responsibility we have to contribute to the health and well-being of the communities where we operate. We aim to make a meaningful difference by partnering with local organizations, supporting programs that have a long-term sustainable impact, and encouraging our employees to get involved. Understanding the Issues Many of the issues we face as a global community ●2 Promoting are often complex and interconnected – from high eco­­logical levels of unemployment to social disadvantages and awareness climate change. It’s a sensitive setting that requires of 1,500 students us to always think ahead to unite our community though No.9's investment efforts on the right priorities. ▲ 1 Imagining My Sustainable Promoting Our Community Investment Framework Community. STEM Education We aim to direct 1% of our annual earnings before tax through the in the support of a myriad of organizations around the First Robotics world to reinforce education, sustainable development Quebec compe­ and stakeholder engagement. We also directly fund tition in Canada, ▲ 1 ● ◆1 2 1 ■ the J. Armand Bombardier Foundation, whose purpose with more than is to advance social inclusion and capacity building 100 employee volunteers. ◆1 programs in our home community in Canada. ■1 J. Armand Bombardier Foundation ●1 $3.9 million 2017 Investments granted to 115 % of total charities across ●1 Canada and over 300 organizations ■ Community Support 35% Protecting 270 reached through ■ Healthcare 30% hectares of land ■ Education 27% the Foundation’s through our ■ Arts and Culture 6% capacity building carbon credit ■ Philagora 2% program, Philagora. program in the Sierra Gorda Biosphere Reserve in Mexico. ▲ ● EDUCATION SUSTAINABLE Support education in DEVELOPMENT Science, Technology, Support sustainable Engineering, Entre­ development projects preneurship and that promote Mathematics (STEM). environmental responsibility and eco-friendly practices. 24 BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS 300+ $2.2M+ $3.9M COMMUNITY IN CORPORATE IN DONATIONS BY THE ORGANIZATIONS COMMUNITY J. ARMAND BOMBARDIER SUPPORTED INVESTMENTS FOUNDATION IN CANADA1 ▲ 2 Supporting access to employment, training and upskilling ◆1 opportunities in Belfast, Northern ▲3 Leading aviation safety Ireland with Strengthening by organizing, Employment East. STEM skills sponsoring and at the presenting at five Worldwide ◆1 business aviation Teenager operator and Robotics manufacturing ▲ 2 ▲ 3 competition in associations. Northern Ireland. 3 ◆ ● 1 ◆1 ▲ 5 Enhancing ● 3 ▲4 rail skills for graduate Leading education through conversations on sustainable ▲ 4 ▲5 partnership with Developing three universities growth at the in Thailand. more than Sustainable 250 engineering Aviation Summit. graduate students since 2012 through the Young Leaders rail training program in India. ◆ ■ STAKEHOLDER SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT INCLUSION Support opportunities The J. Armand to maintain and Bombardier Foundation develop business supports organizations relationships with key that foster capacity industry stakeholders. building and human dignity in Canada. 1. In Canadian dollars. BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT 25 GOVERNANCE MANAGING OUR BUSINESS RESPONSIBLY CRJ1000 aircraft Responsible management is a cornerstone of our long-term success. For us, how we deliver success is just as important as what we achieve. This is why we are committed to ensuring strict compliance to all applicable legislation and adhering to the highest ethical, environmental and social standards in everything we do. HIGHLIGHTS Strengthened by our Governance Framework Last year, our leaders deepened our culture Our systems of compliance, risk manage­ment of accountability to ensure we deliver on 100% and control underpin our license to do business. Through our robust governance framework our business goals and adhere to the highest ethical, environmental and social standards. MANAGERS AND DIRECTORS CERTIFIED we ensure accountability is embedded at COMPLIANCE TO THE CODE the right levels. Living our Core Values Our core values – integrity, commitment to At the highest level, our Board is the decision55+ making body for all matters deemed material from a strategic, financial, and reputational excellence, customer orientation and share­ holder focus – inform decisions we take as ETHICS & COMPLIANCE AMBASSADORS an organization. perspective. Our Board is comprised of INTRODUCED nine independent directors and five nonChampioned by senior business leaders and independent directors. Our Board members reinforced through our Ethics and Compliance 5,000+ bring diverse backgrounds, skills, experience Office, the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct MANAGEMENT and expertise, which are critical for our (Code) goes beyond legal require­ments and EMPLOYEES TRAINED ON ETHICS-RELATED TOPICS business success. consolidates the business principles that apply across our company. Responsibility for day-to-day management is delegated to the Chief Executive Officer, In 2017, we primarily focused our efforts who is supported by the Management Team. on embedding a strong preventive mindset within the organization. 26 BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT > ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE As part of our zero-tolerance approach best interest of the company. Lobbying Our Code – which includes our commit­ to bribery and corruption, we continued activities follow strict processes, and ment to the United Nations Global to monitor our processes and support meet registration and reporting require­ Compact – sets high standards of mechanisms. We fully investigate suspected ments to the respective authorities. behavior for our employees in their daily breaches in a confidential manner and activities and when dealing with others. take disciplinary action, up to and > FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY Implementing our Code continues to including dismissal, where appropriate. We recognize our responsibility to be an important and ongoing priority shareholders to be financially efficient, for us. > RISK MANAGEMENT and are committed to pursuing our As part of our risk management practices, tax strategy in full compliance with all Last year, we maintained our focus on we have robust policies, processes and applicable laws. equipping our employees with the tools controls to address our most significant and resources to inspire the right behaviors From a tax perspective, we pay a risks. On an ongoing basis, our Corporate and create a safe environment for them significant amount of taxes 1 given our Audit Services and Risk Assessment to “speak up”. In addition to having extensive business and employment teams are proactively conducting risk access to whistleblowing mechanisms, presence around the world. These taxes based internal audits to ensure we our employees receive regular training include those paid on profits, payroll systematically identify and mitigate key and communications on what constitutes and social charges, unrecoverable business risks, including non-financial ethical business practices in their jobs. transaction and sales taxes, property, and reputational risks. Last year, employees received training business and other taxes. on data privacy and more than 5,000 of > POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT Over the last three years, we have our management employees received We ensure compliance to laws in every paid approximately $4.8 billion in taxes 1 customized training and communications jurisdiction where we do business globally. In 2017, we paid taxes 1 of on ethics-related topics, including and adhere to the highest ethical approximately $1.5 billion. harassment and anti-corruption. standards when conducting lobbying We also launched a network of Ethics activities and making political contri­ Total Taxes Borne 2 and Collected 3 and Compliance Ambassadors to provide butions, as pre­scribed by our Code. by Bombardier further support to our sites. The ambas­ We believe that open dialogue between $ millions sadors are tasked with acting as a liaison government, the public and the business between the local site and the Ethics & community contributes to informed ■ Income Taxes $740 Compliance Office, and as an on-site government decision-making, benefiting ■ Payroll Taxes and Social Charges $632 resource for employees whenever they our stake­holders and the communities $1.5B ■ Transaction and have questions, concerns or need training we are part of. Sales Taxes $ 61 on specific topics related to ethics and ■ Property, Business Bombardier is non-partisan and our and Other Taxes $ 36 compliance. In 2017, we recruited more political contributions merely reflect our than 55 ambassadors in 30 countries. responsible citizenship, as well as the OUR CORE VALUES Commitment Customer Shareholder Integrity to Excellence Orientation Focus 1. Includes income taxes paid on profits, payroll taxes and social charges, sales and transaction taxes that are not recoverable and taxes on property and business operations. For significant locations only (Canada, United states, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Mexico). 2. The total amount of taxes borne by Bombardier in 2017 was $485 million. 3. The total amount of taxes collected by Bombardier in 2017 was $984 million. BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT 27 NOTES ABOUT THIS REPORT The 2017 Bombardier Activity Report is guided by the Global Reporting Initiative Standards and the International Integrated Reporting Council framework. This report is only a part of our ongoing dialogue with stakeholders and we welcome your feedback and questions at csr@bombardier.com. This report addresses Bombardier’s performance anticipated timing of the transaction with therewith; the realization of the anticipated across all our facilities worldwide including our Airbus SE (Airbus) described herein and the benefits and synergies of the transaction in the joint ventures. We have included financial data receipt of regulatory and other approvals required timeframe anticipated; our ability to continue for Bombardier Inc. and its subsidiaries as well with respect to this transaction and the with our current funding plan of CSALP and to as updates on the societal, environmental, antici­pated timing thereof; the governance, fund, if required, any cash shortfalls; adequacy governance and economic issues that are funding and liquidity of C Series Aircraft Limited of cash planning and management and project most important to the company and our stake­ Partnership (CSALP); the impact and expected funding; and the accuracy of our assessment holders. This report includes quantitative data benefits of the transaction with Airbus described of anticipated growth drivers and sector trends. reflecting our performance for the year ended herein, on our operations, infrastructure, For additional information with respect to the December 31, 2017. Most of the financial capa­bilities, development, growth and other assumptions underlying the forward-looking information in this report is extracted from our oppor­tunities, geographic reach, scale, footprint, statements made in this Activity Report, refer 2017 Financial Report. All financial figures are financial condition, access to capital and overall to the Strategic Priorities and Guidance and in U.S. dollars unless otherwise stated. For more strategy; and the impact of such transaction forward-looking statements sections for each detailed information regarding our financial on our balance sheet and liquidity position. reportable segment in the MD&A of the disclosures for the year ended December 31, 2017, Corporation’s financial report for the fiscal Forward-looking statements can generally be please see our 2017 Financial Report. year ended December 31, 2017. identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may”, “will”, “shall”, “can”, With respect to the transaction with Airbus Data Verification “expect”, “estimate”, “intend”, “anticipate”, discussed herein specifically, certain factors that The information provided for our environmental “plan”, “foresee”, “believe”, “continue”, “maintain” could cause actual results to differ materially indicators is partially verified by an external or “align”, the negative of these terms, variations from those anticipated in the forward-looking party. Energy and GHG emissions data from our of them or similar terminology. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, risks Belfast, U.K. site is verified by external parties statements are presented for the purpose of associated with the failure to receive or delay in under the EU ETS, which includes BSi Assurance assisting investors and others in understanding receiving regulatory (including antitrust) or other UK Ltd., located at Kitemark Court, Davy Avenue, certain key elements of our current objectives, approvals or otherwise satisfy the conditions Knowlhill, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire, MK5 strategic priorities, expectations and plans, and to the completion of the transaction or delay 8PP. In addition, our German sites receive annual in obtaining a better understanding of our in completing the transaction and uncertainty external verification of all environmental data business and anticipated operating environment. regarding the length of time required to under the EMAS. Readers are cautioned that such information may complete the transaction; changes in the terms not be appropriate for other purposes. of the transaction; the failure by either party to Forward-looking Statements satisfy and perform its obligations pursuant to This Activity Report includes forward-looking By their nature, forward-looking statements the transaction agreement and future commercial statements, which may involve, but are not require management to make assumptions and agreements and/or significant inefficiencies and limited to: statements with respect to the are subject to important known and unknown other issues arising in connection therewith; the Corporation’s objectives, guidance, targets, risks and uncertainties, which may cause our impact of the announcement of the transaction goals, priorities, market and strategies, financial actual results in future periods to differ materially on our relationships with third parties, including position, beliefs, prospects, plans, expectations, from forecast results set forth in forward-looking commercial counterparties, employees and anticipations, estimates and intentions; general statements. While management considers these competitors, strategic relationships, operating economic and business outlook, prospects and assumptions to be reasonable and appropriate results and businesses generally; the failure to trends of an industry; expected growth in demand based on information currently available, there realize, in the timeframe anticipated or at all, for products and services; product development, is risk that they may not be accurate. The the anticipated benefits and synergies of the including projected design, characteristics, assumptions underlying the forward-looking transaction; our ability to continue with our capacity or performance; expected or scheduled statements made in this Activity Report in relation current funding plan of CSALP and to fund, if entry-into-service of products and services, to the transaction with Airbus discussed herein required, the cash shortfalls; inadequacy of cash orders, deliveries, testing, lead times, certifi­cations include the following material assumptions: the planning and management and project funding. and project execution in general; compe­titive satisfaction of all conditions of closing and the position; the expected impact of the legislative successful completion of the transaction within Certain other factors that could cause actual and regulatory environment and legal proceedings the anticipated timeframe, including receipt of results to differ materially from those anticipated on the Corporation’s business and operations; regulatory (including antitrust) and other in the forward-looking statements include, but available liquidities and ongoing review of approvals; the fulfillment and performance by are not limited to, risks associated with general strategic and financial alternatives; the completion, each party of its obligations pursuant to the economic conditions, risks associated with our transaction agreement and future commercial business environment (such as risks associated agreements and absence of significant inefficiencies and other issues in connection 28 BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT with “Brexit”, the financial condition of the airline customers; and reliance on government support), reflect management’s expectations as at the date industry, business aircraft customers, and the rail market risks (such as risks related to foreign of this Activity Report and are subject to change industry; trade policy (including potential currency fluctuations; changing interest rates; after such date. Unless otherwise required by changes to or the termination of the existing decreases in residual values; increases in applicable securities laws, the Corporation North American Free Trade Agreement between commodity prices; and inflation rate fluctuations). expressly disclaims any intention, and assumes Canada, the U.S. and Mexico currently in For more details, see the Risks and uncertainties no obligation to update or revise any forwarddiscussion); increased competition; political section in Other in the Management’s Discussion looking statements, whether as a result of new instability and force majeure events or natural and Analysis (MD&A) of the Corporation’s information, future events or otherwise. The disasters), operational risks (such as risks related financial report for the fiscal year ended forward-looking statements contained in this to developing new products and services; December 31, 2017. For additional information Activity Report are expressly qualified by this development of new business; the certification with respect to the assumptions underlying the cautionary statement. and homologation of products and services; forward-looking statements made in this Activity fixed-price and fixed-term commitments and Report, refer to the Guidance and forward-looking Disclaimer production and project execution; pressures on statements sections in Overview, Business Global 7000 and Global 8000 aircraft program cash flows and capital expenditures based on Aircraft, Commercial Aircraft, Aerostructures and is currently in development, and as such is project-cycle fluctuations and seasonality; our Engineering Services, and Transportation in the subject to changes in family strategy, branding, ability to successfully implement and execute our MD&A of the Corporation’s financial report for capacity, performance, design and/or systems. strategy and transformation plan; doing business the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. All specifications and data are approximate, may with partners; product performance warranty change without notice and are subject to certain Readers are cautioned that the foregoing list of and casualty claim losses; regulatory and legal operating rules, assumptions and other conditions. factors that may affect future growth, results proceedings; environmental, health and safety This document does not constitute an offer, and performance is not exhaustive and undue risks; dependence on certain customers and commitment, representation, guarantee or reliance should not be placed on forward-looking suppliers; human resources; reliance on infor­ warranty of any kind. statements. Other risks and uncertainties not mation systems; reliance on and protection of presently known to us or that we presently intellectual property rights; and adequacy of Trademarks believe are not material could also cause actual insurance coverage), financing risks (such as risks AVENTRA, Bombardier, Challenger, results or events to differ materially from those related to liquidity and access to capital markets; Challenger 350, Challenger 650, CRJ Series, expressed or implied in our forward-looking retirement benefit plan risk; exposure to credit CRJ700, CRJ900, CRJ1000, C Series, statements. In addition, there can be no assurance risk; substantial existing debt and interest CS100, CS300, Global, Global 6000, that the proposed transaction with Airbus will payment requirements; certain restrictive debt Global 7000, Global 8000, INNOVIA, Learjet, occur or that the anticipated strategic benefits covenants and minimum cash levels; financing Learjet 75, MITRAC, OMNEO, Q400 and and operational, competitive and cost synergies support provided for the benefit of certain ZEFIRO are trademarks of Bombardier Inc. will be realized in their entirety, in part or at all. or its subsidiaries. The forward-looking statements set forth herein Printed in Canada ISBN: 978-2-923797-42-7 Legal deposit, Bibliothèque et Archives nationales du Québec FSC LOGO All rights reserved. © May 2018 Bombardier Inc. or its subsidiaries. Completely recyclable – the responsible choice BOMBARDIER INC. 2017 ACTIVITY REPORT 29 We build the most innovative planes and trains. bombardier.com
