Draft as of October 3, 2018 The final version will be completed on October 12, 2018. Sustainability Report 2018 Corporate Mission Contributing to Society through Healthcare We contribute to society by providing valued products and services in the healthcare market and by responding to the needs of patients and healthcare professionals. Five Statements We maintain a fundamental policy of open management, work to secure and return to Open Management our benefactors a suitable profit, and strive to develop our business on a global basis as befits a leading company in the industry. We emphasize the importance of scientific thinking, creativity, and time appropriation, Enhanced Value and respond in depth to customer needs by creating valued products and services. We pride ourselves on our commitment to the development of technologies and quality Safety and Reliability assurance systems that ensure safe, reliable products. We emphasize respect for the individual, promote intercultural understanding, and Respect for our encourage openness in the workplace in accordance with our slogan, “Associate Spirit,” Associates as we prepare to meet the challenges of the future. We conduct our business activities in a fair and equitable manner and act responsibly Corporate Citizenship toward the environment as we fulfill our responsibilities as a good corporate citizen. Global Vision Innovating at the Speed of Life As society changes constantly and science and technology advance, we remain focused on lives, and on rapidly bringing new value to medical settings. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 1 1 Corporate Mission/Five Statements/Global Vision 3 Message from the President and CEO 5 Sustainability at the Terumo Group Enhanced Value 8 Resolving Healthcare Challenges through Innovation and Improving Access to Healthcare Safety and Reliability 18 Ensuring the Safety and Quality of Products and Services 21 Managing Supply Chains That Support Stable Supply Respect for Our Associates 23 Ensuring Occupational Safety and Promoting Health 30 Creating Workplace Environments Where Diverse Associates Can Demonstrate Their Skills and Abilities Corporate Citizenship 40 Promoting Compliance 45 Reducing the Environmental Impact of Our Business Operations 62 Promoting Responsible Procurement Open Management 63 Building Relationships of Trust through Dialogue with Stakeholders 64 Social Contribution Activities 69 Corporate Governance 74 Risk Management 78 Data Sheets 84 Corporate Information Editorial Policy The Terumo Group is engaged in various activities aimed at resolving medical and other social issues to fulfill its corporate mission—“Contributing to Society through Healthcare.” This sustainability report was prepared to explain such activities by Terumo and Terumo Group companies to stakeholders in an easy-to-understand manner to help them better understand these efforts. Scope of this Report This report focuses primarily on Terumo Corporation and its domestic and overseas consolidated subsidiaries. In principle, “Terumo” refers to Terumo Corporation and “the Terumo Group” refers collectively to Terumo Corporation and its domestic and overseas consolidated subsidiaries. When the scope differs from that described above, notification will be provided. Report Period Fiscal 2017 (April 1, 2017 through March 31, 2018) This report also contains information on some activities prior to or after this period. Publication Schedule This report: September 2018 Previous report: October 2017 Referenced Guidelines • GRI, Sustainability Reporting Standards • Japanese Ministry of the Environment, Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012 Report Archives Past reports for each year are available in PDF format on the website of Terumo Corporation. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 2 Message from the President and CEO We are committed to helping realize a sustainable society by resolving medical challenges. Shinjiro Sato President and CEO A Corporate Legacy of Social Contributions Dr. Shibasaburo Kitasato and other physicians founded Terumo in 1921, when importation of medical thermometers ceased in the aftermath of World War I, spurring the need to manufacture the instruments domestically. Thermometers are a household item today, but in the 1920s, when Japan was just beginning to gain awareness of health and hygiene, there was concern that supply could not answer the heightened demand for thermometers in medical settings. The Terumo company charter observed that, “Viewing citizens’ health as the cornerstone of national stability renders ours an industry of national importance (and not merely a profit-making enterprise).” The need for high-quality medical thermometers prompted the Company’s establishment and corporate goal of contributing to both citizens’ health and society. That sentiment generated Terumo’s corporate mission of “Contributing to Society through Healthcare.” Over the years, Terumo has provided new value by grappling with healthcare issues in areas such as infection control, prevention of medical errors, the demand for minimally invasive treatments, and improvements in both medical cost efficiency and patient quality of life (QOL). The Terumo Group now conducts business in over 160 nations, expanding our concept of “society” to embrace a global perspective. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 3 Message from the President and CEO Realization of a Sustainable Society while Achieving Sustainable Growth In 1996, Terumo drafted the Five Statements in support of fulfilling its corporate mission: Open Management, Enhanced Value, Safety and Reliability, Respect for Our Associates, and Corporate Citizenship. These statements guide us in advancing responsible corporate activities. Later, in 2012, we signed the United Nations Global Compact, which comprises Ten Principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. Ever since, we have been contributing to the realization of a sustainable society through responsible activities as a good corporate citizen. The expectations levied on companies to help realize a sustainable society have grown much higher. Indicators of this trend include the adoption of the Paris Agreement and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals in 2015. This was also the year when the UN’s Principles for Responsible Investment stimulated an upward trend in so-called ESG investment based on environmental, social, and governance issues. These changes inspired Terumo to determine its sustainability priorities in 2018 while simultaneously establishing the Corporate Sustainability Department to promote Groupwide activities with this regard. Based on the Five Statements, we will address our sustainability priorities, which include resolving healthcare challenges through innovation, improving access to healthcare, and reducing the environmental impact of our business operations. Through action guided by these priorities, the Terumo Group aims to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society while also achieving sustainable growth. Terumo will celebrate its centennial in 2021. In recent years, we have seen substantial progress in the field of medicine. At the same time, new challenges are emerging in medical settings around the world on a nearly daily basis. Against this backdrop, Terumo will strive to maintain the trust of society and always be viewed as a necessary company through an earnest effort to resolve medical challenges and responsible corporate activities as a global business operator. I would like to ask our stakeholders for their ongoing trust and support as we move forward on this quest. September, 2018 President and CEO Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 4 Sustainability at the Terumo Group Approach to Sustainability at the Terumo Group Under the corporate mission of “Contributing to Society decisions made by all Terumo associates. through Healthcare”, the Terumo Group strives to provide a Based on the Five Statements, the Terumo Group deterstable supply of high-quality medical equipment and sermines priorities for sustainability that must be put into pracvices to patients and medical settings throughout the world, tice in the course of daily business activities. The Group will as well as resolve the various challenges facing healthcare. strive for balance between realization of a sustainable sociTo achieve this corporate mission, Terumo has estabety and Terumo Group’s sustainable growth by promoting lished its Five Statements—“Open Management”, “Enhanced these priorities, while communicating with patients, medical Value”, “Safety and Reliability”, “Respect for our Associates”, professionals and other stakeholders. and “Corporate Citizenship.” These govern the actions and Sustainability Priorities Under the corporate mission of “Contributing to Society In order to make this happen, the Terumo Group deterthrough Healthcare”, the Terumo Group aims to balance the mines sustainability priorities to address, and works on realization of sustainable society with sustainable growth of specific initiatives within daily business activities. the Terumo Group by striving to use business activities as a means to solve social issues. The Process to Determine Sustainability Priorities Identify potential issues Referring to sustainability guidelines and standards such as Step 1 those published by GRI*1 and SASB*2, comprehensively identify which sustainability issues concern the Terumo Group. Importance for stakeholders Important issues Prioritize Evaluate how important these issues are for the Terumo Step 2 Group, in terms of their importance to stakeholders and relevance to our Corporate Mission and other related policies. Select those that are highly important to both parties. Importance for the Terumo Group Determine priorities Taking into consideration the current status of initiatives within the Terumo group, determine the sustainability prioriStep 3 ties from among those that had been selected for their high level of importance. The executive management meeting then deliberates over the priorities that were identified to confirm that they are appropriate. *1 GRI (Global Reporting Initiative): A non-profit organization based in the Netherlands that advocates sustainability reporting guidelines *2 SASB (Sustainability Accounting Standards Board): A non-profit organization in the US that aims to develop and spread sustainability accounting standards Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 5 Terumo Group’s Sustainability Based on the Five Statements, which governs the actions growth of the Terumo Group, while taking the United Nations and decisions that give shape to our Corporate Mission, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs*3) into account. Terumo Group is addressing the sustainability priorities on a daily basis in our business activities. The group is working to *3 SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals): The global goals for the years 2016 through resolve social issues including issues in healthcare, and bal2030, listed in the “2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development” which was adopted at the United Nations summit in September 2015. These are comprised of 17 goals and ance the realization of sustainable society with sustainable 169 targets for achieving a sustainable society. Sustainability Priorities Five Statements Sustainability Priorities Related United Nations SGDs*4 Building relationships of trust through dialogue with Open Management stakeholders Resolving healthcare challenges through innovation Enhanced Value Improving access to healthcare Ensuring the safety and quality of products and services Safety and Reliability Managing supply chains that support stable supply Ensuring occupational safety and promoting health Respect for our Associates Creating workplace environments where diverse associates can demonstrate their skills and abilities Promoting compliance Corporate Citizenship Reducing the environmental impact of our business operations Promoting responsible procurement *4 “Related United Nations SDG Goals” under “EHS Goals and Achievements” on page 61 indicate SDGs relevant to each EHS initiative. Meanwhile, the “related United Nations SDGs” on this page focuses on SDGs that are highly relevant to each sustainability priority for the Terumo Group as a whole. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 6 Terumo Group’s Sustainability Sustainability Management The Corporate Sustainability Department was established in disseminate these throughout the group, and promotes April 2018. Its purpose is to coordinate and promote activispecific initiatives. It also interacts with internal and external ties throughout the group. Working together with related stakeholders, sharing information and engaging in discusdepartments, committees, and with group companies, the sions, in order to understand the expectations society has Corporate Sustainability Department sets action policies for the Terumo Group and reflect these in the initiatives. and priorities related to sustainability, finds ways to Executive Officer in charge of Sustainability Terumo Corporation Cardiac and Vascular Company General Hospital Company External Corporate Sustainability Blood Management Company Stakeholders Department Functional departments Corporate EHS Committee Group companies Participation in the United Nations Global Compact In 2012, Terumo became a signatory of the United Nations Society through Healthcare” by setting out Five Statements Global Compact. This action reflects Terumo’s agreement in 1996. These principles guide the Group’s global business with the Ten Principles of the compact, which relate to development to make a valuable contribution to healthcare human rights, labor practices, the environment and anticorworldwide. Going forward, Terumo will continue to fulfill its ruption measures. responsibilities as a global enterprise, while aiming to Terumo gave shape to the mission of “Contributing to achieve sustainable growth. The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Businesses should support and respect the protection of Principle 1 Human Rights internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Principle 3 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Labor Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Principle 6 occupation. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Principle 7 environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responEnvironment Principle 8 sibility; and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Principle 9 friendly technologies Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Anti-Corruption Principle 10 including extortion and bribery. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 7 Enhanced Value Resolving Healthcare Challenges through Innovation and Improving Access to Healthcare Special Feature: Quest to Provide Safe, High-Quality Healthcare to All Medical systems and infrastructure can vary by country and region, leading to an array of issues being faced in different medical settings. As a global provider of medical devices, the Terumo Group seeks to ensure that everyone has constant access to safe, high-quality healthcare. Accordingly, we earnestly address the medical issues faced in specific countries and regions, collaborating with medical institutions, government agencies, international institutions, and nonprofit and nongovernmental organizations, to resolve these issues. Transradial intervention (TRI): percutaneous coronary intervention via the radial artery in the wrist Transradial intervention (TRI) training for physicians in CASE 1 Latin America conducted through public-private partnership to contribute to improved patient quality of life and reduced healthcare expenditures P9 Pathogen reduction technology system for safer blood transfusions CASE 2 Public-private partnership to advance measures for infection control of blood used for transfusions in Ghana P11 Oxygenators supporting cardiovascular surgeries CASE 3 Support for first open heart surgery in Zambia performed by Zambian surgeons P14 Training for medical professionals underpinning safe, high-quality medical services CASE 4 Planning and implementation of practical training programs based on the needs of Japan’s medical settings P16 Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 8 Enhanced Value Resolving Healthcare Challenges through Innovation and Improving Access to Healthcare CASE 1 Quest to Provide Safe, High-Quality Healthcare to All Transradial intervention (TRI): percutaneous coronary intervention via the radial artery in the wrist Transradial intervention (TRI) training for physicians in Latin America conducted through public-private partnership to contribute to improved patient quality of life and reduced healthcare expenditures TRI’s Contribution to Patient Quality of Life and Top 10 Global Causes of Death, 2016 Reduced Medical Spending （%） According to a survey*1 by the World Health Organization, of 結核 Ischemic heart disease the 56.9 million deaths around the world in 2016, the lead下痢性疾患 Stroke ing cause of death was ischemic heart diseases, such道路交通傷害 as Chronic obstructive angina pectoris and myocardial infarction. These diseases pulmonary disease Lower respiratory claimed the lives of 9.4 million people and accounted for infections 糖尿病 Alzheimer disease and 17% of deaths in that year. Percutaneous coronary intervenother dementias 気管・気管支・肺がん tion (PCI) using catheters is a widely used method of treatTrachea, bronchus, lung cancers アルツハイマーその他認知症 ing ischemic heart disease. Diabetes mellitus 下気道感染症 A common PCI procedure used to treat ischemic heart Road injury 慢性閉塞性肺疾患 disease is transfemoral intervention (TFI), which entails Diarrhoeal diseases inserting catheters through the femoral artery in the groin. 脳卒中 虚血性心疾患 Recently, however, use of TRI, a procedure in which catheTuberculosis 0 2 4 6 8 10 ters are inserted through the radial artery in the wrist, has (Deaths in million) been becoming more common out of consideration for its Source: Global Health Estimates 2016: Estimated deaths by age, sex, and cause, World ability to contribute to higher patient quality of life and Health Organization, 2016 reduced medical spending. TRI does not require hemostasis procedures around the groin, and patients are generally TRI procedure (accessing lesion site in coronary artery via wrist blood vessel) able to walk sooner after TRI procedures than after TFI procedures, resulting in shorter hospital stays. Furthermore, the rate of hemorrhagic complications at the site of catheter insertion after procedures is said to be lower, and a U.S. clinical study*2 has indicated that the cost of TRI is roughly ¥90,000 less than TFI per procedure. Guidewire Promotion of TRI Use in Various Countries through Product Development and Training Smooth movement Although TRI boasts these benefits, it is also more difficult to through tortuous blood vessels perform than TFI as it can be hard to insert catheters into the narrow blood vessel (radial artery) and the path to the coronary artery is winding. Terumo is seeking to remove these Placement of sheath in wrist obstacles by developing and supplying refined and improved blood vessel Conventional sheath TRI sheath devices for use in TRI procedures. At the same time, we are working together with highly talented Japanese physicians Same Narrower inner diameter outer diameter to develop training programs and educational tools while also creating opportunities for techniques to be transferred Maintains the same between physicians. We thereby aim to spread understandinner diameter while enabling approach ing of the value of TRI along with the techniques for performthrough narrow blood vessels in the wrist ing this procedure. As a result of these ongoing efforts, the TRI sheath percentage of PCI procedures for ischemic heart disease represented by TRI has been found to be around 90% in Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 9 Enhanced Value Resolving Healthcare Challenges through Innovation and Improving Access to Healthcare China and 70% in Japan and 40%–50% in Asia and Europe. that was part of Japan’s official development assistance and Moreover, the rate of use of this procedure has risen to was promoted by JICA. Launched in 2015, this project is roughly 35% in the United States, despite being less than being advanced by the Japanese and Mexican govern10% a decade ago.*3 ments. One facet of this project included the establishment of a TRI training center inside the National Institute of CardiSupport for Spreading TRI in Latin America ology of Mexico, which was completed in July 2016. Terumo through Public-Private Partnerships is supporting this project through the provision of training The spread of TRI in Latin America has been slower than in apparatuses and technical instruction. other regions, despite ischemic heart disease rating high among the causes of death in this region. Actual rates of Further Promotion of the Spread of TRI through usage varied from country to country but were estimated to Collaboration with Various Countries’ range from 10% to 30% five years ago.*3 Medical infrastrucGovernments and Other Organizations ture is being installed in these countries as their populations Terumo plans to continue to collaborate with medical institugrow and age, but there is still a lack of equipment and tions, academic associations, and government bodies in physicians, creating a need for efficient, low-cost medical various countries to promote the spread of TRI. Through the services. ongoing provision of the products and training support necTo address this issue, Terumo is supporting the spread essary based on the circumstances and issues faced in of TRI in Latin America through public-private partnerships medical settings in each country, we hope to help dissemito contribute to improved quality of life for patients, higher nate high-quality healthcare. medical efficiency, and reduced medical costs. In 2011, Terumo together with Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) invited five young physicians from Mexico to Japan to undergo TRI training. This training was performed Mexico through cooperation with Dr. Shigeru Saito of Shonan Kamakura General Hospital, a leading authority on TRI in Japan who actively promotes the spread of TRI around the Columbia world. In addition, we participated in a public-private partnership project organized by JICA over a two-year period Brazil beginning with 2014 during which we provided TRI training for approximately 40 physicians from national hospitals in Mexico, Columbia, Brazil, and Argentina. In these training programs, physicians were invited to Japan to observe proArgentina cedures at hospitals including Shonan Kamakura General Hospital and to take part in simulation training at the Terumo Medical Pranex comprehensive medical training facility. Follow-up training was also held in the respective countries of participants after their return to check their level of proficiency at performing TRI procedures. Post-program surveys indicated a large increase in the number of TRI procedures performed at the hospitals with which participants were affiliated along with a boost in the portion of PCI procedures represented by TRI. These results confirmed a steady rise in understanding and use of TRI. Terumo anticipates that the physicians who took part in this training program will help train other physicians in their countries as instructors. Recognition for this program has led to its evolution into the Project for Promotion of Minimally Invasive Techniques Focused on TRI Method, a technical cooperation project Latin American physicians undergoing TRI training *1 Source: Global Health Estimates 2016: Estimated deaths by age, sex, and cause, World Health Organization, 2016 *2 Source: Amin AP, House JA, Safley DM, et al. Costs of transradial percutaneous coronary intervention. JACC Cardiovasc Interv. 2013. (U.S. dollar amounts translated at the rate of ¥110 to U.S.$1) *3 Percentage of PCI procedures represented by TRI in each country or region estimated by Terumo Corporation Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 10 Enhanced Value Resolving Healthcare Challenges through Innovation and Improving Access to Healthcare CASE 2 Quest to Provide Safe, High-Quality Healthcare to All Pathogen reduction technology system for safer blood transfusions Public-private partnership to advance measures for infection control of blood used for transfusions in Ghana Reduction of Infection Risks Associated with blood. A total of four Mirasol devices have been installed in Blood Transfusions in Africa the National Blood Service blood banks in both of Ghana’s Various safety measures are taken for blood products to premain cities, Accra and Kumasi. After the pathogen reduction vent infections caused by bacteria, viruses, and other pathoprocess, transfusions are given to the most vulnerable gens as well as side effects transfused white blood cells. patients, including postpartum hemorrhage patients as well Currently, however, no method of testing or pathogen reducas child and adult oncology patients. A haemovigilance tion can completely eliminate the risk of a transfusion-transmitsystem to monitor safety of blood transfusions is also being ted infection (TTI). In middleand low-income countries, blood implemented to accumulate data acquired throughout the donors have more infections than in high-income countries.*1 entire process, from blood donation through preparation to In fact, sub-Saharan Africa has the highest rate of HIV and the post-transfusion condition of the patient.*4 This will malaria infection in the world, so reducing the risk of infection enable the analyses and assessments needed to keep from blood transfusion is an important medical issue. In a adverse events from occurring. survey conducted in the Republic of Ghana, TTIs from malaria are estimated to occur in up to 28% of blood donation Mirasol PRT System Supporting Safe Transfusions recipients.*2 Mirasol uses UV light and riboflavin (vitamin B2) to inactivate a broad range of pathogens, including bacteria, viruses Public-Private Partnership Project to Advance such as HIV, parasites such as malaria, and white blood Measures for Infection Control of Blood cells in blood products, reducing the risks of disease transTransfusions in Ghana mission and side effects from blood transfusions. It received To improve this situation and others like it, the Terumo Group the CE mark for platelets in 2007 and for plasma in 2008, partnered with Japan International Cooperation Agency and it is now sold in more than 20 countries, mainly in (JICA) and since 2017 has been conducting a program Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. Unlike in high-income through public-private partnership for preventing disease nations, patients in middleand low-income countries often transmission through blood transfusions in the Republic of receive transfusion of whole blood, rather than blood comGhana.*3 Using the Mirasol Pathogen Reduction Technology ponents. Therefore, Terumo sought the possibility of using (PRT) System developed by Terumo’s Blood Management Mirasol for whole blood. In 2014, the African Investigation of Company (Terumo BCT), Terumo is working with the Ministhe Mirasol System (AIMS) clinical trial performed in Ghana try of Health and the National Blood Service, Ghana, to was the first and only clinical trial to demonstrate that a promote the routine use of the Mirasol PRT system for whole pathogen reduction technology, specifically Mirasol, can Pathogen Reduction Process for Whole Blood Using Mirasol® PRT System The product is Riboflavin solution is The mixture is then exposed to transferred to the added and mixed UV light Mirasol illumination/ with the product storage bag Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 11 Enhanced Value Resolving Healthcare Challenges through Innovation and Improving Access to Healthcare effectively reduce the incidence of transfusion-transmitted comprehensive medical training facility, Terumo Medical infection (TTI) of a bloodborne pathogen. The results of the Pranex. During this visit, there were opportunities to share, AIMS trial were presented at the 2015 congress of the AABB discuss, and give opinions on how Terumo may be able to (formally known as the American Association of Blood further contribute to societal and healthcare development in Banks) and were also featured in the medical journal The Africa. These efforts are supported by the global collective Lancet. That same year, Mirasol received the CE mark for strengths of Terumo, with associates from the Head Office, whole blood treatment, marking the availability of the first Terumo BCT, Inc., and Terumo Europe NV going beyond the and only PRT treatment for whole blood. boundaries of organizations and regions to cooperate and coordinate the ongoing activities. Training of Local Staff to Promote Smooth Introduction in Ghana Continued Effort to Ensure Routine Use of Mirasol Training the local staff is essential for the smooth implemenPRT System in Ghana tation of the PRT process and implementation of a haemovThis public-private partnership project with JICA will conigilance program. In addition to the training performed in clude in December 2018, but the Terumo Group will conGhana, Terumo also enlisted cooperation from the Japanese tinue working to ensure the routine use of Mirasol in Ghana. Red Cross Society to invite doctors and nurses from hospiBeyond this, Terumo also plans to use the experience and tals and the National Blood Service in Ghana to Japan. They expertise gained from this project to help develop the infrawere given training in haemovigilance as well as tours of structure for an adequate, safe, and sustainable blood blood collection and processing centers and hospitals. The supply in Africa. visiting dignitaries were also given a tour of the Terumo *1 Source: Global Status Report on Blood Safety and Availability, World Health Organization, 2016 *2 Source: Freimanis G, et al., “Investigating the Prevalence of Transfusion Transmission of Plasmodium within a Hyperendemic Blood Donation System,” Transfusion 2013; 53 (7): 1429–1441 *3 Terumo applied and was selected for “Collaboration Program with the Private Sector for Disseminating Japanese Technology for the Social and Economic Development of Developing Countries” by JICA and has been conducting this program on an outsourced basis from JICA. *4 For haemovigilance, AABB Consulting Services, an affiliate of AABB (formerly the American Association of Blood Banks), is contracted to formulate and conduct facility assessment and implementation training programs as well as auditing and feedback. The AIMS clinical trial performed in Ghana Mirasol PRT system used in Ghana Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 12 Enhanced Value Resolving Healthcare Challenges through Innovation and Improving Access to Healthcare Comments from Members Involved in CASE 1, CASE 2 (Public-Private Partnership Projects) Transradial intervention (TRI): percutaneous coronary intervention via the radial artery in the wrist CASE 1 Transradial intervention (TRI) training for physicians in Latin America conducted through public-private partnership to contribute to improved patient quality of life and reduced healthcare expenditures Through a JICA public-private partnership project, we worked toward the lofty goal of resolving the medical issues faced in four Latin American countries by spreading use of TRI. To this end, we offered a training program that included hands-on training using models as well as opportunities to observe the masterful techniques of Japanese physicians and to speak with these individuals. I am confident that this experience deepened participant understanding of TRI and the techniques needed to perform it. Surveys conducted after the program showed a Naofumi Okajima drive to use these techniques in clinical settings in all countries, something I would Manager, Innovation Marketing say represents a massive success. I hope to help contribute to the spread of TRI Terumo Interventional Systems Division, Cardiac and Vascular through public-private partnerships with medical institutions, academic associaCompany tions, and government bodies going forward. It is our goal to tie such efforts to Terumo Corporation improved health for people, lower medical costs, and consequently business growth for Terumo. Pathogen reduction technology system for safer blood transfusions CASE 2 Public-private partnership to advance measures for infection control of blood used for transfusions in Ghana The Mirasol System would act as a major leap from our current status of blood safety with a high residual risk. It would afford a safer blood supply because it reduces bacteria, viruses, and parasites, and we do have quite a large number of these pathogens in our blood. Mirasol also inactivates white blood cells so it would afford the recipients less reactions in terms of transfusion adverse events. Dr. Shirley Owusu-Ofori Head of Transfusion Medicine Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital Kumasi, Ghana JICA collaborates with private sector companies with the aim of transmitting the superior products, technologies, and CASE 1 expertise of Japanese companies to developing countries through public-private partnerships in order to contribute to their social and economic development. The project for promoting treatment of ischemic heart disease through TRI in CASE 2 four Latin American countries as well as the project for preventing infections during blood transfusions in Ghana in which we partnered with Terumo were both judged to be applicable under this program. These projects entailed using Terumo’s products, technologies, and expertise in the coronary intervention and blood transfusion fields, respectively. Utilizing JICA’s wealth of local information and interpersonal networks as well as the trust JICA projects enjoy in these countries, we were able to facilitate the smooth introduction of these products, technologies, and expertise into local medical settings. The results have already begun appearing. JICA is also proactive in its efforts to support businesses that help resolve the issues faced by developing countries to contribute to the accomplishment of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. These efforts are advanced in the Takashi Baba form of projects for supporting dissemination, verification, and commercialization Director, Private Sector Investment efforts and feasibility studies. I hope Terumo will engage in public-private partnerFinance Division, ships to continue contributing to the resolution of medical issues in developing Private Sector Partnership and countries by utilizing its products, technologies, and expertise in a wide range of Finance Department, Japan International Cooperation Agency medical fields to help spread TRI, prevent infections from blood transfusions, and (Formerly Director, Private Sector address other medical issues. Partnership Division) Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 13 Enhanced Value Resolving Healthcare Challenges through Innovation and Improving Access to Healthcare CASE 3 Quest to Provide Safe, High-Quality Healthcare to All Oxygenators supporting cardiovascular surgeries Support for first open heart surgery in Zambia performed by Zambian surgeons Children with Heart Diseases on Surgery Waiting Lists Zambia, located inland on the southern portion of the African continent, suffers from lagging development of medical infrastructure coupled with a lack of medical professionals capable of providing advanced medical services. For this reason, patients requiring treatment are constantly unable to receive adequate medical services. University Teaching Hospital (UTH), the national hospital that provides Zambia’s most advanced and specialized medical services, is also faced with a severe lack of medical Zambia professionals. UTH is the only hospital in Zambia at which patients can undergo cardiovascular surgeries. In the past, these surgeries have been performed purely by teams of foreign surgeons or visiting surgical teams and only in small numbers, and the necessary surgical techniques were not transferred to Zambian surgeons. As a result, over 200 children with heart diseases are still on waiting lists for surgery. other Zambian medical staff with the skills needed to perform First Open Heart Surgery Performed open heart surgeries*1. In February 2018, the first surgery for by Zambian Surgeons treating atrial septal defect*2 to be conducted by Zambian Tokushima International Cooperation (TICO) is a nonprofit surgeons took place at UTH. Such surgeries have already organization that has been providing medical support to been conducted on three female patients aged nine, 10, and Zambia for a number of years. Seeking to address this situa18. These three open heart surgeries were performed over a tion, TICO partnered with UTH in 2017 to commence a properiod of four days by a Zambian surgical team consisting of gram for cultivating a cardiovascular surgery team comprising four surgeons, two nurses, and one clinical engineer. SupZambian surgeons. As part of this program, TICO invited port was provided by Japanese surgeons invited by TICO. surgeons from Japan to provide intensive training for ZamThe surgeries took longer than normal, but they were able to bian surgeons and nurses beginning in September 2017. be completed safely through coordination among the ZamThe goal of this training was to endow these individuals and bian team and the guidance of the Japanese surgeons. Surgery in progress Zambian medical staff, TICO surgeons, and Japanese medical staff invited by TICO that took part in the surgery Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 14 Enhanced Value Resolving Healthcare Challenges through Innovation and Improving Access to Healthcare Support for Open Heart Surgeries through Ongoing Provision of Necessary Products to Provision of Oxygenators Support Medical Activities Terumo supported this project by supplying, free of charge, TICO is continuing its efforts to the oxygenators and cardiovascular circuits needed for cultivate Zambian surgeons training medical professionals as well as the syringe pumps to ensure that such surgeries that are used after surgeries. We also provided the oxygencan be performed in Zambia ators and cardiovascular circuits required for the actual surreliably and consistently in the geries. Oxygenators are used to temporarily provide the future. Similarly, Terumo will functions of the lungs in cardiovascular surgeries and other keep supporting the activities surgeries that entail stopping the heart. Today, hollow fiber of TICO through the supply of oxygenators*3 are commonly used. These oxygenators were oxygenators and other initiafirst developed by Terumo. Since the initial launch of hollow tives with the aim of making fiber oxygenators in 1982, we have proceeded to implement cardiovascular surgeries more refinements and improvements to realize more stable gas readily available in Zambia exchange performance and more compact designs, innovaand other African countries. Oxygenator with integrated arterial filter tions that have led to Terumo hollow fiber oxygenators being used in medical settings worldwide. *1 Open heart surgeries are surgeries for treating heart diseases that entail making incisions into the heart of the patient. Heart-lung machines are used during these surgeries to temporarily provide the function of the heart and lungs. *2 Atrial septal defect is a type of congenital heart disease in which a hole is present in the muscle wall between the left and right atriums of the heart at birth. Congenital heart diseases are said to be occur in one in every 100 people and atrial septal defects are estimated to represent between 7%–10% of these diseases. *3 Hollow fiber oxygenators are oxygenators that use hollow fiber membranes, which are membranes equipped with gas exchange functions primarily made of microporous polypropylene materials. Oxygen is supplied to the blood flow and carbon dioxide is removed through the numerous tiny holes, which only allow for passage of gas and not blood, in these materials to sustain the life functions of the patient during surgery. (Terumo’s oxygenators currently employ a design in which oxygen gas flows through the inner channels of the hollow fiber membrane and blood flows through the outer channels.) *4 Perfusionists are responsible for operating and managing the extracorporeal circulation equipment (heart-lung machine) that provides the function of the heart and lungs during cardiovascular surgeries. In Japan, these duties are included in the roles of clinical engineers. Comment from Tokushima International Cooperation (TICO) CASE 3 I would first like to thank Terumo for their ongoing support of our activities. We are currently working to train cardiovascular surgery teams at University Teaching Hospital with the goal of saving as many people suffering from heart disease as possible. There are many tasks that need to be tended to if cardiovascular surgeries are to continue. These tasks include enhancing the overall capabilities of the hospital, training Zambian surgeons and perfusionists,*4 and ensuring smooth distribution of surgical equipment within Zambia. We will be steadfast in our efforts to address these tasks. I am exceptionally grateful for the various equipment Terumo has provided us, especially those that were donated to us. In January 2019, we plan to begin performing coronary angiography, and the support of Terumo will be all the more important as a result. I hope Dr. Osamu Yoshida this good cooperative relationship will continue on into the future. Director, Tokushima International Cooperation (TICO) Director, Sakura Medical Corporation Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 15 Enhanced Value Resolving Healthcare Challenges through Innovation and Improving Access to Healthcare CASE 4 Quest to Provide Safe, High-Quality Healthcare to All Training for medical professionals underpinning safe, high-quality medical services Planning and implementation of practical training programs based on the needs of Japan’s medical settings Non-Technical Skills Garnering Attention in proper use of medical devices, among other topics. At Medical Settings medical institutions, various training programs are conMedical progress is giving rise to more sophisticated and ducted, even as medical professionals go about their busy complex examination and therapeutic techniques, which in clinical activities. These programs target specialized profesturn is requiring medical professionals to acquire a wider sionals, such as residents undergoing clinical training, range of increasingly more specialized knowledge and skills. nurses, and clinical engineers. Several hospitals have In conjunction with this change in the medical landscape, a requested support in planning and implementing these trend toward the practice of team approach to healthcare is training programs. Terumo rose to the call by providing supemerging in Japan’s medical field. This practice entails various port for these tasks and by jointly developing educational medical professionals, including physicians, surgeons, nurses, tools with hospitals. In 2004, we established a dedicated clinical engineers, pharmacists, and nutritionists, working team for planning and implementing training programs for together to support patients. The ability to provide safe, highmedical professionals. Since then, we have been carrying quality medical services as a team hinges on the specialized out proprietary Terumo training programs on matters such knowledge and skills of team members as well as on their as intravenous injections and safe operation of infusion so-called non-technical skills. Examples of non-technical skills pumps and syringe pumps for nurses and residents underinclude situational judgment capabilities, leadership, commugoing clinical training. nication skills, and teamwork. These skills have been garnering a great deal of attention in medical settings as team Fostering of Propensity for Autonomous approach to healthcare becomes more common. A recent Thought and Action survey reported that more than half of all medical accidents Training programs planned by Terumo focus on teaching are the result of a lack of non-technical skills.*1 appropriate use of medical devices and fostering a propensity for autonomous thought and action in participants. Support from Dedicated Team for Planning and Based on this policy, we seek to provide training programs Implementing Training Programs that closely stimulate the conditions found in clinical setAs a medical device manufacturer, Terumo works to address tings. For this reason, we utilize Terumo Medical Pranex, a such issues in medical settings by devoting efforts to plancomprehensive training facility that recreates the functions ning and implementing medical training programs on the of actual hospitals. Through practical training at this facility, Intravenous injection training at Terumo Medical Pranex (both right and left pictures) Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 16 Enhanced Value Resolving Healthcare Challenges through Innovation and Improving Access to Healthcare we seek to help medical professionals gain specialized Ongoing Improvements and Revisions While knowledge and skills while also nurturing their situational Supporting Medical Professionals judgment capabilities, leadership, communication skills, and Terumo has continued to conduct its training programs while other non-technical skills. In recent years, we have also implementing ongoing improvements and revisions. As a been focusing on the development of programs for cultivatresult, the aggregate number of medical professionals we ing trainers to allow for other medical professionals to conhave helped train over the past 10 years exceeds 30,000*2 tinue to receiving training in their respective hospitals after when including Terumo-assisted programs planned and they have completed our programs. Furthermore, 2017 saw implemented by hospitals. These professionals largely conthe launch of a new training program based on the theme of sist of nurses and residents undergoing clinical training. preventing medical accidents. This program is aimed at Going forward, Terumo will continue to provide practical hospital medical safety managers as well as the directors training based on the needs of the medical settings to proand vice directors of hospitals. In addition, medical repremote safe and appropriate use of medical devices and supsentatives are dispatched to medical institutions to conduct port the medical professionals responsible for providing training programs. safe, high-quality medical services. *1 Information is based on reports (accident causes) from medical institutions registered with Japan Council for Quality Health Care over the period from January to December 2016 described in Project to Collect Medical Near-Miss/Adverse Event Information 2016 Annual Report. *2 Figure represents the aggregate total of participants from fiscal 2008 to fiscal 2017. Comment from Associate CASE 4 In the medical field, hospitals must work to cultivate talented human resources in order to attract patients. Fostering the trainers that conduct training at hospitals is therefore a matter of utmost importance. Terumo’s team of associates that have clinical experience as nurses and are well versed in education provides trainer-development programs that were created together with medical professionals. Recently, it has become common for training programs to focus on improving the overall capabilities of participants, including the ability to make judgments based on their insight and techniques as well as their attitude. Terumo has therefore developed programs based on the theme of fostering a propensity for autonomous thought and action centered on simulation training. We continually revise and improve these programs to ensure that they always match the needs of the medical settings. These training programs have won praise from the managers of medical facilities Sanae Hoshino that have undergone training, stating that our reliable programs offer instruction based on General Manager, Clinical Support the fundamentals and that participants have been increasingly exercising flexible ingenuity Hospital Systems Division, in the guidance they provide at hospitals, as had been anticipated. General Hospital Company, Moving forward, we will continue to provide training on the appropriate use of medical Terumo Corporation devices to cultivate medical professionals that can design training programs for preventing medical accidents and infections in hospitals. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 17 Safety and Reliability Ensuring the Safety and Quality of Products and Services Basic Approach At the Terumo Group, we strive to enhance product quality Genjitsu (reality). In addition, we seek to ensure that our and achieve continuous improvement in quality systems and products are used in a safe and appropriate manner by processes to promise safety and reliability to medical setproviding training opportunities for medical professionals, tings. High product quality is one of the hallmarks of the practicing proper information disclosure, and actively comTerumo Group, and we work to improve quality in every municating with customers. process from product design to manufacturing. We do this Contained in the Midto Long-term Growth Strategy, by identifying and acting on even the smallest matters that which covers the five-year period from fiscal 2017 to fiscal could improve safety and reliability, by concentrating on 2021, is the Midto Long-term Vision, which calls on us to improving the quality and speed of individual processes, and earn the trust of medical settings globally as a top brand and by pursuing the 3Gs principle that places great importance to ensure world-class trust with Total Quality comprised of on Gemba (field/floor), Genbutsu (actual product), and reliable products, supply, and services. Quality Management Structure The Terumo Group has developed a quality management Group policies, build consensus with regard to issues, forstructure headed by its Chief Quality Officer (CQO). As the mulate improvement measures, and exchange information head of Groupwide quality divisions, the CQO is responsible on trends in the regulations and standards of various counfor overseeing efforts to promote stringent Group quality tries. We also strive to prevent quality issues by implementgovernance and improve the quality of products. ing a PDCA (plan-do-check-act) cycle that entails gathering With this structure in place, the Terumo Group has quality-related information from across the Group, analyzing established a quality assurance system, promotes compliquality risk, conducting assessments, pursuing improveance with domestic and overseas regulations, and provides ments, and sharing quality information. product quality improvement guidance to production sites. In 2018, the Terumo Group developed its Global Quality Furthermore, global meetings are held regularly, and these Policy, which details the practices we expect associates to meetings are attended by the CQO as well as by associates adhere to across the Group. Guided by this policy, we are responsible for quality at individual production sites. These working to achieve higher levels of quality management on a meetings provide an opportunity to share and disseminate Groupwide basis. Quality Management System Quality Management System Compliant with International Regulations and Standards Since establishing a quality management system in response Administration (FDA) regulations, which have been strengthto European Medical Device Directives in 1995, we have ened in recent years; the Medical Device Single Audit Probeen striving to blend our international-standard system into gram,* which has been enacted in response to global an existing quality assurance system based on the pharmaharmonization trends; and emerging country regulations, ceutical Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) standard. Folwhich are rapidly being tightened. Furthermore, in response lowing the acquisition of manufacturing and sales approval to the May 2017 launch of the European Medical Device for regenerative medicine products in Japan, we put in place Regulation (MDR), which is to be enacted in May 2020, we the related quality assurance systems in fiscal 2016. Today, are advancing compliance preparations at relevant divisions we continue efforts to ensure that our quality management and otherwise enhancing our quality management system. system is compliant with global requirements. As part of For the purpose of pursuing ongoing improvements to these efforts, all medical device production sites have our quality management system, we disseminate informaacquired certification under ISO 13485, the international tion on new standards and regulations among associates in quality standard for medical devices. divisions to which this system applies and also conduct We also keep up to date with and respond swiftly to education and training every year to elevate the quality developments regarding Japan’s PMD Act (the Act on Securawareness of such associates. ing Quality, Efficacy and Safety of Pharmaceuticals, Medical Devices, Regenerative and Cellular Therapy Products, Gene Therapy Products, and Cosmetics) and regulatory trends and * The Medical Device Single Audit Program is a program through which audits are conducted at once (collectively) based on common standards pertaining to the relevant requirements for medical devices and pharmaceutical prodmedical device regulations in each country. The participating countries are the United ucts outside of Japan, including U.S. Food and Drug States, Canada, Brazil, Australia, and Japan. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 18 Safety and Reliability Ensuring the Safety and Quality of Products and Services Quality Policy Group company managers have established the Quality The customer perspective, which appears at the top of Policy, from which we develop, operate, and effectively Terumo’s Quality Policy, forms the basis of the Group’s quality maintain our quality management system. Each division also assurance. sets quality objectives based on the Quality Policy. The policies devised by top management are incorporated into objectives of individual divisions and associates. Quality Policy In order to deliver safety and reliability to healthcare fields, we shall • pursue products valuable for our customers; • understand our own roles in the quality system and practice them; and • always review and improve our ways of doing business. Internal and External Audits to Improve Quality Management System Effectiveness Terumo conducts internal audits to objectively evaluate each year to verify our compliance with Japan’s PMD Act; whether its quality management system is being appropriU.S. regulations, and those of European and other counately implemented and followed. The audits are conducted tries; and the requirements of corporate customers. by associates who have been trained and received internal We continuously improve our quality management system certification authorizing them to perform internal audits. based on the results of these internal and external audits. In addition, we undergo several external audits by governmental authorities, certification bodies, and other organizations Collection and Disclosure of Safety and Quality Information Terumo has established frameworks for collecting safety training on product knowledge and communication skills and quality information from customers and disclosing this and are tested twice a year to ensure that they are properly information based on the laws and regulations of countries equipped to respond to inquiries and provide customers of operation. We also analyze information from customers with satisfactory results. and share the findings with relevant divisions for use in The Post-Market Surveillance and Vigilance Department improving quality and in developing new products. collects and evaluates information on safety, quality, and Medical representatives (MRs), who are responsible for proper use of post-market products and issues reports on providing information to medical institutions, encourage these matters to government authorities. The collected customers to properly use medical devices and pharmaceuinformation is utilized in prompt and detailed communication ticals. MRs also collect accurate information from medical by delivering this information in various ways, including institutions and swiftly provide information to institutions to incorporating important information in package inserts, ensure the effectiveness and safety of our products. transmitting information through our website or via industry The Terumo Call Center in Japan receives about 210,000 organizations, and sending MRs to medical institutions to telephone and email inquiries per year from general conprovide explanations face-to-face. Furthermore, we use the sumers, medical institutions, and distributors. We respond accumulated information to develop, refine, and improve to emergency calls, such as those pertaining to peritoneal products and support medical safety training at medical dialysis or diabetes-related products, 24 hours a day, 365 institutions (T-PAS*). Terumo is also moving forward with the days a year. As Terumo handles a wide range of products— development of safety information management systems from those designed for medical institutions to those for and the reinforcement of monitoring of information collection home medical care—the call center staff includes experts in activities overseas. every required field to ensure that all inquiries are addressed promptly and appropriately. To improve the quality of service * For information on T-PAS, please refer to page 20. at our call center, the staff at the center regularly receive Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 19 Safety and Reliability Ensuring the Safety and Quality of Products and Services Training Medical Professionals Basic Approach Terumo believes that medical devices can be effective only if how to apply treatment procedures. The information colthey are used correctly. Accordingly, we have long endeavlected from the medical field through these activities is utilized ored to enhance the quality and safety of medical care by in the development of new products and in the refinement actively creating training opportunities for medical profesand improvement of existing products. sionals to learn how to use medical devices properly and Terumo Medical PranexTM Comprehensive Medical Training Facility Terumo Medical Pranex was established to develop and hospital environment including operating rooms, an intenspread the use of medical technologies. Using spaces that sive care unit (ICU), medical ward, and staff station, Terumo realistically simulate hospital facilities and private homes, Medical Pranex offers a realistic environment for conducting Terumo Medical Pranex provides practical training for media broad array of trainings for physicians, nurses, pharmacal professionals and serves as a venue for collaborative cists, clinical engineers, and others. It has also developed product development. Visitors to Terumo Medical Pranex unique training programs on the basics of proper and safe include medical professionals from inside and outside Japan use of medical devices and for expert trainers who can train as well as foreign officials. Terumo Medical Pranex has new medical professionals. hosted over 140,000 visitors since its opening in 2002. Terumo Medical Pranex is equipped with catheterization laboratories, where trainees can use blood vessel models that faithfully recreate the flow of blood through the brain and heart along with Terumo’s original training tools to learn how to perform advanced interventional therapies. There are also operating rooms where medical professionals can receive training in cardiovascular surgery using an extracorporeal life support system as well as on how to operate heart-lung machines, which are critical to cardiac surgery, among various other types of training. With a simulated Training being performed at Terumo Medical Pranex Support for Training at Medical Institutions to Improve Medical Safety To prevent accidents during the use of syringes, IV solution sets, and other medical devices, Terumo conducts training sessions known as T-PAS*1 at medical institutions.*2 T-PAS emphasizes critical points in the use of individual devices among those described in package inserts and enables medical professionals to learn through hands-on training scenarios. The value of this program is illustrated by the feedback of medical professionals that have participated, which indicates that T-PAS training provides a tangible sense of the situations that can lead to accidents and demonstrates why the understanding of device use must be based on more than just assumptions or casual advice from others. The benefits of T-PAS training are often reported on by hosT-PAS training session pitals throughout Japan at the Annual Congress of Japanese Society for Quality and Safety in Healthcare. *1 T-PAS stands for Terumo Proactive Action for Safety. T-PAS training is based on Terumo’s own assessments of accident prevention needs. *2 From fiscal 2009 through fiscal 2017, T-PAS training was conducted in approximately 1,500 venues, including regional training sessions, sales agent locations, and 1,250 medical institutions. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 20 Safety and Reliability Managing Supply Chains That Support Stable Supply Basic Approach Based on the Code of Conduct for the Terumo Group ensure the stable supply of high-quality products for the (SAKURA Rules), Terumo promotes fair, impartial, and highly medical settings. We also ask suppliers for their understandtransparent procurement activities and compliance with the ing and cooperation with regard to quality, compliance, and laws of all relevant countries. Moreover, we have established environmental, health, and safety (EHS) initiatives and coorbusiness continuity plans (BCPs) regarding material prodinate with these partners in these areas. curement to help us develop sustainable value chains to Promotion System The Procurement Department of Terumo Corporation plays a reliability. In recent years, we have pushing forward with the central role in establishing and implementing procurement globalization of our procurement functions in response to rules, developing BCPs regarding procurement, and promotthe global expansion of our sales and production activities ing thorough compliance with Japan’s Act against Delay in accompanying overseas acquisitions. For example, the ProPayment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors curement Department held the Global Procurement Man(Subcontract Act) and other purchasing-related laws. This agement Meeting in fiscal 2017, which was attended by department also coordinates with relevant divisions when representatives from domestic and overseas factory purselecting new raw materials and components to be procured chasing teams. Future initiatives aimed at the global optimiand conducts inspections on these articles from the perspeczation of our procurement functions will include sharing tives of supply reliability, safety, and environmental impact. information and examining the possibility of establishing In actual purchasing activities, domestic and overseas Groupwide procurement policies. factory purchasing teams manage suppliers based on the Furthermore, the Environmental Management DepartGroup’s Quality Management System. The Procurement ment coordinates with the Procurement Department in EHS Department coordinates with these teams to facilitate purinitiatives implemented across the supply chain, which are chasing activities that are optimal from a Companywide advanced while gaining the understanding and cooperation perspective with consideration to quality, prices, and supply of suppliers. Reinforcement of Quality Management In order to further improve product quality, Terumo proacWe therefore work to gain suppliers’ understanding with tively seeks to strengthen quality management—not only of regard to how the raw materials and services they provide raw materials, but also of production equipment, mold affect the quality of finished products. Suppliers cooperate design, and outsourced processes. In recent years, supplier by continuously improving their quality and allowing us to control has become increasingly important due to tighter perform regular audits of their quality management systems. regulations pertaining to global quality management systems. Procurement-Related BCPs With quality and supply reliability as its top priority, Terumo Japan Earthquake, the Kumamoto Earthquake, and other strives to procure articles from the most ideal location. In disasters. Implemented with the understanding and coopaccordance with the basic policy of BCPs—that healthcare eration of suppliers, this plan is part of our efforts to establish must not be stopped—we have formulated a medical supply systems that ensure we are able to reliably procure the BCP that incorporates our experience with the Great East necessary raw materials. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 21 Safety and Reliability Managing Supply Chains That Support Stable Supply Briefings for Suppliers Terumo holds briefings for major suppliers once a year. the healthcare industry and our outlook for the future and These briefings are used as opportunities to explain condiwork to gain the understanding and cooperation of suppliers tions pertaining to Terumo’s management, production, and with regard to the actions necessary to realize the quality procurement as well as the Company’s production and and supply reliability required for the medical settings. procurement policies. We also discuss the current state of EHS Initiatives Related to Procurement Terumo’s business activities hinge on the support of various other articles used in our products of the important matters suppliers. Accordingly, Terumo strives to ensure a stable pertaining to EHS and asking for their cooperation with supply of products by implementing EHS initiatives across regard to these items. We also administered surveys to the value chain and endeavoring to reduce EHS risks better understand the status of EHS-related initiatives of throughout the supply chain. Initiatives in fiscal 2017 included suppliers. informing suppliers of the raw materials, components, and Important Matters Pertaining to EHS Communicated to Suppliers • Terumo Global EHS Policy • Request for respect for EHS laws and regulations and social norms • Request for management of and cooperation with surveys on information on the chemical substances contained in products • Request for risk assessments and appropriate management of chemical substances • Request for energy and resource conservation and other environmental preservation activities • Request for initiatives to prevent occupational accidents Compliance Education Regarding Purchasing Terumo has introduced a purchasing system that features ensure compliance with the Subcontract Act. Moreover, an enhanced functions for conducting checks on compliance e-learning program on the Subcontract Act was instituted in with the Subcontract Act. By conducting order placement fiscal 2017 targeting all associates at Terumo Corporation and payment procedures through this system, we aim to and at domestic Group companies. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 22 Respect for Our Associates Ensuring Occupational Safety and Promoting Health Basic Approach Ensuring the occupational safety and promoting the health initiatives for ensuring occupational safety and promoting of employees is an important social responsibility for the health of its employees throughout all of its business ­companies and is crucial to sustainable growth. Acting in activities and strives to develop safe and comfortable work accordance with the Terumo Global Environment, Health environments. and Safety (EHS) Policy, the Terumo Group advances Terumo Global EHS Policy  Established October 25, 2012  Revised April 1, 2017 The Terumo Group aims to be a good corporate citizen, striving to reduce environmental impact associated with business activities and to ensure the safety and health of employees based on its corporate mission, “Contributing to Society through Healthcare.” W  e take action based on an environment, health and safety (EHS) management system, establish the following voluntary goals, and make continuous improvements: •R educe the environmental impact and EHS risk of our business activities; •D evelop environmentally friendly and safe products and production processes; •E ffectively use energy and resources; and •A ppropriately manage chemical substances. We comply with the laws, ordinances, agreements, and other rules relating to EHS in each country.  e work to ensure the safety and health of employees in all business activities and create safe and comfortable W work environments. We strive to prevent EHS accidents such as environmental pollution and occupational injuries, and, in emergencies, prevent damage from spreading by responding swiftly and appropriately. W  e carry out environmental conservation activities and strive to conserve biodiversity as a member of society and the community.  e systematically and continuously provide education and training and take other actions to increase EHS W awareness, while strengthening our infrastructure for addressing EHS issues. W  e actively disclose information pertaining to EHS activities and maintain good communication with various stakeholders. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 23 Respect for Our Associates Ensuring Occupational Safety and Promoting Health Management System EHS Management System Based on Terumo Global EHS Policy, we employ an EHS Terumo Group sites worldwide. EHS Expert Subcommitmanagement system that is compliant with international tees, consisting of experts drawn from individual business environmental (ISO 14001:2015) and occupational health sites, have been established under the Corporate EHS and safety (OHSAS 18001, ISO 45001) standards. Committee. The Health and Safety SC, one of these subAs a key part of Terumo’s focus on sustainability in busicommittees, is responsible for formulating targets and plans ness, EHS Policies, goals, activity plans, and risks are disrelated to occupational health and safety. cussed and related decisions are made by the Corporate EHS Committee and then reflected in EHS activities at Organization for Company-wide Promotion of the EHS Management System Board of Directors Director in Charge of EHS EHS Audit Committee Corporate EHS Committee EHS Expert Subcommittees Secretariat: Environmental Management Department Health and Safety SC Person in Charge of Site Eco-products and Safety SC Industrial Waste SC Site EHS Management Committee Energy SC Chemical Substance SC Members Communication SC OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety) and ISO 14001 (Environmental) Certifications Principal manufacturing sites in Japan, a certain number of certifications of their compliance with the OHSAS 18001 and manufacturing sites overseas, and the head office (EnvironISO 14001:2015 international standards. mental Management Department) have obtained third-party Facilities with Third-Party Certifications Company Name Site Certified Head office (Environmental Management Department) October 2013 Fujinomiya Factory October 2013 Terumo Corporation Kofu Factory November 2014 Ashitaka Factory November 2015 Terumo Europe NV Haasrode Factory February 2012 Terumo Penpol Private Ltd. Blood Bag Factory May 2013 Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 24 Respect for Our Associates Ensuring Occupational Safety and Promoting Health Initiatives to Prevent Work-Related Accidents To protect the safety of our associates in Japan, our OccuEHS internal audits are performed regularly to identify pational Health and Safety Management Committee holds any potential occupational health and safety risks. Should regular meetings at our factories, R&D bases, sales offices, areas requiring improvement be discovered, corrective meaand head office. At our factories, in particular, subcommitsures will be implemented. In addition, individual business tees are established to address topics such as work safety, sites have established procedures to prevent and lessen disaster response, occupational health, and traffic safety; the severity of any EHS accidents should they occur. They facilities are inspected and problems remedied to prevent also regularly conduct emergency response training and occupational accidents; associates are encouraged to review results. undergo health checkups; and 5S (sort, set in order, shine, Preventing deaths and serious accidents and reducing standardize, sustain) programs are conducted. Results of the number of minor accidents are ongoing objectives improvement measures are shared with the Occupational at Terumo. Health and Safety Management Committee, which then discusses further actions to take. Industrial Accidents Resulting in Lost Working Days, Frequency Rate*1, and Severity Rate*2 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Accidents resulting in lost working days 0 4 4 2 3 Frequency rate 0.00 0.45 0.44 0.23 0.34 Severity rate 0.00 0.02 0.00 0.02 0.85 *1 Frequency rate: Number of accidents resulting in injury or death per million working hours. *2 Severity rate: Lost working days per 1,000 working hours. Promotion of Associate Health Improvement Basic Approach Terumo recognizes that healthy associates are crucial to ensuring that our associates can remain healthy and to prosustainable growth. As a company tasked with contributing viding them with an environment that allows them to feel to the development of healthcare, we are committed to energized in their work. Kenko KeieiTM (Health and Productivity Management) * “Kenko Keiei”, the Japanese term for “Health and Productivity Management”, is a regisAs a company that contributes to healthcare, Terumo believes tered trademark of the Workshop for the Management of Health on Company and it is important to protect the health of its own associates. Employee, a non-profit organization. Terumo, as a supporting member of this organizaWith its management having committed its support to Kenko tion, endorses its principal aims. Keiei*, Terumo undertakes various initiatives to encourage keen health awareness among individual associates. Message from Top Management (Excerpted from a message to all associates from Terumo’s chairman of the board and president and CEO.) It is important for management to pay attention to the health of associates, so it is meaningful that Terumo is engaged in “Kenko Keiei” initiatives, which treat associate health and well-being as a top management priority. “Invigorating our people and organization” is a key point for bringing about changes under our Midto Long-term Growth Strategy. For a company pursuing business on a global scale, building and invigorating links between different parts of our organization and between different geographic locations is essential, and invigorating our organization requires that individual associates be able to work with enthusiasm. “Kenko Keiei,” a management approach that links the health of employees with the management of an organization, is one of the tools we are using to achieve that goal. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 25 Respect for Our Associates Ensuring Occupational Safety and Promoting Health The Kenko Keiei System To promote “Kenko Keiei,” we have formed a team, with staff deployed to individual business locations share informembers drawn from across Terumo Group companies in mation on “Kenko Keiei” directions for group companies in Japan, to work with the Terumo Health Insurance Society to Japan, and on common initiatives and best practices. undertake “collabo-health”* initiatives. In addition, led by a supervising corporate physician, corporate physicians, * Initiatives undertaken with collaboration by company management and health insurance society. nurses, public health nurses, and other corporate health Terumo “Kenko Keiei” Promotion Team President and CEO Leader: General Manager Head of the Terumo Human Resources Dept. Health Insurance Society and Health Management at Terumo (General Manager, Human Resources Dept.) Human Terumo Manager in Charge Terumo Clinical Resources Dept. Terumo BCT Yamaguchi of Administration, Sales Offices Supply Co., Ltd. Terumo Health Manager in Charge Japan, Inc. D&D Corp. and Safety Sales Managers Administrative Insurance Society of Safety Manager Administrative and Health Manager Staff and Health Manager Supervising Corporate Physician Nurses Corporate Physicians Public Network Health Nurses Basic Approaches and Major Initiatives At Terumo, we will analyze past diagnostic results and mediFor example, the Company, its health insurance Society, cal expense data to set policies and formulate annual action and industrial health staff collaborate to provide associates plans to be implemented all Group companies in Japan. Iniwith health checkup opportunities, hold seminars and tiatives based on polices and plans are advanced, and their health-oriented events, and offer financial assistance to proresults are quantitatively and qualitatively verified on an mote prevention, early detection, and early treatment. In annual basis. In addition, internal Kenko Keiei surveys are addition, health guidance is provided to individual associates conducted to incorporate associate input and needs into a and their families. Kenko Keiei PDCA (plan-do-check-act) cycle. Efforts on Prevention, Early Detection and Treatment Support Prevention Early Detection Treatment Support Exercise Health Checkups Medical Expense Support Lifestyle-related Company-Sponsored Periodic Health Oral Care Walking Campaign Disease Checkups Gym Memberships Checkups (Cancer screening) Financial Support for Vaccines Health Consultations Women’s Health Dental Checkups Checkups Metabolic Syndrome and Influenza Cervical Cancer Financial Support Financial Support for Diabetes Prevention for Comprehensive Comprehensive Vacation Time Neurological Exams Medical Exams Workplace Support for Associates Diagnosed with Cancer Pre-arranged Rest Financial Support Lodging Subsidies and Relaxation Follow-On Exams for Breast Smoking Cessation for Travel Facilities Cancer MRIs Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 26 Respect for Our Associates Ensuring Occupational Safety and Promoting Health Terumo’s Kenko Keiei Policies and Initiatives in Japan ❶ Reduction of the Ratio of Smokers and the Ratio of Associates Diagnosed with Metabolic Syndrome We are working to prevent the onset of lifestyle-related diseases. For that, we aim to reduce the ratio of smokers to less than 20% and the ratio of associates diagnosed with metabolic syndrome to less than 22%. Reduction of Smokers Major initiatives Initiative results • Prohibition of smoking at work These initiatives have been steadily generating results, prompting us to set a new target of reducing the ratio of smokers to less than 20% in • Seminars on quitting smoking fiscal 2018. • Distribution of tools to assist in quitting smoking • Financial support for receiving outpatient smoking cessation Ratio of Smokers assistance or purchasing aids for quitting smoking （%） 40 • Prohibition of smoking on premises of the Company and the 33.5 32.5 31.2 Group companies. 25.8 30 24.7 20 10 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017* (FY) * The ratio of smokers in fiscal 2017 was calculated using data collected in May 2018. Prevention of Metabolic Syndrome Major initiatives Initiative results • Special health guidance Terumo has instituted a long-term walking promotion campaign with the aim of preventing metabolic syndrome. However, the campaign • Promotion of walking (campaign in which associates enter step failed to achieve improvements in BMI and other indicators. We thus counts into a web-based application and receive prizes for chose to implement diet programs based on recording data using HR achieving goals, etc.) Joint body composition monitors in fiscal 2017. • Diet programs based on recording data using HR Joint body composition monitors and physical activity monitors Ratio of Associates Diagnosed with Metabolic Syndrome*1 （%） 30 24.5 23.8 23.8 22.2 22.2 20 10 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017*2 (FY) *1 The ratio of associates diagnosed with metabolic syndrome is calculated based on the number of associates whose body metrics have surpassed the threshold for being judged to have metabolic syndrome and those that are at risk of surpassing this threshold. *2 The ratio of associates diagnosed with metabolic syndrome in fiscal 2017 was calculated using data collected in May 2018. TOPIC Prohibition of Smoking on Premises of Factory in the Philippines In July 2018, Terumo (Philippines) Corporation (TPC) became the first Terumo Group production base outside Japan to prohibit smoking anywhere on its premises. TPC has been proactive in its initiatives to encourage associates to stop smoking through seminars and other means. The company has also taken other steps to improve associate health, including holding Zumba dance exercise classes and sports events and providing health meals in associate cafeterias. As seen at TPC, the Terumo Group’s efforts to practice Kenko Keiei with an emphasis on associate health are spreading outside of Japan. Prohibition of smoking on premises of factory Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 27 Respect for Our Associates Ensuring Occupational Safety and Promoting Health ❷ Early Diagnosis and Treatment of Cancer to Return Associates to the Workplace We are focusing on examinations to diagnose and treat cancer early, and on creating workplaces that enable associates who have been treated for cancer to return to work when they are ready and continue to work while they are being treated. Cancer Screenings Major initiatives Initiative results • Full compensation of fees for checkups for lifestyle-related In fiscal 2017, all associates underwent regular checkups required by diseases (cancer screening) by Terumo health insurance society, law and more than 80% received secondary examinations when ability to undergo such checkups together with regular checkwarranted. ups required by law and during work hours to improve convenience and thereby raise checkup rates Ratio of associates undergoing cancer screening in fiscal 2017* • Encouragement of secondary examinations when initial exami（%） nations warrant more detailed examinations 100 92 93 86 81 • System to help associates continue to work while undergoing 80 70 cancer treatment 61 60 40 28 20 0 Stomach Colon Upper Lung PSA Breast Cervix abdomen (sputum) * Figures are based on data collected in May 2018. ❸ Women’s Health In response to the increase in female associates, we will implement Kenko Keiei practices that meet needs specific to women. Major initiatives Initiative results • Seminars on importance of receiving breast and cervical cancer Breast cancer and cervical cancer screening rates are on the rise. screening • Financial support for receiving cervical cancer vaccines Breast cancer and cervical cancer screening rate （%） • Financial support for undergoing MRI breast cancer 71.5 80 68.9 69.9 examinations* 60.6 60.6 60 60.9 62.4 61.0 55.9 54.8 * Having a high rate of lesion detection, MRI examinations are said to be effective for early detection of breast cancer in women with unusually dense breast tissue and in women 40 considered at high risk for breast cancer due to family history or other factors. 20 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017* (FY) Breast cancer screening rate Cervical cancer screening rate * The breast cancer and cervical cancer screening rate in fiscal 2017 was calculated using data collected in May 2018. ❹ Encouragement of Self-Help Based on the belief that self-help initiatives are the most important element of Kenko Keiei for associates, we are disseminating information to encourage self-help efforts. Major initiatives • Dedicated Kenko Keiei intranet site offering information on Terumo’s Kenko Keiei, messages from top management, health improvement support, initiatives as business sites, and healthcare practices of associates • Financial support for dental examinations and oral care to help raise awareness of dental diseases, which can contribute to lifestylerelated diseases Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 28 Respect for Our Associates Ensuring Occupational Safety and Promoting Health Workplace Support for Associates Diagnosed with Cancer With data indicating that one out of two Japanese will be system to help associates continue in their jobs while underdiagnosed with cancer during their lifetime*, the number of going cancer treatment. people who have been diagnosed with cancer is rising. There are many cases in which treatment is long-term and * Source: Cancer Registry and Statistics. Cancer Information Service, National Cancer cancer patients face difficulty in continuing their careers. Center, Japan. According to this data (2014), 62% of men and 47% of women will be Therefore, in January 2017, Terumo established a new diagnosed with cancer during their lifetimes. Types of Support Expired paid leave may now be used a day at a time, rather than a week at a Use of expired paid leave, in one-day increments time as in the past. Associates may take as many days as needed, but not more than 30 consecuUnpaid leave tive days. Unpaid working hour reductions Working hours may be reduced by up to 2 hours per day. Staggered working hours Adjustment of daily starting and finishing times by up to 2 hours. Applies to all Terumo associates, regardless of years on the job. Membership in KENKO Kigyo Kai Terumo is a member of the KENKO Kigyo Kai, an organizato business management and contributes to efforts to protion of companies committed to the idea that employee mote its wider adoption. health should be a top management priority. Under the leadership of their top management, members of this organization embark on an ongoing process of taking steps to promote the health of their employees, reviewing the results, and making improvements. Terumo embraces this approach External Recognition In recognition of the effectiveness of its Kenko Keiei initiathe Tokyo Metropolitan Government and through the Ministives, Terumo has been selected by Japan’s Ministry of try of Health, Labour and Welfare’s Action Plan for CompaEconomy, Trade and Industry for inclusion in the Health & nies Promoting Cancer Prevention in recognition of its efforts Productivity Stock Selection* for four consecutive years to support employees that work while fighting cancer. beginning with fiscal 2014. Terumo has also been included in the Excellent Enterprise * This stock selection, determined jointly by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Health and Productivity Management—White 500 selecand the Tokyo Stock Exchange, is intended to spotlight companies where management addresses employee health as a matter of strategic importance. Updated just once a year, tion for two consecutive years beginning with fiscal 2016. the Health & Productivity Stock Selection is chosen from among companies listed on the Furthermore, Terumo received awards in fiscal 2017 from Tokyo Stock Exchange, with only one company selected from each industry segment. Major Kenko Keiei Selections, Certifications, and Awards • Health & Productivity Stock Selection (fiscal 2014, fiscal 2015, fiscal 2016, and fiscal 2017) • Excellent Enterprise of Health and Productivity Management—White 500 (fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2017) • Tokyo Sports Promotion Company (fiscal 2015, fiscal 2016, and fiscal 2017) • Sports Yell Company (fiscal 2017) • Cancer Prevention Partner Award (Encouragement of Cancer Treatment While Working Category), Action Plan for Companies Promoting Cancer Prevention, Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (fiscal 2017) • Award of Excellence, Awards for Companies Supporting Cancer Patients in Receiving Cancer Treatment While Working, Tokyo Metropolitan Government (fiscal 2017) Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 29 Respect for our Associates Creating Workplace Environments Where Diverse Associates Can Demonstrate Their Skills and Abilities Basic Approach The Terumo Group refers to all of its employees as “associconducive to contributions by diverse individuals and place ates” to reflect the fact that they are viewed as valued colemphasis on fostering associates and increasing their value leagues. We recognize our associates as important assets in to the Group. At the same time, we expect associates to order for the Terumo Group and its associates to grow seek improvements in their own value and make proactive together and contribute to society through healthcare. contributions to the development of the Terumo Group. Based on this recognition, we cultivate workplaces that are Fostering of a Motivating and Challenging Work Environment At Terumo, we respect the individuality of our associates to grow to widen their fields of activity. Our goal, based on while working to foster a workplace environment in which these initiatives, is to enable each associate to contribute each individual can realize his or her maximum potential. We their individual strengths to their team, enhancing perforalso provide ample opportunities for those with a willingness mance and creating a strong, motivating workplace. Terumo Patient’s Day At the root of what motivates our associates is the strong to directly reflect on the connection between their everyday belief that our work is meaningful. This is captured in our corwork and frontline patient healthcare. porate mission, “Contributing to Society through Healthcare.” Since 2013, we have been conducting an in-house event around the world called “Terumo Patient’s Day” to provide opportunities for associates to reconnect with our mission and consider anew what it means to personally contribute to the advancement of healthcare, and to reflect on the value we provide to society. At Terumo Patient’s Day, associates listen to moving accounts of what patients have experienced in their struggle to overcome illness. This enables associates Terumo Patient’s Day event Internal Award Programs Terumo has developed various internal award programs with transferring a career’s worth of knowledge to younger assothe aim of heightening the motivation of its associates. ciates. In fiscal 2017, “Gemba-no Hokori” awards were The Terumo Global Awards is an annual award program presented to five associates from among the roughly 60 open to all Terumo Group companies. This program is associates nominated by frontline operating sites. Among designed to recognize associates that have made large conthe recipients was an associate that contributed to maintaintributions to either the Group or society through business ing the quality of imported goods as a manager at a waresuccess or excellence in community outreach. In fiscal 2017, house product processing center as well as an associate awards through this program were presented in recognition that supported the medical field for more than three decades of accomplishments such as business success, global projas a blood collection tube sales specialist. ects, new product developments and launches, and efforts Various other unique award programs can be found at toward swift recovery from the impacts of natural disasters. Terumo Group companies around the world. In addition, Terumo recognizes associates that work diligently in lesser acknowledged endeavors through the “Gemba-no Hokori” Awards (literally, the “Honor the Frontline” Awards), which is presented each year. Winners are selected based on exceptional performance, demonstrated in ways such as: 1) steadfastness in working behind the scenes to contribute to the Company and organization; 2) having skills that others recognize as clearly setting them apart; and 3) devoting significant time and energy to Terumo Global Award ceremony Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 30 Respect for our Associates Creating Workplace Environments Where Diverse Associates Can Demonstrate Their Skills and Abilities Appointment of Engineers as “Terumo Fellows” For Terumo to increase the value of its presence on a global superior expertise and practical experience to produce outscale and achieve sustainable growth, it is critical that we standing innovations benefiting medical settings throughout continuously contribute to the advancement of healthcare by the world. An additional associate was appointed in 2018, creating new value in technology and R&D, which ultimately bringing the total number of Terumo Fellows to five. underpin Terumo’s growth. As role models for up-and-coming engineers and develIn 2016, Terumo appointed four associates as “Terumo opers, Terumo Fellows will not only advise their younger Fellows.” These individuals have won praise both inside and colleagues, but also drive the R&D activities that are the outside the Company for their achievements in technology, future of Terumo and continue to create new value through research, and clinical development, and have used their further innovation in medical settings. Continuous Management–Worker Dialogue Terumo recognizes that a healthy management–worker relabetween management and the workers’ union has been tionship based on trust and mutual understanding is developed into one in which both sides work as partners to extremely important for it to grow and develop together with bring about mutual growth and development. its associates. In Japan, all non-managerial associates are In addition, we hold timely discussions regarding work members of the workers’ union (Terumo utilizes a union style reforms, Kenko Keiei (Health and Productivity Manageshop system). Input from the workers’ union is treated as ment), and other Companywide measures to support the valuable feedback, and we resolve issues by taking actions endeavors of associates through a united management– that are acceptable to both management and associates. worker effort. In Japan, we arrange forums for discussions with senior Outside of the management–worker dialogue, views are management as well as regular management–worker confreely exchanged throughout the Company through surveys ferences, held once a month in principle. By facilitating recipand feedback via the workers’ union. rocal communication through such forums, the relationship Improvement of Our Organizations through Employee Engagement Surveys In conjunction with the globalization of the operating enviof associates responded to the surveys. The findings of ronment, Terumo’s organizations are becoming increasingly these surveys indicate that the social contributions made diverse and complicated as the Company continues to through Terumo’s business and the great potential seen in grow. Recognizing this situation, Terumo administers this business are powerful sources of motivation for our employee engagement surveys aimed at developing an associates and that this motivation is a strength of Terumo. objective understanding of the circumstances facing each Feedback trainings are held at all divisions to relay the organization to enable divisions to autonomously pursue findings of these surveys to associates. In addition, the improvements based on the characteristics of their business strengths and weaknesses of each organization are objecand organization. tively identified and analyzed to formulate and implement Employee engagement surveys are administered to action plans for improving these organizations. associates at all business sites in Japan once a year. These Terumo is committed to fostering a corporate culture that surveys contain 64 questions through which associates rate contributes to the motivation of associates. Employee their levels of anticipation and satisfaction with regard to the engagement surveys will be utilized as a tool for energizing our Company, workplace, and supervisors. In fiscal 2017, 86% associates and organizations in order to accomplish this goal. Human Resource Development Human Resource Development System That Supports the Growth of Highly Motivated Associates At Terumo, we believe the growth of our business is the sum We believe that the most effective learning comes from total of the growth of individual associates, and we manage individual motivation and feeling of the necessity to learn; our human resource policies with the fundamental intent of associates with this motivation can nominate themselves supporting the ongoing growth of diverse human resources. to participate in various voluntary and selective training Human resource development starts with practical skills programs. acquired through on-the-job training (OJT) and a variety of training programs designed to supplement OJT. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 31 Respect for our Associates Creating Workplace Environments Where Diverse Associates Can Demonstrate Their Skills and Abilities Terumo Training Scheme in Japan (Terumo Corporation) Level-based training Self development Development of management leaders Training by Company, division, dept., and job type Officers Training for Management school support External school assignment newly appointed officers Executive coaching Training for newly appointed Saturday business school Management dojo general managers Online business training New generation leaders development training Career design General training Internal English conversation school Inter-industry exchange managers Internal TOEIC MBA assignment Chat room Young associates early training system Section Training for managers newly appointed managers Project member internal recruitment Mid-level Training for newly appointed associates mid-level associates WAIGAYA TALK Correspondence education Second-year training Standard associates Training for new associates Career-planning Interviews Terumo holds annual career-planning interviews to encourperformance targets, which are used as the basis for deterage associates to think carefully about their work and careers mining assignments and providing other career support in and discuss their thoughts with their supervisor. These interlight of the individual associate’s career goals. views involve the development of career plans and specific ACE In-house Job Posting System In Japan, Terumo operates an in-house job posting system has also been set up and over half of these associates are called “ACE.” Set up in 1997, this system enables associalready on global assignments outside Japan. ates from a range of departments and job types to enhance their careers by taking on new challenges and opportunities. For those with a strong desire to move their career to the next level, the system, which is open to associates regardless of age or gender, presents opportunities to gain experience and develop as business professionals. Over 870 associates have responded to job postings on the ACE system so far, and over 180 have moved into new positions ACE In-house Job Posting System logo urging as a result. A talent pool of 48 candidates for global postings associates to “Take Charge of Your Career!” Leveland Role-Based Support for Growth Terumo supports the ongoing growth of its associates targeting associates turning 50. This program is meant to through training designed to help them acquire the skills provide veteran associates with an opportunity to reevaluate necessary at various levels and in various roles. In fiscal the contributions they can make through the skills they have 2018, we launched a new career design training program cultivated thus far. Programs Supporting Associates That are Passionate for Growth At Terumo, a diverse range of opportunities are provided for all and finance, marketing, leadership, and English, to ensure associates that have a passion for growth, whether they are that associates can find a program that suits their needs. new to the organization or veterans. The available programs The basic requirement for these programs is that employcover a wide range of subjects, including strategic accounting ees express their desire to participate on their own will. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 32 Respect for our Associates Creating Workplace Environments Where Diverse Associates Can Demonstrate Their Skills and Abilities Cultivation of Future Leaders Terumo plans and implements selective leader training proamong all levels. These programs cover such topics as grams with the aim of cultivating the leaders that will take management perspectives, management capability assesscharge of management in the future. Several programs have ments, management literacy, and liberal arts. The rigorous been developed to cover a wide range of associates, spancurriculums of these programs are designed to support the ning from new associates to executive officers, to ensure growth of associates aspiring to take part in management in that we can identify future management candidates from the future. Support for Obtaining MBAs and Other Qualifications In Japan, Terumo has created a system that aims to develop addition, the Company may approve interest-free loans for the global human resources needed to execute its future tuition and living expenses, and under certain conditions, global strategies. We do this by supporting people with contribute towards entrance fees and tuition. strong desires to develop themselves by choosing to earn Behind this support is an appreciation not only for the an MBA or similar qualification. knowledge and skills that can be gained but also for the The system allows associates to take leave for as long invaluable experience of interacting with people from other as is needed to complete their studies and allows them to countries and facing difficult challenges in a different cultural take unused paid leave, including leave that had expired context. prior to the start of the period of leave, for their studies. In Cultivation of Associates through Research and Development Targeting Innovation Terumo conducts research and development on an ongoing for associates to learn about new development approaches. basis with the aim of contributing to the advancement of For example, we are incorporating training on the Biodesign healthcare through innovation created by merging the knowlProgram, a medical device development approach originatedge and technologies in specialized fields that associates ing from the United States. have learned at educational institutions. Moreover, associTerumo is well aware of the importance of flexible thinkates are given access to the Advanced Terumo Medical ing, broad insight, and interpersonal networks. For this Academy (ATOM) program after joining the Company so that reason, we actively support those associates that seek to they can quickly acquire the medical insight required of undergo external training through short-term or mediumTerumo engineers. In this program, associates study medical term programs of their own accord. External training protextbooks via e-learning, receive lectures from doctors, vides opportunities to acquire insight and technologies not nurses, pharmacists, and other medical professionals active available within the Company through instruction from exterin clinical settings, and take part in a training curriculum. nal instructors and also helps associates form interpersonal In addition, we promote networking among engineers, networks. The types of external training available to associutilize internal social media services to facilitate in-house ates include the Management of Technology program, biodevelopment, and perform medical device surveys through medical engineering curriculum, and other curricula as well means that go beyond the standard connections between as inter-industry personal exchanges. business sites. Terumo also actively provides opportunities Transmission of Skills and Experience through Development of Monozukuri Associates At its production sites, Terumo promotes the transfer of Here, Terumo Expert System (TES) associates—veteran assoskills, experience, and “monozukuri” (product creation) spirit ciates rehired after mandatory retirement—focus on transferfrom veteran associates to their younger colleagues. To this ring skills to globally accelerate the development of the younger end, we are developing systematic curricula for various individuals who will carry on Terumo’s monozukuri spirit levels as well as training environments and instructors. In through production, technology, quality assurance, and manaddition, Terumo continues to hold its annual “Ikuseijuku” agement. Training programs have been revised to include training to teach new associates assigned to engineering or more practical content than in the past. At individual factories, development positions about the principles of Gemba (field/ veteran associates are appointed as center instructors as part floor), Genbutsu (actual product), and Genjitsu (reality). of our unified effort to develop new generations of associates As another step in this effort, we established the Producskilled in manufacturing. tion Human Resources Development Center in 2014 in Japan. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 33 Respect for our Associates Creating Workplace Environments Where Diverse Associates Can Demonstrate Their Skills and Abilitieses Promotion of Diversity At the Terumo Group, we promote acceptance toward In one such effort, we created a logo for use in purposes diverse associates, of all ethnicities, nationalities, genders, such as internal education activities. Based on the theme of religions, and physical characteristics, and respect for indi“overlap,” the logo is composed of overlapping upperand viduals with the aim of creating working environments that lower-case letters of different colors to express the idea of enable associates to grow together with the organization. associates exercising their unique qualities and energetically By accepting a wide range of differing values and promoting pursuing productive activities while acknowledging values mutual recognition of diversity, we aim to be a company different from their own. where differing ideas and knowledge are fused to create new value. At Terumo, we established the Diversity Promotion Department in 2013 to promote diversity on a Companywide basis from a variety of perspectives. Promotion of Active Participation by Female Associates As a first step in channeling mutual recognition of diversity Number and Percentages of Female Managers toward corporate growth, Terumo’s top management has (Domestic Terumo Corporation associates and Japanese committed itself to promoting active participation by female associates dispatched or seconded to Group companies) employees in Japan. To create the environment, culture, and （Employees） （%） 80 8 awareness that enable greater participation by women, we 6.1 5.7 provide all associates, regardless of gender, with opportuni60 4.9 6 4.7 61 4.2 57 ties to think about their values and the careers they would 46 49 40 40 4 like to build going forward. We also promote the develop1.5 ment of a working culture that is conducive to associates 20 2 acknowledging each other and working in comfort, regard9 0 2001 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017（FY）0 less of their backgrounds and abilities. As of March 31, 2018, 14.7%* of Terumo’s associates Number of female managers in Japan Percentage (right) *D omestic Terumo Corporation associates and Japanese associates dispatched or and 6.1%* of its managers were women. seconded to Group companies Development of Female Leaders through the Mentoring System Terumo has developed the mentoring system, which pairs female associates in leadership positions with female managers working in different parts of the Company or of different ages so that they can share experiences and ideas to broaden their perspectives and support one another’s career growth. The manager acting as the mentor functions as a role model to the female leader aspiring to reach management positions, helping raise their awareness and skills to increase the number of female associates involved in leading the organization. Fiscal 2017 training under the Mentoring System Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 34 Respect for our Associates Creating Workplace Environments Where Diverse Associates Can Demonstrate Their Skills and Abilities Support for Helping Associates Return to Work after Childbirth and Childcare Leave In fiscal 2013, we began holding an annual career-resumpassignment of associates. This was done to provide supervition seminar for female associates currently on childbirth or sors with management tools for aiding associates in adopting childcare leave and their supervisors. This seminar was diverse work styles to fully exercise their skills and thereby attended by 18 individuals in fiscal 2017. supporting their career development over the long term. At Terumo, we are seeing an increase in the number of associates, both male and female, that seek to continue their careers while caring for children or providing nursing care. Especially noteworthy is the recent rise in female medical representatives (MRs) who aim to balance their work with raising children. At the fiscal 2017 seminar, we invited female MRs and other female associates that had returned to work after taking childcare leave to talk about their experiences and discuss the attitudes and support systems needed to balance work and childrearing while achieving personal growth. In addition, supervisors were briefed on various systems for helping associates balance work and family responsibilities and were given guidance on the evaluation scheme and Fiscal 2017 career-resumption seminar Lectures on Women’s Health By helping to better understand the various physical and mental changes that women undergo during their various life stages, Terumo assists its female associates in learning about how to approach their work in light of these changes and how to self-manage their condition. We thereby aim to support female associates in feeling empowered in their career development efforts. In April and May 2018, we held lectures on changes in the social environment pertaining to women and life-long healthcare for women. These lectures were meant to provide an opportunity for female associates to think about how Lecture on women’s health to maintain their health over the long term while developing a fulfilling career. F  or information on other initiatives, please refer to the “Promotion of Work Style Revolutions” section of this report (pages 37–39). Rehiring of Associates after Mandatory Retirement In Japan, Terumo introduced TES, or the Terumo Expert Number and Percentages of Associates Rehired under System, in fiscal 1998 as a way to rehire retirees with outTES (Terumo Corporation) standing skills and expertise. Many associates have been （Employees） （%） brought back through TES and continue to make the most 100 87 100 72 of the expertise they developed over many years. These 80 71 71 80 65 75 Terumo Experts are at work not only in highly specialized 65 65 62 79 65 60 57 60 areas but also in a wide variety of other areas where they 46 44 42 40 40 contribute to the Company by drawing on their wealth of experience to provide guidance and advice to younger 20 20 associates. 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017（FY）0 Retirees Number of associates rehired under TES Percentage (right) Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 35 Respect for our Associates Creating Workplace Environments Where Diverse Associates Can Demonstrate Their Skills and Abilities Employment of Individuals with Disabilities By providing job opportunities that match the capabilities mandated ratio of 2.0%. Anticipating an increase in the and aptitudes of various individuals, Terumo promotes the legally mandated ratio in the future, we will continue our employment of individuals with disabilities to allow them to efforts to expand employment of individuals with disabilities pursue rewarding lives as independent members of society. by undertaking initiatives for enabling them to fully exercise As of March 31, 2018, individuals with disabilities made their capabilities. up 2.16% of our workforce in Japan, more than the legally Development of Workplace Environments That Respect the Individuality and Diverse Values of Associates Terumo seeks to ensure that associates from various backto encourage associates to think about what it means to grounds are able to fully exercise their talents while remainwork together with colleagues brimming with individuality ing respectful of others. To this end, we provide opportunities and diverse values. Seminars on the Meaning of Working Together In fiscal 2017, seminars were held with the aim of serving as a preliminary step for learning about other viewpoints by making associates aware of and helping them experience communication issues and the underlying thinking that leads to those issues. The themes of these seminars included the perspectives of individuals with disabilities; the concept of balancing work, life, and social engagements; the viewpoint of the LGBT community; and how Japan is viewed by nonFiscal 2017 seminar on the meaning of working together Japanese associates. Diversity Management Training Every year since fiscal 2013, we have conducted group for these group training sessions, making them an excellent training programs for female leaders and other members of opportunity to find new role models and networks. management. A diversity management training session was held in fiscal 2017, which was attended by approximately 40 associates from across Japan. The topic of this training was unconscious bias. We thereby sought to help associates become aware of their own unconscious biases and to teach them the importance of judging others based on their own talents and achievements, rather than on their age, gender, or other such characteristics. Leaders gather from various business sites across Japan Fiscal 2017 diversity management training session Training on Healthy Lives and Careers In fiscal 2017, training sessions on healthy lives and careers were held for associates of various age groups at business sites in Japan. Through these trainings, we sought to share recognition of the career and health issues faced by associates of different ages and genders along with our commitment to developing workplace environments that are comfortable to all. Fiscal 2017 training session on healthy lives and careers Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 36 Respect for our Associates Creating Workplace Environments Where Diverse Associates Can Demonstrate Their Skills and Abilities Promotion of Work Style Revolutions Terumo has continuously endeavored to develop a comfortable improving operational efficiency and productivity. In these workplace environment for associates. Efforts on this front regards, we are formulating and implementing initiatives include promoting proper working hour management and introtogether with associates through internal recruiting systems ducing childcare, nursing care, and other support systems. and other means. We expanded upon these efforts in fiscal 2017 by unveilGoing forward, we will continue to advance various initiaing “T-Style” (Terumo Style), the new work style we advocate tives for creating workplace environments and work styles for Terumo associates going forward. Based on the T-Style that enable associates to be even more successful. concept, we are promoting work style revolutions aimed at heightening associates’ ability to succeed and thereby contribute to competitiveness and corporate value. These work style revolutions go beyond reducing work hours and redesigning human resources systems to include measures for Proper Working Hour Management Terumo promotes work efficiency through strict management Ratio of Paid Vacation Days Taken (Terumo Corporation) of daily working hours and the establishment of “no-overtime” days in Japan. As part of our policy of maintaining a workFY2015 FY2016 FY2017 place environment in which “work time is for work and off-time is for rest,” we institute Company holidays and encourage Ratio of days taken (%) 64.5 65.4 68.0 associates to use their paid vacation days. Support for Achieving Better Work-Life Balance Terumo aims to create working environments that allow achieve a better work-life balance. To facilitate such balassociates to work enthusiastically and exercise their full ance, we offer work systems that allow for flexible work potential. We respect that associates require flexibility in styles along with systems for accommodating childcare, work styles, and we are therefore fostering comfortable nursing care, and other life events. These systems will conworkplace environments with the aim of helping associates tinue to be enhanced as necessary. Childcare and Nursing Care Support Systems The following table lists the primary systems in place at Terumo as of March 31, 2018, for helping associates in Japan meet childcare or nursing care responsibilities as well as workplace responsibilities. System Description*1 Leave that can be taken up until the child reaches the age of three (up to 30 days of Long-term childcare leave unused paid holiday time can be taken at the beginning of leave). Working hours can be shortened by up to two hours per day until the child finishes elemenChildcare Shortened working hours tary school (approximately age 12). The start and end time of regular working days can be moved forward or backward by up Adjusted working hours to two hours until the child finishes elementary school (approximately age 12). Leave can be taken for a cumulative total of up to three years for each family member Special leave requiring nursing care. Up to 30 days of unused paid holiday time can be taken at the beginning of leave. Nursing care*2 Working hours can be shortened by up to two hours per day for a cumulative total of up to Shortened working hours three years. The start and end time of daily working hours can be moved forward or backward by up to Adjusted working hours two hours for a cumulative total of up to three years. Other Hour-based paid leave Paid leave may be taken in units of an hour for any reason. *1 These descriptions are excerpts of full descriptions. *2 For nursing care leave, the “special leave,” “shortened working hours,” and “adjusted working hours” can be used for a cumulative total of up to three years. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 37 Respect for our Associates Creating Workplace Environments Where Diverse Associates Can Demonstrate Their Skills and Abilities In preparation for the challenges of nursing care, which many associates will eventually face, Terumo has instituted a system to support associates balancing work and nursing care responsibilities. We have also taken steps to promote associate understanding of this system. In addition to nursing care seminars and Kaigo Café events led by dedicated instructors, we institute a nursing care awareness period every year in conjunction with summer and New Year’s, the time of year when people often gather with their families. These efforts are designed to provide inforFiscal 2017 nursing care seminar mation with the aim of encouraging associates to talk about the often-avoided topic of nursing care with their families.  or information on other initiatives, please refer to the “Promotion of F Diversity” section of this report (pages 34–36). Encouraging of Male Associates to Take Childcare Leave At Terumo, we encourage our male associates in Japan to Number and Ratio of Male Associates Taking Childcare take childcare leave. Reminders of this policy are sent to the Leave (Terumo Corporation) supervisors of male associates whose wives have just given 50.0 （Employees） 48.6 （%） birth and to the associates themselves. Interviews with 100 50 associates using the system are posted on the intranet to 80 31.5 72 40 68 promote understanding of the system among other male 60 22.1 30 45 associates and create an environment where it is easier for 40 36 20 men to participate in childrearing. As a result, Terumo has 9.2 seen a gradual rise in male associates opting to take child20 14 10 care leave. In fiscal 2017, 72 male associates, or 48.6% of 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 （FY）0 all applicable associates, took childcare leave. Number of male associates taking childcare leave Percentage (right) It is expected that male associates who have taken childcare leave will have developed a strong understanding of the benefits of work style diversity and will be effective contributors to the creation of a work environment where everyone can fully exercise their skills. Support for Greater Flexibility in Working Styles with a Work-at-home System In Japan, Terumo has adopted a Work-at-home System to can be used, making it possible for parents to exceed the give associates the choice of working at home on days four-day-per-month limit and work at home as many days when childcare, nursing care, or other responsibilities make as is necessary when a child has been told to stay home it difficult to come to the office. Furthermore, in April 2015, due to an illness. we increased the maximum number of days the system Rehiring of Former Associates through the Career-return System Terumo has opened a pathway to rehire associates who By helping associates resume their careers, we are have left because of marriage, childcare or nursing care making it possible for them to put their broad experience responsibilities, or the relocation of their spouse. The Careerand skills to use and contribute to Terumo’s growth. return System expands the range of employment choices for associates who wish to resume their careers at Terumo in Japan. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 38 Respect for our Associates Creating Workplace Environments Where Diverse Associates Can Demonstrate Their Skills and Abilities Acquisition of Kurumin Certification under Japan’s Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-generation Children Terumo has maintained Kurumin certification* since 2014, signifying it as a company that actively works to support the raising of children. * Established under the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Nextgeneration Children, this system enables companies that have established a General Employer Action Plan and have met certain standards to apply to the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare for certification as a company that supports the raising of children. Participation in “IkuBoss Alliance” Terumo has joined the “IkuBoss* Alliance,” a business network operated by non-profit organization Fathering Japan in June 2018. Through our participation in the IkuBoss Alliance, we aim to increase the number of “IkuBoss” supervisors in the Company who specialize in creating workplace environments that are empowering and comfortable for all and in helping their teams fully exercise their skills. * One who supports the work-life balance, careers, and lives of their subordinates and staff and seeks to create results for the organization while achieving a good work-life balance themselves “Ikuboss Alliance” signing ceremony Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 39 Corporate Citizenship Promoting Compliance Basic Approach Terumo’s corporate mission, “Contributing to Society Code of Conduct for the Terumo Group (SAKURA Rules), a through Healthcare,” is the goal not only of the Company set of standards for the conduct of daily business activities but of all associates of Terumo. Fulfilling this mission requires for all directors, officers, and associates of the entire Terumo that we continue to conduct honest and fair business pracGroup, including overseas entities. In accordance with this tices based on strict legal compliance and corporate ethics Code, we are striving throughout the Group to base our while adhering to the high ethical standards expected of a actions on social ethics as well as on compliance with relehealthcare company. vant laws and regulations. To accomplish these objectives, we have established the WEB For more information on the Code of Conduct for the Terumo Group (SAKURA Rules), please visit Terumo’s website. http://www.terumo.com/about/compliance.html Compliance System At Terumo, the Internal Control Committee, which is responeducation, and conduct monitoring to quickly discover and sible for enacting the Internal Control System of the Terumo ascertain compliance issues by coordinating with the comGroup in accordance with the Internal Control System pliance officers who are in charge of promoting complianceDesign Basic Policy approved by the Board of Directors, related activities at each Group company. shall deliberate and make decisions regarding important In the event that any significant compliance violations policies related to compliance, and regularly report the occur, a response team shall be immediately organized status of these activities to the Board of Directors and Audit/ under the direction of the Chairman of the Internal Control Supervisory Committee. Committee, and that team shall, in addition to handling and Under the leadership of the Chief Legal Officer (CLO) resolving the occurrence, report and make proposals to the and centered on the Legal and Compliance Department, we Internal Control Committee regarding the cause and recurwill create compliance-related rules, perform training and rence prevention measures. Compliance Education Terumo conducts compliance education with the aim of improving compliance awareness among all associates and ensuring understanding of and compliance with relevant laws and regulations. Major Compliance Training Programs (Terumo Corporation) Name Scope of participation Format Subjects/frequency Annual seminar on general compliance Code of Conduct for the Terumo Group All directors, officers, and Group topics that all directors, officers, and (SAKURA Rules) seminars associates training associates are required to attend All directors, officers, and Training on fair competition and bribery E-learning Fair transactions and prevention of corrupassociates (excluding certain prevention program tion in business activities production divisions) Sales branch and company E-learning Maintenance of appropriate relations with Healthcare professional relations training associates program healthcare professionals Compliance education as part of training Group for early-career associates and associates Level-based training Associates at specific levels training being promoted to mid-level and management positions Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 40 Corporate Citizenship Promoting Compliance Compliance Initiatives Whistle-Blowing System When we encounter any compliance issues, it is important can make reports or receive consultation with regard to to promptly take appropriate measures, such as investigacompliance violations. Through this system, associates can tion, preventive action, disciplinary action, and/or recurrence contact internal venues, legal advisors, or external reporting prevention. For this reason, we have established the Terumo venues operated by independent third-party organizations Global Compliance Violations Reporting and Anti-Retaliation via email, mail, telephone, or other means. In addition, a Policy, which urges associates to promptly report any comwhistle-blowing system relating to the Board of Directors pliance-related issues internally while ensuring that they will was established in July 2017, enabling associates to connot suffer any retaliation as a result. tact the Audit/Supervisory Committee. Based on this policy, Terumo has established and operates a whistle-blowing system through which associates Prevention of Harassment Terumo’s work regulations in Japan explicitly forbid abuses From fiscal 2017, December–January was designated of power and sexual harassment, regardless of gender orias a period for promoting harassment prevention awareness entation or gender identification (members of the LGBT in Japan. Initiatives during this period include the transmiscommunity), as well as activities intended to put individual sion of messages, administration of surveys, and conductassociates at a disadvantage due to reasons such as preging of e-learning programs for all associates. nancy, or roles as a parent or caregiver. In addition, with the Furthermore, the Code of Conduct for the Terumo Group aim of raising awareness of harassment prevention, we have (SAKURA Rules) seminar, which associates attend once a established a harassment intranet page where associates in year, covers topics on harassment prevention to further Japan will find our Harassment Prevention Guidelines along entrench awareness. Managers, meanwhile, periodically with harassment training materials and information on conattend trainings that provide examples of harassment relesultation venues. vant to daily business activities. Such trainings were conducted a total of 16 times in fiscal 2017 in Japan. Harassment Prevention Guidelines • Sexual harassment, abuses of power, and other forms of harassment are human rights issues that violate the dignity of associates and create a toxic workplace. • Terumo continuously conducts compliance training and asks associates for written pledges declaring their understanding of the negative impacts of harassment and the disciplinary measures that may be taken against them for engaging in harassment. • Terumo does not tolerate any form of harassment. • Terumo strives to increase each associate’s understanding of harassment as well as their ability to address harassment issues as part of its efforts in creating a healthy organization that is not complicit in or tolerant of harassment and where all employees are respectful of one another. • Terumo urges associates who have encountered any form of harassment to consult with their supervisor or with a human resources or general affairs representative at their workplace or to use internal consultation venues in cases where it is difficult to consult with someone in the regular line of reporting. Reporters of harassment issues will not suffer any retaliation and their privacy will be respected. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 41 Corporate Citizenship Promoting Compliance Opposition to Anti-Social Forces Avoiding relationships with anti-social forces is one of Teruorganizations, or individuals with ties to anti-social forces. mo’s corporate responsibilities. We therefore strictly refuse to Furthermore, we work with law enforcement authorities and become involved in any relationship with anti-social forces other institutions to combat anti-social forces. and do not engage in any transactions with companies, other Anti-Corruption The Terumo Group expects full compliance with Japan’s Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy, which clearly stipuUnfair Competition Prevention Act, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt late our commitment to preventing corruption and engaging Practices Act, and other anti-corporation laws in the counin fair business practices. In addition, we have established tries and regions in which the Group operates in order to the Terumo Global Third Party Anti-Corruption and Antiensure honest and fair business practices. Bribery Policy, based on which we request our business All Terumo associates observe the Code of Conduct for partners to comply with anti-corruption laws. the Terumo Group (SAKURA Rules) and the Terumo Global Prohibition of Collusion and Cartels To prevent associates from becoming involved in collusion Antitrust Policy and is engaged in a Groupwide effort to and cartels during the course of business activities, the maintain fair and free competition. Terumo Group has established the Terumo Group Global Appropriate Relationships with Healthcare Professionals Terumo abides by the Fair Competition Code of the Japan Practice as an internal guideline for this purpose. Fair Trade Council of the Medical Devices Industry, the Code Furthermore, the Terumo Global Ethical Interactions with of Practice of the Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Healthcare Professionals Policy was established based on Association, the Promotion Code of the Japan Federation of the principles of the codes of ethics of reputable industry Medical Devices Associations, and other industry regulaassociations in the regions in which the Group operates, to tions to ensure that it follows appropriate practices in proguide us in maintaining appropriate relationships with moting medical devices and pharmaceuticals to healthcare healthcare professionals. professionals. We have also established the Terumo Code of Advertisements and Sales Promotions The Terumo Group Global Rules for Dealing with Off Label In Japan, sales promotion materials are confirmed by the Use has been created to ensure compliance with Japan’s Legal and Compliance Department, Regulatory Affairs, and PMD Act (the Act on Securing Quality, Efficacy and Safety of other relevant divisions before they are put into use in order Pharmaceuticals, Medical Devices, Regenerative and Celluto verify the accuracy of the information they provide and lar Therapy Products, Gene Therapy Products, and Cosguarantee legal compliance. In regions outside of Japan, metics) as well as relevant laws and regulations in other appropriate and legally compliant promotional activities are countries. Based on these rules, we prohibit advertising or being advanced centered on major Group companies. sales promotions of unapproved or off-label-use of pharmaceuticals and medical devices and preserve the appropriateness of our promotional activities. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 42 Corporate Citizenship Promoting Compliance Transparent Relationships between Corporate Activities and Medical Institutions The supply of advanced medical devices and pharmaceutiIn Japan, based on voluntary industry rules, Terumo has cals that meet sophisticated needs requires not only the formulated its Transparency Guideline for the Relationships efforts of individual companies but also cooperation with between Corporate Activities and Medical Institutions and universities and other research and medical institutions at all its Transparency Guideline for the Relationships between stages of the process, ranging from research and developCorporate Activities and Patient Organizations. We follow ment to production and sales. Sometimes this cooperation the provisions of these guidelines in disclosing payments of entails the payment of monetary compensation. Terumo funds to medical institutions, medical professionals, and seeks to ensure transparency in such activities through patient organizations. adherence to high ethical standards. Stance on Tax Guided by its corporate mission of “Contributing to Society corporate value and meet the expectations of its worldwide through Healthcare,” the Terumo Group conducts business stakeholders. In accordance with its corporate mission, the based on strict legal compliance and corporate ethics and Terumo Group takes the following actions in conducting tax aims to achieve sustainable growth and maximize long-term management. 1. Terumo Group complies with international taxation rules and the laws of all countries in which it conducts business activities and maintains tax compliance. 2. Terumo Group constructs and maintains appropriate relationships with the tax authorities where Terumo Group conducts business activities and does not attempt to obtain unfair benefits from the tax authorities through providing unethical gifts to these authorities. 3. Terumo Group considers the balance of each stakeholder’s interest and ensures that an appropriate tax burden is borne while maximizing its corporate value. R&D Ethics The development of medical devices and pharmaceuticals other relevant regulations and standards. In addition, we requires us to conduct animal experiments as well as clinical have established the internal Research Ethics Review Comresearch on human beings in order to evaluate the safety mittee and Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee in and efficacy of these products. In its research activities, order to guarantee the utmost levels of ethics and respect Terumo always acts in an appropriate manner based on for animal life in our R&D activities. both an ethical and a scientific perspective. We therefore observe the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki* and comply with Good Clinical Practices (GCP) as well as the *Declaration of Helsinki—Ethical Principles for Medical Research Involving Human pharmaceutical laws of countries in which we operate and Subjects, a set of ethical guidelines for clinical research Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 43 Corporate Citizenship Promoting Compliance Ethics in Clinical Research and Clinical Trials Based on the Ethical Guidelines for Medical and Health Clinical trials aimed at the acquisition of manufacturing Research Involving Human Subjects, Terumo has estaband sales approval are conducted in accordance with the lished the Terumo Ethical Review Regulations, a set of basic principles of the Declaration of Helsinki and in compliance policies for respecting human rights and dignity in human with GCP put forth in the relevant countries. GCP define all of clinical research (clinical trials). The Terumo Research Ethics the items for which compliance is required by the medical Review Committee, which includes members from outside institutions conducting clinical trials, healthcare professionals, of the Group, has been formed in accordance with these such as research investigators, and other staff, and the sponregulations to discuss the social significance and scientific sors of the study. The Terumo Group formulates and adheres validity of all clinical research projects prior to commenceto procedures based on GCP to ensure the quality of clinical ment. The status of activities of this committee is registered trials and to acquire highly reliable data. Moreover, clinical and disclosed through the Ethical Review Committee trials are monitored to confirm adherence to the defined Reporting System of the Japan Agency for Medical Research procedures and, most importantly, to ensure that the human and Development. rights and safety of trial participants are being prioritized. Ethics in Animal Experiments In its animal experiments, Terumo seeks to ensure both high alleviate pain and distress)—as well as to the fourth R, ethical standards and scientific validity by implementing Responsibility (to be responsible for experiments). Furtherinternal regulations based on relevant laws and guidelines more, education on ethics in animal experiments, scientific such as the Act on Welfare and Management of Animals and validity, recent legal trends, and occupational health and the Standards relating to the Care and Keeping and Reducsafety is provided on a regular basis to researchers engaged ing Pain of Laboratory Animals. in animal experiments in order to maintain their ability to The Company’s Institutional Animal Care and Use Comconduct appropriate tests. mittee was established to conduct proper animal experiIn February 2017, Terumo’s R&D base, Shonan Center ments. The committee examines protocols, confirms the was fully accredited by the Association for Assessment and conclusion of experiments, performs animal husbandry Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International management while taking animal welfare into consideration, (AAALAC), a third-party international certification body for and conducts periodic self-inspections to ensure that we animal experiment facilities. This accreditation verifies that adhere to the three Rs tenets stipulated by relevant laws— the animal experiments conducted by the Company are in Replacement (to replace animals studies with other methcompliance with international standards. ods), Reduction (to use fewer animals), and Refinement (to Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 44 Corporate Citizenship Reducing the Environmental Impact of Our Business Operations Basic Approach Reducing the environmental impact of business activities is have established the Terumo Global EHS Policy to guide a social responsibility for companies that must be fulfilled in Groupwide initiatives for reducing the environmental impact order to realize a sustainable society as well as an important of our business activities. measure for achieving sustainable growth. Accordingly, we Terumo Global EHS Policy  Established October 25, 2012 Revised April 1, 2017 The Terumo Group aims to be a good corporate citizen, striving to reduce environmental impact associated with business activities and to ensure the safety and health of employees based on its corporate mission, “Contributing to Society through Healthcare.” W  e take action based on an environment, health and safety (EHS) management system, establish the following voluntary goals, and make continuous improvements: •R educe the environmental impact and EHS risk of our business activities; •D evelop environmentally friendly and safe products and production processes; •E ffectively use energy and resources; and •A ppropriately manage chemical substances. We comply with the laws, ordinances, agreements, and other rules relating to EHS in each country. W  e work to ensure the safety and health of employees in all business activities and create safe and comfortable work environments. We strive to prevent EHS accidents such as environmental pollution and occupational injuries, and, in emergencies, prevent damage from spreading by responding swiftly and appropriately. W  e carry out environmental conservation activities and strive to conserve biodiversity as a member of society and the community.  e systematically and continuously provide education and training and take other actions to increase EHS W awareness, while strengthening our infrastructure for addressing EHS issues. W  e actively disclose information pertaining to EHS activities and maintain good communication with various stakeholders. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 45 Corporate Citizenship Reducing the Environmental Impact of Our Business Operations EHS Management System Based on the Terumo Global EHS Policy, we employ an Terumo Group sites worldwide. EHS Expert Subcommittees, environment, health, and safety (EHS) management system consisting of experts drawn from individual business sites that is compliant with international environmental standards and functioning as subsidiary bodies to the Corporate EHS (ISO 14001:2015) and occupational health and safety stanCommittee, formulate strategies, policies, and action plans dards (OHSAS 18001, ISO 45001). in their respective areas. To confirm the operational status As a key part of Terumo’s focus on sustainability in busiand effectiveness of systems and ensure compliance with ness, EHS policies, goals, activity plans, risks, and opporturelevant laws and regulations, the EHS Audit Committee nities are discussed and related decisions are made by the conducts EHS internal audits at all sites. Ongoing improveCorporate EHS Committee and then reflected in activities at ments are implemented based on the results of these audits. Organization for Company-wide Promotion of the EHS Management System Board of Directors Director in Charge of EHS EHS Audit Committee Corporate EHS Committee EHS Expert Subcommittees Secretariat: Environmental Management Department Health and Safety SC Person in Charge of Site Eco-products and Safety SC Industrial Waste SC Site EHS Management Committee Energy SC Chemical Substance SC Members Communication SC ISO 14001 (Environmental) and OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety) Certifications Principal manufacturing sites in Japan, a certain number of OHSAS 18001 international standards. manufacturing sites overseas, and the head office (EnvironAll sites have achieved compliance with the 2015 vermental Management Department) have obtained third-party sion of ISO 14001. certifications of their compliance with the ISO 14001 and Facilities with Third-Party Certifications Company Name Site Certified Head office (Environmental Management Department) October 2013 Fujinomiya Factory October 2013 Terumo Corporation Kofu Factory November 2014 Ashitaka Factory November 2015 Terumo Europe NV Haasrode Factory February 2012 Terumo Penpol Private Ltd. Blood Bag Factory May 2013 Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 46 Corporate Citizenship Reducing the Environmental Impact of Our Business Operations EHS Risk Management EHS Internal Audits The Terumo Corporate EHS Audit Committee conducts actions are taken and their effectiveness is checked to preEHS internal audits to reduce environmental, health, and vent recurrences. For situations that could result in nonconsafety risks. Examples of these risks include legal violations, formities if not addressed, we monitor the situation, identify industrial accidents, and environmental accidents. EHS issues, and draft improvement plans. These situations are internal audits are also conducted to assess EHS perforassessed again in the following fiscal year’s audit to confirm mance (progress toward the achievement of EHS targets). the status of improvement with regard to these issues. When nonconformities have been identified, corrective Audit Tasks 1. Check compliance with EHS-related laws and conventions, and EHS policies, rules, and standards 2. Check the operational status of EHS management systems and performance (effectiveness, key performance indicators) 3. Check the status of improvement regarding issues identified through audits, etc. Fiscal 2017 EHS Internal Audit Results EHS audits were performed at 11 locations in Japan and two locations overseas. These audits did not uncover any serious nonconformities, but did find a total of six minor nonconformities, all of which have been remedied. Remediation of nonconformities found in the previous fiscal year was also determined to have been completed. Audits of Waste-Treatment Contractors To confirm that industrial waste generated by Terumo is appropriately processed, we perform systematic audits of waste collection and disposal contractors. In fiscal 2017, we conducted audits at 34 contractors and determined that waste collection and disposal is being properly performed. Training and Education To ensure solid understanding of the Terumo Global EHS Policy and EHS activities, we conduct a basic EHS education program for all associates of Terumo once a year. We have also prepared education materials tailored to the needs of factories, R&D bases, and sales offices and use them in regularly conducted education and training programs. Apart from these systematic education initiatives, EHS information is distributed via the intranet and internal bulletin boards. Through these and other such initiatives, we are striving to increase EHS awareness among our associates. Education and training program Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 47 Corporate Citizenship Reducing the Environmental Impact of Our Business Operations Emergency and Accident Response Training Individual business sites have established procedures to such occur. They also conduct emergency response training prevent EHS accidents and lessen the severity of any should and review results on a regular basis. Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations In fiscal 2017, there were no major legal or regulatory violations or citations requiring fines or punishments. Award Program for Recognizing Outstanding EHS Activities We present Terumo Human×Eco Awards to recognize activities that contribute to the environment, health, and safety from throughout the entire Terumo Group. By evaluating and sharing information on examples of outstanding EHS activities within the Group, we aim to further promote such activities. Four fiscal 2017 initiatives were selected for recognition in fiscal 2018. Terumo Human×Eco Award ceremony Award Project & Recipient Project Award Recipient Reduction of factory water use through concerted water conservation activities Environment Committee, General Affairs Section, and 4% reduction in water use and 11% reduction in water use per unit of Maintenance Section of Ashitaka Factory product sales from fiscal 2016 Contribution to the medical settings and the environment with condensed liquid nutrients for oral intake Product Development Section 1, Kofu Factory Pharmaceutical Group, Hospital Systems Division, General Reduction of burden on patients and medical professionals and lower Hospital Company raw material use Initiatives for natural resource protection and OHS risk mitigation Effective use of water and energy resources Blood Bag Factory, Terumo Penpol Private Ltd. Reduction of occupational accidents Optimization of waste management and driving of change Terumo Aortic, Vascutek Ltd. Increase in the rate of recycling Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 48 Corporate Citizenship Reducing the Environmental Impact of Our Business Operations Development of Environmentally Friendly and Safe Products Human×Eco Development Guidelines Terumo has established and applied to product develop“Human×Eco” Development Guidelines ment its proprietary Human×Eco Development Guidelines, a set of guidelines for developing products that are friendly to More friendly More advanced both people and the environment. Providing safety and reliability Contributing to the These guidelines consist of four principles—more friendly Preventing infections, advancement of healthcare Less invasive, more (providing safety and reliability), more advanced (contributpreventing medical errors, sophisticated, innovating easy to use ing to the advancement of healthcare), cleaner (reducing healthcare environmental impact), and less (using resources effectively)—and 24 directives based on these principles. ProdCleaner Less ucts that exhibit excellence with regard to these principles Reducing environmental impact Using resources effectively and directives display the “Human×Eco” logo, an internal Product/packaging designed Smaller/lighter, energy-saving, certification mark, to make this excellence readily apparent for better disposal space-saving, multifunctional and recycling to customers. Examples of Human×Eco Certified Products Condensed Liquid Nutrients Conservation of Resources and Improvement of Quality of Life Terumo has developed condensed liquid nutrients that enable people to receive greater amounts of calories and nutrition while consuming smaller amounts of nutrients. These nutrients enable people that cannot ingest large meals to obtain the calories and nutrition they need at their own pace. In addition, these highly condensed liquid contents allow for less packaging, which helps reduce the waste produced. Condensed liquid nutrients Intravascular Ultrasound Catheter Shortened Examination Times and Improved Efficiency Intravascular ultrasound catheters are used when performing intravascular ultrasounds, an examination technique that utilizes ultrasonic waves to observe the inside of blood vessels. By improving the image resolution, image acquisition and processing speeds, and ease of operation of our catheters, we have helped reduce the amount of time required for preparations, examinations, and image interpretation pertaining to intravascular ultrasounds. We anticipate that the shorter procedure times will reduce the burden on patients and medical professionals and thereby contribute Intravascular ultrasound catheter to the realization of safer and more efficient treatments. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 49 Corporate Citizenship Reducing the Environmental Impact of Our Business Operations TERUPACK™ Eco Environmentally Friendly IV Solution Bag TERUPACK Eco is an IV solution bag designed to be environmentally friendly. It is manufactured with less plastic, in a production process that consumes less energy and emits less CO2 than previous processes. In addition, because TERUPACK Eco bags weigh 23% less than prior bags, we expect them to generate less waste and reduce overall impact on the environment. TERUPACK™ Eco  RI Introducer Kit Minimally Invasive and Medically Cost Efficient T Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) can be performed by inserting a catheter at either the wrist or the groin. Inserting at the wrist, in a procedure called transradial intervention (TRI), entails fewer complications, such as post-procedure bleeding, and is less invasive. Terumo has developed an innovative introducer kit that features a sheath with a thinner, more finely formed wall for a smaller outside diameter. A narrower sheath makes more treatment options available for patients with small arteries while also reducing costs and resource Introducer sheath for TRI procedures usage associated with post-procedure complications. Closed Infusion Systems Contributions to Safer, More Efficient Infusion Line Management Keeping infusion line mixers closed helps to prevent contamination by external airborne microbes. In addition, our infusion line connectors are designed to not retain any liquid and, therefore, can be used to deliver even very small amounts of drug solutions. Even the connection of syringes and infusion devices requires no special adapters, so drug solution delivery is simple, quick, and more secure from procedural errors. Easy inventory management contributes to greater safety and efficiency in managing infusion line stocks. Closed infusion system Concentrated Liquid Nutrients (Semi-Solid Type) Conservation of Resources and Improvement of Quality of Life With just the right combination of fluidity and thickness, this ready-to-use nutrient product requires no mixing bottle, produces less waste, and eliminates the labor associated with the washing of bottles. Using this mixture of water and concentrated liquid nutrients reduces the burden on caregivers. Concentrated liquid nutrients (semi-solid type) Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 50 Corporate Citizenship Reducing the Environmental Impact of Our Business Operations Solution Pack™ Greater Efficiency and Less Waste Having developed a certified angiographic kit that eliminated excess packaging and procedures by providing in a single set the products needed to perform angiography for interventional therapies, we reduced weight and waste by developing a better method and form of product packaging and redesigning the shape of the tray. This allowed a 53% reduction in materials, compared with Terumo’s conventional solution pack. Angiographic kit Products Free of Hazardous Substances L  eading the Industry toward Mercury-free Products The Minamata Convention on Mercury took effect in August 2017. Under the convention, it will become illegal to manufacture and engage in trade involving products containing mercury beginning in 2021. Terumo ceased production of mercury thermometers in 1984. That was over 30 years ago and since then we have contributed significantly to the elimination of mercury from medical settings and homes by developing and introducing products such as mercury-free digital thermometers and digital blood pressure monitors, which are friendlier to the environment and safer to use. Digital thermometer Digital blood pressure monitor Promoting PVC-free, DEHP-free Products Terumo helps reduce the release of toxic gas from incineraphthalate (DEHP) whenever possible due to concerns over tion of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) by promoting use of PVCits biological hazards. free packaging. We also use alternatives to di-2 ethylhexyl Polybutadiene IV solution set PVC-free IV solution bag DEHP-free cardiovascular circuit Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 51 Corporate Citizenship Reducing the Environmental Impact of Our Business Operations Initiatives to Address Climate Change Based on international frameworks, such as the United improving energy efficiency and combating climate change, Nations Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris is an important responsibility and are advancing Groupwide Agreement, Terumo recognizes that reducing CO2 emisactivities to this end. sions from its business activities, through means such as Target for Reduction of CO2 Emissions • Reduce CO2 emissions per revenue unit for the entire Group to 50% of the fiscal 2005 level by fiscal 2025 Reduction of CO2 Emissions (Scope 1, 2, 3*) The entire Terumo Group is working to reduce CO2 emisturning off unneeded lighting in order to involve the entire sions. In fiscal 2017, such efforts included improving the Terumo Group in energy-saving activities. operating methods of energy supply facilities by limiting the As a result of these activities, per revenue CO2 emissions number of compressors in use, optimizing air-conditioning in fiscal 2017 were 41% lower than in fiscal 2005 and 10% operation, and other means. In addition, we introduced lower than in fiscal 2016. once-through boilers, LED lighting, and other high-efficiency *S  cope: Reporting is based on the following GHG Protocol categories. equipment and took steps to prevent air and steam leaks Scope 1: Emissions of greenhouse gases from direct fossil fuel combustion. and other problems through regular inspections. In office Scope 2: Greenhouse gas emissions from secondary uses such as purchased or acquired electricity. environments, we conducted activities including promotion Scope 3: Greenhouse gas emissions from business activities that are not applicable of energy-saving by setting thermostats appropriately and under Scope 1 or Scope 2 CO2 Emissions in Total and Index per unit of Energy Consumption consolidated net sales / revenue (GJ) (1,000t-CO2) 100 (%) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 300 100 261 268 260 Electricity 1,506,279 1,525,594 1,552,236 253 250 240 70 80 City gas 1,055,107 1,016,203 1,006,781 66 66 139 191 64 59 LPG 27,868 26,037 27,837 180 60 131 126 133 133 79 Heavy oil 20,119 20,060 19,941 120 40 Diesel oil 22,595 13,397 4,401 122 124 127 129 129 Steam 124,645 130,164 132,356 60 112 20 Gasoline 615 598 363 0 2005 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017(FY) 0 Total 2,749,115 2,720,407 2,893,202 CO2 Emissions (Japan) CO2 Emissions (Overseas) Units per unit of Index per unit of consolidated net sales/revenue (FY2005=100) (right) product net sales 524 529 492 * Scope: Terumo Group business sites in Japan and overseas manufacturing sites (GJ/¥100 million) * Figures for fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2014–2015 have been restated to rectify past errors in * Scope: Terumo Group business sites in Japan and overseas manufacturing sites the collection of overseas data. * From fiscal 2017, the method for calculating energy consumption from electricity use was changed to employ secondary energy conversion coefficients instead of primary energy conversion coefficients. Figures for fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2016 have been restated to reflect this change. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 52 Corporate Citizenship Reducing the Environmental Impact of Our Business Operations CO2 Emissions in Fiscal 2017 (Scope 1 and Scope 2) Renewable Energy Usage in Fiscal 2017  (t-CO2)  (kWh) Scope1 Scope2 Total Photovoltaic power 303,143 Japan 40,102 88,877 128,979 * Scope: Terumo Group Overseas 17,851 120,781 138,632 Total 57,953 209,658 267,611 * Scope: Terumo Group business sites in Japan and overseas manufacturing sites CO2 Emissions in Fiscal 2017 (Scope 3)  (t-CO2) Category Emissions volume Method of calculation Purchased goods and Calculated by aggregating emissions per unit of revenue and emissions intensities by Category 1 2,121,971 services division using relevant industry charts Calculated by aggregating emissions intensities per unit of capital goods price for Category 2 Capital goods 130,536 annual capital expenditure amounts Fueland energyrelated Calculated by aggregating emissions intensities of electricity and steam consumption Category 3 activities (not included in 17,013 amounts scope 1 or scope 2) Upstream transportation and Calculated by aggregating emissions per unit of revenue and emissions intensities by Category 4 684,585 distribution division using relevant industry charts Category 5 Waste generated in operations 9,122 Calculated by aggregating emissions intensities of waste amounts Category 6 Business travel 3,031 Calculated by aggregating emissions intensities based on employee numbers Category 7 Employee commuting 4,780 Calculated by aggregating emissions intensities based on employee numbers Category 8 Upstream leased assets 1,297 Calculated by aggregating emissions from vehicles leased in Japan Downstream transportation Calculated by aggregating emissions per unit of revenue and emissions intensities by Category 9 435,881 and distribution division using relevant industry charts Not applicable as emissions from processing within the Group are included under Category 10 Processing of sold products — Scope 1 and Scope 2 Calculated based on life span and electricity consumption of principal medical electronics Category 11 Use of sold products 4,571 (pumps) End-of-life treatment of sold Calculated by aggregating emissions per unit of revenue and emissions intensities by Category 12 987 products division using relevant industry charts Not applicable as emissions associated with lease assets are accounted for under use Category 13 Downstream leased assets — of sold products Category 14 Franchises — Not applicable as no facilities considered franchises exist Category 15 Investment — Not applicable as no emissions were generated through investment Total 3,413,773 * Emissions intensities used in calculations are based on the database of emissions intensities for calculating organization greenhouse gases across the supply chain provided by the Ministry of the Environment (Ver. 2.5). * Scope: Terumo Group TOPIC Reduction of CO2 Emissions and Establishment of Targets for Fiscal 2030 Companies are now expected to set science-based CO2 reduction targets endorsed by the international initiative known as Science targets and to work toward the achievement of these targets in Based Targets. order to contribute to accomplishing the Paris Agreement’s goal of Moreover, we are committed to reducing CO2 emissions maintaining the increase in average global temperature to less than through a concerted Groupwide effort to help mitigate climate 2°C above pre-industrial levels. change risks and accomplish the goal of the Paris Agreement. In fiscal 2018, Terumo plans to establish a new target for the Group based on the methodology for setting CO2 emissions reduction Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 53 Corporate Citizenship Reducing the Environmental Impact of Our Business Operations Waste Reduction and Recycling As part of its efforts to use resources more efficiently, Terumo other types of plastic products, refuse plastic fuel (RPF), and sets targets for recycling and for reducing final disposal organic fertilizer. For fiscal 2017, we achieved a Groupwide waste. From a safety perspective, it is difficult to reuse waste recycling rate of 85%, with final disposal waste accounting (practice material recycling) internally. We do, however, segfor 0.2% of total waste at domestic Terumo Group business regate various types of waste from manufacturing processes sites, accomplishing our targets for the year. and from business activities in offices, and, with the cooperation of a recycling company, turn it into floor tiles and Recycling Target Waste-Reduction Target Achieve a recycling rate of 85% or higher for the Reduce final disposal waste to 0.5% or less of total Terumo Group waste at Terumo Group business sites in Japan Recycling Amounts and Rates Landfill Waste (t) (%) (t) 10,012 9,770 (%) 20,000 100 10,000 1.0 8,878 8,857 8,843 84.1 84.7 84.9 84.0 85.1 15,214 14,611 14,703 8,000 0.8 15,000 13,699 13,956 75 80 0.6 10,000 50 0.37 60 0.4 0.24 0.19 0.20 0.19 5,000 25 37 40 23 0.2 17 18 17 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 0 Recycling volume Recycling rate (right) Total emissions Landfill waste Ratio of landfill waste to total waste (right) * Scope: Terumo Group business sites in Japan and overseas manufacturing sites * Scope: Terumo Group business sites in Japan * Figures for fiscal 2013–2016 have been restated to rectify past errors in the collection of *F igures for fiscal 2013 have been restated to rectify past errors in the scope of disclosure. overseas data. Initiatives to Collect and Recycle Small Rechargeable Batteries Terumo works through the Japan Portable Rechargeable our products and inform customers through product instrucBattery Recycling Center (JBRC) to collect and recycle used tion booklets that batteries should be recycled. In addition, rechargeable batteries from Terumo products. This is in for products covered by our maintenance services, we regucompliance with Japan’s Act on the Promotion of Effective larly inspect and replace small rechargeable batteries and Utilization of Resources. To promote the proper recycling of recycle batteries that are no longer usable. small rechargeable batteries, we display a recycling logo on Collection and Recycling Performance in FY2017  (kg) Nickel-cadmium batteries Nickelhydride batteries Lithium-ion batteries Sealed lead-acid batteries 3,149 2,480 550 912 * Scope: Terumo Corporation business sites in Japan Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 54 Corporate Citizenship Reducing the Environmental Impact of Our Business Operations Reduction of Packaging and Promotion of Recycling To effectively use resources and improve customer usability, Terumo fulfills its recycling obligation by engaging the Terumo is working to reduce its use of packaging materials. Japan Containers and Packaging Recycling Association to These efforts include the development of smaller, lighter, and recycle waste. In fiscal 2017, we sent a total of roughly 238 slimmer packages and the adoption of new package designs. tons of paper and plastic packaging materials to this organiIn Japan, recycling of containers and packaging waste is zation for recycling. promoted through the Containers and Packaging Recycling Law, which requires product sellers to recycle containers and packaging discarded as household waste. Effective Utilization of Water Resources In every country and region where Terumo’s manufacturing sites are based, we examine the state of water resources and ascertain risks and opportunities in water use. The Terumo Group also strives to use water resources effectively Medium-Term Target and to reduce water consumption by, for example, circulating water and using rainwater. As a result, in fiscal 2017 we achieved a nearly 10% reduction in our water usage per unit Reduce Groupwide water use per unit of revof revenue compared with fiscal 2016. enue by at least 3% compared with the fiscal We will continue Groupwide efforts to promote the effec2016 level by the end of fiscal 2019 tive use of water resources going forward. Water Use Volumes (1,000m 3) (1,000 m 3/100 millions of yen) 6,000 2.4 5,155 5,283 4,983 4,957 5,112 1,247 1,402 1,421 1,542 4,500 1,299 1.8 1.066 1.013 3,000 0.974 1.003 1.2 0.899 3,736 3,658 3,710 3,734 3,741 1,500 0.6 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017(FY) 0 Water use volumes (Japan) Water use volumes (overseas) Per unit of consolidated net sales / revenue (right) * Scope: Terumo Group business sites in Japan and overseas manufacturing sites * Figures for fiscal 2016 have been restated to rectify past errors in the collection of overseas data. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 55 Corporate Citizenship Reducing the Environmental Impact of Our Business Operations Proper Control of Chemical Substances Terumo monitors and controls the use, emission, and disposal of chemical substances according to voluntary targets established under the Terumo Global EHS Policy. Management Systems and Procedures At Terumo, the Chemical Substance Subcommittee (one of our Chemical Substance Management Guidelines, which the EHS Expert Subcommittees) leads efforts at Terumo set forth procedures for the acquisition, storage, handling, Group business sites in Japan to track both the amounts of disposal, and other activities involving chemical substances. chemical substances we handle and the amounts we emit, In addition, risks in the working areas where chemical subreduce our usage of these materials, and properly manage stances are used are assessed based on our Chemical what we use. Chemical substances are managed based on Substance Risk Assessment Procedures. Voluntary Action to Reduce Chemical Substance Emissions Reduction of Dichloromethane Emissions Target Terumo is working to reduce its emissions of dichloromethane* based on its own voluntary targets. At our Kofu Factory, which handles large amounts of dichloromethane, we Keep dichloromethane emissions to less than have installed a recycling system to reduce emissions of this 100 tons per year for Terumo Group business air pollutant as much as possible. As an added measure, we sites in Japan monitor dichloromethane concentrations at the boundaries of the factory site to ensure standards are not exceeded. Dichloromethane Emissions * Dichloromethane is designated as a hazardous air pollutant (volatile organic compound) under Japan’s Air Pollution Control Act, which has set an upper limit of 150 μg/m3 on annual average atmospheric concentrations. This standard does not apply to designated (t) 394 industrial areas, such as the location of the Kofu Factory. Nevertheless, Terumo has set 400 and abides by a voluntary standard that is stricter than the official environmental standard. 300 200 78 82 77 76 68 100 0 1996 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) * Scope: Terumo Group business sites in Japan Reduction of Ethylene Oxide Emissions Ethylene oxide is widely used to sterilize medical devices. At Ethylene Oxide Emissions Terumo, we are working to reduce ethylene oxide emissions to the outside environment and have installed catalytic oxi(t) 100 dation emissions treatment systems at our Ashitaka and 100 95 89 90 88 Fujinomiya factories and our R&D Center (Shonan Center), 80 along with combustion emissions treatment equipment at 60 the Kofu Factory. In addition, we have voluntarily set an 40 upper limit of 4.3 μg/m3 on atmospheric concentrations at the boundaries of these sites and monitor the atmosphere 20 3 4 3 3 2 to ensure we adhere to this standard. 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Amount used Emissions * Scope: Terumo Corporation business sites in Japan Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 56 Corporate Citizenship Reducing the Environmental Impact of Our Business Operations Substitution of HCFC-225 In light of the Montréal protocol, an international agreement the momentum of this achievement, we aim to continue our for the phase-out of substances that deplete the ozone transition to substitute solvents. layer, it has been decided that the production of HCFC-225 HCFC-225 Emissions will be prohibited in Japan beginning in 2020. Accordingly, Terumo is moving ahead with its transition to HCFC-225 (t) 49 substitutes. As part of this undertaking, Terumo’s Eco50 products and Safety Subcommittee (one of the EHS Expert 40 Subcommittees) has disseminated information on processes 30 30 26 that use HCFC-225 at individual business sites, on HCFC21 21 20 225 substitutes, and on the results of related discussions at 10 individual business sites. In fiscal 2016, the transition to HCFC-225 substitutes in the CX fiber manufacturing pro0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) cesses at the Ashitaka Factory was completed. Seizing on Scope: Terumo Corporation business sites in Japan Tracking and Management of PRTR Substances * The Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in At Terumo, monthly tracking of usage and emissions volthe Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the Management Thereof. umes for pollutant release and transfer registers (PRTRs*) and other chemical substances, and the reduction of emissions at their source, is a top priority. Amounts of PRTR Substances Used, Emitted, and Transferred in Fiscal 2017 (t) R&D Center Fujinomiya Ashitaka Substance Kofu Factory (Shonan Total Factory Factory Center) Amount used 8.1 63.3 16.1 0.0 87.5 Ethylene oxide gas Emissions 0.1 0.9 0.8 0.0 1.8 Amount transferred 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Amount used 0.0 2.2 0.0 0.0 2.2 1, 2-dichloroethane Emissions 0.0 1.6 0.0 0.0 1.6 Amount transferred 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Amount used 2.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.5 HCFC-141b Emissions 1.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.7 Amount transferred 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Amount used 11.9 16.3 5.0 0.0 33.2 HCFC-225 Emissions 5.7 11.8 3.0 0.0 20.5 Amount transferred 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 Amount used 0.1 6.5 147.0 0.1 153.7 Dichloromethane Emissions 0.1 3.8 64.2 0.0 68.1 Amount transferred 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 Amount used 0.8 0.0 5.4 0.5 6.8 Toluene Emissions 0.3 0.0 0.6 0.0 0.9 Amount transferred 0.5 0.0 4.8 0.5 5.9 Amount used 353.5 1.9 106.2 0.0 461.6 Di (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate Emissions 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Amount transferred 0.0 0.0 3.2 0.0 3.2 Amount used 0.0 19.5 0.1 0.0 19.6 Hydrogen fluoride Emissions 0.0 1.4 0.0 0.0 1.4 Amount transferred 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Amount used 0.0 6.0 0.0 0.0 6.0 n-hexane Emissions 0.0 3.0 0.0 0.0 3.0 Amount transferred 0.0 3.0 0.0 0.0 3.0 Amount used 0.0 6.4 0.0 0.0 6.4 N, N-dimethylformamide Emissions 0.0 4.2 0.0 0.0 4.2 Amount transferred 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 * Scope: Terumo Corporation business sites in Japan Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 57 Corporate Citizenship Reducing the Environmental Impact of Our Business Operations Proper Disposal of Polychlorinated Biphenyls In Japan, Terumo has ceased the use of all products (transfiscal 2019. Products identified as containing PCBs are formers, capacitors, etc.) containing high concentrations of stored under strict controls for PCB waste at individual busipolychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and has formally requested ness sites. At our Ashitaka Factory, disposal of all products that the Japan Environmental Storage & Safety Corporation* containing PCBs was completed in April 2017. dispose of them. Regarding products containing low con* The Japan Environmental Storage & Safety Corporation (JESCO) is a special company centrations of PCBs, Terumo continues to conduct surveys wholly owned by the Japanese government. It was established in April 2004 as the only to identify them and plans to complete disposal thereof by company in Japan to carry out detoxification of items with high concentrations of PCBs. Compliance with Chemical Substance Regulations Construction of System to Ensure Regulatory Compliance [Collection of Regulatory Information] other regulations pertaining to chemical substances. For this Our Environmental Management Department gathers inforreason, the Company is stepping up management of these mation on environmental regulations via the Japanese govsubstances by collaborating with related departments to moniernment’s Official Gazette and through industry activities tor the regulated substances contained in procured items. and regularly receives information from local subsidiaries in In addition, we request that suppliers provide informaEurope, which has the most advanced chemical regulations tion on their use of conflict minerals through the conflict in the world. It then shares this information throughout the mineral reporting templates developed by the Responsible Group to address shortcomings in regulatory compliance Business Alliance (formerly the Electronic Industry Citizenand ensure ongoing compliance. ship Coalition) and the Global e-Sustainability Initiative. *1 Directive of the European Union that restricts the use of certain hazardous substances [Considerations in Design and Procurement] included in electrical and electronic equipment. At the product design stage, designers are informed of regu*2 Regulation of the European Union regarding the registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of chemicals. lated substances and instructed to take all possible steps to avoid using these and other environmental pollutants. We [Global Information Sharing] use our Human×Eco Development Guidelines as a tool to To ensure legal compliance, the Environmental Management raise designer awareness. Department provides information to relevant departments and local subsidiaries. In addition, EHS internal audits are [Monitoring of Chemical Substance Content of Procured conducted regularly, and steps are taken to share regulatory Items] information and ensure the proper functioning of the regulaTerumo seeks to comply with the Restriction of Hazardous tory compliance system. Substances Directive (RoHS*1), the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH*2), and Feedback to Local Sites Local subsidiaries outside of Japan Related departments Industry associations Environmental Management Department Procurement Department, companies and related departments Suppliers Response to GHS International Chemical Management Rules At Terumo, we provide GHS*-based information on hazardchemical substances in accordance with this information ous chemical substances to all associates working in locahelps protect the environment and the health of associates. tions that handle chemical substances. Proper handling of *G  HS: Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 58 Corporate Citizenship Reducing the Environmental Impact of Our Business Operations Initiatives for Biodiversity Conservation Terumo understands that our lives and health and even the to preserve biodiversity through environmental education practice of medicine itself depend on the existence of and reforestation activities and works to support the develdiverse living organisms and ecosystems. As a company opment of a society in which humans coexist with nature. whose business draws benefits from nature, Terumo seeks Protecting Forests Mt. Fuji Reforestation Project Terumo has two factories in the city of Fujinomiya in ShiIn the spring, volunteers cut back high branches to allow zuoka, Japan. Both take in groundwater from springs at the more sunlight to reach seedlings, reinstalled barriers to profoot of Mt. Fuji for use in the production of medical devices, tect seedlings from hungry deer (those damaged by wind pharmaceuticals, and other products. Recognizing that our and deer), and painted Megumi-no-Mori signs. In the fall, business depends on the use of natural resources, we volunteers planted trees, made benches and tables out of launched the Terumo Mt. Fuji Reforestation Project in fiscal wood collected during thinning activities, and created walk2003 with the aim of restoring the natural forests in this area. ing paths paved with wood chips. The volunteers, approxiThis project involves the reforestation of parts of Mt. Fuji’s mately 330 in total, included associates, their families, and forests where many trees have been destroyed by typhoons. local junior high school students. Repopulating these areas with native tree species will help them become more resistant to future natural disasters and ensure that they can continue to serve as a source of groundwater. In fiscal 2011, three parties—Shizuoka Prefecture, a local forest owner, and Terumo—entered into an agreement called the Shizuoka Mirai-no-Mori (Future Forest) Supporter Pact. Under this agreement, we plant trees and maintain forested areas to create the Terumo Megumi-no-Mori reserve within the Fumoto district of Fujinomiya. Moreover, we are engaged in year-round reforestation activities based on the concepts of the environment, living organisms, interaction, and health through this agreement. A special commemoratory cherry tree was planted in fiscal 2017 to celebrate the 15th anniversary of the Terumo Mt. Fuji Reforestation Project. Volunteers creating walking paths paved with wood chips Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 59 Corporate Citizenship Reducing the Environmental Impact of Our Business Operations Donations Based on Volunteer Activities of Associates Each year, we hold the ECO Challenge in which volunteer participating associates, and Terumo translates these points Terumo associates in Japan and their families conduct a into a monetary value for donations to the following two variety of voluntary environmental preservation and health programs arranged by the Organization for Industrial, Spiriimprovement activities at home and work. At the beginning tual, and Cultural Advancement—International (OISCA). of the ECO Challenge, a “Challenge Sheet” describing speIn fiscal 2017, a total of 4,516 associates participated in cific activities is distributed to participants, who then perform the ECO Challenge. them. Points are calculated based on the activities of [The Children’s Forest Program] OISCA conducts the Children’s Forest Program in which children take part in forestry activities based around their schools. The goal of this program is to help members of local communities learn about the importance of forests and the environment and encourage them to engage in forest preservation through environmental education and tree planting by community members. Funds donated by Terumo are used to provide environmental education to children in the Philippines, to expand woodlands by planting and nurturing seedlings, and in other activities. Children’s Forest Program [The Coastal Forests Restoration Project in Tohoku Region] Coastal forests play an important role in preserving local living conditions, acting as sand and wind barriers and as dampers against tsunamis. With the loss of coastal forests due to the tsunami generated by the Great East Japan Earthquake, salt damage along the coast of the Tohoku region is growing worse. The Coastal Forests Restoration Project is intended to promote expanded production of seedlings and the planting and nurturing of forestland. The Project to Restore Coastal Forests project also works for the recovery of disaster-affected regions through farmland restoration and job creation. Amount of Funds Dedicated to Biodiversity Preservation Projects FY2016 ¥3.5 million FY2017 ¥3.7 million Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 60 Corporate Citizenship Reducing the Environmental Impact of Our Business Operations EHS Goals and Achievements Fiscal 2017 Related United Initiatives Fiscal 2017 Targets Medium-Term Targets (Fiscal 2017–2019) Fiscal 2018 Targets Assessment Nations SDGs Establish corporate EHS management regulations and corporate EHSMS manual Establish Corporate EHS Management System (EHSMS) Manual (global version) that Expand application of the Corporate EHSMS Manual to production sites outside (global version) that comply with international ­standards (ISO 14001:2015, ISO complies with ISO revisions (ISO/DIS 45001:2016, ISO 14001:2015) △*1 45001:2018) Japan and operate globally * Establish environmental and occupational health and safety management systems that comply with international standards (ISO 14001:2015, ISO 45001:2018) at all sites Establishment and Operation of the Group Address ISO revisions (ISO 45001:2018, ISO 14001:2015) and acquire third-party EHS Management System Address ISO 14001 revisions (2015 version) and acquire third-party certification Acquire ISO 45001:2018 certification (major production sites in Japan) (major manufacturing sites in Japan) • certification (including production bases outside Japan that have already acquired * Transition from OHSAS 18001 to ISO 45001:2018 certification) Implement annual EHS and sustainability training at all sites Implement basic EHS education and provide related educational tools Foster an EHS culture in the Group overall (Terumo Group business sites in Japan) • Develop EHS training tools and share throughout the Group Implement basic EHS education at major production bases outside Japan (Terumo Group business sites in Japan) Reduce number of fatal and major occupational injuries to zero Reduce number of fatal and major occupational injuries to zero Reduce number of fatal and major occupational injuries to zero Reduce number of occupational accidents (including lost work time but not including Reduce number of occupational accidents (including lost work time but not including commuting accidents) to seven or less by fiscal 2019 (Terumo business sites in Reduce number of occupational accidents (including lost work time but not including commuting accidents) to nine or less (Terumo business sites in Japan: employees, Japan: associates, dispatched associates, and contract workers) commuting accidents) to nine or less (Terumo business sites in Japan: employees, dispatch employees, and contract workers) ×*2 dispatch employees, and contract workers) * Bring number of occupational accidents (including lost work time) to levels on par with or below the Reduction of Accident Risk, Health average frequency rate for occupational accidents in the same industry Enhancement Achieve 100% consultation rate for regular health exams and consultation rate of Achieve 100% consultation rate for regular health exams and consultation rate of 80% or more for follow-on exams (associates at Terumo business sites in Japan) Achieve 100% consultation rate for regular health exams and consultation rate of 80% or more for secondary exams (associates at Terumo business sites in Japan) 80% or more for secondary exams (associates at Terumo business sites in Japan) Reduce number of major environmental accidents to zero Reduce number of major environmental accidents to zero • Reduce number of major environmental accidents to zero Establish procedure for response to emergency situations and carry out training Establish procedure for response to emergency situations and carry out training (ongoing management) Provide details on development of at least one Human×Eco product/production Provide details on development of at least one Human×Eco product/production Development of Environmentally Friendly process at each development site • Launch three Human×Eco products process at each development site (Terumo business sites in Japan) and Safe Products and Production Develop prospects for technology as alternative for chlorofluorocarbons in each Establish a production process that does not use regulated chlorofluorocarbons (such Select alternatives for chlorofluorocarbon solvents for all products and establish Processes • product line (countries in which regulations apply) as HCFC-225) substitution plans (countries applicable to regulation) Cut the Group’s overall CO2 emissions by 38% or more per unit of consolidated net Reduce the Group’s overall CO2 emissions by 1% or more per unit of consolidated Reduce the Group’s overall CO2 emissions by 1% or more per unit of consolidated net sales/revenue compared with previous year • sales/revenue compared with fiscal 2005 revenue compared with previous year * Long-term target: 50% reduction in fiscal 2025 Reduce the Group’s overall water usage by 1% or more per unit of consolidated net Reduce the Group’s overall water usage by 3% or more per unit of consolidated net Reduce the Group’s overall water usage by 1% or more per unit of consolidated sales/revenue compared with previous year • Effective Use of Energy and Resources sales/revenue compared with fiscal 2016 revenue compared with previous year Raise the Group’s overall recycling rate to 86% or higher Raise the Group’s overall recycling rate to 85% or higher Raise the Group’s overall recycling rate to 87% or higher Achieve year-on-year improvements in the recycling rates of all sites Achieve recycling rate of 97% or more, reduce volume of waste for final disposal to • Achieve recycling rate of 98% or more, reduce volume of waste for final disposal to Achieve recycling rate of 97% or more, reduce volume of waste for final disposal to 0.5% or less of total emissions (Terumo Group business sites in Japan) 0.3% or less of total emissions (Terumo Group business sites in Japan) 0.3% or less of total emissions (Terumo Group business sites in Japan) Identify laws and regulations governing chemical substances and assess compliance (ongoing management) Compile lists of laws and regulations governing chemical substances and assess Maintain and manage safe working environments compliance Continue to observe laws and regulations governing chemical ­substances (zero e.g. E  thylene oxide concentration in working environments: 1 ppm or less Improve high-risk environment (over intermediate 3) in chemical substance risk • violations) Dichloromethane concentration in working environments: 50 ppm or less assessments and establish management system, continue education on chemical substance management (Terumo Group business sites in Japan) Improve high-risk environment (over intermediate 3) in chemical substance risk assessments and establish management system, continue education on chemical Proper Control of Chemical Substances substance management (Terumo Group business sites in Japan) and Reduction of Emissions Identify environmental laws and regulations and assess compliance Achieve EO environmental concentration on outskirts of facilities adjacent to residen(on going management) tial areas of less than 4.3μg/m3 Maintain voluntary management in the following areas Implement EO concentration measurements at air pollution outlets (Terumo Group business sites in Japan) Reduce dichloromethane emissions to less than 100 t/year • Monitor emissions of hazardous chemical substances and appropriately manage them EO environmental concentration on outskirts of facilities adjacent to residential (Terumo Group business sites in Japan) areas: less than 4.3μg/m3 Continue to not have class 3 working areas in which organic solvents are handled Monitoring of EO concentration at air pollution outlets (Terumo Group business sites in Japan) No class 3 working areas in which organic solvents are handled Dichloromethane emissions: less than 100 t/year Promote biodiversity preservation activities and share activities throughout the Group Implement education on biodiversity preservation at each site e.g. greening activities, forest preservation, education, etc. Preservation of Biodiversity Expand biodiversity preservation activities by planting trees at Mt. Fuji and taking on • Globally cooperate and promote biodiversity protection activities (SDGs 15 and 17) Expand Mt. Fuji Reforestation Project and Eco Challenge campaign the Eco Challenge (nationwide recruitment of participants) (Terumo Group business (Terumo Group business sites in Japan) sites in Japan) Promote health improvement through Mt. Fuji Reforestation Project Raise awareness of biodiversity preservation through Eco Challenge campaign Raise quality of information disclosed in sustainability report Raise quality of disclosure of information in sustainability reports Determine sustainability priorities and improve information disclosure based on priorities Advancement of EHS Communication -Conform core items of GRI 4.0, include comparison table △*3 Refer to GRI Standards Refer to GRI Standards *1 The accomplishment schedule was pushed back until fiscal 2018 due to the delayed release of ISO 45001 (March 2018). *2 One major occupational accident occurred, corrective measures have already been implemented. *3 Comparison tables were compiled by referencing core items of GRI 4.0. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 61 Corporate Citizenship Reducing the Environmental Impact of Our Business Operations Material Flow INPUT OUTPUT Energy Atmosphere Electricity 213 GWh CO2 123,000 t-CO2 City gas 17 MNm3 Nitrogen oxides 15 t LPG 15 t Sulfur oxides 0t Heavy oil 1 kl PRTR substances 103 t Diesel 3 kl Gasoline 2,658 kl Bodies of water R&D/ Resources Wastewater volume 2,270,000 m3 Manufacturing/ Sales Biochemical oxygen demand 5t Industrial water 1,964,000 m3 PRTR substances 1t Well water 1,651,000 m3 Liquid raw materials 163 t Solid raw materials 17,638 t Waste Paper 29,200,000 sheets Waste generated 8,545 t Chemical substances Recycled 8,269 t Landfill 16 t PRTR substances 780 t PRTR substances 12 t Energy Atmosphere Distribution Diesel 3,484 kl (Contracted) CO2 9,400 t-CO2 Heavy oil 90 kl Nitrogen oxide 29 t Jet fuel 119 kl * Scope: Terumo Corporation business sites in Japan * The CO2 emissions coefficients for electricity are the fiscal 2005 coefficients provided by the electric power providers. Corporate Citizenship Promoting Responsible Procurement Information on our initiatives for promoting responsible procurement can be found in the “Managing Supply Chains That ­Support Stable Supply” section of this report (pages 21 and 22). Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 62 Open Management Building Relationships of Trust through Dialogue with Stakeholders The Terumo Group greatly values communications with its are timely and appropriate for realizing an open style of various stakeholders. We do our best to listen to what they management. These efforts are an important means by have to say, earnestly respond to their desires and expectawhich we are striving to be a company that is trusted, and tions, and endeavor to make information disclosures that needed, by society. Stakeholder Engagement The table below provides information on issues and major communication methods that have emerged as high priorities in the Terumo Group’s relationships with stakeholders. Page numbers next to specific items indicate availability of additional information. Issues for Terumo Main Communication Channel • Provision of safe, high-quality products • Call Center (responding to patients’ questions) ➔ P19 • Achieving better medical outcomes and contributing to greater • Online inquiry submission form Patients QOL • Postcard survey of purchasers (for certain products) • Provision of environmentally conscious products • Instruction tools for patients (for certain products) • Provision of information on health and disease • Health information website • Provision of products and services that respond to market needs • Activities of medical representatives (MRs) • Stable provision of safe, high-quality products and services • Fee-based medical training for medical professionals ➔ P20 •C  ontributions to improvement of efficiency of treatments and • Academic conference exhibits, seminars, etc. Medical care efficiency • Call Center (responding to inquiries from medical settings • Provision of environmentally conscious products professionals) ➔ P19 •C  ollection and dissemination of information on appropriate • Product information website product use and safety • Online inquiry submission form • Enhancement of corporate value • General meeting of shareholders, financial results briefings, • Stable shareholder returns shareholder briefings Shareholders • Timely, appropriate information disclosure, and open • IR conferences, IR meetings and other management • Annual reports, shareholders news (in Japan) investors • The Investor Relations portion of Terumo’s website • IR inquiry contact (Corporate Communication Department) • Share inquiry contact (General Affairs Department) • Maintenance and continuation of equal, fair relationships • Briefings for suppliers ➔ P21 • Raw material procurement in compliance with the laws and • Surveys ➔ P22 Suppliers regulations in relevant countries • Quality assurance system audits ➔ P21 • Construction of supply chains supporting stable supply • Procurement business continuity plans ➔ P21 • Promotion of CSR procurement • Rewarding work environments and provision of opportunities • Venues for dialogue with top management ➔ P31 • Promotion of associate health • Employee engagement surveys ➔ P31 • Occupational health and safety measures • Terumo Patient’s Day internal event ➔ P30 • Promotion of diversity • Training and education systems ➔ P31-33 • Development and application of human resources • Occupational Health and Safety Management Committee ➔ P25 • Enhancement of work-life balance • Health management support: support for prevention, early Associates detection, and treatment ➔ P25-29 •P  romotion of diversity ➔ P34-36 • Support for improving work-life balance ➔ P37-39 • Internal whistle-blowing system ➔ P41 • Dialogue between management and the workers’ union ➔ P31 • Company newsletter, intranet • Social contribution activities that leverage Terumo’s business • Social contribution activities ➔ P64-68 activities • Environmental impact reduction activities ➔ P45-62 Local • Support for research that contributes to the development of communities healthcare • Collaboration with local communities • Reduction of environmental impacts on local communities Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 63 Social Contribution Activities Basic Approach While contributing to patients and medical professionals society by gaining a deeper understanding of the society, through its core business, the Terumo Group also engages culture, and environment of each country and region and by in social contribution activities as a good corporate citizen pursuing activities that meet the expectations and demands based on its corporate mission of “Contributing to Society of communities, mainly in our work to support the spread through Healthcare.” We aim to help achieve a sustainable and development of healthcare. Supporting the Spread and Development of Healthcare Blood Donation Activities in Countries throughout the World The blood management business of the Terumo Group and in-kind product support to not-for-profit organizations develops and produces blood bags for blood collection and providing access to healthcare in the developing world. This blood collection equipment and provides these items to support includes a US$25,000 grant to the Global Blood blood centers in countries around the world. Terumo also Fund; financial, in-kind, and leadership support to Project has its associates in countries throughout the world continuC.U.R.E.; and donations of blood bags to Mercy Ships and ously facilitate blood donations and engage in activities to the Mexican Red Cross. promote blood donations while aiming to contribute to blood In India, Terumo BCT subsidiary Terumo Penpol Private transfusion treatments. Ltd. is working to promote participation in blood donation In the United States, the Blood Management Business activities by holding events and other such activities. In fiscal head office Terumo BCT, Inc., partners with Bonfils Blood 2017, it organized 179 blood donation camps and develCenter to conduct blood drives every other month at the site oped a smartphone application to promote blood donations. of the Lakewood, Colorado factory. In fiscal 2017, a total of Such efforts over the years have also garnered recognition, 259 units of blood were collected, an increase of 13% over as the company was awarded a prize by the All Kerala Blood fiscal 2016. Since 2014, Terumo BCT has provided financial Donors Association. support to the National Cesar E. Chavez Blood Drive ChalIn Japan, Terumo conducts blood drives at all business lenge in the United States, which provides US$1,000 schollocations. In fiscal 2017, such blood drives were conducted arships to student organizers of local blood drives with the a total of 15 times, in which 857 associates participated, 12 goal of increasing the blood donation rate among the Hismore than in fiscal 2016. Regular blood donations have panic/Latino population. Terumo BCT also provides financial become normal Company events at each location. WEB Learn more about Terumo BCT’s social impact: https://terumobct.com/corporate-citizenship-report Blood drive in Japan Associate donating blood Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 64 Social Contribution Activities Supporting early diagnosis of children with congenital heart disease in India Congenital heart disease (CHD) is a neonatal birth defect data entry, distributing CHD awareness pamphlets and resulting from the abnormal development of the heart that flyers, and performing other related tasks. Thirteen children can affect involve the interior walls of the heart, the valves were diagnosed with CHD through these camps, and they inside the heart, or the arteries and veins that carry blood to were able to receive treatment. the heart or the body. It is said that nine out of 1,000 newborns in India have CHD, and it is one of the leading causes of infant mortality in this country. However, roughly 90% of these infants can be treated if their CHD is detected through early examinations. Terumo Group subsidiary Terumo India Private Ltd., which sells oxygenators and other devices used in cardiac surgeries, partners with Bangalore-based NGO Aishwarya Trust to conduct prescreening camps in order to identify children suffering from CHD and support those diagnosed with the disease in undergoing surgical correction. In fiscal 2017, a total of 11 associates participated as volunteers at seven camps, handling reception and Prescreening Camp TOPIC Terumo Foundation for Life Sciences and Arts: Spreading Activities to Promote the Appeal of Life Science Research to the Younger Generation The Terumo Foundation for Life Sciences and Arts was founded in facilities. They also provide the opportunity to communicate with 1987 by contributions from Terumo with the aim of contributing to researchers with the aim of helping students decide their future health and medical treatments for humankind by promoting techpath. In 2017, there were 27 participants from 13 prefectures nology in the field of life sciences. (The foundation was converted across Japan. Over the course of two days, participants received into a public interest incorporated foundation on April 1, 2012.) It lectures from leading Japanese researchers in life science-related engages in three types of activities mainly related to science and fields and had discussions with young researchers while also technology in life science-related fields: provision of financial aid for engaging in practical exercises in creating simplified artificial human research and improvements to treatment and health within Japan hearts and cell sheets. In comments from questionnaires after the and throughout the world, recognition of achievements, and educaevents, participants expressed that they would like to learn more tional activities. The foundation celebrated its 30th anniversary in about medical treatments, that they were intrigued by the work of 2017, and it has provided a total of 1,310 research subsidies totalresearchers, and that the event was a good opportunity to think ing ¥1,950 million since it was established. about their future path. The The foundation devotes its energy into educational activities to foundation will continue communicate the appeal of life science research to the younger striving to support the generation. Starting in 2012, the foundation has cooperated with development of individuals Tokyo Women’s Medical University – Waseda University Joint Instithat can support the future tution for Advanced Biomedical Sciences (TWIns) to hold annual of life science research Science Cafés for high school students. These events provide stuthrough such activities. dents with exposure to the front lines of research in regenerative medicine and artificial organs through life science-related lectures and practical learning at state-of-the-art medical engineering WEB Terumo Foundation for Life Sciences and Arts https://www.terumozaidan.or.jp/english/ Science Café event Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 65 Social Contribution Activities Support for Disaster-Stricken Areas Participation in Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Project Organized by the Japanese Red Cross Society Terumo participates in the future-oriented disaster prevention in which Terumo has engaged to assist disaster-stricken and preparedness project “Forever Remembered”* hosted areas within and outside of Japan since the Great East Japan by the Japanese Red Cross Society, and the Company has Earthquake. These internal efforts are designed to give assobeen engaging in activities to spread awareness both interciates a chance to think about what they can do to help nally and externally since 2018. Roughly 850 medical repreensure that healthcare is always available. sentatives (MRs) throughout Japan played a central role in the Company’s external efforts by carrying out sales activities * This project organized by the Japanese Red Cross Society began in 2015, five years after and wearing badges during the campaign period. Internal the Great East Japan Earthquake. The aim of the project is to communicate people’s efforts included intranet postings about initiatives in which thoughts and provide support to those who were affected by the disaster and still Terumo regularly engages to help ensure that healthcare is struggle to this day. The project also seeks to raise awareness for disasters that could occur in the future by reminding everyone to not forget the lessons learned from past always available and a new explanation of the support efforts tragedies and about what they gained from their experiences of mutual support. Support Provided to Disaster-Stricken Areas Disaster Financial assistance Relief items 20,000 thermometers ¥66,100,000 4,000 blood pressure monitors Great East Japan Earthquake (of which ¥35,100,000 12,000 pairs of compression stockings (March 2011) was donated by 50,000 servings of nutrients associates) Disinfectant, hygiene-use masks, etc. ¥3,000,000 100,000 syringes Typhoon 30 damages in the (along with an addi2,000 blood administration sets Philippines tional ¥4,760,000 2,000 digital thermometers (November 2013) donated by associates) Medical tape, wound dressing film, etc. 2,160 blood bags Earthquake in Nepal ¥2,000,000 2,500 blood administration sets (April 2015) 50 digital blood pressure monitors 2,400 bottles of hand sanitizer 2,000 emergency bandages 4,800 closed infusion sets (IV tubes) 1,000 digital thermometers ¥3,000,000 300 digital blood pressure monitors Kumamoto earthquakes (along with an addi100 digital blood glucose measurement kits (April 2016) tional ¥6,470,000 16,000 condensed liquid nutrients, low-protein meals, and other donated by associates) food items 2,000 pairs of compression stockings 3,000 pairs of fall-prevention socks 3,000 oral care products, etc. Heavy rains in Northern Kyushu ¥1,000,000 (July 2017) 1,800,000 syringes and needle sets Damages from Hurricane Maria in US$56,000 Financial assistance of ¥2,896,000 donated by Terumo associates to Puerto Rico (through the American support associates of Terumo Puerto Rico LLC impacted by the (September 2017) Red Cross) disaster Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 66 Social Contribution Activities Support for Local Communities Efforts in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa Subsidiary Terumo Europe NV has set up and implemented an EMEA-wide corporate citizenship (CC) program. Part of the program focuses on promoting and overseeing social contribution activities in each of the company’s subsidiaries and offices in the countries and regions where it operates. Associates that volunteer to become local CC Ambassadors as well as offices set their own topics for activities that include contributing to society (local communities) and healthcare and reducing environmental footprints. In addition to support provided through charitable donations to NPOs and NGOs, systems are also put in place to support social volunteer activities by teams of associates, and Terumo Europe NV supports organizations where associInternal newsletter communicating volunteer activities ates already volunteer on their own initiative. WEB Learn more about Terumo Europe’s social impact: https://www.terumo-europe.com/en-emea/About-Terumo/Corporate-Responsibility Efforts in Singapore Three Terumo Group subsidiaries based in Singapore was strong interest from participants. Over the two days of (Terumo Asia Holdings Pte. Ltd., Terumo Singapore Pte. the event, there were a total of 544 visitors to the booth. In Ltd., and Terumo BCT Asia Pte. Ltd.) jointly took part in The addition to the activities at the booth, 39 associates also Giving Family Festival organized by Singapore NPO TOUCH volunteered to take part in the charity run. Community Services (TOUCH). This event is organized with the goal of supporting senior citizens requiring special assistance as well as disadvantaged young people and families. Companies and organizations from the area each set up their own booths and provide various services for participants. In 2017, the festival was held for two days, on November 4 and 5, and, in its capacity as a sponsor, Terumo cooperated with community home care nurses from TOUCH to set up a booth to measure the blood glucose and blood pressure of participants. Action against diabetes has garnered attention as an important measure for Singapore to pursue as a country, and there Terumo booth at The Giving Family Festival Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 67 Social Contribution Activities Support for Arts and Culture Many traditional Japanese crafts are so globally scarce that exist within society in new and different ways. Since fiscal they are registered as world heritage. However, more than a 2015, Terumo has been engaging in activities to support few of these crafts are teetering on the verge of extinction arts and culture. In spring 2017, Terumo accepted applicadue to a decreasing number of applications and a shortage tions for financial support, and we provided a total of ¥8 of successors to carry them on. While there has been rising million of support to eight applicants working in the field of interest domestically and internationally for traditional Japatraditional Japanese crafts. We will continue striving to supnese culture, the areas producing such crafts are facing port the future of traditional Japanese crafts through the harsh times. These cultural aspects need to find a way to provision of financial support to such producers. Support for International Exchange Terumo extends its assistance to the “Get to Know Japan exchange with Japanese university students and homestays and Japanese Companies” Project designed to attract Chiwith Japanese families. nese university students to Japan, organized by The JapaStarting in 2013, students from this program have been nese Chamber of Commerce and Industry in China and the accepted for two-day, one-night stays with families of Japan-China Economic Association. Terumo associates. University students that will support This project has been conducted in the spring and fall of China’s future are thereby given the chance to directly expeeach year since 2007. Roughly 30 students are selected rience Japanese life and culture during their first visit to from around six universities in the Beijing area to be invited to Japan, allowing them to feel the warmth and welcoming Japan. While in Japan, students get the chance to visit comnature of their hosts. panies affiliated with The Japanese Chamber of Commerce We believe that such activities will foster deeper underand Industry in China and observe several other aspects of standing between Japan and China and help to build stable, Japan, such as culture and social and industrial circumfriendly relationships that last into the future. stances. They are also given opportunities for interaction and Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 68 Corporate Governance Basic Stance on Corporate Governance • Terumo’s corporate mission is “Contributing to Society through Healthcare.” Guided by its mission, Terumo provides valuable products and services to achieve sustainable growth, maximize long-term corporate value, and meet the expectations of its worldwide stakeholders, including its customers, shareholders, associates, business partners, and communities. • To embody its corporate mission, Terumo articulated its Five Statements, i.e. open management, enhanced value, safety and reliability, respect for our associates, and corporate citizenship. These statements govern the actions and decisions made by all Terumo associates. • Based on its corporate mission and the Five Statements, Terumo has established its Guideline for Corporate Governance. It is intended to promote timely decision-making while maintaining transparency and objectivity in management. • Terumo continuously strives to earn the understanding and trust of its internal and external stakeholders by recognizing its accountability to its stakeholders and promoting dialog and other means of communication with its shareholders. • Informed by Corporate Governance Code, Terumo has developed a global platform for its activities as a good corporate citizen. • Terumo strives diligently to foster a corporate culture of “a highly motivating and challenging workplace with open and candid communication,” because Terumo believes a culture of this nature is essential to effective corporate governance. Corporate Governance Structure General Meeting of Shareholders Election/Dismissal Proposal Report/ Election/ Election/ Report Express the Dismissal Dismissal Opinion Consultation Corporate Governance Committee Deliberate/ Board of Directors Meeting Advice Nomination Committee Audit/Supervisory Committee Audit/ Direction Supervision Internal Control Committee Report Risk Management Committee Direction/ Proposal/ Accounting Auditors Supervision Report Internal Audit Direction Direction President and CEO Executive Management Meeting Department Cooperation Report Report Consultation Recommendation Direction/ Proposal/ Cooperation Supervision Report Internal Audit Investment Committee Audit Each Division/Group Companies * Audit/Supervisory Committee members are directors, and have voting rights in the Board of Directors Meeting. The majority of the Audit/Supervisory Committee is constituted by independent directors. The Audit/Supervisory Committee serves for the function of auditing and supervising the directors and the Board of Directors. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 69 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Structure Organizational Design Terumo adopted the organizational design of a “Company with an Audit/Supervisory Committee” to achieve the following initiatives, further strengthen its corporate governance framework, and to enhance its midto long-term corporate value. (1) Strengthen audit and supervisory functions The members of the Audit/Supervisory Committee shall have voting rights in the meetings of the Board of Directors. (2) Enhance transparency and objectivity in management By increasing the proportion of independent directors on the Board, transparency and objectivity in decision-making will be enhanced at the Board level reflecting opinions of the independent directors, which represent the perspectives of shareholders and other stakeholders. (3) Expedite decision-making process By promoting the appropriate delegation of the Board’s authority by way of the executive officer system, Terumo will further expedite its decision-making process and business development. Board of Directors Roles • The Board shall strive for optimal decision-making of basic management policies with the goal of maximizing corporate value. • To expedite decision-making processes, the Board may delegate certain duties or responsibilities, which are executed based on basic management policies decided at the Board, to directors and/or executive officers. The Board shall monitor the execution of any such duties or responsibilities so delegated. • The Board shall oversee the nomination process of the President’s successor as one of its important obligations for maintaining and improving corporate governance and sound management. Members • The Board shall consist of no more than 15 persons, excluding the Audit/Supervisory Committee Members. • Terumo shall strive to have independent directors account for approximately twenty percent (20%) or more of the Board membership. • Considering that, from the standpoint of corporate governance, the execution of business operations and supervisory oversight should be separated, the Chairman shall serve as the chair, in principle; provided, however, that if no Chairman has been appointed, the Nomination Committee shall propose a candidate for the chair, considering the actual situation of possible candidates based on the above standpoint, and the Board of Directors shall appoint such candidate as the chair for the Board of Directors meeting. Audit/Supervisory Committee Roles The Audit/Supervisory Committee shall audit and supervise the execution of duties by Directors and executive officers to ensure the appropriate, reasonable, and efficient operation of the Terumo Group. To fulfill its audit and supervisory duties, the Audit/Supervisory Committee may provide direct instructions to the Internal Control, Internal Audit, and Legal and Compliance Departments. Such activities of the Committee shall include any of the following: • Attend, provide objective and fair opinions, and exercise voting rights at the Board of Directors meetings. • Attend and provide objective and fair opinions at other important Terumo Group meetings. • Prepare audit reports. • Establish and revise audit policies, methods for investigating and reviewing the Company’s operations and assets, and other matters related to exercising the authority of the Audit/Supervisory Committee. Members • The Audit/Supervisory Committee shall consist of no more than five (5) directors. • Terumo shall have independent directors represent a majority of Committee membership. • The members of the Audit/Supervisory Committee shall elect one of the Committee members to serve as the chair of the Committee. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 70 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Committee Roles The Corporate Governance Committee shall, as an advisory body to the Board of Directors, discuss the matters listed below and provide advice to the Board with the goals of maintaining and improving the Terumo Group’s business integrity and corporate governance practices. (a) Basic matters concerning Corporate Governance. (b) Important matters concerning the establishment, design and operation of the Corporate Governance system. (c) Matters concerning the compensation structure for directors and executive officers. (d) Other matters which the Board of Directors requests the Committee to consider, or matters the Committee deems necessary to carry out the purposes of the Committee. The deliberations of the Committee shall be reported to the Board of Directors as appropriate. In this regard, however, those matters related to the Audit/Supervisory Committee in (c) above shall not violate the provisions of Article 361 of the Companies Act. Members • The Committee shall be comprised of members of the Board selected by the Board. • Terumo shall have independent directors account for at least half of the members of the Committee. • At least one of the Representative Directors shall be a member of the Committee. • The members of the Corporate Governance Committee shall elect one of the independent directors serving on the Committee to serve as the chair of the Committee. However, if the chair is unable to act, one of the other independent directors elected by a majority vote of the Committee members shall act in the chair’s place. Nomination Committee Roles The Nomination Committee shall deliberate on the matters concerning successors to the President and Chairman of Terumo Corporation, which is one of the most important corporate governance duties for the Board, as well as the matters concerning the appointment and dismissal of directors and executive officers. Members • The Committee shall be comprised of members of the Board selected by the Board. • Independent directors (at least three (3) but not more than five (5)) shall account for a majority of the members of the Committee. • The chair shall be elected from among the independent directors by a two-thirds majority vote of the Committee members. Internal Control Committee Roles The Internal Control Committee shall design and operate the Terumo Group’s internal control systems in accordance with the Company’s “Internal Control System Design Basic Policy.” Members • The Committee shall be comprised of Terumo Corporation’s Representative Directors, Directors ranked Managing Executive Officer or above, Expert Panels Chairpersons, Internal Control Department Managers, and external legal counsels. • Audit/Supervisory Committee members may attend and speak at the meetings of the Committee. • The chair shall be the President and Representative Director. Risk Management Committee Roles The Risk Management Committee shall design and operate the Terumo Group’s risk management system based on risk identification, assessment, analysis, and prioritization across the entire organization. Members • The Committee shall be comprised of executive officers ranked Managing Executive Officer or above, Internal Control Department managers, and designated person by the chair. • Audit/Supervisory Committee members may attend and speak at the meetings of the Committee. • The chair shall be the President and Representative Director. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 71 Corporate Governance Selection of Directors Policy Candidates for directors shall be selected according to the regulations also require the consideration of the diversity of internal regulations, which stipulate the eligibility criteria, independent directors, including, to the extent possible, including “a candidate shall have the management judgment their backgrounds, expertise, gender, and other factors as capacities and management oversight capacities from appropriate. With regard to independent directors who stakeholders’ standpoint.” serve as Audit/Supervisory Committee members, the reguOne of these internal regulations stipulate that indepenlations stipulate that independent directors should ideally be dent directors shall be selected from persons with extensive selected from persons who play leading roles in the fields of experiences in management, international business, the law or accounting with at least one candidate coming from practice of medicine or other specific areas of expertise. The each such field. Procedure The Nomination Committee shall discuss and propose potenCommittee shall discuss and propose the Director Indepential candidates for directors and propose appropriate candidence Standards for review and approval by resolution of dates to the Board of Directors. This process is intended to the Board of Directors. eliminate arbitrariness and to ensure the sound selection of Each director shall concurrently hold officer positions (direccandidates. tor, auditor, etc.) with no more than three other listed companies In order to assist shareholders in the exercise of voting as a condition to serving as a director of Terumo Corporation. rights of shareholders by allowing them to better understand The reasons for selection and positions concurrently the candidates, each candidate shall be required to state held by each candidate for director shall be disclosed in the their aspirations prior to the election at the General Meeting Corporate Governance Report, Reference Materials for the of Shareholders. General Meeting of Shareholders or other documents as Independent directors shall be subject to the requirements appropriate. of the Director Independence Standards. The Nomination Reasons for Appointing Independent Directors and Attendance at Meetings (Fiscal 2017) Attendance at meetings of the Board Name Reason for appointment of Directors and Audit/Supervisory Committee Mr. Mori has been appointed as an independent director to utilize the insight he has cultivated Ikuo Mori from his extensive experience as a manager and many years of experience in business overseas, Board of Directors: 12/12 (100%) in supervising the management of Terumo Corporation. Mr. Ueda has expert knowledge which includes a track record of research in cancer therapy, has served as President of Nagoya City University Hospital and Director-General of Nagoya City Ryuzo Ueda Hospital Bureau, and has cultivated extensive experience through the performance of his duties Board of Directors: 12/12 (100%) in these organizations. He has been appointed as an independent director to utilize this experience in the supervision of management at Terumo Corporation. Ms. Kuroda has extensive experience as a manager, and many years of global experience in organizational and leadership development consulting. She has been appointed as an indepenYukiko Kuroda Appointed on June 22, 2018 dent director to utilize the insight she has cultivated from these experiences in the supervision of management at Terumo Corporation. Mr. Matsumiya has extensive knowledge of finance and accounting as a Certified Public Board of Directors: 12/12 (100%) Toshihiko Matsumiya Accountant. He has heretofore provided auditing and supervision of the management of Terumo Audit/Supervisory Committee: Corporation from an independent perspective. 12/12 (100%) Mr. Yone possesses specialized knowledge and extensive experience as an attorney in Japan Board of Directors: 12/12 (100%) Masatake Yone and overseas, and has heretofore overseen and supervised the management of Terumo Audit/Supervisory Committee: Corporation from an independent perspective. 12/12 (100%) Evaluation of the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors For the purpose of further improving effectiveness of the means with the involvement of outside experts and disclose board, the Board of Directors shall conduct a self-evaluation a summary of the results. of board effectiveness every year by survey sheets and other WEB For more information on the Corporate Governance of the Terumo Group, please refer to the Company website. Corporate Governance http://www.terumo.com/about/governance.html Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 72 Corporate Governance Executive Compensation Policy and Framework To provide appropriate motivation to enhance midto longfixed compensation and performance-linked compensation term corporate value, the compensation for executive direc(bonus) shall be set. In order to achieve objective (b), the comtors and executive officers shall be determined focusing on pensation-type stock options have been established. “(a) appropriate risk-taking by the management” and “(b) Compensation of other non-executive directors shall be sharing awareness on profits with shareholders.” composed only of fixed compensation. To achieve objective (a), an appropriate balance between Target Proportions Compensation for executive directors shall consist of fixed ­ercentage of each compensation component in light of p compensation, bonuses, and stock options, the target per­relevant information obtained from outside research organicentages of which shall be 50%, 30%, and 20% of the total zations that review data from comparable companies. This combined compensation, respectively. process is intended to secure transparency and objectivity in The Corporate Governance Committee shall review the the establishment of compensation for executive directors. ­standard amount of compensation and the related target Decision Procedure • Fixed compensation Within the compensation limit approved at the General Meeting of Shareholders, compensation for directors, excluding the Audit/Supervisory Committee members, shall be decided by resolution of the Board of Directors, and compensation for Audit/ Supervisory Committee members shall be decided by deliberation among Audit/Supervisory Committee members. • Bonuses Within the aforementioned compensation limit, bonuses shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors in light of relevant factors, including Companywide performance as indicated by sales, operating profit, and operating margin, and an evaluation of the performance of each director’s business operation. • Stock options Within the aforementioned compensation limit, compensation-type stock options shall be awarded by resolution of the Board of Directors. Remuneration to Directors Total value of Total compensation by type (¥ million) Number of Position remuneration (¥ million) Base Stock options Bonuses directors Directors (excluding Audit/Supervisory Committee members 438 211 88 138 9 and independent directors) Audit/Supervisory Committee members 32 32 — — 2 (excluding independent directors) Independent directors 58 58 — — 5 Training Policy Terumo Corporation shall provide each director with opporassume their duties and acquire the knowledge required for tunities to obtain relevant training such that each may fully fulfilling their roles, legal obligations and duties as a director. Internal Directors At the time of election, briefings by the head of the legal with acquiring the requisite knowledge. After the election, division shall be arranged to provide each director with the relevant books and opportunities for participation in external requisite knowledge of his or her obligations as a director. training sessions shall be arranged as necessary to afford Opportunities for external training may also be recomeach director the opportunity to update his or her knowlmended and provided if appropriate to assist the director edge necessary for his or her service as a director. Independent Directors Briefings shall be arranged to afford each independent direcor her duties as a director. External training sessions and tor the opportunity to obtain the information about Terumo’s other information shall be made available if additional knowlbusiness, organization, and operations necessary to fulfill his edge is required or updating is necessary. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 73 Risk Management Basic Approach Changes in global circumstances, the globalization of busitypes of risks—by management and ultimately to win stakeness, and other factors are causing rapid changes in the holder faith and enhance our corporate value. In an October Terumo Group’s business environment. At the same time, 2015 address by Terumo’s President and CEO, the following risks affecting our business activities are diversifying and two risk management objectives were communicated to all growing in complexity. In response to these risks, the Terumo Terumo Group associates. Group is moving forward with the construction of a Groupwide risk management system, an effort that began in fiscal 1.  Realization of an organizational culture in which each 2015. The Risk Management Regulation provide the guideindividual associate is conscious of risk as they perform lines for appropriate risk management based on identificatheir job responsibilities tion and analysis of risks for the Group as a whole. Our 2.  Identification of key risks—high priority risks from a objective in managing risks is to provide the proper environGroupwide perspective—followed by development and ment for supporting bold, yet appropriate risk-taking—for all implementation of appropriate responses Risk Management System Establishment of Risk Management System The Risk Management Committee has been established criteria focus on two key points: 1) Whether the risk will directly under the Board of Directors as an organization cause significantly impacts to Terumo customers, and 2) charged with overseeing risk management across the entire Whether the risk will cause serious damage to the Terumo Group. Chaired by the President and CEO, the committee’s Group’s management. membership includes officers at the level of Managing Risk information is gathered from throughout the Group, Executive Officer and higher, representatives of relevant organized in a database, and shared with department heads departments selected by the committee chair, and the Comand risk managers at subsidiaries. In addition, a system has pany’s legal counsel. The committee meets twice a year to been established for information to be communicated to discuss key risks, and draw up, implement, and monitor risk management organizations promptly through functional response measures. departments and the relevant departments of subsidiaries Key risks are designated by assessing risks identified when a significant issue arises. throughout the Group based on predefined criteria. Assessment Risk Management System General Meeting of Shareholders Election/Dismissal Proposal Election/ Election/ Report/Express Report Dismissal Dismissal the Opinion Corporate Governance Consultation Committee Deliberate/Advice Nomination Committee Board of Directors Meeting Audit/Supervisory Committee Direction Audit/Supervisory Internal Control Committee Report Risk Management Committee Direction/Supervision Proposal/Report Accounting Auditors Internal Audit Department Direction Direction President and CEO Executive Management Meeting Cooperation Report Report Consultation Recommendation Direction/ Proposal/ Cooperation Supervision Report Investment Committee Internal Audit Audit Each Division/Group Companies Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 74 Risk Management Risk Management Education Since fiscal 2016, we have been including content emphatraining for associates. Through initiatives such as these, we sizing the importance of risk management in briefings for are working to enhance the level of risk sensitivity among department heads and conducting participatory workshop individual managers and associates. Crisis Response When a crisis emerges (an identified risk occurs), the Risk trust of society. For a crisis of the highest level, a crisis Management Regulations stipulate that an internal response response headquarters, led by the Risk Management Comis to be organized in accordance with the crisis level. Crisis mittee Chair, and with relevant department heads as the responses aim to accomplish three things: 1) Protect human second tier of leadership, is established. lives, 2) Minimize damage and losses, and 3) Maintain the Responses to Major Disasters and Other Emergencies The Terumo Group provides medical devices, pharmaceutiactivities. The disaster response headquarters will ascertain cals, and services that are directly linked to people’s lives. the condition of associates and their families, and gather Accordingly, we believe that ensuring business continuity in information on matters such as conditions at suppliers and the event of a major natural disaster or some other unforein disaster-hit areas to assess the current situation, so that seen situation is an important social obligation of the Group. response actions can be determined and implemented. At We have therefore prepared business continuity plans the same time, the disaster response headquarters will (BCPs) to prevent our operations from being disrupted even embark on efforts to provide the required human and other under extreme circumstances and to guarantee that operasupport to disaster-hit areas in a timely manner. tions can be quickly restored and resumed should they be If it becomes clear that the Terumo Group’s supply chain disrupted. We conduct various drills on a regular basis and or operations will be temporarily interrupted, the disaster implement other countermeasures. response headquarters will transition to a business recovery If a large-scale disaster strikes, a disaster response mode and begin work to restore normal supply chain/operaheadquarters, led by the President and CEO of Terumo tional functions as quickly as possible. Corporation, will be established to swiftly initiate response Business Recovery Organization Global Headquarters (GHQ) Business Recovery Head Office Director (President) GHQ Business Leader (General Manager, General Affairs Department) Recovery Head Office Administrative Office (General Affairs Department) Company Business Recovery Office Treasury Department Controller Department Production Department Supply Chain Human Resources Regulatory Affairs Management Department Department Company Business Recovery Office Director Call Center Quality Assurance Corporate Communication (Company presidents) Department Department Procurement Department IT Planning International Business Company Business Recovery Department Department Office Members Sales Administrative Clinical Development Post-market Surveillance Department Department and Vigilance Department On-Site Business Recovery Office On-Site Business Recovery Factories (Factory Managers) Office Members Regional Headquarters and Affiliated Companies Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 75 Risk Management Business Continuity Plans Based on the Terumo Group BCP Standard, the Terumo BCPs have been prepared for factories, functional Group has developed BCPs for its operations around the departments engaged in tasks such as raw material proworld based on three policies: 1) Fulfill our social responsibilcurement and distribution, and companies. By promoting ity to ensure that impacts on medical institutions are minidisaster preparedness in all divisions, we aim to guarantee mized whenever possible, 2) Protect our associates and swift and accurate responses in cases of emergencies. their families worldwide, and 3) Protect our assets. Preparedness Drills Each of the Terumo Group’s locations conducts drills, such as the following, on how to respond to large-scale natural disasters. Communication drills are also conducted jointly with Terumo’s logistics partners. • Establishment of a disaster response headquarters following a major earthquake, confirmation of role performance by individual staff, and other BCP-related drills • Implementation of systems for rapidly ascertaining the condition of associates and their families and drills on its usage • Overall disaster response drills including firefighting, CPR, and rapid evacuation • Communication via MCA radio under simulated loss of telephone and email Infectious Disease Countermeasures Terumo has been designated a specified public institution infectious diseases that are currently spreading around the under Japan’s Act on Special Measures for Pandemic Influworld and to help halt the spread of such diseases. This enza and New Infectious Disease Preparedness and manual lays out rules covering everything from infection Response. Accordingly, we have developed an operation prevention to the return to work of associates who have plan as required and have formulated a BCP that will enable been infected in an effort to protect business operations us to continue operating even in the event of an outbreak of from the impacts of infectious disease. a new strain of influenza or other infectious disease. Terumo also monitors infectious disease conditions In addition, Terumo, has prepared its infectious disease globally and issues travel precautions or restricts business response manual to guide efforts to combat the various travel for its associates, as conditions warrant. Information Security Basic Approach In pursuing business operations, we, at the Terumo Group, Regarding personal information, we have developed the take measures to properly protect and ensure information Personal Information Protection Standard based on Japasafety with regard to confidential information of the Group as nese laws and regulations, including the Act on the Protecwell as information entrusted to the Group by customers tion of Personal Information and Act on the Use of Numbers and business partners from all manner of threats, including, to Identify a Specific Individual in Administrative Procedures. for example, unauthorized access by outside parties; inforWe properly protect and manage all forms of personal information leaks due to negligence; information manipulation, mation, including national identification numbers, in accordestruction, and theft; information system malfunctions; and dance with these standards. Furthermore, we are promoting natural disasters. The Terumo Group Global Security Policy global compliance with the General Data Protection Regulahas been established as a shared global policy for information, a new personal information protection regulation impletion security and region-specific information security rules mented by the European Union in May 2018. have been formulated based on this policy. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 76 Risk Management Information Security System Under the direction of the Chief Information Officer (CIO), the In Japan, information security managers and management Terumo Group develops global information security systems staff are appointed in each department of Terumo and in each headed by the IT Planning Department. The formulation and Group company, as stipulated by the Terumo Group Global enactment of standards and guidelines based on the laws Security Policy and the information security rules. These indiand regulations of countries of operation and the education viduals perform management and provide guidance to ensure and training of associates are promoted on a global basis that information in their departments is properly managed and through these systems. In addition, global meetings are held protected. Outside of Japan, information security officers are regularly between representatives from Terumo’s IT Planning selected for each region and information security managers Department and information security divisions of Group are put in place at all affiliates to promote appropriate informacompanies. These meetings serve as opportunities to share tion protection and management throughout the Group. information on cyber risks and other matters and to examine possible measures for strengthening information security. Global Information Security Management Organization Board of Directors Meeting Internal Control Committee Chair (President and CEO) Internal Control Committee Internal Control Department (Secretariat) ISO: Information Security Officer Report ISM: Information Security Manager IT Planning CIO Europe Department Information Security Staff ISO Americas Japan Asia ISO Departments Departments China India Line Managers Line Managers Blood Management Company ISM ISM (Terumo BCT) Line Management Line Management Staff Staff ISO Measures for Strengthening Information Security Terumo business locations throughout the world perform of personal information. To combat such threats, we are self-evaluations of their security status annually, and informaimplementing measures for strengthening information secution security training for associates is conducted on a regional rity to provide for multilayered protection that includes counbasis once a year. In addition, both internal and external termeasures for scam emails, monitoring for unauthorized audits are performed to confirm the status of compliance transmissions, and other provisions. Furthermore, we conwith the internal rules and regulations of the Company. duct drills using target emails for our associates around the We have recently seen a rise in the various information world to raise their awareness of information security. security threats needing to be addressed, with such threats including targeted attacks, unauthorized access, and leaks Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 77 Data Sheets 79 Human Resources and Labor Data 81 Environmental Data Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 78 Data Sheets Human Resources and Labor Data Associate Data FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Japan 5,310 5,297 5,417 Europe 1,856 2,198 2,510 Number of associates by geographic area (consolidated)*1 Americas 6,995 8,299 9,582 Asia and others 6,536 6,647 5,810 Total 20,697 22,441 23,319 Male 4,151 4,057 4,079 Female 695 672 702 Number of associates (non-Consolidated)*2 Overseas associates 55 4 – Total 4,901 4,733 4,781 Ratio of female associates (%) – – 14.7 Male 41.86 42.28 42.50 Average age*2 Female 36.16 36.75 36.97 Total 41.06 41.51 41.70 Male 18.9 19.3 19.3 Average years of service*2 Female 12.2 12.7 12.7 Total 18.0 18.4 18.4 Male – – – Average salary (yen)*2 Female – – – Total 7,270,416 7,409,163 7,433,730 Male 166 94 136 New hires*2 Female 57 29 57 Total 223 123 193 Male 67 65 57 Voluntary turnover (resigning due to personal reasons) (employees)*2 Female 27 35 29 Total 94 100 86 Male 1.6 1.6 1.4 Employee turnover rate (%)*2 Female 3.9 5.0 4.1 Total 1.9 2.1 1.8 *1 Scope: Terumo Group *2 Scope: Terumo Corporation Promotion of Diversity FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Number of female managers 49 57 61 Number and ratio of female managers*1 Ratio of female managers (%) 4.9 5.7 6.1 Retirees 62 79 75 Number and ratio of retirees rehired under TES*2 Number of retirees rehired under TES 44 57 65 Ratio of retirees rehired under TES 71 72 87 Ratio of employees with disabilities (%)*2 2.13 2.10 2.16 *1 Scope: Domestic Terumo Corporation associates and Japanese associates dispatched or seconded to Group companies *2 Scope: Terumo Corporation Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 79 Data Sheets Promotion of Work Style Revolutions FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Associates taking maternity leave 25 36 47 Female 53 55 78 Associates taking childcare leave Male 45 68 72 Number of associates taking maternity and childcare leave Ratio of associates returning to 100 100 100 work after maternity leave (%) Ratio applicable male associates Male 31.5 50.0 48.6 taking childcare leave (%) Associates taking special nursing 1 0 2 care leave Number of associates taking nursing Associates taking long-term care leave* 0 4 nursing care leave 20 Associates taking leave for family 10 15 illness Male 3 4 13 Registered associates Associates using the Female 31 35 49 work-at-home system Male 2 2 8 Associates using system Female 25 27 43 Registered former associates 8 6 4 Number of former associates rehired Rehired associates 1 1 1 Ratio of paid vacation days taken (%) 64.5 65.4 68.0 Scope: Terumo Corporation * Excludes half-day leave (nursing care/family illness) Nursing care and family illness displayed as a combined total from fiscal 2017 Initiatives to Prevent Work-Related Accidents FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Accidents resulting in lost work days 4 2 3 Frequency rate 0.44 0.23 0.34 Severity rate 0.00 0.02 0.85 Scope: Terumo Corporation Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 80 Data Sheets Environmental Data CO2 emissions FY2005 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Japan (t-CO2) 111,690 121,915 124,291 126,904 128,591 128,979 Overseas (t-CO2) 78,860 131,454 126,176 132,800 132,728 138,632 Total (t-CO2) 190,550 253,369 250,467 259,704 261,319 267,611 Index per unit of consolidated net sales/revenue (FY2005=100) 100 70 66 64 66 59 Scope: Terumo Group business sites in Japan and overseas manufacturing sites CO2 Emissions in Fiscal 2017 (Scope 1 and Scope 2) Scope 1 Scope 2 Total Japan (t-CO2) 40,102 88,877 128,979 Overseas (t-CO2) 17,851 120,781 138,632 Total (t-CO2) 57,953 209,658 267,611 Scope: Terumo Group business sites in Japan and overseas manufacturing sites CO2 Emissions in Fiscal 2017 (Scope 3) Total (t-CO2) 3,413,773 Scope: Terumo Group Energy Consumption Fuel Type FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Electricity (GJ) 1,506,279 1,525,594 1,552,236 City gas (GJ) 1,055,107 1,016,203 1,006,781 LPG (GJ) 27,868 26,037 27,837 Heavy oil (GJ) 20,119 20,060 19,941 Diesel (GJ) 22,595 13,397 4,401 Steam (GJ) 124,645 130,164 132,356 Gasolinel (GJ) 615 598 363 Total (GJ) 2,749,115 2,720,407 2,893,202 Consumption per unit of product net sales/revenue (GJ/¥100 million) 524 529 492 Scope: Terumo Group business sites in Japan and overseas manufacturing sites Renewable Energy Usage in Fiscal 2017 Photovoltaic power (kWh) 303,143 Scope: Terumo Group Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 81 Data Sheets Recycling Amounts and Rates FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Total waste (t) 10,012 9,770 8,878 8,857 8,843 Japan Volume recycled (t) 9,507 9,466 8,647 8,545 8,560 Recycling rate (%) 95.0 96.9 97.4 96.5 96.8 Total waste (t) 7,367 7,579 7,255 7,755 9,044 Overseas Volume recycled (t) 5,104 5,237 5,052 5,411 6,655 Recycling rate (%) 69.3 69.1 69.6 69.8 73.6 Total waste (t) 17,379 17,349 16,133 16,612 17,888 Total Volume recycled (t) 14,611 14,703 13,699 13,956 15,214 Recycling rate (%) 84.1 84.7 84.9 84.0 85.1 Scope: Terumo Group business sites in Japan and overseas manufacturing sites Landfill Waste FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Total waste (t) 10,012 9,770 8,878 8,857 8,843 Landfill waste (t) 37 23 17 18 17 Ratio of landfill waste to total emissions (%) 0.37 0.24 0.19 0.20 0.19 Scope: Terumo Group business sites in Japan Collection and Recycling of Small Rechargeable Batteries in Fiscal 2017 Nickel-cadmium batteries (kg) 3,149 Nickel-metal hydride batteries (kg) 2,480 Lithium-ion batteries (kg) 550 Sealed lead-acid batteries (kg) 912 Scope: Terumo Corporation business sites in Japan Water Use Volumes FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Japan (1,000 m3) 3,736 3,658 3,710 3,734 3,741 Overseas (1,000 m3) 1,247 1,299 1,402 1,421 1,542 Total (1,000 m3) 4,983 4,957 5,112 5,155 5,283 Per unit of consolidated net sales/revenue (1,000 m3/100 millions of yen) 1.066 1.013 0.974 1.003 0.899 Scope: Terumo Group business sites in Japan and overseas manufacturing sites Amount of PRTR Substances Used, Emitted, and Transferred in Fiscal 2017 Used (t) 779.5 Emitted (t) 103.2 Transferred (t) 12.2 Scope: Terumo Corporation business sites in Japan Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 82 Data Sheets Green Purchasing in Fiscal 2017 Overall purchases Green purchases Units 117,947 53,956 46% Cost (thousands of yen) 107,014 39,546 37% Scope: Terumo Corporation business sites in Japan Site Data (Manufacturing and R&D Sites) for Fiscal 2017 CO2 Emissions Water Usage Hazardous Recycled Region Site Location Total Waste (t) (t) (1,000 m3) Waste (t) Amounts (t) Fujinomiya Factory Fujinomiya, Shizuoka 43,964 1,829 2,553 12 2,533 Ashitaka Factory Fujinomiya, Shizuoka 20,997 535 1,838 63 1,794 Kofu Factory Nakakoma, Yamanashi 43,087 1,166 3,865 3 3,671 ME Center Suntou, Shizuoka 355 6 83 0.4 83 Ashigarakami, Japan R&D Center (Shonan Center) 5,944 73 201 41 182 Kanagawa Terumo Clinical Supply Co., Ltd. Kakamigahara, Gifu 770 6 31 1 31 Terumo Yamaguchi Corp. Terumo Yamaguchi D&D Yamaguchi, Yamaguchi 12,273 120 242 170 235 Corporation Terumo Medical Corp. and Terumo Cardiovascular Systems Maryland, USA 17,436 41 602 77 216 Corp. Terumo Cardiovascular Systems Michigan, USA 3,922 8 89 11 48 Corp. and Terumo Heart, Inc. Terumo Cardiovascular Systems Massachusetts, USA 527 2 173 0 173 Americas Corp. MicroVention, Inc. California, USA 4,261 10 372 109 40 Terumo BCT, Inc. Colorado, USA 15,285 87 1,860 10 1,505 Bolton Medical, Inc. Florida, USA 1,004 2 360 8 264 Commonwealth of Terumo Puerto Rico LCC 1,141 2 86 2 40 Puerto Rico MicroVention Costa Rica, S.R.L San Jose, Costa Rica 303 14 185 7 179 Terumo Europe NV Leuven, Belgium 8,169 38 474 63 341 Terumo UK, Ltd. Liverpool, UK 183 1 90 0 90 Europe Vascutek Ltd. Glasgow, UK 2,495 9 232 51 181 Terumo BCT, Ltd. Larne, UK 4,546 37 226 2 181 Terumo Medical Products Zhejiang, China 32,498 611 1,103 103 922 (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd. Terumo (Philippines) Corp. Laguna, the Philippines 22,291 278 1,275 102 1,215 Asia Terumo Penpol Private, Ltd. Kerala, India 9,156 30 581 1 563 Terumo Vietnam Co., Ltd. Vinh Phuc, Vietnam 7,745 155 682 47 240 Terumo BCT Vietnam Co., Ltd. Dong Nai, Vietnam 7,672 217 655 16 456 Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 83 Corporate Information Company Name Business Terumo Corporation Manufacturing and sale of medical devices and pharmaceuticals Founded September 17, 1921 Share Capital ¥38.7 billion Tokyo Office Tokyo Opera City Tower, 3-20-2 Nishi Shinjuku, Shinjuku-ku, Revenue (Consolidated) Tokyo 163-1450, Japan ¥587.8 billion (For fiscal year ended March 31, 2018) Head Office Employees (As of March 31, 2018) 2-44-1 Hatagaya, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo 151-0072, Japan Consolidated: 23,319 Non-consolidated: 4,781 All bland names are trademarks or registered trademarks of TERUMO CORPORATION and their respective owners. Terumo Corporation Sustainability Report 2 018 84 ©Terumo Corporation September 2018 Tokyo Office Tokyo Opera City Tower, 3-20-2 Nishi Shinjuku, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 163-1450, Japan Printed in Japan
