EnviroScience, Inc. 2017 Communication on Progress New York, New York Date: January 2018 2017 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress Table of Contents CEO Statement on the 2017 Communication On Progress ......................................................... ii About The United Nations Global Compact ................................................................................ 1 Labor and Human Rights ........................................................................................................... 2 Environmental Education, Leadership, and Service ................................................................... 4 Environment ............................................................................................................................... 5 Anti-Corruption ........................................................................................................................... 6 i 2017 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress CEO Statement on the 2017 Communication on Progress Dear Friends and Stakeholders, EnviroScience, Inc. is pleased to prepare and present the fourth annual progress report recapping the continued efforts and gains in our elective support and membership of the United Nations Global Compact. The opportunity to present this report allows us to review our most recent progress, reflect upon our values, and prepare for our future growth. We have moved our report date to coincide with the end of the annual calendar. This report will recap a 16-month period (from September 2016 to December 2017). In that time, EnviroScience sold a 35% stake in the company and has welcomed three new members to our board of directors. This change has pushed the organization to look closer at operations, enabling us to evaluate and articulate our desire to grow our capacity while maintaining our core values. Our unique culture or “vibe,” as many of our guests have described it, is at the core of our company. “Family-centered” is the simplest definition of that of culture, and we are always looking to strengthen families not only at our office, but in our communities as well. We have also taken a hard look at our own practices and evaluated how to improve them. This report reviews areas of change in support of the Global Compact’s ten principles and provides a detailed account of our actions to support these areas over the past 16 months. EnviroScience communicates our philanthropy and commitment to sustainability through our Corporate Responsibility Committee (CRC). This staff-lead initiative is internally well respected and is the mechanism driving the distribution of our time and talents to our surrounding community. Additionally, the committee is integral in aligning our internal and external values and messages. The United Nations Global Compact provides a platform for EnviroScience to determine how we can best manage our practices and evaluate how they align with other progressive thinking and socially conscious world citizens, using their business practices to improve the global social, economic, and environmental conditions of the world. The ten principles are used to guide our company’s priorities, with the environment being the greatest overall concern for our staff. The 2016/2017 report details our areas of improved practices and support for both underserved and local communities. Thank you, Martin A. Hilovsky, Founder and CEO EnviroScience, Inc. ii 2017 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress About the United Nations Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact provides guidelines and universally accepted principles by which members are able to review, define, and plan for long range strategic goals. EnviroScience is embracing the opportunity to review, redefine, and grow our policies and procedures as they relate to the Global Compact. Presented are the United Nations’ ten defining principles of the Global Compact. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 1 2017 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress Labor and Human Rights Ensuring best labor practices and maintaining respect for human rights are the cornerstone of EnviroScience’s culture. Safety As an integral part of our labor practices, our organization has always provided ample training on worker safety protocols and taught our staff to demand a “Stop Work” whenever safety risks occur. This practice ensures the safety of all our staff and those on a job site. Safety is our number one concern, and EnviroScience continues to lead our industry in on-site job safety. Safety first during restoration. Employee and Labor Rights EnviroScience is an equal opportunity employer and makes every effort to reach minority candidates when posting our open positions. Despite our involvement and efforts to uplift underserved populations over our almost 30 years of operation, we have not witnessed a significant increase in minority graduates or applicants. EnviroScience therefore commits to taking a more assertive look at cultivating and supporting job training for prospective employees and students. This effort will include developing teaming opportunities, whether in the community (job assistance programs) or within local schools (in-school scientific “field trips”), that will help address the lack of diversity in the socio-economic and racial demographic of applicants. Salaries are based on experience and expertise. All full-time staff are offered an extremely competitive and generous benefits package. Family comes first in the lives of our staff, and EnviroScience works with our employees to help meet the ever-changing and dynamic needs of families today. EnviroScience not only cares about the children of our staff, but those across the world as well, finding the use of child labor abhorrent and intolerable. EnviroScience ensures all products purchased do not originate from companies known to use sweatshop or child laborers. Any form of labor violation is intolerable and grounds for dismissal at EnviroScience. Likewise, EnviroScience maintains a zero-tolerance policy on abusive and habitual disrespect for associates and/or the environment, which is at the core of our identity. As an organization, EnviroScience in a non-union workplace, but maintains no policies (written or oral) against the formation of such a group. Top executives maintain an “open door” policy, encouraging communication between employees and upper management, as well as an ethics committee to which employees may report a situation or possible concern. Community Outreach By choice, the staff at EnviroScience work hard to enhance the lives of the disabled, underserved, and homeless. We continue our relationships with Habitat for Humanity and North Coast Community Homes (NCCH). Both organizations provide means of stable and permanent housing either through housing rehabilitation for underserved families or by developing and maintaining safe, high quality homes in Northeast Ohio for individuals with developmental disabilities, mental illness, and other disabilities. EnviroScience staff have provided their time, talent, and donations to both organizations over the last five years. In 2017, NCCH opened Isabella’s Closet, a free donation Habitat for Humanity project. driven store to support the everyday household needs of the 2 2017 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress underserved living in stable housing. The initial business plan was written by an EnviroScience staff member, and supported fully by the company. Our staff are regular donors to the store and are proud to have doubled the annual gift card donation program for their Summit County residents. This program gives each resident a $10 Dollar General holiday gift card. EnviroScience staff have been regularly collecting toiletries, clean seasonally appropriate clothing, food, towels, shoes, and boots for street distribution to the homeless population. Toys, food, hats, gloves, mittens, and school supplies are donated throughout the year for the Knights of Christ, Community Boards, and various other staff charities for the local children in need. Two staff members have taken their holiday season to a new level of giving in the past years. These employees helped develop a group of EnviroScience holiday elves who work at the “North Pole” to entertain the children riding the Holiday Polar Express Train Ride sponsored by the Conservancy for the Cuyahoga Valley National Park. Our elves also raise money to buy tickets and pajamas for children and their families who EnviroScience Elves Coco and Holly delivering may not otherwise be able to afford this event. As tickets with Santa to the Polar Express. part of the program, these employees dress as elves and bring Santa to the homes of the recipient families, to deliver the tickets and pajamas. The fun they create for all children on the train, and the commitment they have to the holiday spirit, family, and fun, exemplifies their charge to serve. Our staff members are dedicated to many efforts focused on global positive change. For example, EnviroScience participates in a 150-mile charitable bicycle ride to help bring an end to Multiple Sclerosis (MS). We have two staff living with MS, and several more in our families. In the four years since we formed our team, we have held annual events to help raise awareness and approximately $60,000 for the National MS Society to help find a cure and assist people struggling with MS. Locally, our staff also participate in the Annual Polar Bear Jump, which raises money for the Akron-Canton Regional Food Bank, camps for kids with cancer, and the local Ronald McDonald House. We support the Akron-Canton Regional Food Bank with two annual potlucks, where the proceeds are donated on their “Double Dollar Days” to raise a matching donation. Additionally, we participate in the Food Bank’s Operation Orange, a 24-hour event open to the public to help package food into portion sizes for individuals and families. In 2017, the first EnviroScience team participated in the Selfless Elf 5K, also Annual Polar Bear Jump participants include EnviroScience raising money and awareness for the Akronemployees and their families. Canton Regional Food Bank. 3 2017 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress Environmental Education, Leadership, and Service EnviroScience has always recognized the importance of education and we pride ourselves on having a business where 90% our staff are degreed scientists. We consider education to be the cornerstone to all basic human rights and a means to ending the cycle of poverty. We believe in supporting our region’s school science programs on every level. Our staff often assist by conducting elementary “in class” field trips. Funding cuts have limited many schools’ abilities to travel off campus. During the last six years, our staff have developed on-site, hands-on classes and bio-blitzes to teach children about watersheds, wetlands, soils, ecosystems, and threatened and endangered species, while exploring the school’s property. Our scientists participate in science fairs for elementary and high schools, as well as hosting high school interns. We sponsor college students, a graduate level lecture series, college interns, and mentor others looking for career guidance and advice. The company has opened our labs to the use of high school and college-level students working on their independent studies. In November 2017 EnviroScience hosted its first conference on the “Mentoring Gap for Women in STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math). The response of 70+ participants exceeded our expectations. The event was extremely well received and pointed out a real “missing piece” for female career scientists. Many events focus on children and miss a target audience of those currently working in the scientific fields. We look forward to building a quarterly program in 2018, building upon the success of our flagship panel discussion. In 2017/2018, we are a proud participant and supporter of the Cleveland Museum of First STEM roundtable event at Natural History’s “Women in Science,” a one-year program EnviroScience headquarters. between 2017/2018 to acknowledge and celebrate the contributions made by women in the field of science. Finally, EnviroScience continues to lead the way in what is now an 18-year tradition of bi-annual “river clean-ups.” EnviroScience and their teaming partners have hosted and participated in cleaning the Little Cuyahoga River, removing more than 60 tons of trash over the years before it is able to wash down and enter the Cuyahoga Valley National Park. We have also expanded the program by inviting many of the local elementary, high school, and college students from schools where EnviroScience staff have built relationships with the science departments. Volunteers pulling tires out of the Little Cuyahoga River. 4 2017 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress Environment EnviroScience is an environmental/ecological consulting company, and our 29-year history has been dedicated to improving water quality. Ohio has been a leader in surface water quality, and the forward thinking of founder Marty Hilovsky and President Jamie Krejsa has allowed EnviroScience to continue to set our region apart. Our awardwinning stream and wetland restorations help to ensure the overall water quality and aquatic habitats for native flora and Stream restoration project on fauna throughout the United States. Cuyahoga River. As an environmental company, our job is to help enhance and restore damaged and failing ecosystems. In 2016/2017, EnviroScience completed 28,373 linear feet of stream, 98.48 acres of riparian, and 63.85 acres of wetland restorations. According to the EPA’s Reducing Urban Heat Islands Compendium of Strategies Trees and Vegetation, these types of restoration projects will help reduce peak air temperatures with a process referred to as evapotranspiration. While the nature of our work continues to enhance the environment, we are always mindful of the carbon we generate. We have lots of floor space among our four locations, all of which are climate controlled and filled with computers, servers, televisions, microscopes, freezers, fish tanks, and incubators. EnviroScience continually reviews this situation and considers all feasible methods to reduce our carbon footprint. The EnviroScience CRC has implemented several best management practices in 2016 as we began an aggressive recycling program and have significantly reduced our office landfill contributions. We increased the number and visibility of office recycling bins and reduced the number waste containers. Additionally, we increased the size of recycling dumpsters for weekly pick up. In an initiative to further reduce our waste stream, our headquarters office began a composting program that has kept approximately 375 gallons of food waste from the landfill. We continue to review and evaluate our own best management practices and find our own areas of improvement. Our fleet of vehicles is one of our largest environmental offenders. To mitigate this, we purchase the most fuel-efficient cars to meet our needs and in 2017 added two hybrids vehicles to our fleet and lettered them to raise community awareness about the benefits of hybrid EnviroScience bicyclists at John Carroll. vehicles. We maintain tire pressure and automotive performance to maximize mileage. In 2017, our fleet drove an estimated 747,371 miles in the course of our work. While this is up from the previous year due to project locations, as an organization we still carpool when possible and take mass transit or rail as available. Our work requires use of large trucks and boats as well as computers, all of which are large consumers of energy and fuel. We have yet to find a reliable and sustainable source of fuel to run our fleet. To help offset the carbon required to complete our jobs, we continue to implement practices to reduce our carbon footprints. One way we have mitigated the carbon footprint from our fleet is by encouraging employees to bike to work whenever possible. In 2017, we became a “Silver Bicycle Friendly Business” through the League of American Bicyclists and our riders logged 10,196.6 miles. We hope to achieve “Gold” status in the coming years. To continue this effort, we installed bike racks in the workplace, held a potluck to celebrate National Bike to Work Day, and continue 5 2017 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress to have get-togethers for employees to bike to after work—whether leisurely to a restaurant or on a grueling 75-mile ride to raise funds for the National MS Society’s “Buckeye Breakaway.” Anti-Corruption EnviroScience maintains its zero-tolerance policy for corrupt and unscrupulous activities and finds that type of behavior grounds for immediate expulsion and a review of all files that staff member contributed on. The company maintains its ethics committee email for a private means to communicate any issues or concerns a staff member may have. Our principle executives keep an “open door” policy and are always available and willing to stop and meet with a staff who has concerns of any variety. We proudly display our United Nations Global Compact Membership on our website. EnviroScience uses our annual Communication on Progress as our sustainability report. Currently, we have not modified our contract language to incorporate the ten principles. However, we are pleased to see that several of the companies we do business with are including such changes, and we hope to follow suit in the coming year. 6
