2017 Moving Forward Responsibly CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express,” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. “American Express Meetings & Events” is a service provided by GBT. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS November 15, 2018 António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that American Express Global Business Travel reaffirms as a signatory our support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this, our third annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to sharing this information with our stakeholders via our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Douglas Anderson CEO, American Express Global Business Travel This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. ABOUT THIS REPORT At American Express Global Business Travel (GBT), we are proud of our corporate social responsibility (CSR) efforts. This report is intended to highlight GBT’s impact on the world and inform our stakeholders about our CSR progress. GBT became a standalone company in 2014, and 2017 marked the third full year of our CSR program. Our foundation is fully in place, and we work to elevate and enhance our program each year. This report covers, unless otherwise specified, the period from January 1, 2017, to December 31, 2017. This report includes our Communication on Progress with the United Nations Global Compact on page 12. GBT follows the Global Reporting Institute’s (GRI) Standards for Sustainability Reporting, which help companies evaluate and communicate the impact of their businesses in three focus areas of sustainability: environmental, social, and governance (ESG). Complete GRI G4 content indices are included in this report beginning on page 46. For more information, visit: United Nations Global Compact: www.unglobalcompact.org Global Reporting Institute: www.globalreporting.org Additional information about GBT can be found at our company website: www.amexglobalbusinesstravel.com. Note: This report does not include GBT’s wholly owned sister companies, Banks Sadler and KDS. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 2 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. TABLE OF CONTENTS Welcome CSR and Our Business Operating Responsibly Investing in Our People 04 Message from Our CEO 10 Our CSR Commitments 14 Introduction 22 Introduction 05 About American Express 10 Materiality 14 Our Governance Structure 23 Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Global Business Travel Employment Opportunity 11 Stakeholder Engagement 15 Our Global Risk and 06 Our Global Network Compliance Program 24 Employee Satisfaction 12 UN Global Compact – and Engagement 07 Our Cultural Values Communication on Progress 16 Our Governance Program 25 Employee Rewards 08 Awards and Recognition 19 Mandatory Code of Conduct and and Recognition Compliance Training 09 Memberships and 26 Employee Health, Safety Sponsorships 20 Responsible Procurement and Well-being 27 Employee Communications 27 Flexible Workplace 27 Wages and Benefits 27 Employee Recruitment 28 Employee Training and Development 29 Respecting Human Rights Serving Our Clients and Travelers Supporting Our Communities Protecting Our Environment Appendix 31 Introduction 36 Introduction 41 Introduction 45 GRI Content Index 31 Responsible Products 37 Charitable Giving 41 Our Approach to Environmental and Services Sustainability 38 Employee Giving Around 34 Client and The World 43 Our Carbon Footprint Traveler Service This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 3 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. WELCOME MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO At American Express Global Business Travel (GBT), care is at the core of what we do. We are committed to leaving a lasting, positive impact on the communities in which we live, work, and do business – and on the people we serve and with whom we work. We believe companies play a role in addressing social and environmental issues, and we know our employees, clients, suppliers, partners, and communities expect us to run our business responsibly. GBT’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) program dates back to 2014 when we became a standalone company. We quickly implemented practices and policies so that sustainability would be central to everything we do. We have come a long way since then, and we make significant strides each year. In this, our fourth report, you’ll see that we continue to focus on five key areas: Governance and Ethics; Employees; Clients and Travelers; Community; and Environment. We also remain committed, for the third year, to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and its Ten Principles with respect to human rights, labor, environment, and anticorruption. As a signatory of the UNGC, we are dedicated to integrating the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. Throughout this report, you’ll learn more about our commitment to our CSR priorities, and see examples of how we’re applying our CSR philosophy around the world in everything we do. Some highlights from 2017 of which I’m particularly proud include: Management Development Program (page 29): This new 25-hour virtual learning program accelerates the growth of people leaders around GBT values and competencies, and helps them better manage the business and their teams. Pacesetters Volunteer Activities (page 36): At our annual recognition event, many of our top performers helped to paint a school or played baseball with children in the Dominican Republic. Joining the painting team gave me a unique opportunity to get to know some of our Pacesetters, while doing something to benefit the community. The smiles on the children’s faces were a great reward for our efforts. Disaster Relief (page 37): Hurricanes Harvey and Irma, and the earthquake in Mexico City, struck close to where many of our employees call home. We organized giving campaigns to support local nonprofit agencies providing disaster relief, and directly helped impacted employees get back on their feet. CSR remains an important area of focus for GBT, and we dedicate time and resources to evolving our program, year over year. We currently have a number of initiatives underway, and you’ll find some of these mentioned in the relevant sections in this report. I look forward to sharing an update on our 2018 achievements next year. Sincerely, Doug Anderson CEO, American Express Global Business Travel This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 4 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. WELCOME ABOUT AMERICAN EXPRESS GLOBAL BUSINESS TRAVEL American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) provides end-to-end corporate travel and meetings program management. From midsize enterprises to global conglomerates, we help our clients get the most from their travel, thanks to our long-standing relationships with suppliers, seamless technology, and comprehensive care. 100+ years of service Presence in nearly 140 6,500 travel counselors $32.7 billion sales volume 1 ~ 16,000 employees countries worldwide 22 years online 2 40 years in meetings and 200 global business 6.7 million travelers 25 million+ annual customer events consultants served annually interactions 3 MORE THAN JUST TRAVEL American Express Meetings & Events Global Business Consulting American Express Meetings & Events (M&E) provides scalable, customizable When organizations seek a trusted adviser on corporate travel, they turn to solutions to meet our clients’ off-site needs. With best-in-class tools, Global Business Consulting by American Express Global Business Travel for technologies, and analytics, our team of experienced planners and on-site tailored recommendations and hands-on execution to achieve full program managers deliver an average of 15% to 20% savings.3 From destination potential. From making sense of complex travel data to streamlining program selection to planning to billing reconciliation and postprogram reporting, operations to negotiating the best terms with suppliers, we help our clients peel American Express M&E can partner on any and every phase of an event to back the layers of their travel programs to discover the big opportunities. produce exceptional results. 1 The 2018 Travel Weekly Power List. 2 Pioneered online corporate travel in 1995 with Microsoft. 3 American Express Global Business Travel internal reporting (FY 2016). This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 5 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. WELCOME OUR GLOBAL NETWORK Through a combination of proprietary countries, joint ventures, and travel partners, GBT has presence in nearly 140 countries across six continents. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 6 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. WELCOME OUR CULTURAL VALUES These shared behaviors are at the heart of how our employees – and our leaders – operate. Acting according to these values helps us fulfill our purpose of delivering exceptional business travel experiences for our clients and travelers, drive innovation in our industry, attract and retain a highly engaged and talented workforce, and provide a return to our shareholders. Take Action We are agile and get things done right. Win Together We collaborate to drive the best outcome. Own the Outcome We are accountable for our actions and empower each other. Keep It Simple We stay focused and work smart to deliver results. Love What We Do We put our clients, travelers, and employees first. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 7 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. WELCOME AWARDS AND RECOGNITION GBT has been recognized for excellence around the world. Our 2017 awards include: CIO 50 Analytics Awards: Innovative Use of Analytics in Culture & Engagement Brandon Hall Group Silver Award: Best Advance in Compliance Training – “Mission: Compliance” Training Series Ragan Communications Intranet Award: UConnect – “Use for Human Resources” Category Business Travel Awards: Finalist – Travel Team of the Year, McKinsey & Company / GBT Flex Preferred Supplier Award UK In-House Recruitment Team Awards: Best International Recruitment Team North America Employee Engagement Awards: “Highly Commended” for Customer Engagement 2017 Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality, Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index 2017 EcoVadis Silver CSR Rating This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 8 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. WELCOME MEMBERSHIPS AND SPONSORSHIPS As members and sponsors of the following groups, we are able to help create new opportunities across the industry and enhance the way in which our clients travel for business. The Association of Corporate Travel Executives (ACTE) is a not-for-profit professional association of business travel stakeholders throughout the world. The ACTE purpose is to advance the interests of the corporate business travel industry, to promote industry networking opportunities, and to educate members on emerging issues. The Global Business Travel Association (GBTA) is the world’s premier business travel and meetings organization. GBTA connects the business travel world and promotes the value of business travel management. GBT was a gold sponsor and exhibitor at GBTA’s 2017 annual convention. In addition, GBT provides leadership and sponsorship at annual and local events, and partners with the foundation on travel-related research. Women in Travel (WINiT) is a network of women and men serving as a catalyst to drive change, provide support, and educate the public about the benefits of career development, visibility and promotion of women in the travel, meetings, and event management industries. GBT is a founding sponsor of WINiT and has seats on various boards: Doug Anderson, CEO, is on the Advisory Board, and Christiane Cabot-Bini, VP, Global Client Management, is on the Board of Directors. In addition, many GBT employees hold positions on WINiT’s Advisory Committees. Parity.org’s mission is to advocate for women’s representation and bring gender parity to the highest levels of business – in the C-Suite and on the Board of Directors. They do this by promoting companies that demonstrate their commitment to gender parity, raising awareness about underlying issues, and providing facts and research that show the value in equal representation. GBT is a founding member. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 9 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. CSR AND OUR BUSINESS OUR COMMITMENTS As a leading provider of travel and related services worldwide, GBT has a unique opportunity to impact the issues of sustainability and CSR on behalf of our key stakeholders. We are committed to integrating our CSR priorities into our evolving business objectives and believe this commitment is of importance to our employees, our investors, our clients and their travelers, and our partners. Our CSR program is focused on five key impact areas: Governance and Ethics – We operate with the highest ethical standards and lawful business practices. Employees – We create a difference through our people. Clients and Travelers – We offer responsible and value-added products and services. Community – We invest in the communities in which we live and work. Environment – We embrace our responsibility to minimize our impact on the environment. On a day-to-day basis, our CSR strategy and initiatives are spearheaded and monitored by the Vice President of Internal Communications and Corporate Social Responsibility. Initiatives are implemented through cross-functional programs with various business groups such as risk and compliance, human resources, communications, real estate, procurement, sales, and marketing. MATERIALITY This report focuses on the issues that matter most, as defined by our impacts as a business and by the feedback we received from key stakeholders during the preparation of our report and throughout the year. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 10 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. CSR AND OUR BUSINESS STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT We have identified six stakeholder groups. Engaging regularly with our core stakeholders helps us to identify environmental, social, and governance issues that are most important to them and to our business. The chart below summarizes the multiple ways in which we interacted with and engaged our key stakeholders in 2017. Stakeholder Group How We Interact Relevant Issues and Topics in 2017 Employees Biannual and quarterly culture surveys, senior leadership business › Compensation and benefits › Volunteerism briefings, training (mandatory and optional), employee intranet, › Health, wellness, and safety › Communications performance coaching program, GBT Ethics Helpline, community › Training and education › Diversity and inclusion involvement projects, Pacesetters recognition event, employee › Code of conduct › Employee satisfaction discount programs, peer-to-peer reward and recognition tool, › Rewards and recognition › Career development internal peer-to-peer survey tool › Workplace flexibility › Culture and values Clients and Travelers Dedicated account teams, client satisfaction surveys, social media, › Traveler duty of care › Governance and ethics onsite visits, marketing, website, account reviews, RFP process, › Green travel and meetings › Client service industry trade shows and conferences, online / offline booking, › Data privacy › Environmental concerns mobile app, travel management products / services (duty of care, › Crisis management › Traveler well-being consulting, etc.), travel program reporting › Risk management › Accessibility Suppliers and Partners Meetings / discussions, RFP process, Supplier Sustainability Shared › Responsible procurement › Anticorruption Values, service level agreements, risk assessment process › Supplier diversity › Antibribery › Governance and ethics › Data privacy › Risk management › Code of conduct Investors / Board of Quarterly meetings › Governance and ethics › Data privacy Directors › Risk management › Code of conduct › Anticorruption › Antibribery Government and Meeting regulatory obligations › Employment › Anti-bribery Regulators › Governance and ethics › Data privacy › Risk management › Environmental concerns › Anticorruption › Code of conduct Community, NGOs and Memberships of business and industry associations, charitable › Volunteerism Industry Associations contributions, participation in volunteer activities › Philanthropy This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 11 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. CSR AND OUR BUSINESS UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT: COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a principle-based, globally acknowledged framework to encourage businesses worldwide to adopt sustainable and socially responsible policies, and to report on their implementation. The ten principles cover human rights, labour, the environment and anticorruption. Though voluntary, companies pledge to adhere to the universal corporate responsibility principles. Our support and commitment to the Global Compact enables us to clarify our corporate responsibility commitments and enhance our activities focused on the ten principles in four areas (human rights, labour standards, the environment and anticorruption) outlined within the Global Compact. UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE DISCLOSURE HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Our Global Risk and Compliance Program, pages 15 19, Our Governance Program, page 16, internationally proclaimed human rights; and Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity, page 23, Respecting Human Rights, page 29. Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Our Global Risk and Compliance Program, pages 15 19, Our Governance Program, page 16, effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity, page 23, Respecting Human Rights, page 29. Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability, page 41. environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Our Global Risk and Compliance Program, pages 15 19, Our Governance Program, page 16. including extortion and bribery. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 12 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. OPERATING RESPONSIBLY This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 13 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. OPERATING RESPONSIBLY INTRODUCTION GBT is committed to sound governance practices and responsible corporate behavior, both of which 2017 HIGHLIGHTS are paramount to our success as a customer-focused business. We earn our clients’ and travelers’ trust by providing outstanding service and committing to always do the right thing. GBT’s Mission: Compliance training series won the 2017 Silver Award for Best Advance in Compliance Training from the prestigious Our Code of Conduct outlines the standards we uphold in all of our dealings with our colleagues, clients, travelers, Brandon Hall Group. shareholders, vendors and other business partners. It sits alongside a comprehensive policy framework that addresses key risk areas, as well as the employee training, processes, and guidance necessary to embed it into our business. We believe it is the responsibility of everyone in our company to maintain our high standards of ethical behavior. We require all employees, officers, and directors to acknowledge compliance with the GBT Code of Conduct on an annual basis. OUR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE GBT Leadership Board of Directors GBT’s executive leadership team includes: GBT has an 11-member Board of Directors chaired by travel industry veteran Greg O’Hara, Chairman Greg O’Hara. The Board of Directors consists of representatives from American Express Company and Juweel Investors Limited, and includes three Doug Anderson, Chief Executive Officer Independent Directors. Philippe Chérèque, President Eric Bock, Chief Legal Officer, Corporate Secretary, and Global Head of Mergers and Acquisitions Board Committees Bill Brindle, Chief Operating Officer Audit & Finance Committee Martine Gerow, Chief Financial Officer Compensation Committee Si-Yeon Kim, Chief Risk and Compliance Officer Compliance Committee Joanna Macleod, Chief Transformation Officer M&A Committee Michael Qualantone, Executive Vice President, Global Supplier Relations Risk Management Committee David Thompson, Chief Information Technology Officer Chief Human Resources Officer – role currently open Note: Our executive leadership team underwent changes following the announcement of the HRG acquisition in July 2018. This list reflects the current team as of the publication of this report. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 14 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. OPERATING RESPONSIBLY OUR GLOBAL RISK AND COMPLIANCE PROGRAM Our global Risk and Compliance Office is responsible for delivering a robust compliance and risk management program, and promoting awareness and understanding of the laws and regulations that apply to GBT. Through prevention, detection, and response, the Risk and Compliance Office embeds a true 360° program into the DNA of GBT. RESPONSIVE TO REGULATION TONE AT THE TOP INDEPENDENCE Bank holding company regulation Culture of compliance Direct reporting line to the CEO and the makes us the most highly regulated fostered by senior Board of Directors with its Risk travel management company business leaders Management Committee and Compliance Committee ENGAGEMENT EXPERTISE GLOBAL 360° PROGRAM Annual training program and Global team led by the Chief Risk and Annual compliance plan includes communications plan for employees Compliance Officer, regional leadership, and global risk assessments, and key business partners leading subject matter experts monitoring, and testing This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 15 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. OPERATING RESPONSIBLY OUR GOVERNANCE PROGRAM A True 360o Program GBT’s compliance and risk management program includes a comprehensive suite of policies establishing general risk management practices and addressing key Policies risk areas such as privacy, anticorruption, Procedures sanctions, third-party oversight, and product development. The Risk and Communication Compliance Office is made up of Regional Compliance Officers and subject matter Training experts in our key risk areas. Investigations Our policy framework is tested through annual compliance review and reporting. Disciplinary GBT conducts both top-down and bottomActions up risk assessments with senior Remediation management across the company to Risk Assessment identify areas of risk, and to establish Issue Testing controls and mitigation plans. GBT applies Management a formal program of proactive business Monitoring self-tests and compliance tests to assess Reporting / Whistleblower the effectiveness of our control environment. We analyze testing results, along with other quarterly metrics, to identify gaps and trends to allow us to monitor compliance changes day-to-day. These practices form key components of Code of Conduct our Risk and Compliance Annual Plan, which is reviewed and adjusted throughout GBT’s Code of Conduct is at the heart of our compliance program. It outlines the standards that we must the year to address new business initiatives uphold in all of our dealings with each other and with our shareholders, our clients, our travelers and meeting and changes to the regulatory landscape. attendees, our vendors, and other business partners. The Code of Conduct covers more than 40 topics in All results are reported to the Chief Risk categories such as Our Shared Responsibilities, Our Commitment to Respect, and GBT and the Greater Good. and Compliance Officer, and shared with The Code of Conduct is available to employees on our intranet, UConnect, in multiple languages (English, the Board. French, Canadian French, German, Latin American Spanish, Thai, Chinese (traditional and simplified) and Japanese), and to external parties in English at amexglobalbusinesstravel.com. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 16 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Antitrust Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering GBT strongly supports vigorous yet fair competition. GBT is committed to the fight against money We must all abide by laws designed to preserve free laundering and terrorist financing, which continues and open competition. These laws vary across the to be the focus of considerable attention by world, but their common goal is to promote a governments, international organizations and law Since 2005, TrustArc and the Ponemon competitive marketplace that provides consumers enforcement agencies around the world. We expect Institute have recognized GBT as one of the with high-quality goods and services at fair prices. our employees to conduct themselves in accordance most trusted companies for privacy. Our Antitrust Compliance Policy outlines with the highest ethical standards, and to conduct requirements under the competition laws and business in accordance with applicable money regulations for dealings with competitors, clients, laundering laws and regulations. Employees operate Business Continuity and suppliers. To strengthen our antitrust under the Global Anti-Money Laundering Policy, compliance efforts, employees receive quarterly which mandates compliance with pertinent Ensuring the continuity of our business in an reminders in the form of hypothetical scenarios, provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act and other emergency is critical to our ability to serve our must provide notice of intent to attend an industry relevant laws, the Wolfsberg Guidance, and the global client base. GBT takes measures to prevent event where competitors may be present, and must Financial Action Task Force (FATF) Forty the impact of unexpected interruptions to comply with the processes in our policy relating to Recommendations. business operations, with plans and procedures membership in trade associations. designed to help ensure consistent, predictable Fraud Prevention delivery of services to clients. Every GBT Anticorruption and Antibribery department is required to create and exercise a GBT is committed to combating fraudulent activity, Business Continuity Plan (BCP) aligned with an GBT fundamentally believes bribery is harmful to our which is an ongoing threat to GBT and its clients. assessment of critical business functions and business, our clients, and the communities where we GBT utilizes enhanced controls embedded in its recovery objectives. operate. For this reason, and because we respect the technologies and business processes, as well as data stringent antibribery laws established in many analytics and reporting to prevent and detect Marketing countries, GBT has adopted a zero-tolerance policy possible fraud. In addition, all employees are trained for bribery. To enforce this, GBT’s Risk and to spot and immediately report possible fraud Unfair, deceptive, or abusive commercial acts or Compliance Office actively works to prevent through GBT’s Ethics Helpline. practices can present significant legal, employees, partners and vendors from engaging in reputational and regulatory risks. GBT complies any form of bribery, including offering, soliciting or accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, Third-Party Oversight with laws and regulations that require transparency, truthfulness, and fairness in that is given with the intent to obtain or retain GBT’s services require cooperation among an marketing practices, laid out in the Unfair, business or secure services. The GBT Antiextensive network of third parties, including joint Deceptive or Abusive Acts or Practices (UDAAP) Corruption Policy follows the Organisation for ventures, travel partners, and vendors. We operate a Policy, and global requirements for marketing Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) robust, formal third-party oversight program permission, laid out in the Digital Marketing Anti-Bribery Convention and the OECD Principles of designed to identify and mitigate the risks that arise Standard and enforced in review procedures for Corporate Governance. in these relationships. all public-facing materials. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 17 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Privacy and Information Security Product Development Privacy and security matter to GBT. The trust our clients The Commercial Compliance team contributes to an and employees place in us to protect their information is end-to-end product development lifecycle, which helps essential to our business. We hold ourselves to the most to ensure that we embed appropriate risk identification stringent standards in the industry, guided by the GBT into GBT’s products, from concept to launch. The Data Protection and Privacy Principles. We strive to product development lifecycle incorporates best manage all data responsibly – it is the right thing to do, practices such as security architecture reviews and protects our company, and helps to ensure legal and privacy impact assessments to help ensure privacy and regulatory compliance globally. GBT’s Chief Information security by design. Security Officer oversees a cyber security program, using sophisticated technology, including firewalls, “One of the leading reasons why intrusion detection, monitoring and alerting systems, Equal Employment and Antiharassment GBT is a great place to work and do virus protection, and authentication. Our security business with is our brand and policies adhere to U.S. Federal Financial Institutions GBT is committed to treating every individual with reputation. Our employees, clients Examination Council (FFIEC) guidelines and are built dignity and respect. We provide a work environment free and business partners know that around the NIST Cybersecurity Framework. The Chief from discrimination, harassment, favoritism, or bullying we will do things the right way – Privacy Officer oversees a global privacy risk of any kind. It is our policy that there be no with integrity and in a highly ethical management program, inclusive of regular strategic risk discrimination against any person on the grounds of manner. That tradition and assessments to ensure the relevance of GBT’s privacy race, color, national origin, ethnicity, disability, age, sex, reputation has been earned framework in an era of rapid business, industry, and or classification, including pregnancy, marital or through all of our efforts, and we technological change. GBT is the only travel domestic partner status, sexual orientation, gender are proud of our industry-leading management company to have achieved EU-approved identity, genetic information, citizenship, religion or standards.” Binding Corporate Rules, which help to ensure that our beliefs, work status, or any other classification protected global operations meet the most stringent data by law. – Si-Yeon Kim, Chief Risk & protection standards, no matter where the data are Compliance Officer processed. We achieve operational compliance through an EU-model accountability framework of testing, Looking Ahead monitoring, and internal auditing. GBT is making significant investments to ensure compliance with the EU’s General Data Protection Certifications held by one or more GBT Regulation (GDPR), which went into effect in May employees: 2018. Certified Information Security Manager (CISM) GBT is pursuing a global initiative to receive Payment Card Industry (PCI) accreditation by Certified Information System Security Professional year-end 2018. (CISSP) Certified in Risk and Information Control (CRISC) Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 18 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. OPERATING RESPONSIBLY MANDATORY CODE OF CONDUCT AND COMPLIANCE TRAINING Annual Code of Conduct training was released globally to all employees in 2017. This training addressed topics that may arise in various situations in the workplace: handling of competitive information, tracking expenses, and respecting confidential information and company assets. Employees learned the considerations of making an ethical decision, as well as the value of a solid compliance program operating in an ethical culture. Additionally, they were reminded of the importance of disclosing potential conflicts of interest. Preventing Workplace Harassment / Antibullying training was released globally in 2017, with specific courses designed for leaders and employees. The training was developed to meet the challenges of a global workforce by educating and raising awareness about this type of employee misconduct, while also continuing to build our workplace culture of respect and ethical behavior. This training addressed protected categories such as gender, race, religion, disability, veteran status, and sexual orientation. The training included unique content for employees and leaders to help ensure all team members understand our responsibility under policy and the law: how to spot it, report it, and properly respond to claims. Also in 2017, GBT launched the second season of its award-winning, mandatory compliance training program, Mission: Compliance, a mini-series of learning elements, including e-learning courses, videos, emails, posters, and intranet blogs. The training was a five-episode, action-packed movie, based around a central, relatable character named Jane. Each episode focused on one key compliance area: Privacy, Antitrust, Information Security, Anticorruption, and Antibribery, and Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering. In addition to the suite of five core Mission: Compliance trainings, GBT launched additional trainings, as well as quarterly and ad hoc communications around key risk areas such as cyber security (including phishing), anticorruption, sanctions compliance, and fraud prevention. The average completion rate for all our 2017 annual mandatory training courses was 99.9% of employees. “The robustness of GBT’s compliance program not only benefits our company and employees but also our clients, as they have confidence knowing that our shared values and commitment to doing the right thing helps to ensure the safety of their travelers, assets and reputations.” – Michael Savicki, GBT Regional Compliance Officer – Americas This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 19 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. OPERATING RESPONSIBLY RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT Supplier Diversity As a global travel management company servicing clients and travelers in many countries and industries, GBT understands the importance of developing and fostering diversity across all aspects of our business. We support the engagement of diverse suppliers on an equal basis with other suppliers. Our Procurement team works to identify opportunities to contract with diverse suppliers to satisfy business objectives. We define diverse suppliers as minority-owned, women-owned, historically underutilized businesses (HUB) zones, service-disabled, veteran-owned, lesbian, gay, bisexualand / or transgender-owned, and small or other disadvantaged enterprises. GBT Supplier Sustainability Shared Values At GBT, we believe that the company, its employees, and those acting on our behalf must engage in the highest standards of ethical and transparent business practices, and comply with all applicable laws and regulations in locations where we operate. In support of this belief, we have adopted numerous policies, procedures and guidelines to assist employees, partners, and suppliers to drive compliance with our standards. GBT strives to actively promote ethical, social, and environmental best practices within our own business and among our suppliers. Our Supplier Sustainability Shared Values focus on advancing these best practices throughout our supply chain. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 20 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 21 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE INTRODUCTION 2017 HIGHLIGHTS GBT launched Send Word Now, a global Providing exceptional care is central to our brand – and it’s our people, all around the world, outreach system. who deliver this service to our clients, day in and day out. We create a difference for our UConnect, GBT’s intranet, won Ragan clients and their travelers through our people. We recognize that our people are our most Communications’ 2017 Intranet Award, important asset, and we believe that exceptional employee experiences lead to exceptional in the “Use for Human Resources” category. business travel experiences for our clients. Because our success depends on attracting and retaining an engaged workforce, we make investments in tools, training, and programs that GBT released a new Anti-Slavery Policy. enable our employees to do their jobs, grow their careers and “navigate their great.” Providing Disaster Support for Our Employees Looking Ahead Incident Management Response We will be launching GBTcares, a global relief fund to provide financial support Being prepared for unexpected crisis events is something we always keep top of mind at GBT. We maintain an Incident to employees when they face Management Response (IMR) Program, so we have the appropriate plans in place to help us safeguard our employees unexpected disasters. The fund will and travelers, and provide reliable, uninterrupted service to our clients. The IMR Program makes certain that we have the allow both GBT as a company and operational capabilities for an effective response to an incident or crisis. employees around the world to help our co-workers in times of crisis through monetary donations. A key part of GBT’s IMR Program is making sure our people are safe. To that end, we launched Send Word Now, a global outreach system that allows us to communicate with employees quickly, consistently and securely during a crisis, such as extreme weather or a terrorist attack. Send Word Now uses the contact information in our HR information system to send targeted email, text and / or voice alerts to employees who may be impacted by a crisis. Depending on the situation, the automated alerts may include instructions for employees to respond regarding their safety and work availability. We also use Send Word Now to share news about GBT office closures / reopenings. “Following a crisis, making sure our employees and our travelers are safe is Support During Natural Disasters our top priority. On the employee side, we stay in close contact with those A significant number of GBT employees live in Houston, central and western Florida, and Mexico City – all areas struck who’ve been impacted to make sure hard by natural disasters in 2017. We used Send Word Now, coupled with outreach by Human Resources and local leaders, to confirm the safety of these employees and understand their needs following these crises. All employees and they feel supported. Last year’s slate of their families had immediate access to our Employee Assistance Program, offering free and confidential access to natural disasters helped us tighten our professional counselors around the clock. For those facing extreme impacts, we provided additional support to help processes so we’re even better prepared them and their families get back on their feet. At GBT, we always strive to evolve the employee experience, and these to do right by our employees.” back-to-back disasters hitting close to home for many of our employees gave us an opportunity to quickly evaluate and enhance our emergency response and disaster relief program. We are in a strong position to support our employees if – Patti Huska, VP, Human Resources and when nature strikes again. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 22 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY At GBT, we make a concerted effort to foster a diverse workforce. Employing people Workforce Diversity with various backgrounds, cultures, opinions and talents enriches our company, and helps us to create and innovate so we can deliver on our commitments to our stakeholders. In addition, as a global company, having a diverse workforce better Ethnicity 2017 2016 2015 enables us to take care of our clients traveling around the world – we speak their United States languages, we know the places they are going, and we bring varied experiences to the table. › Asian 7% 7% 6% › Black or African American 8% 8% 9% Our policy is to provide equal employment opportunities to all individuals based on job› Hispanic or Latino 9% 9% 9% related qualifications and without regard to race, ethnicity, gender, gender expression, disability, religion, sexual orientation, marital status, citizenship, age, or any other › White (Not Hispanic or Latino) 73% 75% 73% legally protected characteristic or status in each of the countries in which we operate. › Two or more races 1% 1% 1% In addition, subject to law, GBT will reasonably accommodate known disabilities of › Other <1% employees. We also seek to maintain a nondiscriminatory environment free from › Did not identify <1% intimidation, harassment, or bias based upon these grounds. We strive to offer an inclusive workplace where employee differences are valued and leveraged for individual, business, and organizational success. Employee Inclusion Gender (Global) 2017 2016 2015 We believe that providing a work environment based on respect, trust, and Women collaboration helps to create an exceptional employee experience, and enables › Executive Leadership Team 44% 44% 38% employees to bring their whole selves to work and thrive in their careers. › Vice Presidents 33% 35% 35% Gender Equity › Directors and Managers 57% 57% 58% › Supervisors and Team Leaders 75% 72% 73% We strive to hire more women into leadership positions. We are pleased to share that, in › Individual Contributors 76% 76% 77% 2017, 44% of our C-Suite were women, and over 33% of our vice presidents were women. We are committed to providing a diverse slate of candidates for all positions › All GBT Employees 73% 73% 74% and seek to include at least two qualified women in the recruitment process for every open seat. Notes: › All diversity data is as of December 31, 2017. In 2017, we partnered with Parity.org and took the Parity Pledge to demonstrate our › Ethnic diversity data is available only for the United States. commitment to gender parity. Through our partnership with Partity.org, we are able to expand our reach to qualified women by sending our open positions to their network. LGBTQA Inclusion GBT is committed to LGBTQA (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Questioning, Ally) workplace equality. Since 2016, we have earned a 100 percent rating on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s annual Corporate Equality Index for building a best-in-class inclusive culture for the LGBTQA community. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 23 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION AND ENGAGEMENT GBT’s Global Talent Team Recognized for Innovative 2017 Culture and Culture and Engagement Survey Use of Analytics in Culture & Engagement Engagement Survey CIO.com and Drexel University LeBow College of Business Participation In 2017, we took a different approach to culture and engagement surveying; in place of an annual survey, we recognized GBT’s global Talent team in their CIO 50 conducted Quarterly Culture Check-ins, beginning in July. Analytics Awards. Q3 Culture Check-in Capturing employee feedback more frequently allowed us to We received this honor for our strategic culture assessment make any necessary shifts to our culture action planning. The utilization and data analytics, which identified key drivers Quarterly Culture Check-ins consisted of 11 questions to gauge the organization’s engagement on key engagement impacting organizational culture and employee engagement. 70% drivers: Purpose / Value Alignment, Work Environment, This award is given annually to 50 organizations across total participation Support, and Wellness. We varied the questions slightly each multiple industries who are using analytics in innovative ways quarter, placing specific focus on areas where employees to solve business challenges. expressed the most concern in previous surveys. To achieve these award-winning results, the Talent team Our survey results showed that communications helped our partnered with an external survey-analytics vendor and used 16,893 employees understand how their roles connect to GBT’s key findings from the strategic culture assessment and comments submitted purpose and bolstered their belief in the GBT values. employee-provided feedback to initiate global action Employees also indicated they have more confidence in their planning and implement changes aimed at enhancing the individual futures with GBT, particularly noting a desire for employee experience. career longevity and prospective job promotions. Q4 Culture Check-in Some of the areas where we continue to focus to improve our work environment include: Looking Ahead 63% Developing and strengthening GBT’s culture is a top Further enhancing our internal communications priority that we don’t take lightly. Employees can total participation Improving technology implementation processes look forward to celebrating Culture Week in 2018 – a training and support time where employees celebrate and exhibit our Promoting our employee wellness programs cultural values. Developing leadership capabilities 18,375 comments submitted This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 24 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE EMPLOYEE REWARDS AND RECOGNITION Recognition is essential to an exceptional employee experience. Workers want to know they’re valued for their contributions, achievements, and efforts. When employees feel appreciated, their satisfaction and productivity can rise. At GBT, we offer two programs to acknowledge our high performers and express our gratitude to our colleagues. Pacesetters is an annual incentive trip for our top achievers, who consistently deliver outstanding results while making GBT a great 2017 Pacesetters, Punta Cana place to work. Each year, our Pacesetters are Pacesetters and Achievers Highlights selected based on prior-year performance ratings and contributions. Pacesetters Achievers is a peer-to-peer platform where In 2017, we honored 500 Pacesetters for their achievements in 2016. Each of the winners significantly contributed employees can express appreciation with to our results and embodied our cultural values. Pacesetters from 26 countries celebrated with senior leaders and “Shout-Outs” and points. Each month, all our partners in June at the Paradisus Palma Real, a Meliá Hotels International property in the Dominican Republic. employees receive points to give to their During the event, we announced a number of special award winners: colleagues who have achieved results in line Four Pacesetters Legends, who delivered extraordinary results for GBT over many years and were selected with our company values. Employees can then as Pacesetters at least once before use the points they receive from their colleagues to select a reward of their choosing. Three Coaches of the Year, our most inspirational people leaders, who developed successful teams We also use Achievers to recognize One People’s Choice winner, selected by their peers via an online poll for delivering outstanding results and anniversaries. Employees can sign digital embodying our cultural values anniversary cards for their colleagues each year, and employees who achieve a milestone – for example, 5 or 10 years of service with the Achievers company – receive a special gift of points to spend in the Achievers catalog. 215,368 72% 78% 1.57 recognitions sent of employees sent a of employees who Average number of recognition received a recognition recognitions sent per employee per month This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 25 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE EMPLOYEE HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELL-BEING We are committed to providing a safe and healthy place to work, where employees can be productive, maintain their best Employee Safety possible health, and achieve a work-life balance. Our employees are our most valuable asset, and looking after their safety In 2017, we conducted thorough and wellness is fundamental to our culture and our success. safety risk assessments utilizing a third-party vendor in 50% of our sites around the globe. We also Supporting Employee Health and Well-being maintain an Incident Management GBT provides wellness resources that empower employees to take care of their health and well-being. Throughout the year, Response Program that helps our Benefits team highlighted wellness tools and information at both a global and a local / regional level. In 2017, we began manage risk, safeguard our regularly publishing wellness topics on an internal blog, with local activities and monthly themes, along with monthly employees and travelers, and ergonomic tips to help employees optimize their workspace. Topics featured included stress management, skin cancer provide reliable uninterrupted screening, mindfulness, work / life balance, nutrition, and smoking cessation. service to our clients. Also in 2017, we introduced three online wellness courses on our learning management platform, ULearn: Mindfulness Stress Management Balancing Work and Life Employees Living Healthy GBT UK tackles the JP Morgan Corporate Challenge Dragon Boat Team – Sydney Nearly 100 GBT team members from in and around our Canary Wharf office in London gathered in Battersea Park For the second year, GBT entered a to run, jog, or walk a 3.5-mile (5.6-km) track around the Dragon Boat team in the Chinese park, as part of the JP Morgan Corporate Challenge. New Year event at Darling Harbour, raising more than $3,500 AUD for the Dragons Abreast Charity. SMT Work-out The team did us proud by coming in Together with FitFarm, our employees in Finland third place in two races against launched #SMTtreenaa (“SMT Work-out”), a sevenstrong competition. Motivated by week workout program to help employees get fitter excellent race times and missing and healthier together. Over 75% of the Finland-based second place by just a fraction, the team members participated in the program. team went on to win the Hong Kong Combined, they shed 600 kilograms of excess weight. Challenge Race. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 26 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE EMPLOYEE COMMUNICATIONS WAGES AND BENEFITS GBT’s intranet – UConnect – earned top honor in Ragan’s 2017 Intranet Awards We offer numerous employee benefits that support our recruitment and in the “Use for Human Resources” category. When selecting the winner, Ragan retention success, including competitive compensation and benefits looked for an intranet that helped to transform a company’s culture by keeping packages, reward and recognition programs, diversity initiatives and employees informed and excited about what’s going on. They also sought an flexible work schedules. Our employee benefits include: intranet that was home to great content, useful features and impressive design. When we launched UConnect in 2015, we wanted to transform the employee Health and Wellness Fitness Memberships communications experience by creating a digital community and collaborative Retirement Benefits Employee Discounts workspace. We knew that centralized dialogue and shared institutional knowledge across all levels and geographies would help solidify our new Travel Discounts Transportation Perks company and culture. Today, UConnect is all that and more – and we’re Rewards and Recognition Education Assistance continually working to evolve the platform and make it even better. Leaves and Paid Time Off All of our key performance indicators for UConnect continue to climb steadily. The engagement index (calculated by dividing engagement activities – views, Our global presence and market-leading solutions mean a variety of likes, and comments – by the total active users), our primary success metric, has possibilities that help our current and future employees reach their career increased by 16% since launch, and daily viewership has increased by 43%. destinations. FLEXIBLE WORKPLACE EMPLOYEE RECRUITMENT GBT strives to offer an inclusive workplace where employee Offering flexible working options has been important to GBT for a number of characteristics, such as gender, ethnicity, age, color, race, sexual years. However, as workforce demographics, technology and social norms orientation, gender identity, disability, veteran status, and other protected change around the world, we must look at different approaches to how we characteristics are valued and leveraged for individual, business and manage our workforce in order to keep pace with these changes as they relate to organizational success. the attraction, retention, and engagement of talent. Throughout 2017, we diligently reviewed and refined our approach with a particular focus on creating more flexibility for all of our employees. We’ve heard Looking Ahead from our employees that they want more flexibility in managing their work and personal lives. Our program offers tools and resources that help us work In 2018, GBT will partner with Hirepurpose to launch a travel school smarter, and enable us to personalize the work experience – ultimately to help train veterans and / or their spouses to become travel bolstering our efforts to create a working environment that helps us get and keep counselors. Hirepurpose was developed by veterans for veterans, great talent like we have today. and the organization is committed to addressing some of the gaps that exist in an individual's transition from military service to a career as a civilian. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 27 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT GBT’s Learning Philosophy GBT’s Learning Teams At GBT, we encourage and support a GBT offers extensive training programs to support the development of employees learning culture that enables our across all levels and business functions. Specialized teams of dedicated learning employees to take accountability for their professionals provide focused training, resources, and support in the following success. Our employees have the tools to areas: learn what matters, when it matters most, and are empowered to share Traveler Care knowledge with others. To support this proactive learning culture, our learning Sales Enablement / Commercial Learning management system, ULearn, offers onInstructor-led sessions Meetings & Events demand, engaging and relevant learning, received a 96% as well as easy-to-use search Compliance positive net promoter functionality so employees can find the score. learning topics that best support their Enterprise-Level Employee and Leadership Development career journeys. In 2017, we launched a new ULearn homepage, featuring oneCompetency-Based Development click recommended learning, based on followed subjects and job profiles. GBT offers a variety of bite-size learning solutions for both employees and people leaders that align with our core values and competencies. As part of this In 2017, 98% of our employees competency-focused development, we have created a self-diagnostic tool, completed training beyond the required designed to assist both employees and people leaders with development planning. mandatory compliance training, The tool helps to determine skill level, using a superhero analogy. After completing averaging more than 15 completions per the assessment, employees receive a report highlighting strengths and areas of employee.1 Participation in our virtual onopportunity relative to GBT’s values and competencies, plus links to featured demand content increased significantly learning materials (getAbstract book summaries, TED talks, Lynda.com video in 2017, with Lynda.com views up 70% courses, and instructor-led virtual workouts) to help them strengthen their skills. compared to 2016 and getAbstract views up 44%. Due to our large remote workforce, GBT provides the majority of Leadership Conference traditional learning in a virtual, instructorled format, with more than 380 sessions In 2017, GBT hosted more than 400 directors and above, from around the world offered in 2017. Topics included and all functions, at a leadership conference in Atlanta. At the event, the Enterprise Courageous Conversations, Storytelling, Learning team organized sessions featuring The Big Move, a workshop on change Change Agility and Getting Things Done. management, and The Marshmallow Challenge, a team-based approach to increasing innovation. These dynamic, interactive sessions marked the kick-off and 1 Based on November 2017 reporting. invitation to join a comprehensive Management Development Program. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 28 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE Management Development Program RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS GBT has a zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery, and we are GBT’s Management Development Program (MDP) accelerates the growth of people committed to implementing and enforcing effective systems and leaders around our values and competencies. All current people leaders can register controls to ensure modern slavery is not taking place anywhere in our their interest in this voluntary program; special consideration is given to leaders at the own business or in any of our supply chains. In 2017, we rolled out a director level and above. Globally diverse groups of up to 100 leaders begin their global Anti-Slavery Policy, which applies to all persons working for learning journey together and continue the 25-hour program throughout the following GBT or on our behalf in any capacity, including employees at all levels, 10 months. directors, officers, agency workers, seconded workers, volunteers, interns, agents, contractors, external consultants, third-party MDP participants enroll in three self-paced learning paths (Managing the Business, representatives, and business partners. Employees are encouraged to Managing Others, Managing Essentials), each focused on a key area of management, raise concerns about any issue or suspicion of modern slavery in any and delivered virtually by live webinars, videos, e-learning and supplemental materials. parts of our business or supply chains. Each learning path culminates in a virtual Leader Learning Lab, where participants come together to discuss key takeaways, best practices, and next steps. Global Tuition Reimbursement GBT believes that educational opportunities have the potential to positively impact both employees and the company. The Global Tuition Reimbursement Policy, which launched in 2016, continued in 2017, offering tuition reimbursement to both full-time and part-time employees worldwide for degree-level qualifications at the undergraduate or postgraduate level. Developing Our Employees Every individual’s career is unique, and our Global Talent Development team is dedicated to the ongoing development, growth, and success of individuals as they continue their careers with GBT. Creating a high performance culture hinges on our ability to identify, develop, and retain high-performing talent. As an organization, it’s critical that we have a consistent strategy for not only identifying our top talent and future leaders, but also for determining which investments will be the most effective in helping our employees continue to learn, grow, and contribute over the course of their careers. To determine what development is needed across our business, we leverage a simple process called TalenTrack. This process gives us a deeper understanding of our talent and future leadership – enabling us to proactively address skill gaps and retain talent through regular development opportunities, such as training, project and job experiences, and constructive coaching. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 29 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. SERVING OUR CLIENTS AND TRAVELERS This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 30 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. SERVING OUR CLIENTS AND TRAVELERS INTRODUCTION GBT’s purpose is to deliver exceptional business travel experiences – it’s what we strive to do, around the world, around the clock. This translates to helping our clients define and fulfill their travel management goals, providing best-in-class service, promoting client loyalty and confidence, and maintaining our longstanding tradition of ethical and responsible business practices. When our clients’ employees go on the road for work, their experiences matter, too. We’re dedicated to delivering exceptional care to travelers at every stage of a business trip, and supporting them with tools and 24/7 service teams so they have everything they need to not just arrive, but thrive. RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES GBT recognizes and supports our clients’ increasing interest in environmental sustainability, as well as their decisions to incorporate it into their travel programs. We offer a portfolio of products and services to help our clients reduce their environmental footprint. Green Insights™ Carbon Emissions Tracking “More and more, we’re Green Insights™ is our way of helping businesses measure, monitor, and reduce their travel-related carbon emissions. We can provide seeing opportunities to standard or tailored emissions data for air, rail, car, and hotel. By partnering with third-party experts, we can also provide an initial help our clients host carbon footprint report and ongoing reporting to track progress. sustainable meetings – whether that’s booking at Carbon Emissions Reduction a hotel with green To help businesses “travel smarter,” GBT uses proprietary products and processes such as carbon emissions reporting, point-of-sale practices or incorporating calculators, diagnostic analysis tools, and supplier scorecards. a philanthropic activity into the event. Our clients Environmental Policy / Program Management are eager to make a Our Global Business Consulting group helps clients craft policies that fit their corporate culture, while helping to raise environmental difference, and we’re awareness and achieve their emissions reduction goals. there to help. These are things we strive to do in Socially Responsible Meetings and Events our own internal meetings, too, so we’re Our strategic meetings management team consults with clients to identify ways to incorporate ecoconscious decisions into their meetings and events. During the sourcing process, we recommend destinations that may reduce or limit the need for participant air living and breathing our travel, incorporate emissions reduction measures such as using public or group transportation instead of individual cars, and reduce best practices.” indirect emissions through choosing accommodations in energy-efficient hotels. We also encourage the use of suppliers such as hotels and convention centers that have plans in place to reduce waste and water usage. During the meeting planning process, we consult on – Issa Jouaneh, SVP / GM, additional ways to reduce waste such as eliminating water bottles, utilizing reusable and electronic signage, and enlisting event mobile American Express applications to provide access for participants to meeting materials such as handouts, event floorplans, and area maps. We also partner Meetings & Events with the venues’ food and beverage services to design menus using locally sourced products. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 31 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. SERVING OUR CLIENTS AND TRAVELERS Duty of Care We take care of the people who take care of our clients’ Travel Alerts and Communications business; travelers can have peace of mind knowing urgent travel support is always available. Through Travel Alert, an electronic broadcast service, travel managers receive up-to-the-minute An important role of any company is to protect its travel news alerts and updates. Monitored and greatest assets – their people. We understand the value updated by a worldwide team of security analysts of people, because we’ve been taking care of the and editors 24 hours a day, seven days a week, business travelers that help businesses grow for over a Travel Alert tracks events that could potentially century. impact travelers. Safety becomes particularly important when employees Business travelers also have access to InfoPoint, a travel, and those managing a company’s travel program comprehensive website centralizing information must take steps to protect this safety. We live in an about countries and cities around the world. The “What’s unique about GBT in our unpredictable world. Plans often change at a moment’s site provides health and safety details, in addition to industry is that we do more than notice. Meetings are canceled or rescheduled. Flights are a wealth of resources specifically targeted to the delayed. Disruptions from political instability, natural book travel. Our people are skilled, needs and interests of global travelers, such as disasters and medical emergencies occur. GBT has historicaland cultural-based country overviews, tenured and talented, but above all thousands of highly trained professionals around the local language considerations, currency information else, they care – and that shines world ready to respond. and more. through in every interaction with our clients and travelers. We also We help to support our clients’ Duty of Care Traveler Location Solutions responsibilities through our 24/7 support service, listen to our clients and evolve our traveler location and tracking, redundant With Expert Care, clients can proactively monitor services and technology to better communications network and emergency response travel plans, quickly pinpoint travelers worldwide, meet their needs, from a groups. In addition, we offer a variety of communications and communicate with them at a moment’s notice, sustainability perspective and tools and resources to keep our clients informed of around the world and around the clock. beyond.” industry trends, events and travel advisories, as follows: Expert Care is an interactive, intuitive, easy-to-use After Hours Services solution that supports a travel management team’s – Philippe Chérèque, President ability to make informed risk-mitigating decisions. Our business travel solutions give our clients and By integrating itinerary information, flight status travelers peace of mind with live phone support monitoring, and Card Swipe with the American around the clock, 365 days a year. When business Express® Corporate Card, the Expert Care platform travelers need to speak with a travel counselor after can provide near real-time, location-based traveler standard business hours, they can always dial the information. We partner with iJET™ to integrate same number or press Click-to-Call on their smart dynamic, risk intelligence information into Expert phones to reach our travel counselors, who are Care. Expert Care’s communications functionality equipped with instant access to itineraries, profiles includes customizable two-way messaging between and supplier programs. travelers and travel managers, and security alerts for travelers. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 32 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. SERVING OUR CLIENTS AND TRAVELERS Support for Customers and Travelers During Natural Disasters Looking Ahead With hurricanes, earthquakes, monsoons, and wildfires striking around the world in 2017, Our Traveler Care organization will use Send Word Now, thousands of travelers found themselves stranded. beginning in 2018, to alert travel counselors that we urgently need support for our clients. The message will Providing exceptional service and care to our customers is central to what we do at GBT – and advise when additional support is required and how to never is it more important than when a crisis impacts our travelers. Our people go above and proceed if a travel counselor would like to volunteer to beyond to help them get back home as quickly and safely as possible. help. Just as there were thousands of stories of travelers stuck on the road last year, there were also thousands of stories of GBT employees stepping up to help worried, wearied travelers. Employees around the world volunteered to work extra hours and over weekends so they could support the increased volume of calls and stay in close contact with travelers whose trips were changing or being canceled at a moment’s notice. Some of these natural disasters impacted our own people, too, making some of these stories truly heroic. Our customers need us most when times are tough, and our people showed we are there for our travelers. Below are three examples of how our travel counselors showed their unwavering dedication and capacity to care during the 2017 hurricane season. When Hurricane Maria struck Puerto Rico, Hurricane Irma blew through her city while Lori Mohammad Saleem, a travel counselor Kelly O’Grady, a travel counselor in Petrocelli, a travel counselor based in the U.S., based in the U.S., and his family evacuated Canada, helped a client’s employees find was in the midst of a major project. after Hurricane Harvey, but that didn’t keep shelter. him from his job. “I listened to the storm rage all night long. I got “There were no hotels available. We worked up and found that I had no damage. So I said, “I found ease with my family and friends, but directly with the hotel contacts to see what ‘Okay, I’m safe, my family is safe. I’m going to my own coworkers, they lost everything. I was available. We showed our empathy, work.’ I was setting up a global account, and it decided to go back to work as soon as our compassion – that’s what our job is at was critical it go off without a hitch.” possible.” GBT.” This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 33 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. SERVING OUR CLIENTS AND TRAVELERS CLIENT AND TRAVELER SERVICE Measuring Client Relationships and the Traveler Experience Looking Ahead GBT has robust “listening” methods in place to evaluate services provided to travel buyers and managers, as In line with changing customer behavior, well as travel arrangers and travelers. We use the results of these evaluations to shape service strategies and we will be refreshing the methods we use develop learning and training activities. for gathering feedback across all our servicing channels, including digital. Behind every line on a chart, or dot on a graph, is a real person – a traveler who wants to be treated as an individual and shown that their time is valued and respected. This spirit of genuine customer empathy is Furthermore, we are actively using captured through our Traveler Care ethos, and supported in the way we view “customer experience” through analysis and sentiment of customer three different lenses: Rational, Ease, and Emotional. Introduced in 2017, these three elements of Customer comments to identify ways to make it Experience supplement our “listening” programs, and are proving hugely valuable for operational teams to easier for both travel arrangers and recognize high performance and identify service improvement opportunities. travelers to do business with GBT. Through a combination of daily survey ratings and analyses of customer comments, we stay in tune with our 2017 Highlights clients so we can work to ensure our service aligns with their expectations in each of the three areas. 25m+ annual Three Elements of Customer Experience customer interactions 1 RATIONAL EASE EMOTIONAL Do we make it easy for Can clients achieve what clients to do what they How does the interaction 96.7% they want? make the customer feel? client retention 2 want? Results from the customer survey program showed that travelers and traveler arrangers continue to recognize 91.7% the strength of our service, with around 95% of clients indicating we resolved their needs. In addition, our of travelers satisfied analyses identified opportunities to further improve in areas such as online servicing and provision of or very satisfied 1 appropriate options. 1 American Express Global Business Travel internal reporting (FY 2016). 2 American Express Global Business Travel internal reporting based on 2017 air and rail sales volume in proprietary countries only. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 34 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 35 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES INTRODUCTION GBT has a longstanding legacy of giving back, whether through donations or 2017 HIGHLIGHTS volunteerism, and we are committed to maintaining this tradition of philanthropy. We GBT contributed $90,000 USD to charities encourage our employees to make a difference in the communities where we or our supporting hurricane and earthquake relief efforts. clients live, work, or do business. We continually explore ways to make a positive and In addition, GBT donated more than $150,000 USD measurable impact on the people around us. to a variety of non-profit organizations to support local communities. GBT expanded community support during company CHARITABLE GIVING Meetings. Impact for Good: Punta Cana, Dominican Republic At GBT, giving back to the communities where we live, work, or visit is a big part of how we’re making a positive and lasting impact on the world. As part of our 2017 Pacesetters event, we organized several optional activities for winners to give back to the local host community in the Dominican Republic, and invited our attendees to sign up to participate. These volunteer activities were the first to fill up during registration, indicating that service and care are truly central to our culture and operations at GBT. Here’s how our 2017 Pacesetters got involved to help make Punta Cana a little brighter: • 62 Pacesetters played baseball with local children in the Hermanos Rodriguez League. We also donated baseball equipment so these kids – for whom baseball is so important – can continue to play their best. • 45 Pacesetters volunteered to paint the Villa Esperanza School in Punta Cana. The school was created by a local woman who wanted to help kids on the street – and today, it services more than 200 children, thanks to volunteers and donations. Many Pacesetters saved some extra space in their luggage to pack scissors, notebooks, glue, pens, pencils, and other school suppliers that were donated to the Villa Esperanza School. On top of this overwhelming generosity, a number of Pacesetters asked to give cash donations – with those donations, we purchased more than $400 USD of additional supplies for the children. Incorporating Philanthropy in Internal GBT Events Community activities are a growing part of GBT’s CSR philosophy. Beginning in 2017, when employees book internal GBT meetings, they now see an option in the Meeting Request Form to include a CSR element that connects attendees with the local community. We encourage all internal meeting organizers to give back during their event – it’s a way to bring our employees together to make a difference. The Meetings & Events team works with meeting organizers to find and select the best program or activity, such as making a donation, holding a drive / collection for food or supplies, doing a community service project, taking measures to reduce waste, etc. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 36 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES Corporate Giving Campaigns Looking Ahead Three of the major natural disasters that took place in 2017 – Hurricane Harvey, Hurricane Irma and the earthquake in At GBT, care is at the core of what Mexico City – struck in locations where we have a significant number of employees. Our immediate priority was to confirm we do. We plan to launch a the safety of those who lived in the impact zones. Local leaders worked hand-in-hand with employees to support them as philanthropy philosophy that they assessed their individual circumstances and needs following the disasters. formalizes our community impact, employee care and corporate giving We also wanted to help local nonprofit agencies focused on emergency relief services in these communities. We set up efforts – all focused on outreach, campaigns in Give for a Better Tomorrow, our online giving platform, to make it easy for our employees around the world donations and organizations that to donate to organizations that were providing immediate support to individuals impacted by the hurricanes and leave an impact on the earthquake. In addition to the nearly $15,000 USD our employees contributed, GBT donated $75,000 USD, distributed communities in which we live, work across these nonprofit agencies: and do business. Disaster Relief Giving Campaign: Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma • American Red Cross • Greater Houston Community Foundation • Houston Food Bank • Heart of Florida United Way • Second Harvest Food Bank of Central Florida Disaster Relief Giving Campaign: Earthquake in Mexico • Mexico Earthquakes via American Red Cross During the Global Business Travel Association (GBTA) 2017 international conference in Boston, GBT partnered with charity: water to spread the message of clean drinking water, globally. During client meetings at our booth, we handed out GBT-branded insulated water bottles and made donations to charity: water on behalf of our clients. Anyone who visited our booth could also make a donation – and our campaign was open for a number of months after GBTA. In total, GBT raised $10,000 USD. “Seeing our employees rally together around the world to support our disaster relief campaigns was really moving – it’s proof of the good hearts our people have. I’m glad we had a giving platform in place to make it easy for employees to donate to organizations that supported those in need following Hurricanes Harvey and Irma, and the earthquake in Mexico.” – Bridget Clark, VP, Internal Communications & Corporate Social Responsibility This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 37 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES EMPLOYEE GIVING AROUND THE WORLD TEAMWORKS GBT’s TEAMWORKS events provide opportunities for Spotlight on Sydney, Melbourne, and Perth, Australia employees to interact with each other and our preferred suppliers, and give back. Led by Banter, Australia’s employee engagement team, employees participated in various charitable activities in 2017, including these: New Jersey The Fred Hollows Foundation: Sydney and Melbourne GBT Coastrek teams and City to Surf Sydney In October 2017, more than 85 GBT employees attending Fundraiser the first New Jersey TEAMWORKS event gave back in a big way. Thanks to the generosity of our employees, they Red Cross: Bake Off Fundraiser, Bridge to Bridge Brisbane Run, GBT Red25 Blood Bank Drive (55 donated three bins full of food and hygiene products, as employees donated blood, helping to save 165 lives) well as more than 50 winter coats to Lunch Break, a local Conservation Australia: Promotion of volunteering activities charity in Red Bank, NJ. Lunch Break provides food, RSPCA: Million Paws Walk clothing, hygiene products, and life skills to those in need. Every Little Bit Helps: 14+ bins of toiletries delivered to homeless and domestic violence shelters across Australia Tampa December Charity Wishing Trees to collect gifts for homeless or disadvantaged families In September 2017, more than 125 GBT employees donated to Project Linus, a local charity that provides love, a sense of security, warmth, and comfort to children who are seriously ill, traumatized, or otherwise in need through the gifts of new, handmade blankets and afghans, lovingly created by volunteer “blanketeers.” Detroit In September 2017, GBT employees applied a little elbow grease to build 30 bikes for Detroit's local community. Houston, TX The Houston Food Bank Our Houston team has partnered with the Houston Food Bank for many years on various projects. Last year, they took a team to volunteer in the warehouse to help pack 4,500 boxes for senior citizens that provided 45,000 meals. After Hurricane Harvey left Houston in shambles, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and H-E-B, a Texas-based supermarket chain, sent more than 100 trucks of supplies to the Food Bank. Several of our generous employees and their families sprang into action and volunteered to help sort the food so that it could reach Houston families as quickly as possible. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 38 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES Partnership Exchange At multiple points in the year, GBT hosts Partnership Exchange events, where GBT Commercial team members come together to network with travel suppliers and with each other. In partnership with suppliers, we incorporate a philanthropic activity into each event, giving all attendees an opportunity to give back to the host city. Orlando Las Vegas Toronto Feeding Children Everywhere Operation Gratitude Savards, The Hospital for Sick Children, In September 2017, GBT, in partnership with and Covenant House Toronto In March 2017, GBT, in partnership with United Airlines, worked with Feeding Delta Air Lines, worked with Operation In October 2017, GBT, in partnership with Children Everywhere to package meals for Gratitude to assemble care packages filled American Airlines, provided three local people in need. Together, 150 with food, entertainment, hygiene, and opportunities to give back. Individuals who employees in teams of 12 packaged 35,000 handmade items, plus personal letters of took part in the activities created “no-sew” meals that were donated to various nonappreciation to veterans, first responders, blankets for Savards, a women’s shelter; made profit organizations in central Florida. new recruits, wounded heroes and their art kits for patients at The Hospital for Sick caregivers, and individually named U.S. Children; and assembled much needed service members deployed overseas and supplies for youth who typically arrive at their families waiting at home. Covenant House with only the clothes on their back. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 39 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. PROTECTING OUR ENVIRONMENT This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 40 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. PROTECTING OUR ENVIRONMENT INTRODUCTION As a leading provider of travel and related services worldwide, GBT has a unique opportunity to impact the issues of sustainability on behalf of our employees, clients, and partners. In keeping with our longstanding commitments to community service and corporate citizenship, we recognize our responsibility to protect the environment in an effort to ensure the health and well-being of generations to come. OUR APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY GBT is committed to measuring, managing, and reducing the environmental impact of our global operations, as well as to an ongoing process of continuous improvement of sustainable practices. GBT employees are expected to act as environmental stewards when conducting business on GBT’s behalf, and we encourage our clients, suppliers, contractors, and business partners to join us in this effort. We have procedures in place that focus on the company’s environmental impact areas: Energy Consumption Waste and Recycling Greenhouse Gas Emissions Procurement In meeting our commitments, GBT strives to: Adopt environmental standards across all areas of operation that meet all applicable environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. Continually assess the environmental impact of our operations and identify areas where we can minimize our impact on the environment. Deploy efforts to improve our energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Minimize waste through reduction strategies, recycling programs, and safe disposal policies. Purchase sustainable products wherever feasible. Reduce risks from environmental, health or safety hazards for employees, contractors and visitors to our facilities. Incorporate environmental awareness into our day-to-day business by engaging our employees through regular communications and volunteer events. Include environmental considerations in investment decisions where appropriate. Regularly review and assess our processes and share progress on our commitments. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 41 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. PROTECTING OUR ENVIRONMENT Energy New Client Billing Portal GBT strives to operate, maintain and design its infrastructure to comply with industry best practices. In 2017, we launched a new billing portal, designed to The company’s energy reduction efforts include: enhance our billing processes and the client experience via a single global platform with a sophisticated digital Purchasing energy-efficient building and IT equipment. Where cost effective, we strive to interface. This new portal also reduces our carbon purchase equipment with ENERGY STAR certification. footprint, because it enables clients to access their billing Improving mainframe utilization and expanding use of virtual servers. statements and invoices online, rather than receiving monthly mailings. Using power management software to reduce server energy consumption. Improving the operation of the heating and cooling systems to save energy and conserve water. Paper PrePost% Invoices Portal Portal Reduction Deploying energy-efficient lighting and pantry equipment, and using occupancy sensors and shutting off nonessential equipment. Monthly ~ 25,000 ~ 1,000 96% Waste and Recycling Annually ~ 300,000 ~ 12,000 96% Through waste reduction strategies, recycling programs, and safe disposal policies, we actively strive to reduce waste through smart and innovative best practices. Today, GBT has numerous recycling programs in place around the world. Paper, cardboard, plastic, glass bottles and cans are accepted and recycled in all major office and operating centers, and the Ink Toner Reduction majority of our facilities globally. Typical office recycling is collected in recycling bins under employees’ In 2017, we developed an eco-friendly PowerPoint template individual desks or in centralized pantry locations. In some locations, recycling is single-stream for internal presentations. This template reduces ink due to (separated at the city recycling plant) or segregated at the initial point of disposal. Depending on the an intentionally clean design without saturation, images, recycling method, volumes of waste are weighed, reported and tracked over time by waste stream. and heavy graphics. Other non-typical office materials that are recycled in many of our facilities include electronic equipment (e-waste), batteries, lamps, toner and ink cartridges. For facilities that provide cafeteria services, we are exploring the implementation of composting programs to divert food waste from landfills. For waste that cannot be disposed through typical disposal methods, such as household hazardous waste, we have specific policies in place for waste storage, handling and collection that comply with local state and federal standards. We communicate regularly about these programs to employees at site-specific waste collection areas where we use a color-coded system for collecting and separating recyclables. Hazardous Waste Use of hazardous materials is highly limited. Lamps and batteries usage is one of the larger sources of hazardous waste, and these materials are recycled. We track recycled lamps and batteries. We work with our suppliers to safely recycle and dispose of electronic waste, such as toner cartridges. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 42 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. PROTECTING OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT GHG Emissions Scope 1 + 2 2017 2016 2015 2017 Energy Consumption GHG GHG GHG (1) By Region Usage Usage Usage Region / Type Emissions Emissions Emissions (MWh) (MWh) (MWh) (Tonnes) (Tonnes) (Tonnes) North America APAC 28% North Electricity 3,184 2,102 3,476 2,173 2,449 1,419 America Natural Gas 0 0 0 0 0 0 21% Cooling 0 0 0 0 202 Steam 0 0 0 0 153 LAC LAC EMEA 4% 47% Electricity 649 455 649 455 1,033 723 Natural Gas 0 0 0 0 0 0 Cooling 0 0 0 0 0 0 Steam 0 0 0 0 0 0 EMEA Methodology Electricity 7,106 4,976 6,530 3,739 8,306 5,806 For locations where we do not have access to Natural Gas 0 0 0 0 306 our consumption data, emissions of Cooling 0 0 0 0 21 greenhouse gases are estimated. Steam 0 0 0 0 452 We calculate some of our Scope 1 + 2 emissions based on square footage and local APAC emissions factors. Where the square footage Electricity 4,179 2,926 2,197 1,066 1,431 900 did not change from 2016 to 2017, the emissions figure remains the same. Natural Gas 0 0 0 0 0 0 Cooling 0 0 0 0 0 0 Finland offices excluded. Steam 0 0 0 0 0 0 (1) CO2 emission only available for electricity. Total Electricity 15,118 10,459 12,852 7,433 13,219 8,850 Natural Gas 0 0 0 0 309 Cooling 0 0 0 0 223 Steam 0 0 0 0 605 This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 43 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. PROTECTING OUR ENVIRONMENT GHG Gas Emissions Scope 3 GBT Employee Business Travel 2017 2016 2015 Emissions Contributions 11,341.9 (1) 10,721 (1) 8,453.9 (1) tons CO2 tons CO2 tons CO2 Rail < 1% Car 646.4 643 614 Hotel tons CO2 tons CO2 tons CO2 2% 5% 48.7 52.6 41.9 tons CO2 tons CO2 tons CO2 206.8 292.1 269.5 tons CO2 tons CO2 tons CO2 Air 93% (1) Emission calculations according to DEFRA/GHG methodology. Looking Ahead We plan to purchase carbon offsets to reduce the carbon footprint of a significant portion of our 2017 employee travel. Endnotes › At this time, GBT does not track emissions from employee commuting. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 44 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. APPENDIX: GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX STATUS DESCRIPTION  Compliant with this indicator  Partially compliant  Not compliant: not applicable or data not available GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES STATUS REPORT REFERENCE / NOTES STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from CEO  Message from Our CEO, page 4. G42 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities  Materiality, page 10, Stakeholder Engagement, page 11. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of reporting organization  GBT III B.V. d/b/a American Express Global Business Travel G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services  About GBT, page 5. G4-5 Organization headquarters  Hoogoorddreef 15, Atlas-Arena 1101BA Amsterdam Zuidoost G4-6 Countries of operation  Our Global Network, page 6. www.amexglobalbusinesstravel.com/global-network-map/ GBT is a joint venture corporation formed July 2014. American G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form  Express Travel Related Services Company and an investor group led by Certares. Each has 50% ownership stake in the joint venture. G4-8 Markets served  About GBT, page 5, Our Global Network, page 6. About GBT, page 5. GBT is a private company and does not G4-9 Organization scale  publically disclose revenue or capitalization. Workforce Diversity, page 23. Note: Ethnic diversity data only G4-10 Composition of the workforce  available for the U.S. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 45 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. APPENDIX: GRI CONTENT INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES STATUS REPORT REFERENCE / NOTES ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE We do not have direct union affiliations; however, some employees in G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements  APAC and EMEA do participate in local organizations. Details of those relationships are considered confidential employee information. G4-12 Organization’s supply chain  Responsible Procurement, page 20. G4-13 Organizational changes during the reporting period  Please visit: amexglobalbusinesstravel.com/press-room/ GBT does not have a formal policy regarding the precautionary G4-14 Precautionary principle  principle. G4-15 External charters, principles, initiatives  United National Global Compact, page 12. GBT also reports to the Carbon Disclosure Project. G4-16 Memberships in associations  Memberships and Sponsorships, page 9. IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities included in financial statements  Data in this report covers our entire GBT’s global operations only. G4-19 Material aspects included in the report  Materiality, page 10, Stakeholder Engagement, page 11. G4-20 Boundary of the report within the organization  All Material Aspects selected in this report apply to our entire global operations, unless otherwise stated. G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information  N/A G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods  N/A STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholder groups  Stakeholder Engagement, page 11. G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders  Stakeholder Engagement, page 11. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 46 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. APPENDIX: GRI CONTENT INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES STATUS REPORT REFERENCE / NOTES STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement  Stakeholder Engagement, page 11. G4-27 Key topics from stakeholders  Stakeholder Engagement, page 11. REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period  About This Report, page 2. G4-29 Date of most recent report  January 1 – December 31, 2016. G4-30 Reporting cycle  About This Report, page 2. G4-31 Reporting contact  Contact Us, page 50. G4-32 “In Accordance” option, GRI Content Index for the chosen option.  About This Report, page 2, Appendix: GRI Content Index G4-33 External Assurance  This report was not externally assured. GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure of the organization  Our Governance Structure, page 14. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Code of conduct  Our Global Risk and Compliance Program, page 15. G4-57 Helpline or advice lines for employees  Our Global Risk and Compliance Program, page 15. ENVIRONMENTAL Energy G4DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach  Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability, page 41. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 47 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. APPENDIX: GRI CONTENT INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES STATUS REPORT REFERENCE / NOTES ENVIRONMENTAL Energy G4DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach  Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability, page 41. G4EN3 Energy consumption within the organization  Our Carbon Footprint, page 43. G4EN6 Reduction of energy consumption  Our Carbon Footprint, page 43. Emissions G4DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach  Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability, page 41. G4EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2)  GHG Emissions – Scope 1 + 2, page 43. G4EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3)  GHG Emissions – Scope 3, page 44. G4EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity  The information is currently unavailable. G4EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG)  GBT has no formal initiatives to reduce GHG emissions at this time. Effluents and Waste G4EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method  GBT does not track waste diversion data at this time. SOCIAL LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment G4DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach  Investing in Our People: Introduction, page 22. Occupational Health and Safety G4DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach  Employee Health, Safety and Well-being, page 26. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 48 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. APPENDIX: GRI CONTENT INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES STATUS REPORT REFERENCE / NOTES Training and Education G4DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach  Employee Training and Development, page 28-29. G4LA9 Average training hours per year per employee  Employee Training and Development, page 28-29 G4LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in career endings  Mandatory Code of Conduct and Compliance Training, page 19, Employee Training and Development, page 28-29 Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach  Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity, page 23. Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per G4LA12 employee category according to gender, age group, minority group  Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity, page 23. membership, and other indicators of diversity HUMAN RIGHTS Non Discrimination Our Global Risk and Compliance Program, pages 15 19, Mandatory G4Code of Conduct and Compliance Training, page 19, Diversity, DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach  Inclusion and Equal Opportunity, page 23, Respecting Human Rights, page 29. G4HR3 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken  The information is currently unavailable. SOCIETY Anti-Corruption G4DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach  Our Global Risk and Compliance Program, pages 15 – 19. G4SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures.  Our Global Risk and Compliance, pages 15 19, Mandatory Code of Conduct and Compliance Training, page 19. Product and Service Labeling G4DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach  Serving Our Clients and Travelers: Introduction, page 31, Measuring Client and Traveler Satisfaction, page 34. G4PR5 Results of surveys measuring client satisfaction  Measuring Client and Traveler Satisfaction, page 34. This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure 49 or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited. Contact Us We value feedback from all our stakeholders. We invite you to share your feedback on our CSR report at: GBT-CSR@amexgbt.com Bridget Clark Vice President | Internal Communications and Corporate Social Responsibility American Express Global Business Travel 101 Hudson Street Jersey City, New Jersey 07302 For a copy of this report or more information about GBT, please visit our corporate website at: www.amexglobalbusinesstravel.com Martin Ferguson Senior Director | Global Communications and Public Affairs American Express Global Business Travel Tel: +44 7789 816 523 Email: martin.ferguson@amexgbt.com Follow us on Twitter @amexgbt This document contains unpublished confidential and proprietary information of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). No disclosure or use of any portion of these materials may be made without the express written consent of GBT. © 2018 GBT Travel Services UK Limited.
