Overview of CP ALL Public Company Limited and Subsidiaries 01 Message from the Chairman 02 Message from the Chairman of Executive Committee 03 The core of our journey Contents 02 03 04 08 Holistic Integrated Sustainability journey 09 We Desire Smiles 10 Adding Product Value, For Consumer’s Better Management Framework : Readiness in mitigating Delivering from Customers Quality of Life diverse risk profiles customers with all happiness 27 31 35 14 Caring for Environment, aligned with international 15 Distilling Ideas: The Fruits of Creativity 16 Society of Peace: Respecting Human Rights 17 Spread the Love: Building Community Resilience standards 51 58 62 67 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Our Sustainability strategy of CP ALL Public Company Limited and Subsidiaries 04 Building on Ideology, Strategy for Sustainability 05 Emphasis on All Material Issues for Sustainability in All Dimensions 06 Creating happiness through stakeholder engagement 07 Commitment to Ethics and Corporate Governance 10 14 16 21 11 Strengthening Capacity, One Organization 12 Giving Education Opportunities, Creating a Future for the 13 Elevating Occupational Health and Safety: appropriate working We work Thai Youth conditions with care 38 43 46 Growing 18 Delivering the Best Quality Throughout the Supply Chain 19 Creating Value for Society together Appendix sustainably 72 77 82 1 “Outcomes of our time and efforts shall benefit to majority of the community including customer, employee and company that we’re a part of.” MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN Dear all stakeholders, For over 30 years that the Company has conducted its business alongside the Thai people, the corporate philosophy “3-Benefit Principle, to nation, to people, to organization” is a commitment that has guided us in forwarding happiness to the communities and societies around Thailand where we operate. Inspired by the notion that we are part of society, this corporate philosophy and concept are disseminated throughout the Company and driven towards sustainable operations and sharing benefits to all sectors involved. The corporate philosophy and concept are reflected in our corporate strategy, which strives to create impressive experiences and smiles through products and services that our customers receive across all channels. This is to prepare for Thailand’s entrance into a digital society, and meet the expectations and demands of changing social milieus both at the national and international levels. In achieving the Company’s continuous and stable growth, alongside that of broader society, and in meeting customer expectations from all fronts, our corporate strategy is also infused with a sustainable development credo. The 2020 Sustainability Targets are aligned with 15 key elements on the Company’s sustainable development and that of its Stakeholders. These targets have been translated to short-, medium-, and long-term action plans. The Company greatly hopes to be involved in pushing forward the realization of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and has reported its sustainability progress under the UN Global Compact (UNGC) framework. The Company is conscious of the importance of responding to a myriad of these challenges, such as good corporate governance and transparency, human rights due diligence, and innovation management. In order to manage these challenges and propel a broader impact, the cooperation of the management team and employees at all levels, as well as the involvement of stakeholders throughout the value is required. I believe that our Company’s success over the past 30 years is borne out of a genuine determination and the involvement of all stakeholders. I would like to thank everyone for being part of our success. Mr. Dhanin Chearavanont Chairman CP ALL (Public Company Limited) 2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED “We have plans to communicate expectations and promote sustainable operations to our business partners throughout the value chain, who are important stakeholders in conducting business in the retail industry.” MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Dear all stakeholders, The Sustainable Business Award 2017, given based the organization’s sustainability, and the selection into the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) in the Emerging Markets category of the Food & Stapes Retailing industry group marked an important first step on sustainability on the global stage. The award compares worldwide leading businesses based on corporate performance indices through a sustainability lens. It enabled to review issues on which we performed well and those that need improvements. This achievement is part of a journey in corporate sustainability, paving the way towards the Company’s success in business, the environment, and society. This year, the Company designed a new corporate strategy which will cover 2018 to 2022. The strategy integrates international sustainability approaches into business practices. In spearheading a sustainable business, as per this strategy, we are working with organizations that have sustainability committees as part of our core operations and that of our subsidiaries. An example of this cooperation includes initiating a Human Rights Due Diligence following the Guiding Principles on Implementing the UN Protect, Respect, Remedy Framework for Business and Human Rights. Notwithstanding this, we are working to expand our sustainability scope by communicating expectations to and promoting actions related thereto with our business partners throughout our value chain, who are important stakeholders in conducting business in the retailing industry. We greatly hope that our determination on the sustainability front will light up smiles and give happiness among our employees, business partners, the government, broader society, and our stakeholders. The Company wishes to be part of the driving force behind the sustainability wave in business, society, and the environment because this is our responsibility…as a member of society. Mr. Korsak Chairasmisak Chairman of Executive Committee CP ALL (Public Company Limited) 3 The core of our journey CP ALL (Public Company Limited) and its Subsidiaries, and is unique in being part of the distribution channels for products and services to consumers, as well as being a bridge connecting the upstream, midstream, and downstream supply chains. Stepping into the 30th year of building our foundation and conducting business, our core business includes retail and wholesale, in addition to 8 other business categories. 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 1. Convenient Store Service 7-Eleven is a one-stop convenient store that offers fresh and a wide variety of products, ready-to-eat meals, and beverages. The Company has 10,268 branches of the 7-Eleven franchise, broken down into 4,556 franchises in the Bangkok Metropolitan Region (44%) and 5,712 franchises in provincial areas of Thailand (56%). Stores are clustered into 3 types: Company Stores (44%), Store Business Partner (49%), and Sub-Area License Stores (7%). There is currently an average of 11.8 million customers entering 7-Eleven stores daily. For more information: www.7eleven.co.th Under the convenient store service business, there is a wide variety of related products and services, such as: Bellinee’s Bake&Brew All cafe eXta Plus Pharmacy offers freshly baked bakery and premium offers beverages and is a health-centered pharmacy, brewed coffee fresh brewed coffee providing convenience for the For more information: www.bellinee.co.th For more information: community, pharmaceutical และ www.facebook.com/bellinee www.7eleven.co.th products, nutritional supplements, cosmeceutical products, and health products, with professional pharmacists offering customers consultation and recommendations. For more information: www.exta.co.th and www.facebook .com/extahealthbeauty CP Retailink Co., Ltd. is a dealership offering products and equipment through retailing, as well as maintenance and repair services. For more information: www.cpretailink.co.th 5 2. Wholesale services 24 Shopping Co., Ltd. Siam Makro Plc. is online store, creating a wide array of sales channels, meeting the sells products following a demands of modern consumers anywhere and anytime. membership system through For more information: www.24shopping.co.th cash-based, self-service model in Thailand. Since free trade agreements were finalized through the ASEAN Economic Community (AEC), Makro’s effective wholesale www.24Catalog.com management system served as the foundation to expand the wholesale and retail business outside of Thailand, which presented an opportunity to bring to ASEAN market products from SMEs, Thai Magazine 24 Catalog agricultural products, as well as www.ShopAt24.com frozen and fresh foods such as meat, among others. The sale of these products in ASEAN brings back foreign currencies into Thailand, www.Amulet24.com Call Center 02-780-7666 and helps local small and medium enterprises, as well as Thai farmers bring their products to international markets. Currently, Makro has 123 franchises in Thailand and 1 branch in Cambodia. For more information: www.siammakro.co.th Caffe' Muan Chon is operated by CP Retailink Co., Ltd. under Job Creation Concept for society. 6 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 3. Food, bakery, and ready-to-eat meals services 4. Financial Services CPRAM Co., Ltd. Counter Service Co., Ltd. manufactures and sells over 840 SKUs of food, bakeries, and “Ready-to is a 24/7 payment service provider Eat” menu items through 7-Eleven stores, supermarkets, restaurants, for products, services, and is a life and stores across many locations. CPRAM also exports ready-made and accident insurance broker, meals, e.g. Jade Dragon, Le Pan, DeliThai, Delicasia, CPRAM Catering, offered through 7-Eleven stores. and Foodie:D to 18 countries globally. For more information: For more information: www.cpram.co.th www.counterservice.co.th Thai Smart Card Co., Ltd. provides digital cash cards and smart chips technologies to be used as a modern payment method. For more information: www.thaismartcard.co.th CP Food Lab Co., Ltd. is a Research and Development Company that conducts food-related analysis and tests. Set up under the Food Innopolis Project, the Science Park of Thailand is an information center, formed on the knowledge based derived from R&D and testing facilities in order to research and develop products for business clusters both within and without the country. 7 5. Education Services Suksapiwat Co., Ltd. is a company that makes investments in education, which consists of 3 educational institues as follows. Panyapiwat Technological The Panyapiwat Institute of The Panyapiwat Institute of College Management Management Demonstration is a vocational to mold professionals is higher education institution School (Satit PIM) with retail experience, providing that focuses on the retail business is a private secondary school, under an avenue for real practicum. study and research in order to the supervision of the Faculty of For more information: kindle graduates that are not Education at the Panyapiwat www.panyapiwat.ac.th only academically capable, but Institute of Management, with who are also able to succeed the aim of creating a learning in practice. Every student will and school management process be prepared for work in tandem in order to be a national model with their studies. secondary school. For more information: For more information: www.pim.ac.th www.satit.pim.ac.th Panyatara Co., Ltd. and All Training Co., Ltd. provide educational services, trainings, human resources development, and a complete range of seminars, leveraging an expertise in the retail business. They aim to provide services that build human resource capacity through the design and development of curricula that meet customer demands, teaching personnel with real-life experience both in theory and practice in the retail business. For more information: www.panyatara.co.th 8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 6. Information Services 7. Marketing Media Services Gosoft (Thailand) Co., Ltd. MAM Heart Co., Ltd. provides consultation, offers effective software is responsible in providing advertisement and sales development services, and manages information promotional design services, creating a good corporate technology systems of the company and external image, and assumes its main function as a center entities. for professional communication services in the One For more information: www.gosoft.co.th Stop Service model. In addition, its scope also covers events management and that of marketing activities in order to help its customers achieve their business goals. For more information: www.7eleven.co.th/corp /about_business_structure_mam_heart.php 8. Logistics Management Services Contact Information products delivered through Should you have any queries or a point-to-point as well as a wish to request for any further multipoint model. information related to this report, • Warehouse please contact: Management Services Sustainable Development Office Offers comprehensive CP ALL Public Company Limited Dynamic Management Co., Ltd. is warehouse management Headquarter, an Integrated Third Party Logistics services through a team with 313 Silom Rd., Silom, Bangrak, Provider (3PL) in Thailand that high levels of experience and Bangkok 10500 focuses on high-quality logistics expertise. Tel: 02-071-9766; 02-0719764 management services, assuming • Logistics Solutions Fax: 02-6790580 the role of a long-term business Management Services Email: SDstrategyoffice@cpall.co.th partner to customers in order to Complete solutions related Website: www.cpall.co.th jointly develop and build their to the design and planning capacity in supply chain and global of supply chain systems or logistics management. Currently, the logistics process for customers, company offer 3 kinds of logistics specifically in setting up a worldservices: class Warehouse Management • Product Shipment System (WMS) Management For more information: Covers all dried and frozen www.dynamic groupthailand.com 9 Building on Ideology, Strategy for Sustainability Based on work experience that Cognizant of its long-term business operations, the Company has has formed and been distilled fused a corporate sustainability approach as part of its 2018-2022 corporate strategy, to be driven by the Corporate Sustainability Development over the years, in combination Committee tasked with ensuring that sustainability issues are reflected with global case studies, in the Company’s regular business operations and can be effectively CP ALL Plc. and its Subsidiaries implemented. The approach, following the business’ corporate strategy (“the Company”) is cognizant and sustainability framework, can be summarized as follows: of the importance in managing • Assessment and evaluation of the Company’s effectiveness as corporate sustainability issue regards sustainability, in order to identify improvement approaches and those of broader society. on its business operations to integrate international sustainability It is undeniable that global practice in the organization and its supply chain. organizations that have • Foster ideas, knowledge, understanding, and raise awareness successfully grown and been on conducting sustainable business operations with employees widely accepted are companies and executive management at all levels, in order to create with strong sustainability organization-wide involvement management. It is also evident In order to ensure effective and tangible results in driving that these companies’ efficiency corporate sustainability in 2017, the Company, through the efforts of the grows in tandem with the Corporate Sustainability Development Committee and the Sustainability Development function of the Strategic Sustainability Development resilience and strong cooperation Committee, has set sustainable development targets for CP ALL Plc. with their stakeholders and its Subsidiaries. These 15 targets were set to be driven by the in supporting their business organization and realized by 2020, encompassing economic, social, operations. and environmental aspects. CP ALL Plc. Corporate Sustainability Committee was founded on November 16ths, 2015, with Mr.Tanin Buramanit as the Committee’s president. Representatives from all key functions are also part of the Committee. The Committee is responsible in corporate governance, setting and reviewing policy, indicators, as well as driving forth sustainability performance. 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CP ALL's Sustainability development structures Board of Director Corporate Govermance Audit Committee Committee Remuneration and Nomination Intermal Audit Policy Committee Company Secretary Chairman Executive Committee Managing Director & Chief Executive Office Accounting and Finance 1. Corporate Corporate Asset and 11. Climate Change Sustainable Development Management 4. Stakeholders Governance Facilities Management Information Technology 5. Anti-Corruption Distribution Center 12. Water Stewardship Engagement 6. Social Impact 2. Human Rights Merchandising 7. Health and Well8. Education and Labor Practice and Marketing Being 10. Occupational Human Resource 3. Leadership and Safety, Health Human Capital Innovation Center 9. Innovation Implement Development Management and Environment Operation 15. Local Conflict (Supporting) Management and Community Acceptance 13. Ecosystem and Biodiversity Protection Purchasing 14. Responsible Supply Chain Management 11 CP ALL's Sustainability Development Goals 2020 1 Corporate Governance: 6 Social Impact: Creation of assurances in operations concerning stakeholders Creating social values by promoting jobs and enhance by reporting the Company’s governance-related activities, income for farmers, SMEs, and Suppliers; creating with the aim of transparency, fair business competition, professional opportunity, while ameliorate quality of ethical business practices, and pursuing sustainability life for vulnerable groups (a particular social group that efforts through reporting which has passed independent requires support) verification following international standards. 7 Health and Well-Being: 2 Human Rights and Labor Practice: Development of new products and services, most of which Human Rights Due Diligence (HRDD) has been conducted are focused on health, nutrition, and good well-being. according to the United Nation Guiding Principles on Promote nutrition labeling for food products, as well as Business and Human Rights (UNGPBHR), fully respecting developing service, projects, or activities which consistently and upholding human rights. Communication channels for foster good health and well-being. human rights-related grievance have been established, along with diversity and inclusion management. 8 Education: Support children, youths, and adults in accessibility to 3 Leadership and Human Capital education, and development of necessary skills, including Development: technical and employment-related skills; in having good Develop employees to be equipped with the necessary occupation, and working as an entrepreneur. knowledge and skills to facilitate sustainable business operations. Develop the Company’s leaders to possess 9 Innovation Management: visions in business sustainability’s change management. Generate values from innovation, both from new products, Develop suppliers and business partners to have the and those resulted from cost-saving, as arise from product necessary knowledge and skills to support sustainable or process innovation. Enhance the Corporate of Innovation business operations. culture, and foster joint-creation of innovation with external stakeholders. 4 Stakeholders Engagement: Develop a relationship-building process with stakeholders, 10 Occupational Safety, Health and Environment: by identifying the stakeholder groups, gain understanding Emphasize on safety, industrial hygiene, and work in each group’s needs and expectations. This will enable environment of employees, as well as contractors. These effective response to stakeholders, as well as creating components are considered crucial for all operations. internal corporate awareness towards stakeholders. There is a process to review every grievances submitted from the stakeholders. 5 Anti-Corruption: Create awareness to employees and critical suppliers regarding the importance of, and the commitment to, anti-corruption. This was achieved in compliance with ‘Anti-Corruption Practice.’ It serves as an operational guideline, maintaining alignment to the Anti-Corruption Policy, utilized in prevention, identification, and responses of the Company’s anti-corruption efforts. This encompasses corruption cases in the Company. The arrangement enables the company to remain true to its established commitment. 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 11 Climate Change Management: Reduce greenhouse gas emission, via declined energy consumption per production unit, and an increased To ensure that the Company is able to achieve proportion of renewable energy usage. Efforts include lower 15 Sustainable Development Goals, the amount of waste to landfill and reduced usage of plastics Company has adopted and applied imperative and papers. Farmers, business partners, and suppliers principles to serve as a business operational are encouraged to mitigate their impacts, and enhance guidance, such as Sufficiency Economy, Total change, climate resilience. Climate change impacts Quality Management (TQM), 10 principles of assessment throughout a given product or service life cycle The United Nation Global Compact (UNGC), is also embolden, in addition to backing for projects The United Nation Sustainable Development on climate change-induced disaster response, jointly Goals (SDGs), and UN Guiding Principles on implemented with the Company’s stakeholders. Business and Human Rights (UNGP), to name a few. This includes respecting and following the 12 Water Stewardship: Company’s regulation and rules, encompassing Reduce water usage per production unit. There is the both national and internationally in a strict efforts to manage water scarcity risk, by increasing the rate manner. They serve as an operational guideline. of water recycling, and substantiating community’s access to water source, in an appropriate manner. Following the initiative in sustainability performance, the Company was invited to 13 Ecosystem and Biodiversity Protection: participate in 2017 Corporate Sustainability Raw material sourcing assessment to ensure that the source Assessment (CSA). The Company accepted does not pertain deforestation or damages of marine the invitation and participated in the resources. Provide support to projects on protection and assessment for the first time. Consequentially, restoration of natural habitat accordingly (such as upstream the Company was assessed to be a member forests, the ocean, and the beaches) appropriately. of Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) in the category of Emerging Markets, 14 Responsible Supply Chain Management: in the sector of Food & Staples Retailing. Conduct sustainability assessment for all critical business The Company is the only Thai company, partners to procure primary raw material and products also the only Southeast Asian company from responsible and traceable sources. This includes the that was listed in the mentioned sector. efforts to develop mutual sustainable growth with business This may be considered the Company’s very partners. first step of success towards world-class sustainability performance. 15 Local Conflict Management and Community Acceptance: Discuss and kindle relationships to ascertain understanding, which will help ease conflicts between the Company and society. Social impact assessment will be conducted, with preparation respectively arranged according to the risk identified. Emphasis is given to community investment. There is a management mechanisms to address grievances on social impacts, coupled with a guidance on mitigation. 13 Emphasis on All Material Issues for Sustainability in All Dimensions About This Report In alignment with the Policy and Sustainable Report was developed in accordance with the Global Development Performance, CP ALL Plc. and subsidiaries Reporting Initiative Standards (Core option). Reporting (“the Company”) has published its Sustainability scope was expanded from 7-Eleven convenient stores, Report, for its second consecutive year, to disclose its and sub-business and minor business units, to report approach, and economic, social, and environmental the overall performance of CP ALL Plc. and subsidiaries performances in 2017 (covers performance from (“the Company”), covering all 8 services 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017). 2017 Sustainability Food, Bakery, Information Market Logistic Convenient Wholesale and ready-to Financial Education and communication store service service -eat meals service service management technology service service Sevice service Corporate Materiality Assessment The Company conducted sustainable materiality materiality assessment serves as a response approach, assessment according to Global Reporting Initiative which is commensurate to both internal and external (GRI). Considerations were given to materiality’s level of stakeholders of the Company. This was achieved influence over stakeholders’ assessment and decisionthrough public disclosure in Sustainability Report, with making, coupled with corporate economic, social, and the assessment process as follows. environmental impacts’ level of significance. Results of 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 1 Identification Prioritization 2 Corporate Sustainable Development Committee identified The Company conducted initial prioritization of sustainable sustainability issues with relevant to business operation, materiality, through contributions from corporate executives basing on international standards or Global Reporting and employees. Over 4,400 opinions were shared. Initiative, Dow Jones Sustainability Indices: DJSI, global trends, Sustainability issues were screened initially by representatives and United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals. This of the Company’s high-level executives in workshops, which includes other issues recognized by peers, or related to issues serves as an opportunity for screening and prioritization. the Company prioritizes. Prioritization was made in considerations to the level of influence the materiality has over stakeholders’ assessment and decision-making, coupled with level of significance of corporate economic, social, and environmental impacts. 4 Review Validation 3 As for the results from the 3 prior steps of sustainable The Company has validated the Company’s sustainable materiality assessment, the Management Committee has materiality issues, particularly on external stakeholders’ received and approved 2017 Materiality Issues. perspectives and opinions. Stakeholders’ opinions were collected through various channels, instantaneously with in-depth interviews of multiple various stakeholder group, comprises customers, suppliers, and thought leaders. Obtained information from the channels are utilized for the assessment. 2017 CP ALL Materiality Assessment Results Supply Chain Management Human Resource Management Influence on stakeholder assessments & decisions Customer Relationship Management Occupational Health and Safety Corporate Governance Environmental Management Health and Nutrition Risk and Crisis management Human Rights Social Impacts Innovation Management Local Conflict Management Education GHGs Emission Air Emission from Refrigeration Singnificance of the reporting organization’s economic, environmental & social impacts 15 Creating happiness throughstakeholder engagement To manage complicated challenges, to prepare for changes in modern business context, and to satisfy expectations of of each stakeholder group is crucial in effectively all stakeholders, stakeholder satisfying stakeholders. Instantaneously, the Company also benefited from awareness promotion among its engagement is vital in facilitating employees, specifically on the importance of good comprehension of external context, relationship with stakeholders. The Company has in fostering cooperation, processes to monitor any grievances arise. This buttresses driving business toward the Company in moves for boundary expansion, aiming sustainability. to eventually engagewith all stakeholder groups. The Company has promoted multi-channel stakeholder engagement forcollection of feedback, recommendations, permitting acknowledgement and Management Approach comprehension of all involved stakeholders. This CP ALL Plc. and its Subsidiaries (“the Company”) aids the Company in future formulation of the best have analyzed and categorized all relevant stakeholders responses to topics of concerned, and make progress to better identification of boundaries, and addressing with them, in alignment to continual development and stakeholders’ expectation. The Company has changed improvement. On this note, opinions of all stakeholder categorization of stakeholders, from previously 8 groups groups have been analyzed, and considered a key to 10 groups. Understanding the need or expectation agenda in Sustainability Report 2017. 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Stakeholder Engagement Engagement Channel Examples of Agenda Examples of Stakeholder and Expectation the Company’s Response Employees • Satisfaction and commitment • Long-term compensation and • Employee Joint Investment yearly survey benefits Program: EJIP Phase 3 • Feedback and complaint • Skill development and (2017-2022) channel professional advancement • Analysis of skill development Bell ringing (Koh-Rakang) • Health promotion and workplan channel 229 times related stress management • Leadership readiness preparation Visiting branches, office, • Good working environment and development and distribution center • Provide skill and knowledge 12 times trainings suiting each • Intranet, internal gazettes, and employee’s interests daily digital feed • Capacity development for all • Performance showcase, employees and retain the right meeting/innovation/risk employees identification, and assessment • Consultation service and health competition promotion program, meditation program • Application of human rights principle in employee’s treatment • Promoting business operators to adhere to labour standard and good labour practice Store Partners • Commitment yearly survey • Treatments in accordance to • Communicating about good • Feedback and complaint principle of good governance governance and business ethic channels and business ethics • Promoting, facilitating, and Communications via • Promoting competitiveness training business operators to Call Center capacity, and business improve their management Website feedback management competency and complaint channel • Business stability, business • Sharing market information (quarterly) expansion and continue • Develop a variety of productsin • Gazette and publication cooperation response to the market’s • Conventions, seminars, demand and activities • Cost and operational • Policy and business direction management announcement event 17 Engagement Channel Examples of Agenda Examples of Stakeholder and Expectation the Company’s Response Customer • Feedback and complaint • Detailed and accurate • Communicate with customers channel promotional campaigns and consumers to ascertain Call centre for feedback • Quality and safety their grasp of the Company’s and complaint 32,709 times • Informative and accurate promotional campaigns Website and social media product label • Increase channels broadcasting channel 5,178 times • Service time sale promotion • Customer’s opinion survey • Develop and improve products, for their quality, safety and nutrition • Clearly communicate nutritional facts, recommended product usage and services via the products’ label • Improve purchase and production channel • Create a pleasing and enjoyable shop atmosphere Supplier • Supplier meeting and interviews • Sustainable agenda in supply • Established procurement policy : expectations on sustainability chain, such as human rights for supplier sustainability and operation expectations • Deliverability good practice. Founded a • Supplier satisfaction survey • Collective bargaining and fair product selection committee. every 2 years contract • Adhere to principle of equality • Supplier relation call center: • Promote opportunities for smalland fairness, applicable to all 0-2711-7771 scale suppliers suppliers • Visiting partners, gather • Compliance with business suggestions and information agreements and business ethics on grievances • Communicate the importance • Co-creating innovation projects of sustainability, include it as a • Inspection, consultation, and criterion in supplier selection capacity enhancement process and performance evaluation • Develop supplier inspection regulations in accordance with procurement policy for sustainability and good practice for supplier • Promote suppliers’ awareness in social responsibility awareness 18 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Engagement Channel Examples of Agenda Examples of Stakeholder and Expectation the Company’s Response Shareholder and • Trimester meeting • Overall operations and growth • Elevate the compliance efficacy Investor • Shareholder general assembly • Reasonable investment yield to good governance principle • Financial statement Good governance • Ensure shareholder equality, • Annual Registration Statement • Operational transparency protecting shareholder and (Form 56-1) and information disclosure investor interests • Annual Report • Reputation and public • Aim for business growth, • Sustainability Report acceptance risk reduction, transparent • Invitation letters, operations documents,informative media • Listen to feedback from • Communicate through other shareholder and investor to channels, i.e. website under the consider and set strategy for the ‘investor relation’ section Company’s operation • Roadshow both locally and internationally • Company visit (store, factory, and distribution center) Community, Society, • Yearly community relation • Community development, • Professional and living quality and Environment activity in the factory proximity creating common value improvement program, through • Regular area visits between community and distribution channel • Education and relationbusiness, society participation • Energy and waste management strengthening activities • Education opportunity for program Increasing numbers • Complaint channels sustainable skill development of energy-saving and innovative • Billboards, public relation media • Good environment management convenience store • Product quality improvement, • Planning and improving market accessibility, community environment management sale channel system • Promotion and preservation of • Landscape improvement and local culture adjustment around the program to fitthe local culture and context Government • Support and cooperation in • Strict compliance to relevant • Study and ensure government projects 49 times laws and regulations comprehension of new laws and (with Department of Internal • Setting example for private regulations, which are applicable Trade, Thai Food and Drug sector concerning social and and area specific, in order to Administration, Department environmental responsibility apply them to related business of Health; Department of context Environment, 50 District • Express criticism and feedback of Bangkok Metropolitan through unions and trade Administration) association • Participation in feedback • Compliance to relevant law and process, openly foster good regulations relationship with government • Support government’s primary sector 18 times inspection related to sustainable • Mutual support from development government sector, with governmental inspection and visits conducted 19 Engagement Channel Examples of Agenda Examples of Stakeholder and Expectation the Company’s Response Non-Governmental • Listen to feedback and • Human rights in supply chain, • Understanding expectation, Organization and exchange vision through labour rights discuss and exchange Opinions leaders various platforms, collaborative • Support of vulnerable group operational expertise,in order efforts, and other applicable • Environmental deterioration to integrate them as part of engagement sustainable operation • Public disclosure of annual performance through various media channels • Consider participation in sustainability-oriented projects,promoting sustainability application throughout the supply chain, and among small operators Media • Small Media Supporting • Disclosed information in an • Project with news reporter Program, such as Thailand Best accurate, precise, and timely and content creator both new Blog Awards by CP ALL, The manner and conventional media best digital news of the year, • Promote and maximize social • Promote critical and creative and Thailand's goodness award media usage, specifically on the media usage in media Supporting moral and aspect of creativity • Disclosing information accurately ethics • Education promotion through and timely • Promote and actively participate media in media activities i.e. CSR • Progress on creating shared activities value projects • Giving interviews and information to media • “Co-Project with Media” campaign i.e. in collaboration with medias to support communities and society during disaster period, charity activities, and religion related training Creditors • Annual meeting and discussion • Strict compliance to existing • Conduct risk management, • Publication and informative contract and applicable maintain good financial media letter conditions condition, cash rate, loan • Pay creditor on schedule and interest amount • Report financial statement that • Disclosure of overall operation is transparent, correct, and through annual report accountable • Provide budget and performance audit 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Commitment to Ethics and Corporate Governance CP ALL Plc. and its Subsidiaries (“Company”) are committed in operating our business in a manner that will resonate sustainability. This shall be achieved through implementation of a management system, which uphold good governance principles rooted in ethics, equality, traceability, accountability, and responsibility to all stakeholders. The Company complies to relevant laws and regulatory requirements, while simultaneously conforming our practices with international standards. This is in accordance to our goal to create values to society, to address and mitigate environmental impacts, as well as adapting to changing contexts. 21 The Company’s corporate governance policy and and Anti-Corruption Policies. The Company’s corporate code of conduct encompass 5 key areas: shareholders’ governance approach, de facto, complies with relevant rights, equal treatment of shareholders, stakeholders’ legal requirements, corporate goals and regulations, the role, information disclosure and transparency, and Board’s charters, guidelines, and resolutions, as well as committee responsibilities. The Company has reviewed Shareholders’ resolutions. and revised our policy and guidelines to be in line The Company’s Board has setup 3 committees. All with current situations, in additional to compliance of which are independently carrying out their duties in to applicable laws and international standards. This accordance with the charter, and are directly responsible was accomplished via implementation of Corporate to the Company Board. These committees include: Governance Code (CG Code), issued by the Securities Audit Committee. In addition to financial auditing, and Exchange Commission (SEC), in the Company’s the Committee also verifies the Company’s business contexts. compliance to policies, rules and regulations, legal The Company has created a Business Ethics requirements, and requirements of regulatory Handbook and Code of Conduct. The documents are authorities. Additionally, the Committee also to be used as guidelines for the Board, management assesses and ensures that there is a robust internal team, and Company employees. They support them control and risk management process. Consultation in maintaining an ethical performance in their roles. with independent, third-party financial auditors The guidelines adheres to laws, transparency, to have also been conducted to surface insights and the Company’s commitment to fairness and ethics, recommendations on the Company’s financial customer-centric approach, social responsibility, political statements and internal controls. Findings and neutrality, equal treatment of all stakeholders; this is in recommendations, both from the Committee additional to non-involvement in human right violations, and external auditors, are reported to the anti-corruption, non-acceptance of compensation Company Board every quarter. The Company has beyond common practice, anti-bribery, no conflicts implemented these recommendations, and will of interests, and preclusion of activities involving be reporting intervention results in the following Intellectual Property (IP) violations. Board meeting. Corporate Governance Committee. The committee is responsible for drafting the 2020 Goal corporate governance policy, anti-corruption Disclosure of CP ALL Plc. policy, relevant code of conduct, business and its Subsidiaries’ (“the Company”) ethics code, and good work practice. The good governance performance. aforementioned policies and codes of conduct are regularly revised annually, in order to ensure relevance with international standard, Corporate Governance Approach governmental and relevant organization’s The Company’s Board plays an important role in regulations. The committee also actively produce driving the organization, entrusted with the responsibility recommendations, submitted as reports, to to ensure our corporate governance approach the board of director. The said submission will facilitates the Company towards the objectives and address their relevant areas, comprises: corporate the goals of creating the highest value. Good corporate governance, anti-corruption policy, and relevant governance is built on the foundation of social and code of conduct twice a year. Furthermore, environmental responsibility, equal treatments to the Committee monitors the compliance stakeholders—guided by the Corporate Governance of the board, the directors, and employees. 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 23 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Corporate Governance Structure AGM of Shareholders Board of Directors Corporate Governance Committee Audit Committee CG Sub-Committee Internal Audit Remuneration and Nomination Committee Chairman of Executive Committee Company Secretary (Executive Committee) Managing Director and Chief Executive Committee Sustainable Development Information & Technology Investment Committee Risk Management HR Committee Committee Committee Committee Risk Management Unit Compliance Unit Operation Merchandising Purchasing Distribution CAF-M Human Accounting Information Sustainable Corporate & Marketing Center Resource and Finance Technology Development Strategy This monitoring would be in consideration to ethics, codes of conducts, risk management policy, corporate governance policy, anti-corruption governance policy for media-based data technology, policy, and relevant code of conduct, while secure trade through utilization of internal data policy, simultaneously audits and evaluates for policy data disclosure in accordance with Stock Exchange of compliance of the board and management. Thailand and Securities and Exchange Commission. Recommendations would then be made in light Compliance of these policies is monitored and to report of policy compliance. to Corporate Governance Committee. Remuneration and Nomination Committee. The committee is responsible for establishing the Board of Director and Subcommittee criteria and compensation form for the board and Performance Evaluation executive, which will subsequently be presented to The Company arranges for performance evaluation the board of directors. The board of director holds of the overall Board of Directors, and individually, in the authority to approve the compensation for the order to assist the Subcommittee in reviewing their executive, while resolution from a shareholders’ past performance, obstacle and challenges of the year meeting hold the authority to approve the board’s prior. This aims to improve all relevant performance, compensation. This committee also appraises the by enabling a clearer assessment of how their scope of executive’s compensation to commensurate their duty and responsibilities are fulfilled. Simultaneously, performance. This is in addition to establishing the performance evaluation also offers an opportunity criteria and hiring processes, in order to ascertain for the Board of Directors and management to improve quality positioning of members. The committee relations. selects the suitable individual basing from the In 2017, results from the self-evaluation of Board of aforementioned criteria and process, supplements Director overall, individually, Audit Committee, Corporate with the shareholder’s nominee. This is in Governance Committee, as well as Compensation and accordance to the Company’s regulations. Appointment Committee are all in a good score range; Shareholders’ opinions are also noted in the having overall index score of 88, 86, 100, 95, and 93 board’s meeting prior to further propose to the respectively. shareholder’s meeting. Risk Management and Compliance of Law, Codes of Conduct in Corporate Governance Regulation, and Enforcement The Corporate Governance Committee has The Company sets a specific work sector within appointed a Corporate Governance Subcommittee, the organization structure to address this particular which comprises of representation from all work sectors, topic, ‘the Risk Management unit and Compliance unit’. working together to further enhance the directors’ They work under Risk Management Committee, while corporate governance, and to encourage employees to they are, themselves, comprised of representatives observe implementation of corporate governance policy, from all work sectors within the organization to ensure anti-corruption policy, applicable codes of conduct, work effectiveness. The unit reports their actions and and business ethics code. All of which can be found performance to the Audit Committee, in compliance in their work manuals. The Committee also appointed with the Audit Committee’s charter on effective auditing experts to provide consultation on the topic of corporate process and risk management process. The management governance, to share insights, recommendations, and processes are for a multitude of risks, such as strategic to ensure continuous development of corporate risk, operational risk, financial risk, compliance risk, governance practice to be on par to universal standard. social, environment, and economic risk, tax risk, and These practices are such as, corporate governance policy, risk of corruption. conflicts of interest policy, data privacy policy, business 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Anti-Corruption After the Company signed as part of Thailand's Private established anti-corruption measures, laid down work Sector Collective Action Coalition against Corruption process, and made implementation accordingly. The (“CAC”), the company drafted an anti-corruption policy, Company communicates on all its channel, throughout code of conduct against corruption, code of conduct for all organization levels, and to external party, in order donation, code of conduct for financial support, code of to promote implementation of the mentioned policy. conduct on giving and receiving gifts. The Company has Continual Development to Elevate Corporate Governance In 2017, the company communicates with the aim to create awareness on business ethics, anti-corruption policy, and code of conduct, to all levels in the organization, as well as the subsidiaries’ employees, for a total of 142,784 individuals. The company also organizes trainings and workshops to strengthen employees’ understanding, as many as 3,161 individuals participated. Details are as follows. Executives Mid Management Operator Participants Percentage Participants Percentage Participants Percentage (number) (number) (number) 664 97 1,048 95 1,449 1 In addition, to ensure that all employees understand and are capable of adhering with the compliance, the Company arranges an examination for those in division (Department) manager level and above. They must pass with 100% score. To ensure the approach is effective in all work sectors, the Company applies various standards to develop Corporate Governance Self-Assessment tool. This assessment will be used from 2017 onward. This tool references international standard of corporate governance, good assessment conducts, and good corporate governance conducts, such as Transparency International, Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development Principles of Corporate Governance, and more. Self-evaluation forms were sent to 100% of divisional managers, company’s business units, and subsidiaries. Response rate was at 98%. The overall score from self-evaluation is 97%. Details are illustrated in the table below. Law and ofRecognition stakeholder Politic nonSocial Transparency responsibility AntiMorality regulations importance affiliation corruption and fairness 95% 98% 98% 97% 97% 97% 99% 25 In addition to anti-corruption measures to reduce corruption risk, the Company also creates measures to help detect and report corruption risks in a timely manner. Communication channels were set and displayed on company’s website. These channels connect stakeholders, related parties, executives, and employee, enabling a channel for grievances, report corruption cases, or injustice. The Company prioritizes protection of sources, and have measures to protect the sources against reconciliation and threats thereafter. The Company also establishes measures for damage compensation, if occur, to the source. Channels for complaints and auditing process that protect the identity of the source • E-mail to one of the following Audit Committee: AuditCommittee@cpall.co.th Corporate Governance Committee: CGcommittee@cpall.co.th Board of Directors: BOD@cpall.co.th • Post service, attention to Audit Office, CP ALL (Public Company Limited), address 119, 16th FL., Sathorn Buidling, Sathorn 5 Alley, Sathorn Tai Road, Thung Maha Mek Sub-district, Sathorn District, Bangkok 10120 • Call Center Tel: 02-071-2770 and 02-826-7744 Fax: 02-071-8623 • Website: cpall.co.th, go to Corruption report Certified as member of Thailand’s Private Sector Collective Action Coalition against Corruption-“CAC” Thai Institute of Directors (IOD) as secretary of CAC committee has notified the Company that on 18th August 2017 the board of CAC had certified the Company as CAC certified member valid for 3 years from the day of certification. 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Holistic Integrated Management Framework: Readiness in mitigating diverse risk profiles Under the supervision of the Audit Committee, Audit Office, Risk Management Function, and Corporate Governance Function, the scope of risk and crisis management has been expanded. Relevant corporate sustainability issues have been incorporated as additional risk factors, achieved through the participation of both Risk Managers and Risk Champions of all functions. 27 Risk and crisis management procedures for business Under this framework, CP ALL Plc. (“the Company”) continuity and sustainability have been embedded has taken wide range of actions to increase awareness into regular business operations and tailored to suit all and sensitization in discovering corporate risks. These internal corporate functions. Our Risk Culture, which include: adopts a working framework designed for both top-down • The Black Swan Award is a project that has been in and bottom-up approaches, encourages engagement place since 2015. In 2017, the Company organized at all levels and ensures that risk management plans a competition to discover “Black Swan” risks, and measures are practical and effective. The working under the following six risk issues: framework comprises of 3 key steps: Pre-incident risk 1. Business Continuity management, real-time incident management, and 2. Work Process Risk and Crisis Management post-incident damage recovery, as reflected in the Working Framework 3. Product for and Service diagram below: Business Continuity and Sustainability 4. Outsourcing RISK MANAGEMENT INCIDENT MANAGEMENT DAMAGE RECOVERY 1 2 3 PREREALPOSTINCIDENT TIME INCIDENT Sequence of incident occurrence Implement INCIDENT OCCURRENCE OVERALL RECOVERY OBJECTIVE : Back to normal as priority & Monitor Indentify Risks TIMELINE Incident Response Business Continuity Recovery/Resumption Back to normal Develop Action Strategies MINUTES to HOURS WEEKS to MONTHS Plans • Staff and visitors accounted for • Contact staff, customers, • Damage repair/replacement MINUTES to DAYS Understand • Casualties dealt with suppliers, etc. • Relocation to permanent place Risks • Damage/loss limitation • Recovery of critical business of work Prioritize • Damage/loss assessment processes • Recovery of costs from insurers Risks • Invocation of BCP • Rebuild lost work-in-progress BS 25999-1:2006 Part 1: Code of Practice Risk and Crisis Management Working Framework for Business Continuity and Sustainability Risks identified either by function representatives 5. Corporate Sustainability; and or Risk Champions, and those assessed through other 6. Other Activities related to companies in the channels, will be reported to the Risk Manager for a joint Group review of specific plans and measures, and prevention Participating employees can submit risk issues of business disruption. The mitigation and prevention through multiple channels, including electronic plans will be cascaded to the Risk Committee and Audit media through QR Codes for convenience and Committee for reviewing every quarter and half a year, greater participation. In 2017, four submissions respectively. Emergency cases can be immediately were awarded on the following risk issues: capacity reported before the regular reporting period. to comply with regulations and requirements, 28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED food safety, human rights issues, and safety. The Company has developed systems and processes to awarding criteria included conceptual approaches manage its Omni-channel strategy to ensure that in identifying and providing control, preventive, customers are able to access its products and services and management measures for “Black Swan” anytime and anywhere through a combination of offline risks, which were used by the management team and online stores. The Company has also created a new to supplement their consideration in developing e-commerce sales channel, powered by 24 Shopping practical preventive measures and effective Co., Ltd., pursued various digital marketing activities, and implementation. promoted sales through the use of a mobile application • The “Mai-Na-Loei” Project monitors and reviews to increase customer engagement. The “7-Eleven both national and international situations Thailand” Facebook page and LINE account have also reported by the media or experts in order to been leveraged to communicate news and updates to identify issues relevant to the Company and and receive feedback from customers. In addition, the to Environmental Social Governance criteria Company has also improved its payment gateways. (ESG). The output of this project will be used to Customers can now make payments in 7-Eleven stores form case studies that guide the assessment of using barcodes through Mobile Payment portals of Alipay Corporate Risks and Business Continuity. Wallet and TrueMoney Wallet. Payments through credit cards have also been added to increase convenience Efforts on Risk and Crisis Management for Business and encourage spending among customers with high Continuity and Sustainability have enabled the purchasing volume per bill, as well as Chinese tourists. Company to identify the following emerging risks and The Company has started piloting a delivery service Environmental, Social, and Governance risks: for small-size packages, including products purchased on leading online retailing websites. The service enables Disruptive Digital Technology Risk customers to retrieve their packages 24/7 at any store Technology is increasingly playing a bigger role location in Thailand, and is operated as “At All” by in people’s lives and in business. Competition has Dynamic Management Co., Ltd. intensified and consumer demands are fast changing, especially in the emerging innovation-driven competition Our Digital Presence Risk and business landscape following the government’s The World Bank’s Thailand Economic Monitor announcement of the Thailand 4.0 strategy. The use of 2017 reported that Thailand is “reaching the Digital digital technology in transportation services, marketing, Frontier”. Based on national capacity in different aspects and online distribution, in the long-term, poses risks to and an assessment across various indicators related traditional business models and distribution channel. to digital economy, Thailand performed considerably While this may reduce the competitiveness of 7-Eleven well in terms of “affordability”—indicating value in stores, it also presents an opportunity to create new spending for connectivity—usage of mobile services, businesses and add value to the business. as well as financial attractiveness for investment. This suggests a growth opportunity of the digital world and Company Risk Management its potential socio-economic impact—a change which The Company has continually reviewed its annual calls for adequate preparation. strategy to support business growth and develop The Company is cognizant of such transformation, a readiness strategy for Digital Transformation. To and believes that the world’s future connectivity make it more convenient for customers to access the will inevitably connect our real and digital lives. Company’s products and services, there is a need to The number of people with digital identities on the increase sales channels beyond the storefront. The internet is increasing in tandem with the changing 29 social contexts. This causes the Company to consider Technology and Innovation Developent Office (STIDO) its digital presence, which includes the searching to forge cooperation between internal and external and sharing of information, expression of opinions, entities to develop its own technologies, which are searchability, or even the building and maintenance of aligned with the Company’s strategies and support its on-line relationships globally. If the Company fails to corporate sustainability. approrpriately manage its Digital Presence, it may lose its competitiveness, the opportunity to venture into Risk from Changing Government new businesses, and its value creation to the Company. Policies and Laws Monitoring changes at the local, regional, and Company Risk Management international levels is part of a process to scope out The Company places importance on corporate important information to assist in the decision making governance by creating policies and procedures, and to forecast potential business impact resulting from a Business Ethics and Code of Conduct manual, an new regulations both at the local and international anti-corruption policy and other related guidelines. It levels. Regulations such as those pertaining to the also promotes efficient organizational development, carbon tax, for instance, contain requirements with rooted in transparency and morality and responsibility particularities that are specific to different localities. towards all stakeholders. In addition, the Company If the Company does not monitor, anticipate, and has also tasked the Corporate Communication and prepare for their potential business impact, they may Reputation Management office (CCRM) to communicate affect not only its competitiveness, but also the Group’s and monitor news and information on its digital ability to achieve its growth targets as well. In order to Corporate Image in order to ensure that all parties ensure regulatory compliance and to manage these receive accurate, complete, and timely information. risks, the Company has the following measures. AI and Decision Making Risk Company Risk Management There have been rapid development in Artificial The Company’s business practices are rooted in Intelligence and Decision Making technologies recent transparency, compliance with local and international times. In 2017, Google’s Alpha Go defeated a Chinese laws and regulations, and continuously fulfilling Go world champion and many other world-renowned the government’s policies in its compliance risk players. In the future, should competitors be able to management and assessment of their potential business elect an AI on the Corporate Board of Directors to impact. The Company monitors and participates by facilitate swift decision making based on available giving its opinions on the legislation of emerging laws information and historical events, the Company when authorized agencies are open for public hearing may lose its competitiveness. By the same token, on the issues or concerned with the new regulations. the Company may also leverage the use of AI as In addition, the Company has appointed a Corporate opportunity create new businesses and add value to Governance Subcommittee, a Risk Management the organization. Committee, a Compliance Unit Office, and a Sustainable Development Committee to oversee legal compliance Company Risk Management and enable the Company to operate with transparency, The Company regularly reviews its corporate in accordance with good governance principles with its strategies and incorporates global trends in technology stakeholders, and ensure that it can adapt to regulatory and innovation, including Disruptive Technology, in changes related to its business operations and contain the planning of it’s shortand long-term strategies. their impact at an acceptable level as per organizational In addition, the Company has set up the Science risk management. 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED We Desire Smiles from Customers Our gratitude towards customers in allowing us to present a good variety of quality products and services, as well as our appreciation of our employees who are an important driving force behind the Company’s growth, reflects CP ALL Plc. and its Subsidiaries’ (“the Company”) pride in being a company from the east which harmonizes an international outlook in its business operations. These values are imbued in the corporate philosophy to which the Company has strongly committed, “Through happy employees, we desire to see smiles from customers”. 31 As a company engaged in the retail business which customers.”, the Company commits to the Service, faces increased competition, the Company paces high Assortment, Value, Environment, Quality and Cleanliness importance on customer relationships and satisfaction. Principle or SAVEQC as operational guidelines for Customer feedback and needs are hence critical 7-Eleven convenient store, in addition to building on the insights that help the Company’s determine its sales foundational guidelines of license owners. Nevertheless, strategy, selection of quality products and services, the Company has cascaded these operational guidelines and research and development, among others. These to its Subsidiaries which operate business related to inputs all enhance the Company’s competitive capacity, 7-Eleven, with adaptations to appropriately meet the whether it be in customer retention through maintaining nature of these businesses. their satisfaction of products and services, meeting Aside from following the SAVEQC principle, the their demands, and providing greater convenience— Company also builds relationships with customers by contributing to customers’ decision to continue to use listening to their opinions and making improvement our services and recommend them to others by sharing recommendations based on customer expectations positive experiences. The Company also uses these and complaints, among others, through suggestions insights to discover and create new possibilities, and and grievance channels. In addition to the Company’s keep track of changes to the market, resulting in the multi-channel communication, the Company pursued Company’s understanding and ability to create plans to a proactive strategy to gather customer opinions by bestprepare for changes, including efficiently expanding monitoring and analyzing information obtained through its customer base. different social media platforms, in order to ensure that Following our corporate philosophy, “Through the Company is able to efficiently respond to customer happy employees, we desire to see smile from demands. Service [S] Provide convenience through quality service, employees who are hospitable, polite, and eager to provide assistance and service Assortment [A] Provide a variety of products and services that sufficiently meets customer demands swiftly Value [V] Select and present products that have value for money and quantity Environment [E] Manage internal store environment to be in good and safe condition; effective use of natural resource Quality [Q] Manage product quality and standards exceeding customer expectations, offer freshness, and alternative product for health Cleanliness [C] Manage cleanliness and occupational health within the store, storefront area, and related to equipment SAVEQC Operational Framework Operation Results The Company has leveraged customer feedback to support continuous improvements by communicating feedback to the relevant functions for their information and appropriate action weekly, creating motivation and inspiration for change and delivery of a variety of services. This also contributes to higher reported customer satisfaction. 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Customer's feedback Management Approach Stamps collection is not convenient, and is easily lost. The Company has launched a new stamp collection channel through the 7-Eleven mobile application, to increase inconvenience and offer an alternative stamp collection method. Insufficient staff per customer and payment delays The Company has increased a variety of payment during peak hours. methods to reduce payment time, aligned with changing lifestyles and social contexts in 2017. The Company has enabled customers to make payments through credit cards and TrueMoney Wallet. Customer Satisfaction Survey Results convenience, safety, or 24/7 operations. In response, the Company has prepared for this market expansion 95% through digital media, launching a payment service through Counter Service Co., Ltd., covering payments for 90% over 1,000 product and service items, as well as providing product sales and consignment services through online 85% channels, operated by 24 Shopping Co., Ltd.—following the slogan, “Fun shopping, everything, real convenience 80% 90% 24/7”, which have been translated from the Company’s 85% 86% 87% corporate philosophy. Providing the highest customer 75% 79% satisfaction through all channels is the Company’s 70% aspiration. The Company has focused its online channel • 2013 • 2014 • 2015 • 2016 • 2017 strategy on 5 key areas: 1) create an application to provide convenience in making product purchase orders, Product and Service Delivery through 2) provide payment options products and services, 3) Digital Channels improve communication to be easy to use and meet the Societal trends are changing; and society is entering needs and behaviors of users, 4) strengthen customer a cashless and digital milieu. Leapfrog technologies are information security by continuously conducting security affecting lifestyles and shaping expectations of ‘good tests, identify gaps, and make improvements, and 5) service’ from providers, whether it be in the form of engage with customers through electronic media. Operation Results The expansion of sales channels and continuously promotion of good relationships with customers through digital channels led to growth in sales and number of customers for the Company. 2015 2016 2017 Online sales (% Change) +17% +2% +3% No. of Customers (% Change) +34% +6% +6% **Data reported in the table only cover 24 Shopping Co., Ltd. 33 Applications and Contact Channels Information channel to support sales, online sales, location for the nearby 7-Eleven stores; avail of benefits and discounts, and collect M-Stamp. Stores selling online products, which can be selected, paid, picked up, claimed, and changed 24/7 through 7-Eleven stores. Information channel to support sales, sales of online products, location search for nearby Makro stores. Online payment channels for service, including utilities, insurances, travel tickets, and fees, among others. Customer Relations Contact Number: 0-2711-7744; Toll-free hotline for provincial calls: 1800-226-671 Email: faq@7-eleven.co.th Online social networks: Facebook Twitter and Pantip.com, among others. Post: CP ALL Plc., PO. Silom 1033, Bangkok, 10504 Direct communication through 7-Eleven stores Partner Applications Payment channels for products and service through connecting with 7-Eleven stores Gosoft (Thailand) Co., Ltd., a subsidiary of CP ALL Plc. specializes in providing comprehensive information technology services, ranging from software development, system integration, data center, and contact—all following international standards such as ISO/IEC 20000 and ISO/IEC 27001. 34 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Adding Product Value, For Consumer’s Better Quality of Life Amidst fast-moving social trends driving consumer demands, placing a premium on health and nutrition, and increasing competition among modern retail businesses, the Company is challenged to offer quality products, poised as the best health option for consumers —in order to achieve the highest customer satisfaction. 35 CP ALL Plc. and its Subsidiaries (“the Company”) 12% is committed to meeting customer demands, offer quality products, and providing convenience and 10% 10% lighting up smiles. Today’s global “mega trend” which 8% places higher demands for health-related products and 8% services is in line with increasing domestic demands for 6% 6% health products in Thailand. This reflects a shift for this 4% product group, which was considered a niche market 4% 5% Target Actural but now is becoming a mainstream product category. 2% 3% 2% This presents an opportunity and a challenge for the 0% Company in promoting nutrition in Thailand through • 2016 • 2017 • 2018 • 2019 • 2020 the development and delivery of goods that have good nutritional value. This determination has been reflected new products, coupled with other health promotion through our policy to offer products that are packed projects. The Company’s direction to meet the health with good nutritional value, safe for consumption, and demands of Thai people is a driving force for the traceable. The testing and selection of raw materials will Company to conduct various projects, such as: also have to pass through a safety and quality inspection. Health Alternative Logo. The Company has The production process needs to be efficient, and taken part in the “Development and Promotion of meet international hygiene standards. These efforts are the Use of Easy Nutritional Symbols as Production coupled with communication and operations guided by Selection Information to Reduce Sugar, Sodium, and these responsibilities. It is the Company’s commitment Fat Consumption” project in order to certify products to deliver quality products and support good health for based on the “better nutritional value” criteria. The customers across the country. Company has developed food products and made As a leader in modern retail business, we have recipe improvements in the production process to strived to work with business partners to drive forward meet the project’s nutritional criteria. Presently, a health and nutrition products. This was done through wide array of products has been certified, such as 3 developing product packaging plans, sharing of menu items in the ready-to-eat rice box product group knowledge, and solicitation of quality suggestions from (rice with shrimp omelet, rice with chilli-friend fish, related agencies. This has yielded a wide variety of and rice with pork krapao). In addition, the Company health products, such as “7-fresh” ready-to-eat fresh has also communicated to its business partners to fruits, “Ezy GO” ready-to-eat meals, and our business consider developing products and submitting them for partners’ ready-to-eat foods (egg products and chicken certification, supporting the sale of certified products. breast) under the name “CP Balance”. The Company This initiative was able to grow this product group, has set a target to increase the proportion of health particularly in the category of health drinks, achieving products and services to 10% of the Company’s total a 22% growth in 2017. 36 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED In addition, the Company has also initiated the have sufficient important information in making their Health Fresh Food project to promote consumers’ purchase decisions. In 2017, piloting the Healthy Fresh access to healthy food by installing product display Food project in 3 locations (Samitivej Hospital branch, shelves dedicated for alternative health menu items. Lumpini Park Waterside branch, and Samantha building These include fresh salads and products that have branch Sukhumvit 33) achieved a 10% growth in sales. received healthy alternative certification, among The Company has plans to expand its operation scope, others. This is complemented by providing health both in terms of the number of menu items and the information through QR Code, to ensure that customers coverage of branch stores. 37 Strengthening Capacity, One Organization Human resource management is one of the key success indicators adopted by leading global organizations. It drives business and society forward, propelling them towards achieving sustainable development goals. It serves as an additional topic to be considered, supplementing fundamental topic, i.e. workforce planning commensurate to business’ growth, increasing work capacity to maximize employment value. CP ALL Plc. and its Subsidiaries (“the Company”) have distinctive visions and the courage to take actions. These factors distinguish the Company, enabling concrete success. The Company’s effort to identify management opportunity highlights human resource management. The Company prioritizes employee capacity development, as reflected through outpouring financial investment. All employees are the Company’s pride. The Company have successfully fostered “good, smart people, who are forward-thinking, and collaborative.’ Thus, human resource management opportunity is interconnected to conceptualization of internal engagement, serving as a factor inaugurating the Company as Thailand’s leading retailer. 38 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Operational Challenges Social contexts are changing in many forms, In the working framework, the Company has the through digital media or IT communications. They following: gradually become part of a daily life. These changes • Promote diversity by announcing a policy on permeate activities and lifestyles across all generations, diversity management and acceptance. The from product and service purchases to large industrial policy is related to Human Rights and Labour production processes. These changes affect values, Practice Policy. It comprises of 5 components, professional attitudes, and demand. Workforce is which are 1) readiness for others’ differing not implored to be apt with modern working skill. opinions, 2) promote and stimulate sharing of These skill sets determine how well an organization constructive opinions, 3) enhance working culture can address imminent changes and challenges. to be respectful and harmonious, in regards to Subsequently, the Company recognizes the importance diversity, 4) equal treatment throughout the in instantaneously develop human resource capacity. process, both in terms of selection, development Employees must have readiness. The Company’s opportunity, and professional growth, and 5) approach constitutes collaboration with academic rewarding employees’ good performance. The institutions. Such collaboration is often on skill training policy aims to combine differences, open up the and professional readiness preparation, designed for space for differing opinions, solidifying employee university students and any interested individuals. satisfaction. Management Approach • The Company gives all employee equal access to The working framework for human resource capacity development, as well as opportunities development can be categorized into 3 main phases: for professional development. Each of the 3 work Pre-employment preparation, capacity development units has their respective standard programs, and impact measurement, and retention of knowledge comprises branch store unit, product distribution and experience. unit, and office unit. The program’s content has Pre-employment Capacity Development Retention of Knowledge Preparation and Impact measurement and Experience • Providing scholarships in programs • CP ALL Our Way: the Company’s long term • Good welfare, good quality of life agreeable to the needsร plan towards sustainability in the next 30 • Promote good and smart employees to • Develop modern program, with even years continue working with the organization weight between practical experience • Respecting diversity, promoting collaborative • Building a team working atmosphere and and academic understanding work through the principle of ‘Combining cross-function collaboration • Prepare for professional skills, working similarities, blending the differences, • Open up opportunities and encourage culture and society building integration, as if one orchestra; employees to jointly invest and operate or Harmony’ • Prioritize all positions, give recognition business with the Company to end-results and success, open for all criticism through various channel • Grant opportunity for professional growth. Provide a showcasing platform. • Assess, provide advices and clear working directions; instantaneously, facilitate skill development • Leadership building programs for all, and new leader development program, such as CP ALL Young Challenger Boot Camp project Working framework on human resource development 39 been commensurate to suit all-level individuals, • The Company has conducted surveys exploring from operational, management, to executives. what skills employees are most interested in. The aforementioned programs are part of the Employee assessment’s results, conducted by annual employee development plan. They grant the work lead, is consequentially utilized to employee knowledge training for their position facilitate program design and development. It and level, simultaneously maintain consistency enables training programs to be consistent and with respective plausible professional path. appropriate to the profession. The programs are conceptualized with full considerations to Pilot Project in Driving Human the Company’s values, and equilibrium needs Resource Management between both the employees and the Company. The Company analysed the results, categorizing it according to the employees’ age range. This allows The 3 Elemental Programs identification of a specific issue that interests each age Branch Store Program comprises of the standard program for store employees, the standard range. The results show that Generation Y employees, program for the store’s assistant manager, the Company’s new driving force, are interested in being the standard program for store’s manager, exposed to various learning opportunities; in addition the standard program for assistant to district to regular full-time work. The Company uses the survey manager, and the standard program for district results to devise human resource working plan. manager. Product Distribution Program comprises of a fundamental program on stock inventory, Factors Utilized for the Company’s Human a fundamental program on product increase, Resource Development a knowledge-based program for work lead, • Vision, Mission, and the Organization’s goals, a program on coaching technique and trainings Human Resource Management Policy of Charoen during operations, and a standard program for the unit head. Pokphand Group Office Program comprises of fundamental • Business strategies program on the organization, a program on • Capacity, skills, and competency set, such as communication and facilitation skills, Service leadership, necessary working skills, and future Excellence program, a program on concepts necessary skills for work quality improvement, a program on mindfulness and efficiency increase at work, a • Results from satisfaction and engagement surveys fundamental preparation program for work lead, of employees and customers Service Plus program, a program on coaching • Results from Competency Gap Assessment, and technique, a program on advising technique, employee development plan a standard program on modern work lead, a Furthermore, the Company also promotes program for mindfulness and value enhancement in work lead, a fundamental preparation program development of necessary knowledge and skill for at an executive level, service management employees nearing retirement. There would be seminars program, effective meeting program, effective conducted annually. These seminars expound privileges communication program, modern management and benefits retirees are entitled to from the public program, advanced management program, and private sector. There are also activities providing wisdom exploration I & II program, master of advanced management program, reflective information on financial planning in preparation to conversation, to coaching program retirement, to name a few. 40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Employees, who has been at the Company for 7-Eleven store. As many as 1,242 branches have been a sufficiently long time, will be entitled to participate founded. This arrangement fortifies good engagement in Employee Joint Investment Program: EJIP, including between employees and the Company’s business. It also a discount for service fees at 7-Eleven stores. This aids in employee retention, subsequently their expertise discount is only applicable for participating employees. in branch store management and retail business. Said employees can also pay loans without interests. The program provides an incentive for employees to Presently, employees and employees nearing retirement continue working with the Company. are actively involved in joint investment program of Employee Capacity Building Programs Objectives Target Groups Evaluation Program Approach Operational To provide knowledge and understanding in innovation, R&D; to Officers and Assistant Measures innovation (Big fish) serve as a channel for knowledge and experience exchange, also to District Manager results of project an innovation showcasing platform for branch store implementation Academic seminar on To provide knowledge and understanding on innovation, R&D; All levels of Measures production growth serving as an exhibition channel for the Company’s innovation employees results of project (President Award) implementation Sharing knowledge To provide knowledge and understanding of principles, QC Story All levels of Measures the and addressing tool, and QC Tools/Technique; which can be adopted for work employees results from project issues (Ant Mission) application; to serve as a channel for knowledge and experience implementation exchange, allowing improvement Service Mindset for To revise the conceptual framework on building the Company’s Assistant to the Behavioral Leader unique service experience; to obtain necessary skills for service store’s manager, the assessment after the work; to be able to coach for excellent service within the branch store’s manager, or training store equivalent Healthy Food To provide knowledge and understanding regarding consumer Officer– Manager of Assess the level Development Trend context and trends for elder consumer; to be able to apply the product development of knowledge and for Convenient knowledge in health product and food for elderly development. and quality comprehension Stores This is in alignment to the business strategy. assurance Site Selection I, II To provide knowledge and understanding in each location Officers – manager Measure knowledge, selection principle; to be able to work according to relevant of business understanding, and working standard. development assess behavior after training Action Learning To boost analytical and communication skills for operational Assistant to District’s Measure skills and Business Consultant success and further ideation. This leads to enhanced store manager Field behaviors after the Trainee management permitting innovations. To build self-confidence Consultant (FC) to training, and assess as a store business partner for management of branch store, Business Consultant the results from the corporate store, and joint investment store (BC) project Food Safety To aid comprehension of a convenient restaurant concept; to Assistant to store’s Assess behaviors Management raise the awareness for hygiene and service; to provide guideline manager after the training Program regarding food, and applicable laws. This may comprise laws food safety. Trained participant must be able to direct customers to safe and suitable products 41 Initiatives under human resource management Our Way Project: “Guideline for Sustainable Growth in the Next 30 Years” The project has been in continuous operation since 2016. It focuses on extirpating generation gaps amongst employees. The project’s aim to enable different generations to work harmoniously in the most effective manner, and jointly-creating great results. The Company has established a joint committee, comprises of representatives from all employees’ age range. High level executives from each work unit also actively take part. The Committee communicates and drives forward this key message to all employees. In 2017, One Way would be the crux of all communication, bolstering employees’ awareness and recognition of Our Way, and subsequently, its role in contributing to even greater Company’s results. Adherence to Our Way allows employees to be ‘Open minded, adaptive, and changed.’ The Concept of “Our Way” or “5 developments” 3. Strive, the employee is eager to be dedicated, and is a concept inferred from studies and benchmarking strived to meet the organizational expectation, with leading organizations in Thailand and abroad. It enabling the business to succeed was conceptualized in conjunction to brainstorming The Company prioritizes engagement between sessions with employee representatives from all levels. employees and the organization. This was reflected All representatives unanimously agree what the most through drafting of strategic policy, with continuous important and necessary issues are. In order for the implementation efforts. As of 2017, the Company has organization to grow sustainably, the following must founded a joint committee, comprises of representatives be addressed: from every work units. The joint committee serves as the 1. Accelerate Coaching central working committee in proposing, examining, and 2. Build Trust enacting policies. There is also a working subcommittee 3. Call for Smart founded. The working subcommittee exists to advance 4. Drive Innovation employee’ engagement building through 3 main 5. Enrich Community Awareness projects: 1. Improvement of operation assessment system Engagement Strengthening Between 2. Improvement of professional growth Employees and the Organization 3. Work lead’s knowledge provision and advisory Through various implementation, there are efforts to skill for employee development; provision of build employee participation and engagement. Following recognition, and compliments for good behaviour impacts are expected, i.e. workplace satisfaction, work Apart from the main projects, the Company commitment, enthusiasm to work, the Company has also gives authority to each work unit to institute an implemented an employee engagement survey. The internal working subcommittee. This arrangement data collected will be used for the development of opens up opportunities and realizes employees’ employee engagement survey. The survey measures participation, through constructive environment for results basing on 3 key behaviors: opinion exchanges. Activities are organized to further 1. Say, the employee speaks of the organization, enhance engagement. The activities were organized by colleagues, prospective employees, and employees, for employees. Examples of the project from customers, with positive attitude. each work unit, operated in 2017, are: Fun with the Gang 2. Stay, the employee is committed and strived to Project, and Full with the Gang, Tank with the Crew. stay, work and grow with the organization 42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Giving Education Opportunities, Creating a Future for the Thai Youth CP ALL Plc. and its Subsidiaries (“Company”) place a high importance on the development of children and the youth, not as capable but also be good persons. The company believes that giving educational opportunities will help open doors for the youth to become an important driving force for Thailand’s development. The company also recognizes the importance of developing strong local economies, which can be achieved by improving the capacity of farmer cooperatives and small-scale producers to compete, create quality produces, and access sales channels. Hence, resulting in, all these activities take a part in strengthening the national economic foundation. This is the philosophy the Company is committed to, and is also in line with its 3-Benefits Principle that aims to create benefits for all stakeholders with whom we conduct business. 43 The 2020 Goal: Promote access to education and the quality of the Thai workforce. With our success with essential skills development for 100,000 people across PAT, the Company also discovered an opportunity to all genders and age groups, especially children, the share our knowledge on retail business management—a youth, and those in the agricultural sector by 2020. core strength of the business. This was the beginning Apart from developing quality people serving for the of Panyapiwat Learning Center, under the management nation, these efforts will also create a valuable human of CP ALL Plc. and with the educational oversight of resource that strengthen the Company’s operations Panyapiwat Technological College. The Learning Center and enable a sustainable expansion. Enchaining human was set up to expand access to education in retail business capability, the company considered providing opportunities management, offering youths educational opportunities in accessible to knowledge and education are an important close proximity to their homes, and gain additional income part of our sustainable development journey. Then from their theoretical instruction at the center combined Company’s aspiration in education promotion is guided by with on-the-job training at branch stores every 3 months. the belief that human resource is essential in the success The Panyapiwat Institute of Management (PIM) was of any business. Our efforts in education became apparent then established to expand the scope of education being and manifested themselves in broader society since 1995. offered, ranging from a Vocational Certificate, Diploma The Company initiated a bilateral project with the Office of Advance Vocational Education, to Bachelor degrees, of Vocational Education Commission in the area of retail starting with the Business Administration faculty. The business for Diploma of Vocational Education and Diploma Institute also expanded to 10 faculties to give students of Advance Vocational Education, turning 7-Eleven stores more options, including Faculty of Communication Arts, into a “classroom” for those in the retail business major. Faculty of Engineering and Technology, Faculty of Liberal Establishing an Education Institution. From our Arts, Faculty of Education, as well as a Modern Business initiative to provide training facilities for vocational Management program and a Human and Organization students, the Company saw the opportunity to leverage Management program offered at the graduate level. The our expertise in business to increasingly support education Institute works with other leading educational institutions and incubate students. Along with our commitment to abroad in order to share knowledge and exchange promote education to support the needs of private sector, students in each school term. It also works with private in 2005, the Company founded Panyapiwat Technological sector organizations to accept interns in related areas. College (PAT) to foster personnel with an academic training In 2017, the Company expanded our efforts to cover and real work experience that can be put in practice in secondary education, founding the Panyapiwat Institute the Company’s different departments, in addition to Demonstration School. The school is unique in that its also being an important driver to maintain and improve education system is modelled after Finnish schools, Establishment of the Panyapiwat Technological Cooperative with Office of the College and start the first Establishment of the basic education commission semester in next year Panyapiwat Institute of for enchaining vocational (2005) Management education 1995 2004 2006 2007 2008 2013 2017 Cooperative with • Cooperative with Office Cooperative with The Establishment of the Office of the of the Permanent Association of Private Panyapiwat Institute Vocational Secretary, Ministry of Vocational Education of of Management Education Education for enchaining Thailand for enchaining Demonstration School Commission vocational education vocational education (Satit PIM) turning 7-Eleven • Establishment of first 20 stores into a Panyapiwat learning “classroom” centers 44 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED famous for being the best education in the world, with the consulting center with respect to instruction hope to prepare students to become quality global and in education establishment and internships local citizens. The school offers 3 main classes with English in respective organizations, and all general as the medium of instruction: Mathematics, Science, and challenges for users, including students, English—in addition to offering Chinese classes as a third teachers, intern supervisors, and parents and language. The school aims to cultivate students who guardians. The Center can be reached through are not only capable and skilled, but also who are also a 24/7 Hotline 02-826-7776 and a Web Chat happy learners. callservicechat.gosoft.co.th/WebChatSmilePC/ The Company has awarded 110,644 scholarships (07.00-23.00 Hrs.) The Center was set up to to date, amounting to over 6,963,497,416 Baht, covering assist students to complete their studies in a vocational and higher education, serving over 27,466 timely manner and help create an enjoyable graduates who will become important assets for the learning experience. It is operated by Panyapiwat organization, society, and the country. Education Group (Institutions operated by the Company and its Subsidiaries) Education Projects and Other Support Initiatives Training and Visiting for Adult Beyond the promotion of knowledge, the Company • Model teachers are trained through bilateral places high emphasis on preparing learners and the learning partnerships with external education environment in order to create the most effective learning establishments to ensure project sustainability. process. With the belief that learning can take place in • Teachers in business establishments are any location, the Company supports increased access to trained in theory and practice in branch stores knowledge bases, building the skills of stakeholders. Many through bilateral partnerships with business to education programs have, hence, been designed to meet equip them with the knowledge and real work the specific needs of learners, without the constraints of experience to be able to appropriately supervise the traditional classroom format. interns. Education Promotion Programs In addition to providing scholarships, the Company • Student Care The project aims to improve also supports other activities, such as giving prospective efficiency in education management. The students the opportunity to observe work both within project oversees students from entrance to 7-Eleven stores and inside ready-to-eat food and bakery completion in various contexts, such as learning manufacturing factories of CPRAM Co., Ltd. and others. integration with internship programs, counseling Support after graduation: All graduates from the for students during internships, management of Panyapiwat Co. Group are employed after their studies, internship supervisors on worksites, and support have the opportunity to progress in their Career Path, for work-related capacities after completion of and receive privileges to become a Store Business Partner education. (SBP). In 2017, there were 2,255 graduates who become • Smile Center is an education information and employees of the Company. Performance* 2014 2015 2016 2017 Number of Scholarship Grantees 12,918 14,576 16,733 19,526 • Higher education 2,821 3,757 4,988 5,354 • Vocational education 10,097 10,819 11,745 14,172 Number of persons who received education support 3,031 2,852 3,281 3,673 and internships *Annual Data 45 Elevating Occupational Health and Safety: appropriate working conditions Part of an attempt to light up smiles among our employees, whom we regard as family, is providing a good working environment, ensure their good health, and elevate standards on safety, occupational health, and environment. The Company primarily adheres to legal compliance, and takes this further by developing and adapting in practice related international standards, with the goal of ensuring the safety of our operators, customers, and those concerned in the activitie and operations of the Company—as there is no replacement or compensation commensurate to these unexpected losses. 46 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CP ALL Plc. and its Subsidiaries (“Company”) assessments, and business-specific risk mitigation plans. hence place its main aim at ensuring 0 incidents/year of This is in conjunction with the promotion of a safety accidents and critical vehicle-related accidents resulting culture and awareness for all concerned parties in order to loss to life. to achieve good safety, occupational health, and working The Company commits to continuously manage environment outcomes. safety, occupational health, and good working In 2017, part of our effort to continually and environment, to be on par with international standards sustainably develop, the Company has lifted its with equal treatment for all stakeholders, whether they safety management standards through the CP Safety be customers, contractors, sub-contractors, partners, Performance Audit Project. This program implements or the community. Being a large company with a wide the Safety Health Environmental Standard (SHE array of businesses, our policy on and management Standard), expanding our commitment scope to cover of safety, occupational health, and good working environmental management by adapting and applying environment were closely designed to fit different international standards in our approaches and practices operational contexts—having appropriate indices for to ensure continuous improvements. various activities and business contexts, specific risk Respect Integrate human rights internal and and creating good living external cooperation conditions for all to prevent workstakeholders related accidents Careful and illnesses management of Compliance safe work with international environment standards Continuous Compliance with legal improvements in line and customer with international requirements or reporting those of relevant standards authorities Transparent Performance performance reporting excellence commitment with employees involvement at all levels Safety, Occupational Health, Environment Policy Framework CP ALL Plc. and Subsidiaries 47 • Review and Adjustment • Setting operational direction by management for continuous • Coordination with all relevant improvement parties • Identification of high-priority Review Policy Execution adjustments & Adjustment for Continuous Improvement Guideline for continuous Planning • Risk assessment and improvements identification • Review of regulations and Monitoring, requirements Audits, & • Objective and target Improvements identification • Performance monitoring and evaluation Operationalization • Communication and promotion and Implementation • Implementation recommendations of good practice and culture • Documentation • Risk preparation and emergency response plan training Management approach of occupational health safety and working condition for continuous development In the same year, the Company released its by implementing policies set by committees at 3 Safety, Occupational Health, Environment Policy to levels—having scope and participation ratio between be implemented throughout the supply chain. These operating officer and executive as follows: management processes are monitored and supported Ratio of operation and management members. Safety, Occupational health, Environment Policy Committee • Setting Safety, Occupational health, Environment policy and strategy for the marketing and distribution business group; • Promote and support safety-related undertakings; and • Report performance to executives. *This is not regulated by the laws, voluntary implemented by the company Committee 100 Safety, Occupational health, Environment Policy Subcommittee • Receive Safety, Occupational health, Environment policies and strategies and plan requisite efforts for safety management in areas such as production lines, distribution centers; offices, branch stores, and others; • Promote and support safety-related undertakings; and • Report performance to the Committee. *This is not regulated by the laws, voluntary implemented by the company Committee 100 Safety, Occupational health, Environment Committee • Implement Safety, Occupational health, Environment Policy in areas under its responsibility. *Roles and responsibilities are complied with the laws Committee 50 : Employee 50 48 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Implementation Results 7-Eleven Bollards Installation Project: Risk assessments revealed that 7-Eleven stores are typically located near main roads with high-speed traffic. In mitigating accident risks to employees and pedestrians in the area, this project reduces the possibility and severity of injuries from accidents to customers and employees, as evidenced in the table below. Information of accidents 2016 2017 Total number of car crashes into the store (incidents) 25 29 Total number of preventable car crashes with bollards 17 14 before hitting store (incidents) Average damage per time (Baht) 73,395 65,107 Number of injuries of preventable cars crashes 1 1 with bollards before hitting store (incidents) Concepts and principles behind bollards 1. Bollards will fall upon vehicular impact 2. Upon failing, the bollards will lock itself against Anchor Eye: For Installation the floor, causing the base—designed to withstand heavy weight—to lever up the vehicle Anchor Post: Robust structure to absorb crash impact from underneath. Anchor based: 3. Bollards will stop the vehicle without causing Robust based to withstand crash damage to the store and injury to employees and customers. * The bollards were designed for vehicles weighing 1 tonnes, approaching at 15-30 Km/H. Actual performance is contingent on the impact angle, area characteristics, and other related surrounding factors. Operations Workshop for Safety Committee and Executives 2017 Ground anchor working principles: The activity aims to promote good safety, Hit – Hide – Halt, brought to a stop occupational health, and environment culture, and has been conducted for 3 consecutive years. This year’s workshop objective is to “Elevate SHE standards, Leading towards Sustainability through World-Class SHE Management”. The activity features seminars and lectures by Hit Hide Lock expert instructors, creating a platform for sharing and brainstorming ideas and an opportunity to award employees and Subsidiaries with outstanding health and safety performance. 49 Examples of occupational health and safety them to work from home during emergency situations. achievement awards for the year 2017 The project, in this developmental phase, has been • Safety Personnel Award: Outstanding Manager leveraged to develop other management projects in Safety at National Level (Marketing and promoting business continuity as well. Distribution Business) was awarded to Mr. Kaiwal With regard to occupational health, safety, and work Suwananthi, Safety Personnel Suervisor at the environment, as well as the promotion of employee’s Chilled Distribution Center (CDC), Bang Bua Thong health and well-being, the Company has the following area, Nonthaburi, CP ALL Plc. initiatives: • National Safety, Occupational Health, and 1. CP Safety Performance Audits are put in place Environment Committee Award 2017 was to assess safety, occupational health, and awarded to the Lamphun Distribution Center, environment standards. CP ALL Plc. 2. Safety Standards are created a safety culture • Thirty one Outstanding Model Business Operators promoted among employees at all levels, with Award in Safety, Occupational Health, and the support of the management, with the aim Environment were awarded, with the Chilled of 0 accident incidents. Distribution Center (CDC), Bang Bua Thong area, 3. Defensive driving trainings are offered as part of Nonthaburi, CP ALL Plc. having received the award a curriculum developing driving skills, coupled for 12 consecutive years. with a road safety driving test. • Outstanding Health and Safety Award for 4. The Exercise for Office Staff project was created Educational Institutions, awarded to 6 areas: as part of employee benefits, offered to support The Panyapiwat Institute of Management (PIM) employee’s health and well-being. Exercise Udon thani, PIM Khon Kaen, PIM Nakhon Ratchasima, activities are organized daily within office and PIM Lampang. vicinities, offering a variety of options based • Emergency Team Competition Award was awarded on employee’s interests, such as Hatha-Yoga, to the Distribution Center in Suvanabhumi. Zumba, and Piloxing. 5. Annual fire and evacuation drills are organized in all Stress Management Project locations, including factories, distribution centers, The Company places high importance on office buildings, branch stores, educational employee’s wellbeing. Stress management is one critical institutions, in line with legal requirements. factor influencing work capacity, decision making, and Drills are organized with internal instructors, as long-term overall mental and physical health. As such, well as including external stakeholders such as the Company has put together stress managementnearby communities, educational institutions, related media to be shared with employees, and and government agencies. organized a meditation training project called “Sati” or 6. Basic safety orientation is given to all new “Wisdom” and the “Bringing the Temple to 7-Eleven”. employees, conducted by qualified internal instructors, as required by law. Work Flexibility Pilot Project 7. Safety promotion activities are conducted prior to The Company’s Smart Office project helps long holidays to promote good driving practices employees reduce the stress from commuting during among employees. rush hours and that resulting from city life by allowing 50 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Caring for Environment, aligned with international standards CP ALL Plc. and Subsidiaries (“the Company”) are cognizant of opportunities to conserve the environment through business operations and engagements along the Company’s value chain. Environmental 2020 Environmental Management responsibility is the primary principle. Targets The Company places an emphasis on the reduction • 10% Reduction of greenhouse gas of environmental impacts incurred from business emission per production unit by 2020 operations, products, and services, compares to the baseline of 2015 • 10% Reduction of water consumption by incorporating environmental protection per production unit by 2020 compared efforts as one of the Company’s to the baseline of 2015 Sustainable Development goals. 51 Having been aware of the risks and impacts caused by climate change and the deterioration of limited natural resource, in addition to its recognition of increased Expansion of the energy saving store competitive advantage and business opportunities prototypes from active environmental efforts and natural capital Due to the success in designing and operating of management, such as energy efficiency per production Tara Square 7-Eleven stores, which was a prototype of unit, clean technology, and energy saving technologies, the an energy-saving convenient store in 2016, energy saving Company has announced its Environmental Management measures that are suitable and feasible with 7-Eleven Policy. The policy is applicable to all subsidiaries, stores have been replicated and implemented to other addressing the communication and strengthening of branches across the country, both due for renovation and engagement to ascertain adherence to the guideline due to be opened. of good practice throughout the entire corporate value In 2017, Satit PIM branch was opened as a new chain. The aforementioned policy establishes guidelines convenient store format. The store was designed for both material issues on environmental management, environmental friendly and even more energy-saving which include Climate Change and Water Stewardship. through the application of modern technologies, Operations guided through the policy kick-start innovations, and a variety of management approaches to multitude efforts in environmental management, as promote efficient energy management. These approaches well as scale up notable environmental management include, among others, good planning of stores, eliminating performance. Participation by employees, subsidiaries, unnecessary energy loss, and the of use LED lights for all and stakeholders in environmental management is screens and lightings in the stores. The Company also another issue the Company prioritizes in order to ensure conducts customers’ purchase behaviors assessment dissemination of happiness and sustainable environmental system to improve the efficiency of resource consumption conservation efforts to the wider public. Examples of planning. In addition, energy consumption was monitored environmental management efforts implemented by the as a real-time practice to track and analyze of electricity Company in 2017 comprise of campaigning and raising consumption in daily basis. awareness in environmental conservation for stakeholders, Furthermore, the Company builds on the convenient managing energy efficiency, increasing renewable store prototype, Tara Square branch, by designing services energy usage, managing waste and improving packaging, and management approach that benefits the community managing climate change, assessing risks of water scarcity and society according to the principle of CCC: Convenience and developing a plan to reduce water consumption Community Center. Community Digital Touchscreen is per production unit, and disclosing performance of provided to enable information exchange. There are environmental management. The Company is also robotic innovations, such as Sevy Bot, an artificial intelligent planning for the application of an Environmental assistant that can communicate to customers via visuals Management System (EMS) for business operations, with and texts through a motion detection sensor. The Sevy specifically assigned committees and internal working Bot can communicate with customers in close proximity teams, such as the committees and working team on and move around the shop throughout the day without water quality assurance, on equipment selection for stores needing batteries. Sevy Bot may be further developed (Equipment Committee). as a part of other branches as service improvement. The To achieve the target, the Company has developed innovation is result from the work of students at the a corporate-level strategy. One of the key strategies, Engineering and Technology Faculty, Robotic Engineering “7 Go Green”, has been in operation since 2011. The scope and Automatic System Major, Panyapiwat Institution of of the strategy, focusing on activities related to retailing Management (PIM). of 7-Eleven and product distribution, follows the “7 Go The energy conservation program by applying energy Green” pillars: saving equipment in 7-Eleven stores is summarized below. 52 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED LED Lightbulb Project. There have been 8,961 branches where lighting systems have increased their luminescence efficiency, resulting Solar Energy Project. in a reduction of energy consumption There have been 8 branches with solar voltaic installations in average of 831.60 kWh in 2017, making 10 branches in total and with the overall power / branch / month. production of 169.68 kWh. Inverter Air Conditioner Project. There have been 2,390 branches where air conditioners were replaced with an inverter air conditioner installation ,resulting in a reduction Efficiency Improvement of Cooling Coils of energy consumption in average for Large Cooling Vaults Project of 1,020.00 (kWh)/ branch / month. There have been 589 branches whose cooling coils’ efficiency have been improved, resulting in a reduction of energy consumption at an average of 163.73 kWh / branch / month. Centralization of Doorless Product Display Shelves Cooling System Project. There have been 1,825 branches whose cooling system of doorless product shelves have been improved, resulting in a reduction of energy consumption in average of 242.70 kWh / branch / month. 2017 Application of energy-saving equipment in the store The overall energy conserved resulted from the energy conservation projects was 12.63%, which is equivalent to 769 MTHB as illustrated following diagram. Energy conservations of overall 7-Eleven stores Costs saving 36 MTHB 131 MTHB 255 MTHB 396 MTHB 530 MTHB 661 MTHB 769 MTHB Percentage of costs 1.28% 3.57% 5.85% 7.85% 9.59% 11.46% 12.63% 6,088 5,838 Unit : million baht 5,521 Electricity cost before implementing energy conservations programs 5,047 5,319 Electricity cost after implementing energy 5,177 conservations programs 4,365 3,667 4,991 4,651 Energy saving performance 2,826 4,110 until December 2017 2,617 76.2 million unit 2,292 3,536 9,547 2,617 2,790 8,850 Stores 2,292 8,165 Stores 6,841 7,486 Stores 5,810 6,304 Stores Stores 4,924 5,375 Stores Stores Stores Stores 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 53 Furthermore, there are also energy conservation (TREES), which is a certificate issued by Thailand’s Green projects, which the Company reduces its environmental Building Institute. impacts and promote environmental quality, such as Under the corporate Energy Management Plan, reduction of personal vehicles utilizations. distribution centers across the country are considering Smart Bike Parking Public bike parking spaces, energy-saving and renewable energy measures that equipped with smart locks that customers can unlock, rent are appropriate to the business operation, from the and pay for via mobile phones are part of the promotion installation of a heat transferring system to reuse to reduce personal vehicles utilizations. excess heat in distribution centers operations in Electric Cars Power Stations The Company responds Bangbuathong, Suvarnabhumi, Mahachai, Khon Khaen, to a rising trend of electric car and familiarize consumers Phuket and Chonburi. There are also plans to implement to electric cars by supporting the electric cars utilization it in distribution centers across the country. For the initial in the future. phase, the Company has installed photovoltaic panels Installation of Water-Saving Sanitary Wares The on the rooftop of a temperature-controlled distribution Company selects water saving sanitary wares with 2 levels center in Suvarnabhumi. of capacities, 3 and 4.5 Liters. It can reduce 12.5% of water For transportation and distribution of products, the consumption comparing to the 3/6 Liters type. Company is committed to uphold energy management Grease Treatment by Microbes Project The project as a priority through the Reduction of Pollution from aims to reduce the frequency of grease removal from Product Transportation Project, managing the reduction the grease traps. The project development of powder in transportation time. As of 2017, the Company has microbes, along with automatic fermenter to break down improved the processes of inventory stocking at 7-Eleven. the accumulated grease in the grease trap. This helps The incoming inventory checking is conducted at the reducing the grease removal frequency, from 8 times per distribution center and uses the ‘Trust’ system, whose month to 1-2 times per month, without affecting the grease precision and accuracy are trusted by 7-Eleven stores. It trap’s efficiency. is also used in inventory stocking of other departments in the Company. This improvement has reduced the fuel consumed and pollution generated from leaving the vehicle on for the temperature-controlled storage, which The Company is incorporating Leadership in was necessary while waiting for the inventory stocking Energy & Environmental Design (LEED), one of the most process at each 7-Eleven stores. internationally recognized standard, for the development The aforementioned process helps in reducing the and design of distribution centers across the country, in product transportation time in the stores’ vicinity, currently addition to applying certification from United States Green approximately 15 minutes from 45 minutes, resulting in Building Council (USGBC). Currently, Mahachai and Chonburi the reduction of diesel consumption by 83,950 liter per distribution centers have been certified. As for Buriram year, reduction of greenhouse gas emission by 230 carbon distribution center, it is in the process of application for dioxide tons per year, and reduction of papers consumption Thai’s Rating of Energy and Environmental Sustainability and deforestation by 7,656 trees per year. ขัน้ ตอนการกระจายสินค้าไปทีร่ า้ นสาขา Before Checking and delivering goods at store Distribution Center After Checking goods delivering goods Distribution Center Product Distribution to Branch Stores 54 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Environmental Friendly Packaging Project is a project under the 2016-2022 timeframe. The Company has implemented this project while adopting the 3R (Reduce – Reuse Recycle) Principle to mitigate environmental impacts generated from packaging. This was achieved though a reduction of natural resources consumption and post-consumption waste generation. The details for each 3R key component are as follows: Reduce is the reduction or abolition of packaging with impact to health and the environment, and to reduce the use of packaging materials. The target was to reduce 24,000,000 bags by 2017. Terminate PVC usage Reduce plastic used for rice containers In 2017, the Company has announced the cancellation of PVC In 2017, the Company shifted its plastic material usage for 3 more products of private brands under food container production technology for cooked category. This cumulates to 6 products in total, or equivalent to rice, originally from injection method to 33%. The Company has set a goal to abolish the use of PVC material thermoform, enabling as much as a 126 tons/ as a packaging component for the product category by 2020. year reduction of materials used. Various projects campaigning for reduction of plastic bag usage • Promotion of the use of cloth bags by lending out cloth bags in the branch stores situated in the University campus and special offers for barcode cloth bags. • Project for reduction of plastic bag usage with external parties such as Mahidol University, Chulalongkorn University, Thammasat University, and Faculty of Tropical Medicine. 2017 Performance reduced plastic bag usage by 24,094,660 bags. Reuse is supporting material reusing to reduce the amount of post-consumer waste, such as reusable coolers instead of using bags for purchases of frozen food. Project for returning of clean 7-Eleven plastic bags from customers to reuse The Company has installed boxes accepting clean plastic bags at 18 locations, 13 locations across the office buildings, 1 location in the hospital, and 4 locations across universities. Overall, the Company is able to reuse as much as 9,609 bags in 2017. Recycle is bringing used packaging back into a conversion process and reuse, particularly for plastic packaging which is difficult to degrade. The Company focuses on using recycling symbol Simultaneously, the Company has started to use on the product. In 2017, the Company establishes the recycling symbol on new products that were developed criteria for using recycling symbol in accordance to ASTM in 2017. There are also further plans to apply the International Resin Identification Coding System. There is practice to the products that are developed from 2018 also an operational plan for Private Brand products under onwards. Presently, plans are being drafted for the the food product category to be the first category. application of recycling symbol on current products. 55 Organic waste Anaerobic fromproduction digestion As consumers are the key stakeholders driving lines environmental management, the Company has started to encourage consumers’ behavior change. This was achieved by promotion of environmental friendly consumption practice, such as reduction of plastic bag usage through the campaign ‘Kid-Tung, Kid-Thung.’ The campaign encourages consumers to Biogas ‘considerate before using plastic bags’ and ‘refuse utillization at Biogas plastic bags.’ canteen Furthermore, under the corporate environmental management policy, companies in the Group has collaborated and initiated a variety of environmental Company has started operating this project since projects consistent to the subsidiaries’ businesses. The March, 2017. This project can replace water projects play a significant part in reducing pollution and heating process, initially through the use of resource consumption according to the Company’s electricity, in the production process. This enabled environmental management targets, such as: 315,926 kWh per year energy saving in 2017. The project also enables reduction of Scope 1 and Siam Makro Plc. Scope 2 greenhouse gases by 183.9 tons of carbon • Low Emission Support Scheme (LESS) Project dioxide equivalent. is a project promoting good environmental • Biogas Production from Organic Waste from the practice initiated by Makro. There was a contest Production Process and Canteen, CPRAM Co., Ltd. on initiatives for greenhouse gases reduction. (Ready-to-eat food business), with the daily waste Owners of the project that pass the assessment amounts to approximately 800 Kilograms. This criteria, whose performance meets the targets is another project implemented to increase the of environmental impact reduction, would be proportion of renewable energy consumption. awarded internally. The winning project would The project operates by fermenting waste from then be implemented. Past successes comprise the production process to produce biogas, which of a project to change the containers size from 40-feet container to 45-feet container. This was the winning project in 2017, which helps increase the volume of products transported per delivery, reduce the energy used in transportation and Production and canteen greenhouse gas emission. Power Pumps CP RAM Co., Ltd. Generates electricity Sewage • Geothermal Energy Project CPRAM Co., Ltd. (Ready-to-eat food business), Ladlumkaew Provides heat Plant, has started to increase the proportion of renewable energy consumption. Warm water from groundwater at the depth of 400-500 meters is used. Its temperature is approximately at 50 degree Celsius, which is used to cleanse equipment within the production process. The Processed by Biogas produced anaerobic digestion 56 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED could replace LPG that is currently used in the factory’s canteen since 2012. The operations in 2017 enables reduction of LPG usage by 194.5 kilograms, and Scope 1 greenhouse gas emission by 0.61 tons carbon dioxide equivalent. Shrimp dumpling Jade Dragon Brand Sunlight absorbed as heat emits 771 grams of CO2 by the dark inner surface of the Evacuated-Tube t he a H A steamed bun with mince top ot v in ocks of apo pork stuffing el the ur emits 275 grams of CO2 He rises Tu b dat to ate e Pip th acu Pip e e Ev at id ss He iqu Gla er C pp r ol L He eturnd vap ic tox Co at s ou nPip to r l No e t the iqu o r bo ifie ep tto s a ea m nd t c of ycl th A steamed bun with salted e e egg and mince pork stuffing • Solar Water / Solar Tube Project Basing on the emits 328 grams of CO2 target to increase the proportion of renewable energy consumption by CPRAM Co., Ltd. (Bakery business), Latkrabang Plant has changed the water Additionally, the distribution center at Mahachai heating system to solar energy via Solar Water or remains the first and the only distribution center in Solar Tube. This project has been implemented Thailand registered for Carbon Footprint in the category at the plant since 2015. In 2017, the Factory was of services for chilled distribution center, Mahachai (860 able to reduce the electricity used for water grams carbon dioxide equivalent per square meter per boiling during production process by 767 MWh day), dry grocery distribution center, Mahachai (180 and reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse grams carbon dioxide equivalent per square meter per gas emissions by 461.96 tons carbon dioxide day) and chilled distribution center’s logistical services, equivalent. Mahachai (390 grams carbon dioxide equivalent per square meter per day). The Company has assessed its greenhouse gas emission and is working on registration for carbon footprint products from Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organization (TGO). The information would be primarily used for effectiveness evaluation of energy conservation project and other environmental conservation efforts implemented during the production process. There are currently 5 products registered, with Chilled distribution center, Mahachai 3 more products pending for registration. 57 Distilling Ideas: The Fruits of Creativity “…because developing new things — either products, services, or businesses—is core to enabling the Company in discovery and responses to market demands; as well as developing new business models resilient to changing customer and market landscapes.” 58 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED The organization’s ability to continuously improve and keep pace with global contexts, which are constantly changing, are key success indicators for a modern business seeking to grow sustainably grow with the world. CP ALL Plc. and its Subsidiaries (“the Company”) aims to internally build a thought foundation by creating 7 Robotech Biotech 1 an atmosphere conducive for innovation— “observe, Commertech stimulate ideas, record, information exchange for development, support collaboration, create platforms 6 Logistech 2 for discussion and magnify results”. These are part of the organization’s “innovation culture”. Nevertheless, the Company has simultaneously pursued “Open Contech Innovation” to spark off a market place of ideas, with greater depth and breadth. This was achieved through 5 Edutech Digitech 3 collaboration between the Company and external organizations. The Company’s efforts be innovative are 4 not only in the interest of business survival, but are also pursued with the hope of creating greater value and positive impacts to broader society. Following the Sustainable Business approach, the In 2017, the Company established the Science Company has always considered innovation’s positive Technology and Innovation Development Office (STIDO), social and economic impacts. This is in addition to tasked with the responsibility to drive the Group’s its business results, as reflected via scoring criteria of endeavors on technology and innovation, develop innovation awards. They are as follows. capabilities, and synergize innovation and technology. • The “Big Fish Innovation Award” bases its scoring This is achieved through research and development criteria on social and economic impact activities, invention and transfer of technology, and • The “President Innovation Award” is determined monitoring of development in research on technology based on the social and economic value added, and innovation; both from local and international and benefits to stakeholders. networks. These efforts help the Company fosters • The “Process Excellence Award” considers technology and innovation with plausible positive benefits and satisfaction of external stakeholders. impact to the economy, society, and the environment. • The “7 Innovation Awards” are awarded based on The efforts are also an important driving force behind considerations of economic, social, and national Thailand’s sustainable development. At present, the benefits to various targeted groups. Company has established, and currently overseeing, 7 Awarding results in 2017 revealed 18 innovations technology centers. They are: that generated positive impacts, with 10 creating benefits to communities and society. Awarded projects and initiatives were expanded received business support through 7-Eleven stores and others in the Group, business matching, and the promotion of innovative products and services, among others. 59 ตัวอย่างผลงานนวั Examples of Awarded ตกรรมที ช่ นะการประกวด Innovation Projects Unique Thai Tamarind Water Heater for the Community from Precision Air – 1st Runner-Up Award Conditioner (PAC) for “Society” Units 1st Runner-Up Award for “Society” The project achieved a business model that adds value to The water heater leverages residual heat from hot Thai Sweet Tamarind, while also lifting the production process coils used in air conditioning units to produce hot water to be on par with international standards by creating a value without using electricity and without incurring additional chain system. The initiative starts by organizing community electricity cost. The project also improves the air conditioning members by shifting their individual household production units’ efficiency because the heat exchange equipment in practice to a cleaner factory-based model. This was coupled the water tank uses suitable, high-quality materials that are with a production-related knowledge transfer for community strong, safe to use, efficient in transferring and retaining heat. members to apply them in practice. Research-based insights It can be installed with any type of air condition unit. were also leveraged to develop a machine that extirpates tamarind moths through radio frequency waves, achieving a 100% elimination of moths in the final product. Okusno Shrimp Chins Snack – Winner, “Economy” Category The shrimp Chins, an often-overlooked part, was processed into a snack packed with high nutritional value, with up to 741 mg. of Calcium per pack, Chitosan, and Chitin, which help lower blood cholesterol, offering the modern consumers an alternative healthy snack. 60 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Commercial Microorganisms for the Environment – 1st Runner-Up, “Economy” Category The achievement of winnowing over 100 strains of microorganisms down to 8 which were used to further develop products of over 18 kinds “Bio-organic substance” able to break down fat and oil into carbon dioxide and water. This creates a positive environmental impact, eliminating industrial waste from source and reduces waste disposal costs. In 2016, both petrochemical and non-petrochemical groups received the Prime Minister Award in recognition for being outstanding exporters with respect to innovative products beneficial to the environment and for receiving the Asia Pacific Entrepreneurship Award. Microwave Snowflake Beverage, 1st Runner-Up, “Economy” Category Performance Results The project developed a frozen cold beverage, which Closed innovation Open innovation upon baking in a microwave oven for 30 seconds, transforms into a snowflake-like drink, producing consistent taste profiles 7,000 across all cups, while retaining an aroma mimicking freshly made options and maintaining the ice crystals that consumers 6,000 enjoy. The project created a variety of product options, such as iced milk tea, iced coffee, fruit juice, and cane juice. It also 5,000 extends the product shelf life up to 6 months when stored in freezer. 4,000 6,152 Target 3,000 * Closed innovation’s financial value generation estimation to the 2,000 1,236 1,381 866.46 organization comes from projects submitted to the Big Fish Innovation 3,166 Award, the President Award, and the Process Excellence Award. 2,866 3,776 ** Open innovation’s financial value generation estimation to the 1,000 organization comes projects submitted to the “7 Innovation Awards”. *** Most innovation projects in 2017 focused on process improvements 0 over revenue generation. • 2015 • 2016 • 2017 • 2020 61 Society of Peace: Respecting Human Rights “Human Rights” are foundational rights on which individuals can lead a dignified life, endowed with rights, freedom, and equality—free from thoughts and actions in violation thereof. At present, human rights issues have received widespread attention. As a retail business leader in the country and the region that connects producers to consumers, CP ALL Plc. and its Subsidiaries (“the Company”) pledges to take part in the promotion of universal human rights. 62 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Following the determination to conduct a fair operation, such as having unsafe work environments, business, the Company adheres to the UN Guiding pollution emission affecting the rights of community Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGP), members, indirect rights violations by business partners including the “Ruggie Framework” pertaining to the and sub-contractors, in their use of child labor and protection of and respect for rights, and the impact forced labor in the supply chain. remediation of rights violations (Protect, Respect, and Remedy) as guidelines for the organization’s human Human Rights Policy rights management. In 2017, the Company announced its Group-wide Based on this approach, the Company has penned Human Rights Policy, demonstrating a determination to its human rights commitments through policy and conduct business following international human rights human rights due diligence processes to enable the principles, including the Universal Declaration of Human Company to manage human rights violations risks in the Rights, the UN Global Compact, and labor rights-related Company’s activities and throughout its value chain. conventions of the International Labour Organization This effort promotes human rights through fair business (ILO). The Policy encompasses business operations of operations and helps elevate stakeholders’ quality of the Company, suppliers, as well as other parties linked life throughout the value chain. This also helps prevent in the supply chain. negative impacts on stakeholders and overall business Employees Communities, Society and Environment Customers Suppliers HUMAN RIGHT POLICY Human Rights Policy Objective To demonstrate a determination in preventing risks on human rights violations of parties involved in the Company’s business operations, as well as cascading these expectations to its Subsidiaries and business partners to ensure strict compliance to the Company’s Human Rights Policy 63 Human Rights Due Diligence Process chain of 3 business groups and their support units. In 2017, the Company initiated its human rights These are: due diligence process for the first year, adhering to • Convenient store services international standards as guidelines. One important • Wholesale services step, succeeding the Company’s policy commitment, • Production and sale of bakery, ready-to-eat is conducting a Human Rights Risk Assessment. The meals, and frozen food services Company identified human rights risks throughout its • Distribution Centers value chain, conducted an impact analysis on concerned The Company has plans to expand the scope of parties, and classified risks on an organizational level. its Human Rights Risk Assessment to cover all Business Assessments in the first year covered the entire value Units by the end of the year. Human Rights Due Diligence Process Policy Embedding Assessing Integrating Tracking Communicating Stakeholder Remediation Commitment Impact Performance Engagement and Grievance Mechanism • Human Rights Policy • Identify existing and potential • Design preventative and mitigation • Engage with various • Remediation for human rights risks in the business measures pertaining human right risks stakeholders, both impacted individuals, operations • Implement initial measures internal and external, pertaining human • Identify concerned parties that with relevant functionsl consists of employees, right violation may be affected from human rights • Result monitoring and process reviews community, public • Setting a grievance violations, including those belonging agencies, civil mechanism for human to vulnerable groups, such as organizations. rights grievance women and children, migrant The aim is to workers, people with disabilities, communicate the and elderly people Company’s human • Human Rights Risk Assessment right performance Human Rights Risk Assessment Target 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 80% 60% 40% 2017 2018 2019 2020 64 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED In 2017, The Company human rights risk assessment for all 8 core business units covering 100 percent of operations. The company aim to maintain human rights risk assessment to cover all core business units in 2020. Initial assessment results revealed that salient human rights issues with high residual risks in 3 Business Units are as follows: Salient Issues • Guidelines on workers • Safety and community • Health and safety • Supply chain management Health, safety, and good living standards of consumers living conditions Employees Community and the Environment Consumers Supply Chain Human Rights Within Human Rights Outside the Organization the Organization Notably, the Company has establish Human Rights safety standards to mitigate human rights violations Risks Management Guideline, drafted in consideration risks on those issues at an organizational level. In to entitle rights of vulnerable groups, such as SMEs addition to this, the Company has pursued proactive producers, women and children, migrant labors, initiatives to prevent human rights violations resulting indigenous people, and elders. The content pertain both from labor recruitment. The Company has clear policies a policy aspect, and a protection – prevention guideline against child labor, forced labor, and the hiring of aspect, summarized as follows. illegal migrants on worksites. These policies extend its coverage throughout the supply chain, incorporating Human Rights at the Organization sustainability criteria which includes the prohibition The Company firmly believes that every employee of the hiring of illegal migrant workers as one of the deserves equal treatment, without discrimination criteria for supplier and sub-contractor selection. based on gender, age, nationality, religion, and physical Additionally, the Company has organized trainings with traits. This also includes the assurance of fair and safe “Risk Champions” in each function on the approach working conditions, whether they concern working and risk identification of human rights violations in the hours, break time, wages, work environment, and social activities of their respective departments. The Company benefits entitlements. In this regard, the Company has will also incorporate its human rights training as part its established guidelines on employee ethics, work rules Sustainability training offered to all employees by 2020, and regulations, as well as occupational health and following the Company’s Sustainability targets. 65 Human Rights beyond the Organization The Company takes into account and respects the environment, consumers, and business partners. the rights of all external parties involved with the The Company has set measures preventing human Organization that may be affected by the Company’s rights violations to reduce risks that lead to violations business operations. These include communities and in the future. Human Rights Issues for External Stakeholders Human Rights Issues Consumers Community and the Environment Supply Chain • Health and safety • Safety and community • Working conditions of consumers living standards • Child labor • Forced labor • Illegal migrant workers Human Rights Violations Risk Mitigation Measures • Product standard monitoring • Multi-channel community • Supplier and sub-contractor system grievance mechanism, including selection using sustainability criteria • Product and merchandise recall website, email, Facebook, • Requirement for the Employer system and a hotline to have clear requirements on • A grievance mechanism for • Town hall meetings with compliance to labor laws and practices consumers grievance the community to receive violating workers’ rights for suppliers • Investigation and remediation community feedback and concerns and sub-contractors system for customer grievance • Survey of community suggestions • Auditing on labor treatment within 24 hours and concerns every 3 months of suppliers and sub-contractors • Logistics management plan to • Supplier and sub-contractors reduce congestion in community self-assessment to begin in 2018 areas • Training with suppliers and sub-contractors on occupational health and safety 66 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Spread the Love: Building Community Resilience Building good relationships with communities in which the business operates is a value on which CP ALL Plc. and its Subsidiaries (“the Company”) places great importance. This is because communities are neighbors, customers, and business partners all at the same time, with whom we can help each other. The Company has thus set targets to become a Company that is free from conflicts in important functions in its operations and in all locations in which it operates by 2020. 67 The commitment to respond to concerns is part of knowledge and education, and environmental conservation. building relationships and an aspiration to become one with These focal areas were derived from social needs analyses, the communities whose resilience the Company aims to grievance mechanisms, and multi-channel consultation foster. The Company also aims to build strong community with the community, which included input from suggestion relationships among stakeholders, government agencies, boxes placed at branch stores, hotline, and online portals. and 7-Eleven stores in tangible ways by establishing the All of these reflect the Company’s commitment to build Community Support Center (CSC), leveraging operational strong community ties. However, the Company discovered locations, whether they be within branch stores or that there as many community contexts as there are varied distribution centers. These locations serve as learning demands. In order to arrive at an understanding, and as an centers for the community and government agencies, with important first step towards building good and sustainable the following 7 mission statements: relationships, the Company welcomes all feedback and • Disseminate and share knowledge base with the is prepared to work together to prevent and overcome community challenges, meeting the demands of the communities. • Creatively respond to community needs • Improve core community strengths Case Studies • Fulfill dreams and inspire action and good deeds Concerns on landscape harmony between the store • Take part in solving community and social problems and its surrounding environment. The Company designed • Raise awareness on the determination to work its branch stores to be in harmony with the surrounding sustainably toward social goals environment by taking into account nearby architecture. • Support and partake in government agencies’ The Company conducted location surveys and classified activities them based on sensitivity from this perspective to be used as guideline in branch expansion management. To achieve this mission, the Company has established Concerns on economic impacts on communities. operational approaches encompassing job creation, The Company is cognizant of impacts which may result promotion of morality and ethics, health, access to from its business operations. Adhering to principles of fair Dragon Descendants Museum branch, Suphanburi province 68 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED manufacturers that use local raw materials in its products to collaborate with the Company in improving their packaging and sales channels—generating new kinds of products, such as fresh shrimp paste with chili sauce, which was developed from dried chili paste with fresh seasonings and shrimp paste to give customers more convenience and increase the use of local raw materials. Overall, local products that have gone through merchandise and packaging improvements, as well as gaining access to convenient store sales channels, saw sales increase of more than 290%. Suriyapong branch, Nan province competition, the Company wishes to be part of the driving force behind the country’s economic development, and believes that the synergy between communities and the Company will create sustainability and the country’s wealth. The commitment to create professional opportunities for local communities is a dedication on which the Company places a high importance. As an example, the Company has hired local sub-contractors and workers for construction work, leading to local employment and pride in the community’s accomplishments. The Company also has plans to expand its hiring scope for the maintenance and repair of 7-Eleven stores. Another example of the Company’s effort to stimulate economic activities within the community is a pilot project to increase access to market for local products, supporting local economies and increasing the communities’ resilience. The project is in its early stages of promoting and developing the readiness of both local products and small holders, as well as enhancing operational approaches, conducting feasibility studies, and augmenting business results. In addition, the Company also promotes local products through its Sustainable Thai SME project, which was conceived in 2016 and has continued to its second year in 2017. The project selects small holders and 69 In addition to this initial step, the Company surveyed facilitate a knowledge transfer with community store household-level economic conditions—both before and owners. after the establishment of 7-Eleven stores—and sought for Other business units’ community relationship building appropriate approaches to support the community. Among activities are also in line with the same 5 principles reflected others, these include: through various social activities, leveraging the specialization • “Fulfilling Dreams of Community Store Children of each unit as project thrust. Examples of this include: Fund” is a project aimed at supporting the education • Conflict reduction and relationships building with of children and employees of community stores by nearby companies. CPRAM Co., Ltd. (bakery business), giving them access to free vocational certification situated in the Latkrabang industrial zone, organized in retail business. Scholarship recipients are able meeting sessions with the management of companies to take the knowledge gained to help sustainably in the vicinity, with the goal of understanding their develop their own business, by either studying in the challenges, complaints, suggestions, needs, and Panyapiwat Technological College or the Panyapiwat expectations. Meetings are typically organized Learning Center, offered at more than 20 locations twice a year, and once every quarter in 2017. These in Thailand. sessions uncovered 3 key needs and expectations: • Seminars for Community Store Owners on the topic 1) traffic congestion and obstruction, 2) parking “Prospering with Community Stores Sustainably” in front nearby companies, and 3) people/stores have been continuously conducted since 2008. In in front of nearby companies. After the Company 2017, more seminar locations were added, including has received these expectations, it identified NakhonSawan, Buriram, Lampang, and Trang, with remediating and preventive measures through its over 1,000 participants. Trainings with government Traffic Management Project, which encompassed agencies were also conducted in order to help designating 4 parking zones for executive staff, 70 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED sales and marketing, employees, and suppliers. centers, and factories, the Company has incorporate The Welfare Product Open House project has approaches to meet community needs as part of its also allowed employees of nearby companies branch store expansion approach. This is done through a to purchase products at welfare prices, in addition commitment to reduce conflict areas, and create community to increasing their satisfaction in 2017 from 84.67% acceptance through 5 key principles: to 88.03%. • Business operations on foundations of morality, • A collaboration project among eXtra pharmacy, ethics, integrity, and fairness Bangkok district office, and Vajira hospital has • Environmental protection and global warming organized basic health checkups and conducted mitigation information sessions on basic medical knowledge • Promotion of education, youth development, and for the community, such as diabetes and high community and social development blood pressure. The project also promotes greater • Elevation of living standards, religion, and living awareness among community members to start conditions of community members caring for their own health, as well as increase their • Emergency disaster relief access to medical services by providing mobile medical units for communities within the vicinity These 5 principles have been incorporated in decisions of participating district offices. In 2017, 228 people to establish new 7-Eleven branch stores, complemented by received medical service through this project. the respect for community-specific local customs and way Following this initiative and the Company’s experience of life—guided by the belief that community members are in fostering good relationships with communities, particular neighbors whom we will help and prevent negative impacts those within the vicinity of its branch stores, distribution to best of our ability. Location Readiness Operating in Selection Preparation Construction Areas • Select the location with • Hold dialogues with • Communicate plans for consideration to suitability. neighbors to ensure impact prevention and Conduct feasibility studies understanding mitigation to contractors. for a store establishment • Make progress on relevant Mentioned impacts refer • Study and monitor permits to those that may occur distinctive features of the • Draft construction plan to neighbors land, including relevant with consideration to • Monitor and review laws, and local community’s the environment and compliance to culture and believes architecture in the aforementioned plan • Help relevant functions be proximity • Listen to, and review, ready by briefing them on • Establish plans and measures all grievances occurred aforementioned areas’ on impact prevention and distinctive features mitigation for neighbors 71 Delivering the Best Quality Throughout the Supply Chain Today, sustainability-based business operations require cooperation with stakeholders to bring forward change—particularly by elevating the quality of life within society and communities, care for the environment, and good governance in driving Company to achieve its long-term goals. 72 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Supply chain management is key and an essential Selection Committee has also been established to oversee strategy in facilitating sustainable business success. An product assessment and selection prior to being sold in effective supply chain is composed of producers, distributors, 7-Eleven store, while preventing any possible conflicts of and consumers—interlinked to meet consumer demands, interests in sourcing and ensuring the accurate, transparent, improve quality of life and the environment, and guided and traceable use of specific information related to the by good corporate governance and a responsibility to all procurement and vendor selection process. parties. By the same token, each link within the supply chain Following such policies, the Company developed will need to continuously identify and withstand change, a communication plan to its first-tier suppliers to ensure challenges, and future risks. understanding, with the expectation that in addition to CP ALL Plc. and its Subsidiaries (“the Company”) have implementation, they will in turn cascade these policies to recognized the importance of operating a fair business, their trading partners and subcontractors. It is the Company’s particularly with our business partners who will benefit from determination to create awareness, collective responsibility, development opportunities and capacity building in order to and elevate these standards throughout the supply chain. grow together in the long-term. While the production and Additionally, the Company has also created plans to support delivery of products and services whose quality and variety suppliers’ preparation to meet these expectations and meet consumer demands are important business goals, the extenuate any potential risks that may incur to suppliers Company also believes that sustainability principles and throughout the supply chain—as is outlined in our policy. issues constitute significant agenda and goals that ensure In line with this, the Company has conducted trainings the strength of its supply chain. The Company is proud that include sustainable development guidelines as an of this commitment, which reaffirms our organizational important part of supply chain management. These trainings philosophy: “Through happy employees, we desire to see were offered with the cooperation among the Company’s smiles from customers”. various departments, such as each business procurement In 2017, the Company established policies and department, marketing management department, and performance targets for our trading partners in order to product development and quality assurance department, support and build trust in sustainably growing together. across a range of processes from procurement, vendor Based on sustainable development policy and goals, selection, responsible supply chain management, to supplier the Company has drafted a sustainable sourcing policy relationship management, as seen in the diagram. and supplier code of conduct and guideline. A Product IT systems Innovation Creation The value chain management system 73 In the same year, the Company’s subsidiaries have In 2017, the Company started to incorporate made headway in initiating ethical and sustainable and sustainability issues, including environmental, social and practices. Dynamic Management Co., Ltd., for instance, governance, in assessing current suppliers as well as in the has distributed handbooks on good practices related to selection of new ones. Furthermore, the Company has the delivery of temperature-control products, established also classified suppliers based on type and importance to monitoring measures for delivery vehicles that account determine the level of support and needed awareness. for safety, occupational health and pollution emission, Suppliers are categorized as strategic suppliers, suppliers as well as screening for the use of child labor in the in special collaboration with the Company, and other transportation sector. Siam Makro Plc. and CPRAM suppliers, such as those vulnerable to business and Co., Ltd. have adapted these practices to their specific sustainability risks. business contexts, and have started communicating these In the initial implementation of responsible sourcing, policies and expectations to their suppliers. the Company places importance on climate change แนวทางการบริหารจัดการคูค่ า้ ทีม่ คี วามเสีย่ งทางด้านความยัง่ ยืน Management Approach for Suppliers with Sustainability Risks 74 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED through its sustainable development policy and targets, Through efforts on sustainability and capacity building by assessing sourcing decisions of raw materials and products with suppliers, the Company is able maintain good from sources that do not damage forests and natural relationships with its suppliers. For instance, construction marine resources. The Company also promotes and supports sub-contractors, one of the key supplier groups, reported projects that protect and rehabilitate natural resources, a continuous growth in satisfaction and engagement. as well as establishing sustainable sourcing targets as follows: Satisfaction and engagement level of construction sub-contractors Year Satisfaction (%) Engagement (%) Target: Sustainability assessment 2014 46 77 and traceability of 100% of Critical Tier 1 2015 67 80 Suppliers by 2020 2016 94 88 2017 91 94 Assessment results will be used to design Performance Highlights The Company works with its suppliers across various improvement, monitoring, and evaluation programs to projects in order to achieve its sustainable development ascertain that suppliers are able to sustainably conduct policy objectives and targets. These encompass business with the Company. assessing raw materials sources to ensure the absence In its efforts to communicate its sustainable sourcing of deforestation and damage to marine resources and policy, supplier code of conduct and guideline, and request supporting the protection and rehabilitation of natural for acknowledgement, the Company has put in place a habitats. These projects include: communication and feedback plan through seminars, which have received a 100% response rate. Additionally, Blue Crab Breeding Project for Natural the Company has a policy supporting and prioritizing Water or the “Crab Bank Project” domestic sourcing in the country in which the business Presently, the rising demands of crab meat is operates, with the goal to reduce energy consumption and outpacing the natural repopulation rate, which is currently greenhouse gas mission from logistics-related combustion below replacement level. In response, the Company and cooling chemicals. The Company’s expenditure for initiated a blue crab conservation effort, establishing raw materials and packaging from domestic and foreign targets protecting resources both in the Gulf of Thailand suppliers are as follows: and the Andaman Sea. The project helps the Company address challenges connected to a low supply of crab, Raw as well as helping preserve natural resources and to Subsidiaries materials Packaging /Products help support small holders (local fishermen) sustain their CP ALL Plc. (7-Eleven) 100% 100% livelihoods. Siam Makro Plc. 96.9% 100% CPRAM Co., Ltd. 97.4% 100% (Ready-to-eat food business) Crab is an important raw material for CPRAM Co., Ltd. 100% 100% CPRAM Co., Ltd.’s production plant, (Bakery business) and is also an ingredient for 7 ready-to-eat 24 Shopping Co., Ltd. 100% 100% menu items at 7-Eleven store, amounting *Only expenditures in Thai territories are considered to total sales volume of 575 million Baht in 2017. 75 “Crab Bank Project” is a project aimed at the conservation and propagation of crabs in the area, by hatching crab eggs from the female crabs, whose eggs are The project helps restore attached outside the shell. This promotes conservation 48,384,000 baby crabs/year fishing practices, raising awareness on the ethical and (crab meat consumption is, on average, responsible fishing of blue crabs and use of national at 8,024,390 baby crabs/year). resources. The parent stock with eggs attached are given to suppliers to be placed in temporary resting cages in the ocean, until the eggs hatched. Nurseries are then hosted in the cage. The younglings would be then released into the ocean, so they may grow naturally. The result is a successful conservation of blue crabs, enabling natural repopulation, which allows small holders to sustainably maintain crab fisheries. and supply raw materials to processing plants. 76 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Creating Value for Society CP ALL Plc. and subsidiaries (“the Company”) is committed to become the prototype retail business, and other relevant businesses, in creating sustainability for society. This will be achieved through good corporate governance, activities for overall social and community benefits. In consideration of the approach, the Company is determined to create a sustainable foundation according to Sufficiency Economy Philosophy, and United Nation’s sustainability direction, coupled with development towards corporate excellence. 77 The Company has established a strategy pertaining social maximizing management and marketing competency, will be responsibility, which is in alignment with the Company’s aim given. This is because the Company recognized that the crux of in aspiring to be ‘an organization providing comfort for all responsible business operation, on which long terms benefits can communities, ensuring for the well-being and happiness of be generated for all parties involved, is to founded a balance in society.’ 2018-2022 Long term strategy will operate under the community development, or create social values. “Build Trust and Create Shared Value” guideline. In recognition of such crucial operation under aforementioned management approach, the Company has announced a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy. The Policy places an emphasis on creating For 10,000 Farmers, or small and mediumsocial values through fair business operations, strengthening size enterprises and vulnerable persons of professional security, and increasing income for farmers, have received support for occupations fishermen, entrepreneurs, and small capital producers. This and means of earning a living by 2020. approach is to be achieved through the Company’s business capacity, to buttress the efforts in achieving Sustainable Development Goals: SDGs. One of the notable operation plans, instituted as part of the Lifelong Learning for Sustainable Agriculture said policy, is the assessment and monitoring of project’s results. Because the Company works with farmers across Thailand, Considerations is to be given to output and impacts incurred, goals for positive collaborations and quality agricultural progress coupled to studies and assessment of external impacts, either have been established. This is in light of sustainable crops, as positive or negative, that may arise. The data obtained will be well as environmental and social safety, which is beneficial to utilized for development of new projects, and improvement of all parties involved, either domestic or international market. existing projects, aspiring for greater efficiency, maximum benefits Since 2010, the Company is committed in accumulating and positive net impacts. The Company shall start using this agricultural-related knowledge, in addition to creating occupations, process with agricultural and fisheries projects, which will serve and professional agricultural work. This fosters farmers to have as pilot projects in 2018. a safer and more appropriate agricultural management, In addition to continuous improvement and development, including increase distribution channels for farmers. the company also has a guideline on ‘Support-Add on – Fill in – During the past years, the Company has participated Complete’ in the incubating and development of stakeholders’ in establishing community market, fortifying agriculture in capacity. Examples comprise of highlighted local producers, to the community. This includes direct purchases of produces name a few. Practice opportunities for market trials, learning, from farmers. The Company investigated the area to 78 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED mitigate and prevent risks, bolstering agricultural practices in • Farmers have safe and appropriate management accordance to Good Agricultural Practice (GAP) itself. It also 6 Farmers were certified by Good Agricultural Practices continuously monitored and advise farmers to mitigate or manage (GAP), and recommended Good Agricultural Practices contamination risks, which may occur during plantation, harvest, (GAP) to 53 farmers or post-harvest management. This enables the Company to obtain • Increased distribution channels products, which are quality, safe, consumption suitable, and to 6.75 Million Baht / year worth of products were respond directly to the market’s demand. purchased. Distribution areas were made available for Initial assessment criteria for agriculture areas and production source Agricultural areas Production source, processing agricultural products Water Plantation Dangerous Agricultural Arrange Hygiene Tools, Control over Maintenance Production sources areas agricultural hazardous production condition of machines, selection and and personnel materials materials process for the location and equiment packaging sanitation /employees storage quality and prodution usedduring process products buildings the packaging Harvesting, Data environment Wastewater Labors Preservation Recording and postrecording and and harvesting from various agricultural transportation documents waste practice Environment management The Lifelong Learning for Sustainable Agriculture Project farmers, as well as an online platform for early product elevates the agricultural standards for the community, farmers, reservation and increase revenue for over 150 households. Part of the • Creative ideas or innovations generated from success is Basil Farming Support, which has been operating collaborative products since 2010. It commits to establishing good community Develop a transportation plan via the use of digital map. relationship through integration of agricultural management Process products for aromatic oil. Forecast the produce knowledge, and farmers’ way of life. The Company provides demand, coupled to agriculture planning. knowledge on good and appropriate agricultural practice according to GAP Standard, granting professional stability Pilot Project: Golden Bananas to small scale farmers, and expands distribution channels. (Kluay Hom Thong) The Company can also purchase produces from farmers at The Company recognizes the importance in product support fair prices. There are experts to provide guidance to farmers in from small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as consumers’ times of needs, with regular knowledge exchanges. This secures shifting trends – inclining towards more convenient and healthier income, provide security, and improve farmers’ quality of life. options. In 2012, the Company started implementing the Golden Bananas project for 7-Eleven stores’ customers. It was Performance a collaborative effort between various sectors, from community • Provide agricultural knowledge enterprises, to small and medium enterprises. Golden bananas 1,166 participants trained and participated were purchased from cooperatives and small-scale farmers, in excursions through a selection and selection process to ensure quality • Provide jobs for community products were consumers. Additionally, the Company promotes 90 employments in the areas, promote 6 farmers, for conglomeration of farmers to generate bargaining power and 8 women professionally in their respective local and, effectiveness in operations. The Company also purchases cooperatives products from farmer cooperatives to foster cooperative • Over 7 million Baht of economic circulation in the stability, such as Ban Ton Maprao Land Renovation Agricultural community per year Cooperative Limited. The Cooperative was established by a group 79 Farming plot management Post-harvest process, packaging, Provide quality and safe agricultural and product distribution products for consumers • Utilized Good Agricultural Practice • Criteria and good process for food • Sufficient products fitting the needs Standard production • Healthy product • Register farmers, and promote • Develop packaging for transportation • Prolong shelf-life, and help reduce conglomeration and post-harvest shelf-life prolongation losses • Limited pesticide and weedicide usage • Traceability • Data recording, plan production capacity forecast for rubber tree farmers, who decided to adapt and switch to and product selection. The Company has taken the efforts due grow golden bananas instead. to the recognition of health issues’ importance, either farmers, The Golden bananas, sold through 7-Eleven stores, sellers, or consumers. It currently studies and tests packaging continue to generate increasing revenues. This fortifies farmers’ innovation to help extend the Golden Bananas’ shelf-life, cooperatives, enable them to have greater quality of life, to develop packaging for a more modern look, to better following a more stable income flow. This gives more competitive preserve the quality. The efforts mentioned facilitate capacity in the market. distribution to 7-Eleven stores across the country. They have Apart from larger market distribution channels, the helped prolong golden bananas’ shelf-life to 4 days, which Company also promotes community enterprise, small and helps cut down losses significantly. medium enterprises, cooperatives; helps enhance product Golden Bananas Project helps increase income and stability quality in various aspects – covering the entire supply chain. for community enterprises, small and medium enterprises, This comprises of management and enhancement of and cooperatives, through contracts and product quality agricultural area standard, promote chemical free golden enhancement. Presently, over 1,800 small scale farmers have banana plantation, as well as providing knowledge on harvests participated, an equivalent of 12,970 Rai of agricultural areas. 80 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Coffee-based Job Creation for Society and Community Project A project set driven by CP Retailink Co., Ltd. It comprises of smaller projects facilitating coffee supply chain development, by providing security to small-scale producers, as well as creating jobs and deliver quality coffee to consumers. Grow the Forest, Raise the Income Project The crux of the problem came from consistent deforestation in Nan province. Despite annual reforestation project, green areas could not be expanded or retained – as reforestation efforts were done on empty lands, and lack caretakers. Through collaborations with public bureaus, such as Department of Forestry, Department of Agriculture, Land Development Department, Department of Agricultural Extension, Office of the Non-Formal and Informal Education, due to the commitment in responding to Princess Sirindhorn’s encouragement for prompt reforestation efforts, also in helping locals earn income. The Company provides assistance in the form of professional tool, such as coffee processing, roasting plant, including making coffee bean purchases from locals regularly. Presently, the project implementation has produced over 1,700 Rai green areas, generating income for over 400 households, and obtained quality coffee beans for All Cafe and ‘Muan Chon’ Coffee Shop. Coffee-based Job Creation Coffee-based Job Creation for Society and Community Training for People with Disabilities Training Operated since 2010 as part of the policy to promote education. A vocational training program for recovering psychiatric patients to Trainings are provided for those with interests to sell coffee. society is in collaboration with three organizations: Somdet Chaopraya Training is provided monthly for free, with an emphasis in Hospital Foundation by Khunying Uerpranee Chearavanont, Somdet providing knowledge and fundamental understanding. The content Chaopraya Institute of Psychiatry and CP Retailink with a view to is comprehensive, covers from shop location consideration, an rehabilitating psychiatric patients at institutes of psychiatry by establishing important factor, to market survey, customer data collection, red roof coffee shops where the patients were trained for beverage necessary for planning and designing of service fitting the target making and selling. Income obtaining from the coffee shops will be used group’s expectation. This provides a solid business foundation. As for implementation of future activities. of now, there have been 79 generation of participants, totals to In this regard, CP RetailLink has continuously supported such an initiative over 8,5000 people. for over 1 – 1.5 years by bringing those trained psychiatric patients to work with its own “Caffe' Muan Chon” coffee shops. This support will enable psychiatric patients to have job, earn income to support their Impact Scale Up families and eventually harmoniously return to the society. “One baht One Cup” project Apart from creating new occupations and secured income for Thais, the company still aspires to pass the happiness throughout the society by deduct one baht of each “Caffe' Muan Chon” beverage sold for donating to Phrabatnampu, and Suankaew temples, and Suthasini Noi-in For Children and Youths. In 2017, the company donated more than 2,150,000 baht. Veteran Project Roles and Responsibilities Part of the project for those with disabilities, a topic in • Monitor and investigate the safety of 7-Eleven stores to which the Company is committed to contribute and promote, prevent incidents to generate positive impacts and social creativity, in accordance • Be vigilant and maintain constant monitoring to any to the Royal Decree for Support and Development of Quality incidents occurred in 7-Elven stores. Facilitate for further of Life for People with Disabilities. Since 2013, the Company support in case of accidents. has instituted The Committee for People with Disabilities to • Provide suggestion, guideline, approach for own safety drive forward quality of life improvement for individuals with in case of ‘robbery, burglary, harassment, or crimes’ to disabilities, specifically with more tangibility, going beyond the store employees. basic requirement of the law. Performance Project Performance Number of employees with disabilities The Veteran Project is a project that pushes for performance 2013 = 518 employees and success by Public-Private Collaboration Office, CP ALL Plc. 2014 = 539 employees It commits to answer employments and equal treatments as 2015 = 594 employees stated by the law. Work scope is determined in considerations 2016 = 649 employees to the expertise of aforementioned individual with disabilities. 81 APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Sustainability Performance : Environment Summary GRI Required Data Unit Remark 2014 2015 2016 2017 GHG Emission tCO2e 903,379.94 1,021,629.79 1,131,651.73 1,184,068.66 GRI GHG Emission Scope 1 tCO2e 8,717.07 10,596.01 8,115.53 9,008.51 305-1 Fugitive emissions tCO2e 2,795.18 3,444.09 1,115.46 914.04 Methane from UASB tCO2e 2,795.18 3,444.09 1,115.46 914.04 Calculation comprised volume and characteristic of CPRAM Latkrabang's wastewater. Mobile Combustion (CP ALL tCO2e 5,921.89 7,151.92 7,000.07 8,094.47 rents and pays for the fuel) Mobile Combustion (On road) tCO2e 5,921.89 7,151.92 7,000.07 8,094.47 Gasoline tCO2e 3,164.96 3,938.54 4,067.27 4,221.57 Diesel tCO2e 2,756.93 3,213.38 2,932.80 3,872.90 305-2 GHG Emission Scope 2 tCO2e 894,662.87 1,011,033.78 1,123,536.20 1,175,060.15 GHG Emission from Grid Electricity tCO2e 894,662.87 1,011,033.78 1,123,536.20 1,175,060.15 305-4 GHG Intensity GHG Intensity (per revenue) tCO2e 2.43 2.52 2.50 2.42 GHG intensity was /MTB calculated by including scope 1 and 2 emissions. Energy Intensity (per revenue) GRI Stationary Combustion GJ 144,934.03 171,137.35 231,481.88 273,582.89 302-1 Fossil fuels (coal, oil, natural gas, GJ 144,934.03 171,137.35 231,481.88 273,582.89 CP ALL's data was etc.) purchased and consumed included since 2018. (for energy purposes) Bunker oil GJ 110,040.00 123,301.00 143,934.00 161,001.74 Liter 2,913,000.00 3,264,000.00 3,770,000.00 4,216,913.00 Diesel GJ 2,697.00 3,289.57 4,083.00 4,086.98 Partial data was back-calculated with assumptions. Liter 74,052.81 90,323.19 112,108.73 112,217.85 LPG GJ 32,197.03 42,147.39 66,951.12 69,182.62 kg 640,000.00 839,000.00 4,139,772.00 1,377,382.59 Natural Gas GJ 0.00 2,399.39 16,513.76 39,311.55 MMBTU 0.00 2,274.30 15,652.85 37,281.09 Electricity (nonrenewable) GJ 5,533,046.83 6,252,744.90 6,948,512.89 7,267,165.11 purchased Total renewable energy GJ 0.00 0.00 122.15 2,983.28 Geothermal energy consumed consumption was excluded. Solar GJ 0.00 0.00 122.15 223.88 Solar thermal GJ 0.00 0.00 0.00 2,759.40 83 Summary GRI Required Data Unit Remark 2014 2015 2016 2017 GRI Energy Intensity 302-3 Energy Intensity (per revenue) GJ/ 15.29 15.83 15.89 15.41 MTB Water GRI Water Consumption 303-1 Total municipal water supplies m3 5,962,212.15 6,536,553.33 7,084,097.21 8,025,422.18 Partial CP ALL data was (or from other water utilities) back-calculated from water expenses. Fresh groundwater m3 248,598.00 624,289.00 935,815.00 1,036,559.00 Groundwater was consumed only by CPRAM Ladlumkaew. Water returned to the source of m3 201,388.00 142,232.00 92,618.00 101,833.00 Groundwater was extraction at similar or higher consumed only by quality as raw water extracted CPRAM Ladlumkaew. (only applies to Fresh surface water and Fresh groundwater) Total net fresh water m3 6,210,810.15 7,160,842.33 8,019,912.21 9,061,981.18 consumption GRI Total volume of water recycled m3 260,469.00 211,852.00 170,996.00 190,839.00 Direct measurement was 303-3 and reused by the organization. implemented at CPRAM Ladlumkaew and CPRAM Latkrabang. Effluent and Waste GRI Water discharge by quality 306-1 and destination Volume of effluent m3 1,302,458.19 1,560,924.10 1,823,911.21 2,083,072.07 CP ALL's data was included since 2018. Biochemical Oxygen Demand kg 19,972.00 15,530.00 22,816.00 22,852.00 (BOD) Total Suspended Solids (TSS) kg 6,080.00 15,824.00 16,877.00 13,088.00 84 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Summary GRI Required Data Unit Remark 2014 2015 2016 2017 GRI Hazardous Waste Siam Makro's data was 306-2 Disposal Method included since 2018. Inceneration (Mass burn) Metric 4.95 12.00 16.70 23.09 Data was measured Ton by weighing. Landfill Metric 5.79 4.81 3.29 3.01 Data was measured Ton by weighing. Chemical or fuel contaminated Metric 0.27 0.71 0.30 0.06 Data was measured Ton by weighing. Infectious waste referring to Metric 0.39 1.45 1.01 0.61 Data was measured Public Health Act. Ton by weighing. Other return to supplier Metric n/a n/a 0.04 2.25 Ton Non-hazardous Waste Disposal Method Composting Metric 844.55 1,131.44 2,021.71 5,065.75 Partial data was Ton calculated from waste disposal trips. Inceneration (Mass burn) Metric 922.77 820.01 1,165.12 1,651.77 Partial data was Ton calculated from waste disposal trips. Landfill Metric 2,559.38 10,660.96 18,452.91 21,325.40 Partial data was Ton calculated from waste disposal trips. Municaipal soild waste referring Metric 29.06 0.00 28.39 0.00 Data was measured to Public Health Act. Ton by weighing. Other return to Supplier Metric 31.00 27.68 31.16 32.76 CPRAM Ladlumkaew's Ton data was calculated from number of waste container. Disposed waste of both types Landfilled + Subjected to deep Metric 3,522.34 11,499.23 19,667.42 23,003.88 well + Incenerated without energy Ton recovery Scope data : Sub-Area data is omitted from CPALL Food Service is omitted from Siam Makro CPRAM Ready-to-Eat Food Bussiness data from Ladlumkaew CPRAM bakery Bussiness data from Latkrabang 85 Sustainability Performance : Social Summary GRI Required Data Unit Remark 2014 2015 2016 2017 GRI Total Employees 102-7 Employees Person 57,863 63,654 71,072 75,842 GRI Permanent employees Person 57,722 63,546 70,902 75,684 102-8 Board of Directors/Supervisory Person 10 10 11 12 Board Male Person 13 13 14 14 Female Person 2 2 2 4 GRI Total number of employees Person 57,863 63,654 71,072 75,842 102-8 by level Top Executive Person 17 17 18 18 Male Person 13 13 14 14 Female Person 4 4 4 4 Management Person 1,904 2,100 2,300 2,437 Male Person 894 982 1,066 1,106 Female Person 1,010 1,118 1,234 1,331 Non-Management Person 55,942 61,537 68,754 73,387 Male Person 19,578 21,415 23,269 24,822 Female Person 36,364 40,122 45,485 48,565 GRI Total Employees by age Person 57,863 63,654 71,072 75,842 405-1 < 30 years Person 31,120 34,384 39,364 41,777 Male Person 10,704 11,762 13,036 13,917 Female Person 20,416 22,622 26,328 27,860 30-50 years Person 26,112 28,581 30,868 33,105 Male Person 9,551 10,389 10,996 11,667 Female Person 16,561 18,192 19,872 21,438 > 50 years Person 631 689 840 960 Male Person 231 258 318 358 Female Person 400 431 522 602 GRI Training & Development 404-1 By Level Executive Level hour/person 68.13 80.65 129.31 68.19 Officer Level hour/person 28.55 40.67 53.99 54.44 Staff Level hour/person 18.40 24.96 37.43 81.98 86 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Summary GRI Required Data Unit Remark 2014 2015 2016 2017 GRI New employee hires and 401-1 employee turnover Total new hires Person 27,233 31,002 33,926 34,123 Over 50 year Person 27 28 31 31 Age 30 50 year Person 5,982 6,783 6,603 6,587 Under 30 year Person 21,224 24,191 27,292 27,505 Total turnover Person 25,466 28,833 32,737 33,502 Over 50 year Person 75 85 70 97 Age 30 50 year Person 5,546 6,235 6,694 7,078 Under 30 year Person 19,845 22,513 25,973 26,327 GRI Absentee 403-2 Male % 0.54% 0.73% 0.83% 0.36% Female % 0.72% 0.97% 1.06% 0.55% Absentee rate % 1.26% 1.70% 1.89% 0.91% Lost day Male % 70.7 93.5 73 63.5 Female % 29.1 6.5 27 36.5 Lost day rate % 8.6 9.4 9.7 8.4 Fatalities (Employee) Male Person 0 0 0 0 Female Person 0 0 0 0 Fatalities (Contractor) Male Person 0 0 0 0 Female Person 0 0 0 0 Injuries Frequency Rate (IR) Case/million work 3.08 2.79 2.95 1.98 Employees hours Male Case/million work 4.97 4.51 4.05 3.10 hours Female Case/million work 1.67 1.83 1.68 1.37 hours Injuries Frequency Rate (IR) Case/million work 4.14 5.05 6.09 3.03 Contractors hours Male Case/million work 5.91 6.76 7.47 3.97 CPRAM Latkrabang's hours data was included since 2018. Female Case/million work 2.38 3.31 4.13 2.06 CPRAM Latkrabang's hours data was included since 2018. 87 Summary GRI Required Data Unit Remark 2014 2015 2016 2017 Lost-Time Injuries Frequency Hour/million work 20.73 14.53 22.06 43.67 Rate (LTIFR) Employees hours Male Hour/million work 2.71 3.49 3.92 2.67 SiamMakro's hours methodology counts all loss-days. Female Hour/million work 1.1 0.66 0.95 0.67 hours Lost-Time Injuries Frequency Case/million work 1.01 0.95 0.60 1.95 Rate (LTIFR) Employees hours Male Case/million work 1.89 1.86 1.72 3.56 hours Female Case/million work 0.53 0.44 0.50 1.06 hours Lost-Time Injuries Frequency Hour/million work 3.74 5.39 5.95 2.40 Rate (LTIFR) Contractors hours Male Hour/million work 4.20 7.18 7.47 2.80 CPRAM Latkrabang's hours data was included since 2018. Female Hour/million work 3.27 3.57 3.79 1.98 CPRAM Latkrabang's hours data was included since 2018. Occupational Illness Frequency Rate (OIFR) Employees Male Hour/million work 0 0 0 0 hours Female Hour/million work 0 0 0 0 hours Occupational Illness Frequency Rate (OIFR) Contractors Male Hour/million work 0 0 0 0 hours Female Hour/million work 0 0 0 0 hours Scope data : Contractors (e.g. goods forwarders, visitors, and construcion and maintenance contractors) are omitted from the report. Franchise, sub area, distribution centers, and offices data are omitted from CP ALL. Food Service data is omitted from Siam Makro. Remark : CPRAM Ready-to-Eat Food Bussiness data from Ladlumkaew CPRAM bakery Bussiness data from Latkrabang 88 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Sustainability Performance : Education Performance GRI Required Data Unit Remark 2014 2015 2016 2017 Number of Students in The Person 19,475 22,982 27,220 30,675 Present Number of Scholarship Grantees Schorlarship 12,918 14,576 16,733 19,526 Number of Students Graduated Person 2,581 3,147 3,782 4,523 Vocational education Person 1,959 2,458 2,435 2,711 Higher education Person 622 689 1,347 1,812 Number of Students Graduate Person 1,467 2,359 2,255 2,091 and Work with Company Scope data : CPALL (Public Company Limited) Panyapiwat Technological College The Panyapiwat Institute of Management The Panyapiwat Institute of Management Demonstration School (Satit PIM) 89 Global Reporting Page External Disclosure Title Section Remark Initiative Number Assurance Standards General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organization Overview of CP ALL (Public Company Limited) 4 and Subsidiaries 102-2 Activities, brands, products, Overview of CP ALL (Public Company Limited) 4-9 and services and Subsidiaries 102-3 Location of headquarters Overview of CP ALL (Public Company Limited) 9 and Subsidiaries 102-4 Location of operations Overview of CP ALL (Public Company Limited) 4-9 and Subsidiaries 102-6 Markets served Overview of CP ALL (Public Company Limited) 4-9 and Subsidiaries 102-7 Scale of the organization Overview of CP ALL (Public Company Limited) Annexure Refer to CP ALL Annual and Subsidiaries page 5 Report 2017, page 3, 33, 35, 40-43 102-8 Information on employees Overview of CP ALL (Public Company Limited) Annexure and other workers and Subsidiaries page 5 102-9 Supply chain Overview of CP ALL (Public Company Limited) 4, 71-76 and Subsidiaries 102-10 Significant changes to the Delivering the Best Quality Throughout the 71-76 Refer to CP ALL Annual organization and its supply Supply Chain Report 2017, page 34 chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or Holistic Integrated Management Framework: 27-30 Refer to CP ALL Annual approach Readiness in mitigating diverse risk profiles Report 2017, page 51-56 102-12 External initiatives Adding Product Value, For Consumer’s Better 35-37, Quality of Life 77-81 Creating Value for Society 102-13 Membership of associations https://www.cpall.co.th/ Sustain/performance 102-14 Statement from senior Meassage from Chairman 2-3 decision-maker Meassage from Chairman of Executive Committee 102-16 Values, principles, Building on Ideology, Strategy for 10-11, standards, and norms of Sustainability 21-26 behavior 102-18 Governance structure Commitment to Ethics and Good Corporate 21-26 Governance 102-19 Delegating authority Building on Ideology, Strategy for Sustainability 10-11 102-22 Composition of the highest Commitment to Ethics and Good Corporate 21-26 governance body and its Governance committees 102-26 Role of highest governance Commitment to Ethics and Good Corporate 21-26 body in setting purpose, Governance values, and strategy 90 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Global Reporting Page External Disclosure Title Section Remark Initiative Number Assurance Standards 102-29 Identifying and managing Holistic Integrated Management Framework: 27-30, economic, environmental, Readiness in mitigating diverse risk profiles 62-66 and social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk Holistic Integrated Management Framework: 27-30 Refer to CP ALL Annual management processes Readiness in mitigating diverse risk profiles Report 2017, page 51-56 102-31 Review of economic, Holistic Integrated Management Framework: 14-15, environmental, and social Readiness in mitigating diverse risk profiles 27-30 topics 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Creating happiness through stakeholder 16-20 engagement 102-42 Identifying and selecting Creating happiness through stakeholder 16-20 stakeholders engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Creating happiness through stakeholder 16-20 engagement engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns Creating happiness through stakeholder 16-20 raised engagement 102-46 Defining report content and Overview of CP ALL (Public Company Limited) 4-9, topic Boundaries and Subsidiaries 14-15 102-47 List of material topics Building on Ideology, Strategy for Sustainability 10-11, Emphasis on All Material Issues for 14-15 Sustainability in All Dimensions 102-49 Changes in reporting Emphasis on All Material Issues for 14-15 Sustainability in All Dimensions 102-50 Reporting period Emphasis on All Material Issues for 14-15, Sustainability in All Dimensions Annexure page 2-9 102-52 Reporting cycle Emphasis on All Material Issues for 14-15 Sustainability in All Dimensions 102-53 Contact point for questions Overview of CP ALL (Public Company Limited) 9 regarding the report and Subsidiaries 102-54 Claims of reporting in Emphasis on All Material Issues for 14 accordance with the GRI Sustainability in All Dimensions Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI content index This page 102-56 External assurance External data assurance 104-105 Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material Building on Ideology, Strategy for Sustainability 10-15 topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach Creating happiness through stakeholder All and its components engagement chapters 91 Global Reporting Page External Disclosure Title Section Remark Initiative Number Assurance Standards Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on Delivering the Best Quality Throughout the 75 local suppliers Supply Chain Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and Commitment to Ethics and Good Corporate 21-26 training about antiGovernance corruption policies and procedures Materials 301-3 Reclaimed products and Caring for Environment, aligned with 55 their packaging materials international standards Subtainability performance Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within Caring for Environment, aligned with 83  the organization international standards Subtainability performance 302-3 Energy intensity Caring for Environment, aligned with 84  international standards Subtainability performance 302-4 Reduction of energy Caring for Environment, aligned with 53 consumption international standards Subtainability performance Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by Caring for Environment, aligned with 84  source international standards 303-3 Water recycled and reused Caring for Environment, aligned with 84 international standards Subtainability performance Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Sustainability performance 83  emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) Sustainability performance 83  GHG emissions 305-4 Ghg Emission Intensity Subtainability performance 83  Effluents and Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal Sustainability performance 85  method Employment 401-1 New employee hires and Sustainability performance 87 employee turnover 92 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Global Reporting Page External Disclosure Title Section Remark Initiative Number Assurance Standards Occupational Health and Safety 403-1 Workers representation in Sustainability performance 48  formal joint management– worker health and safety committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of Sustainability performance 87  injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training Sustainability performance 86 per year per employee 404-2 Programs for upgrading Strengthening Capacity, One Organization 41-42 employee skills and transition assistance programs Customer Health and Safety 416-1 Assessment of the health Adding Product Value, For Consumer’s Better 35-37 and safety impacts of Quality of Life product and service categories Human Rights Assessment 408-1 Operations and suppliers at Society of Peace: Respecting Human Rights 62-66 Additional information significant risk for incidents please refer to of child labor http://cpall.co.th/sustain/ humanright 409-1 Operations and suppliers at Society of Peace: Respecting Human Rights 62-66 Additional information significant risk for incidents please refer to of forced or compulsory http://cpall.co.th/sustain/ labor humanright 412-1 Operations that have been Society of Peace: Respecting Human Rights 62-66 Additional information subject to human rights please refer to reviews or impact http://cpall.co.th/sustain/ assessments humanright 412-2 Employee training on Society of Peace: Respecting Human Rights 62-66 Additional information human rights policies or please refer to procedures http://cpall.co.th/sustain/ humanright 93 United Nations Sustainability Development Goals (UN SDGs) Goals Description Page 1 End poverty in all its forms everywhere 69, 77-81 2 End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture 35-37, 77-81 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages 12-13, 35-37 4 Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all 12-13, 43-45 5 Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls 6 Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all 12-13 7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all 12-13, 51-54 8 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and 12-13, 46-50, 58-66, 77-81 decent work for all 9 Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation 12-13, 58-61 10 Reduce inequality within and among countries 62-71, 77-81 11 Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable 12-13, 46-57, 62-71 12 Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns 51-57 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts 12-13, 51-57 14 Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resvwources for sustainable development 12-13, 75-76 15 Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, 12-13 combat desertification, and halt and reverse 16 Promote peaceful land inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for 12-13, 67-71, 77-81 all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels 17 Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable 78 development 94 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED UNGC Advanced level Comment/ UNGC Advanced level checklist Reference Implementing the Criterion 1: The COP describes mainstreaming into corporate functions and business units Ten Principles into Indicate which of the following best practices are described in your COP: Strategies & • Any relevant policies, procedures, and activities that the company plans Page 10-13 Operations to undertake to fulfill this criterion, including goals, timelines, metrics, and responsible staff • Place responsibility for execution of sustainability strategy in relevant Page 10-13 corporate functions (procurement, government affairs, human resources, legal, etc) ensuring no function conflicts with company’s sustainability commitments and objectives • Align strategies, goals and incentive structures of all business units and Page 10-13 subsidiaries with corporate sustainability strategy • Assign responsibility for corporate sustainability implementation to an Page 10-13 individual or group within each business unit and subsidiary • Design corporate sustainability strategy to leverage synergies between Page 10-13 and among issue areas and to deal adequately with trade-offs • Ensure that different corporate functions coordinate closely to maximize Page 10-13 performance and avoid unintended negative impacts • Other established or emerging best practices Criterion 2: The COP describes value chain implementation Indicate which of the following best practices are described in your COP: • Any relevant policies, procedures, and activities that the company plans https://www.cpall. to undertake to fulfill this criterion, including goals, timelines, metrics, co.th/Sustain/policy and responsible staff • Analyze each segment of the value chain carefully, both upstream and https://www.cpall. downstream, when mapping risks, opportunities and impacts co.th/Sustain/ performance • Communicate policies and expectations to suppliers and other relevant https://www.cpall. business partners co.th/Sustain/policy • Implement monitoring and assurance mechanisms (e.g. audits/ screenings) for compliance within the company’s sphere of influence • Undertake awareness-raising, training and other types of capacity Page 72-76 building with suppliers and other business partners https://www.cpall. co.th/Sustain • Other established or emerging best practices Criterion 3: The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of human rights Indicate which of the following best practices are described in your COP: Robust Human • Any relevant policies, procedures, and activities that the company plans Page 10-13, Rights to undertake to fulfill this criterion, including goals, timelines, metrics, https://goo.gl/x2q5dx Management and responsible staff Policies & Procedures • Commitment to comply with all applicable laws and respect Page 62-66 internationally recognized human rights, wherever the company https://www.cpall. operates (e.g., the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Guiding co.th/Sustain Principles on Human Rights) 95 Comment/ UNGC Advanced level checklist Reference • Integrated or stand-alone statement of policy expressing commitment Page 10-13, to respect and support human rights approved at the most senior level https://goo.gl/x2q5dx of the company • Statement of policy stipulating human rights expectations of personnel, Page 10-13, business partners and other parties directly linked to operations, https://goo.gl/x2q5dx products or services • Statement of policy publicly available and communicated internally Page 10-13, and externally to all personnel, business partners and other relevant https://goo.gl/x2q5dx parties • Other established or emerging best practices Page 62-66 Criterion 4: The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the human rights principles Indicate which of the following best practices are described in your COP: • Any relevant policies, procedures, and activities that the company plans Page 10-13, to undertake to fulfill this criterion, including goals, timelines, metrics, https://goo.gl/x2q5dx and responsible staff • Process to ensure that internationally recognized human rights are Page 62-66 respected https://www.cpall. co.th/Sustain • On-going due diligence process that includes an assessment of actual Page 62-66 and potential human rights impacts https://www.cpall. co.th/Sustain The Guiding Principles suggest that the assessment: Page 62-66 https://www.cpall. co.th/Sustain • Internal awareness-raising and training on human rights for management Page 62-66 and employees https://www.cpall. co.th/Sustain • Operational-level grievance mechanisms for those potentially impacted Page 62-66 by the company’s activities https://www.cpall. co.th/Sustain • Allocation of responsibilities and accountability for addressing human Page 62-66 rights impacts https://www.cpall. co.th/Sustain • Internal decision-making, budget and oversight for effective responses Page 62-66 to human rights impacts https://www.cpall. co.th/Sustain • Processes to provide for or cooperate in the remediation of adverse Page 62-66 human rights impacts that the company has caused or contributed to https://www.cpall. co.th/Sustain • Process and programs in place to support human rights through: Page 62-66 core business; strategic philanthropic/social investment; public policy https://www.cpall. engagement/advocacy; partnerships and/or other forms of collective co.th/Sustain action • Other established or emerging best practices 96 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Comment/ UNGC Advanced level checklist Reference Criterion 5: The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of human rights integration Indicate which of the following best practices are described in your COP: • Any relevant policies, procedures, and activities that the company plans Page 10-13, to undertake to fulfill this criterion, including goals, timelines, metrics, https://goo.gl/x2q5dx and responsible staff • System to monitor the effectiveness of human rights policies and Page 62-66 implementation with quantitative and qualitative metrics, including in https://www.cpall. the supply chain co.th/Sustain • Monitoring drawn from internal and external feedback, including affected stakeholders • Process to deal with incidents the company has caused or contributed to for internal and external stakeholders • Outcomes of integration of the human rights principles Page 62-66 https://www.cpall. co.th/Sustain Suggested GRI Indicators: HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments.) (a) Be of a form and frequency that reflect an enterprise’s human rights impacts and that are accessible to its intended audiences; (b) Provide information that is sufficient to evaluate the adequacy of an enterprise’s response to the particular human rights impact involved; (c) In turn not pose risks to affected stakeholders, personnel or to legitimate requirements of commercial confidentiality. • Outcomes of remediation processes of adverse human rights impacts (Suggested GRI Indicator: HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms.) • Other established or emerging best practices 97 Comment/ UNGC Advanced level checklist Reference Criterion 6: The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of labour Indicate which of the following best practices are described in your COP: Robust Labour • Any relevant policies, procedures, and activities that the company plans Page 10-13, Management to undertake to fulfill this criterion, including goals, timelines, metrics, https://goo.gl/x2q5dx Policies & and responsible staff Procedures • Reference to principles of relevant international labour standards Page 10-13, (ILO Conventions) and other normative international instruments in https://goo.gl/x2q5dx company policies • Reflection on the relevance of the labour principles for the company Page 46-50 • Written company policy to obey national labour law, respect principles https://goo.gl/x2q5dx of the relevant international labour standards in company operations worldwide , and engage in dialogue with representative organization of the workers (international, sectoral, national). • Inclusion of reference to the principles contained in the relevant 72-75 international labour standards in contracts with suppliers and other https://www.cpall. relevant business partners co.th/Sustain/policy • Specific commitments and Human Resources policies, in line with https://goo.gl/x2q5dx national development priorities or decent work priorities in the country of operation Examples: Inclusion of vulnerable/discriminated groups in the workforce (e.g., women, disabled, migrant, HIV/AIDS, older/younger workers); equal pay for work of equal value; contribution to national strategies to eliminate child/forced labour, etc. • Participation and leadership in wider efforts by employers’ organizations Page 62-66 (international and national levels) to jointly address challenges related https://www.cpall. to labour standards in the countries of operation, possibly in a tripartite co.th/Sustain approach (business – trade union – government). • Structural engagement with a global union, possibly via a Global Page 62-66 Framework Agreement https://www.cpall. co.th/Sustain • Other established or emerging best practices Criterion 7: The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the labour principles Indicate which of the following best practices are described in your COP: • Any relevant policies, procedures, and activities that the company plans Page 10-13, to undertake to fulfill this criterion, including goals, timelines, metrics, https://goo.gl/x2q5dx and responsible staff • Risk and impact assessments in the area of labour Page 62-66 • Dialogue mechanism with trade unions to regularly discuss and review company progress in addressing labour standards • Allocation of responsibilities and accountability within the organization Page 48 • Internal awareness-raising and training on the labour principles for Page 62-66 management and employees • Active engagement with suppliers to address labour-related challenges https://www.cpall. co.th/Sustain • Grievance mechanisms, communication channels and other procedures (e.g., whistleblower mechanisms) available for workers to report concerns, make suggestions or seek advice, designed and operated in agreement with the representative organization of workers • Other established or emerging best practices 98 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Comment/ UNGC Advanced level checklist Reference Criterion 8: The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of labour principles integration Indicate which of the following best practices are described in your COP: • Any relevant policies, procedures, and activities that the company plans Page 10-13, to undertake to fulfill this criterion, including goals, timelines, metrics, https://goo.gl/x2q5dx and responsible staff • System to track and measure performance based on standardized performance metrics • Dialogues with the representative organization of workers to regularly Page 48 review progress made and jointly identify priorities for the future • Audits or other steps to monitor and improve the working conditions Page 62-66 of companies in the supply chain, in line with principles of international labour standards • Process to positively engage with the suppliers to address the https://www.cpall. challenges (i.e., partnership approach instead of corrective approach) co.th/Sustain through schemes to improve workplace practices • Outcomes of integration of the Labour principles https://www.cpall. co.th/Sustain • Other established or emerging best practices Criterion 9: The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of environmental stewardship Indicate which of the following best practices are described in your COP: Robust • Any relevant policies, procedures, and activities that the company plans Page 10-13, Environmental to undertake to fulfill this criterion, including goals, timelines, metrics, https://goo.gl/x2q5dx Management and responsible staff Policies & • Reference to relevant international conventions and other international Procedures instruments (e.g. Rio Declaration on Environment and Development) • Reflection on the relevance of environmental stewardship for the 51-57 company • Written company policy on environmental stewardship Page 10-13, https://goo.gl/x2q5dx • Inclusion of minimum environmental standards in contracts with suppliers and other relevant business partners • Specific commitments and goals for specified years Page 10-13, https://goo.gl/x2q5dx • Other established or emerging best practices Criterion 10: The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the environmental principles Indicate which of the following best practices are described in your COP: • Any relevant policies, procedures, and activities that the company plans Page 10-13, to undertake to fulfill this criterion, including goals, timelines, metrics, https://goo.gl/x2q5dx and responsible staff • Environmental risk and impact assessments • Assessments of lifecycle impact of products, ensuring environmentally 51-57 sound management policies • Allocation of responsibilities and accountability within the organisation 10-11 • Internal awareness-raising and training on environmental stewardship 51-57 for management and employees • Grievance mechanisms, communication channels and other procedures 9 (e.g. whistleblower mechanisms) for reporting concerns or seeking advice regarding environmental impacts • Other established or emerging best practices 99 Comment/ UNGC Advanced level checklist Reference Criterion 11: The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for environmental stewardship Indicate which of the following best practices are described in your COP: • Any relevant policies, procedures, and activities that the company plans Page 10-13, to undertake to fulfill this criterion, including goals, timelines, metrics, https://goo.gl/x2q5dx and responsible staff • System to track and measure performance based on standardized performance metrics • Leadership review of monitoring and improvement results • Process to deal with incidents • Audits or other steps to monitor and improve the environmental 74 performance of companies in the supply chain • Outcomes of integration of the environmental principles 51.57 ð Other established or emerging best practices Criterion 12: The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of anti-corruption Indicate which of the following best practices are described in your COP: Robust • Any relevant policies, procedures, and activities that the company plans Page 10-13, Anti-Corruption to undertake to fulfill this criterion, including goals, timelines, metrics, https://goo.gl/x2q5dx Management and responsible staff Policies & • Publicly stated formal policy of zero-tolerance of corruption Page 24 Procedures • Commitment to be in compliance with all relevant anti-corruption laws, Page 24-26 including the implementation of procedures to know the law and monitor changes • Statement of support for international and regional legal frameworks, such as the UN Convention against Corruption • Detailed policies for high-risk areas of corruption • Policy on anti-corruption regarding business partners Page 73 https://www.cpall. co.th/Sustain/policy • Other established or emerging best practices Criterion 13: The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the anti-corruption principle Indicate which of the following best practices are described in your COP: • Any relevant policies, procedures, and activities that the company plans Page 10-13, to undertake to fulfill this criterion, including goals, timelines, metrics, https://goo.gl/x2q5dx and responsible staff • Support by the organization’s leadership for anti-corruption Page 21-26 • Carrying out risk assessment of potential areas of corruption • Human Resources procedures supporting the anti-corruption Page 25 commitment or policy, including communication to and training for all employees • Internal checks and balances to ensure consistency with the Page 25 anti-corruption commitment • Actions taken to encourage business partners to implement anti-corruption commitments • Management responsibility and accountability for implementation Page 74 of the anti-corruption commitment or policy • Communications (whistleblowing) channels and follow-up mechanisms Page 26 for reporting concerns or seeking advice • Internal accounting and auditing procedures related to anticorruption Page 25 • Other established or emerging best practices 100 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Comment/ UNGC Advanced level checklist Reference Criterion 14: The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for the integration of anti-corruption Indicate which of the following best practices are described in your COP: • Any relevant policies, procedures, and activities that the company plans Page 10-13, to undertake to fulfill this criterion, including goals, timelines, metrics, https://goo.gl/x2q5dx and responsible staff • Leadership review of monitoring and improvement results Page 21-26 • Process to deal with incidents • Public legal cases regarding corruption • Use of independent external assurance of anti-corruption programmes Page 26 • Outcomes of integration of the anti-corruption principle • Other established or emerging best practices Taking Action in Criterion 15: The COP describes core business contributions to UN goals and issues Support of Broader UN Indicate which of the following best practices are described in your COP: Goals and Issues • Any relevant policies, procedures, and activities that the company plans Page 10-13, 78-79 to undertake to fulfill this criterion, including goals, timelines, metrics, https://goo.gl/x2q5dx and responsible staff • Align core business strategy with one or more relevant UN goals/issues Page 10-13 • Develop relevant products and services or design business models that Page 10-13 contribute to UN goals/issues • Adopt and modify operating procedures to maximize contribution to Page 10-13 UN goals/issues • Other established or emerging best practices Criterion 16: The COP describes strategic social investments and philanthropy Indicate which of the following best practices are described in your COP: • Any relevant policies, procedures, and activities that the company plans Page 10-13, 78-79 to undertake to fulfill this criterion, including goals, timelines, metrics, https://goo.gl/x2q5dx and responsible staff • Pursue social investments and philanthropic contributions that tie in Page 10-13, 78-79 with the core competencies or operating context of the company as an https://goo.gl/x2q5dx integrated part of its sustainability strategy • Coordinate efforts with other organizations and initiatives to Page 78-79 amplify—and not negate or unnecessarily duplicate—the efforts of other contributors • Take responsibility for the intentional and unintentional effects of Page 78-79 funding and have due regard for local customs, traditions, religions, and priorities of pertinent individuals and groups • Other established or emerging best practices Criterion 17: The COP describes advocacy and public policy engagement Indicate which of the following best practices are described in your COP: • Any relevant policies, procedures, and activities that the company plans Page 10-13, to undertake to fulfill this criterion, including goals, timelines, metrics, https://goo.gl/x2q5dx and responsible staff • Publicly advocate the importance of action in relation to one or more Page 78 UN goals/issues • Commit company leaders to participate in key summits, conferences, Page 10-13, and other important public policy interactions in relation to one or https://goo.gl/x2q5dx more UN goals/issues • Other established or emerging best practices 101 Comment/ UNGC Advanced level checklist Reference Criterion 18: The COP describes partnerships and collective action Indicate which of the following best practices are described in your COP: • Any relevant policies, procedures, and activities that the company plans Page 10-13, to undertake to fulfill this criterion, including goals, timelines, metrics, https://goo.gl/x2q5dx and responsible staff • Develop and implement partnership projects with public or private Page 75-76, 80-81 organizations (UN entities, government, NGOs, or other groups) on core business, social investments and/or advocacy • Join industry peers, UN entities and/or other stakeholders in initiatives Page 75-76, 80-81 contributing to solving common challenges and dilemmas at the global and/or local levels with an emphasis on initiatives extending the company’s positive impact on its value chain • Other established or emerging best practices Corporate Criterion 19: The COP describes CEO commitment and leadership Sustainability Indicate which of the following best practices are described in your COP: Governance and • Any relevant policies, procedures, and activities that the company plans Page 2-3, 10-13 Leadership to undertake to fulfill this criterion, including goals, timelines, metrics, https://goo.gl/x2q5dx and responsible staff • CEO publicly delivers explicit statements and demonstrates personal leadership on sustainability and commitment to the UN Global Compact • CEO promotes initiatives to enhance sustainability of the company’s sector and leads development of industry standards • CEO leads executive management team in development of corporate sustainability strategy, defining goals and overseeing implementation • Make sustainability criteria and UN Global Compact principles part of goals and incentive schemes for CEO and executive management team • Other established or emerging best practices Criterion 20: The COP describes Board adoption and oversight Indicate which of the following best practices are described in your COP: • Any relevant policies, procedures, and activities that the company plans Page 21-26 to undertake to fulfill this criterion, including goals, timelines, metrics, and responsible staff • Board of Directors (or equivalent) assumes responsibility and oversight Page 10-11 for long-term corporate sustainability strategy and performance • Board establishes, where permissible, a committee or assigns an Page 10-11 individual board member with responsibility for corporate sustainability. • Board (or committee), where permissible, approves formal reporting on corporate sustainability (Communication on Progress) • Other established or emerging best practices 102 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Comment/ UNGC Advanced level checklist Reference Criterion 21: The COP describes stakeholder engagement Indicate which of the following best practices are described in your COP: • Any relevant policies, procedures, and activities that the company plans Page 10-13, to undertake to fulfill this criterion, including goals, timelines, metrics, https://goo.gl/x2q5dx and responsible staff • Publicly recognize responsibility for the company’s impacts on internal Page 2-3, 10-13 and external stakeholders https://goo.gl/x2q5dx • Define sustainability strategies, goals and policies in consultation with key stakeholders • Consult stakeholders in dealing with implementation dilemmas and challenges and invite them to take active part in reviewing performance • Establish channels to engage with employees and other stakeholders Page 16-20 to hear their ideas and address their concerns, and protect ‘whistle-blowers’ • Other established or emerging best practices 103 ASSURANCE STATEMENT SGS (THAILAND) LIMITED’S REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES IN THE CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED’S SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR 2017 NATURE AND SCOPE OF THE ASSURANCE/VERIFICATION SGS (Thailand) Limited was commissioned by CP ALL Public Company Limited (hereinafter referred to as CP ALL) to conduct an independent assurance of the Sustainability Report for 2017. The scope of the assurance, based on the SGS Sustainability Report Assurance methodology, included the text, and data in accompanying tables, contained in this report. The information in the Sustainability Report of CP ALL and its presentation are the responsibility of the directors or governing body and the management of CP ALL. SGS (Thailand) Limited has not been involved in the preparation of any of the material included in the Sustainability Report. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the text, data, graphs and statements within the scope of verification with the intention to inform all CP ALL’s stakeholders. The SGS protocols are based upon internationally recognized guidance, including the Principles contained within the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards (2016) for accuracy and reliability and the guidance on levels of assurance contained within the AA1000 series of standards and guidance for Assurance Providers. This report has been assured at a moderate level, type 1 of scrutiny using our protocols for:  evaluation of content veracity;  evaluation of the report content and supporting management systems against the AA1000 Accountability Principles (2008); and  evaluation of the report against the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards (2016). The assurance comprised a combination of pre-assurance research, interviews with relevant employees at CP ALL headquarter and subsidiary offices i.e. CPRAM Company Limited (Ladlumkaew and Ladkrabang factory), Siam Makro Public Company Limited in Thailand; documentation and record review and validation with external bodies and/or stakeholders where relevant. STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCE The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in inspection, testing and verification, operating in more than 140 countries and providing services including management systems and service certification; quality, environmental, social and ethical auditing and training; environmental, social and sustainability report assurance. SGS (Thailand) Limited affirm our independence from CP ALL, being free from bias and conflicts of interest with the organisation, its subsidiaries and stakeholders. The assurance team was assembled based on their knowledge, experience and qualifications for this assignment, and comprised auditors experienced in one or more of the following; AA1000, GRI, QMS, EMS, SMS, EnMS, Carbon Footprint, Water Footprint, GHG Validation GHG Verification Lead Auditors and experience on the SRA Assurance service provisions. GP5008 Issue 5 104 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CP ALL PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED VERIFICATION/ ASSURANCE OPINION On the basis of the methodology described and the verification work performed, we are satisfied that the information and data contained within Sustainability Report verified is accurate, reliable and provides a fair and balanced representation of CP ALL sustainability activities from 1st January 2017 to 31st December 2017. The assurance team is of the opinion that the Report can be used by the Reporting Organisation’s Stakeholders. We believe that the organisation has chosen an appropriate level of assurance for this stage in their reporting. In our opinion, the content of the report meet the requirement of GRI Standard (2016) and AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) Type1, Moderate level assurance. AA1000 ACCOUNTABILITY PRINCIPLES (2008) CONCLUSIONS, FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS Inclusivity CP ALL has demonstrated a good commitment to stakeholder inclusivity and stakeholder engagement. A variety of engagement effort such as survey and communication to employees, customers, investors, suppliers, CSR experts, and other stakeholders are implemented to underpin the organization’s understanding of stakeholder concerns. For future reporting, CP ALL may consider having more direct involvement of stakeholders during future engagement. Materiality CP ALL has established effective processes for determining issues that are material to the business. Formal review has indentified stakeholders and those issues that are material to each group and the report addresses these at an appropriate level to reflect their importance and priority to these stakeholders. Responsiveness The report includes coverage given to stakeholder engagement, as well as the response to the material issues concerned by the stakeholders. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE REPORTING GUIDELINES CONCLUSIONS, FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS The CP ALL’s Sustainability Report of 2017 is presented in accordance with the core option for GRI Standard (2016) and fulfills all the required content and quality criteria for the identified aspects listed below: GRI 302 Energy 2016; (302-1 Energy consumption within the organization, 302-3 Energy intensity) GRI 303 Water 2016; (303-1 Water withdrawal by source) GRI 305 Emission 2016; (305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions, 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions, 305-4 GHG emission intensity) GRI 306 Effluents and Waste 2016; (306-2 Waste by type and disposal method) GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety 2016; (403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees, 403-2 Type of injury and rates of injury occupational disease, lost days, and absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities) The material aspects and their boundaries within and outside of the organization are properly defined in accordance with GRI’s Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. Disclosures of identified material aspects, boundaries, are correctly located in context index and report. It is recommended to have more identifications and disclosure of their subsidiary’s material aspects in the next report. Disclosure on Management Approach components, such as goals and targets, specific actions taken to achieve the expected result, may be further enhanced. It is encouraged to emphasize on the specific management practices undertaken for each identified material aspect next year. Signed: For and on behalf of SGS (Thailand) Limited Sompong Kiatiporn, General Manager Bangkok, THAILAND 26 February, 2018 WWW.SGS.COM GP5008 Issue 5 105 106 Our Sustainability strategy of CP ALL Public Company Limited and Subsidiaries 04 Building on Ideology, Strategy for Sustainability 05 Emphasis on All Material Issues for Sustainability in All Dimensions 06 Creating happiness through stakeholder engagement 07 Commitment to Ethics and Corporate Governance 10 14 16 21 11 Strengthening Capacity, One Organization 12 Giving Education Opportunities, Creating a Future for the 13 Elevating Occupational Health and Safety: appropriate working We work Thai Youth conditions with care 38 43 46 Growing 18 Delivering the Best Quality Throughout the Supply Chain 19 Creating Value for Society together Appendix sustainably 72 77 82
