ROTRA LOGISTICS Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. Dear stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Rotra Logistics reaffirms its support of the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Mr. Machiel Roelofsen Vice President/CEO Statement CEO Rotra Logistics UNGC Royal Rotra: worldwide logistics since 1909 Established in 1909, the Dutch family business Rotra has developed into a tried and trusted One Stop Logistics Shop working with over 860 employees nowadays. Rotra has its own offices throughout the Netherlands and Belgium. Today worldwide forwarding by Road & Rail, Air & Ocean, warehousing, value added logistics and supply chain management have been combined in one flexible organisation. With the development of the first volume combinations in the early 80s, trucks on environmental-friendly fuels CNG/LNG and its own container terminal at the Rotra premises in Doesburg Rotra uses its key-position by converting its sustainable policy into concrete actions. Rotra’s ambitions and strategy meet the highest quality standards. Rotra has fulfilled certification requirements for: ISO 14001, ISO 9001:2008, TAPA, IATA, SQAS, hazardous goods/IMO and HACCP. In 2009 her Majesty The Queen decorated the 100 years old Rotra with the prestigious title Royal Rotra. Please feel free to visit our website www.rotra.eu 2 Human Rights • Assessment, policy and goals. • Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. • Royal Rotra respects and supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; Rotra is committed to respecting human rights as stated in the human declaration of human rights in both internal and external operations. We endeavor to ensure that we do not infringe on human rights and comply with the laws of the countries in which we operate. Rotra does not tolerate any type of discrimination or harassment. • Implementation • Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. • Rotra has drawn up internal rules and guidelines which describe rights and obligations of employees and management. This Code of Conduct is provided to every employee and can be consulted 24/7 (Rotra webportal). Every new employee receives this document with guidelines at his/her careerstart at Rotra. Furthermore a selection of our employees are represented in a periodical meeting wtih Rotra's board of directors (employee board). These employees are elected and represent all employees within our company. All ideas, remarks etc. are communicated via this platform. Externally Rotra screens suppliers and agrees on contracts and quality management in order to maintain human rights and correct behavior. Besides that, as a socially committed organization we support charities like Friends of Senegal support inhabitants Senegal medical care) and Alpe d'HuZes (Cancer foundation). Last year we transported various shipments (clothes, toys etc.) for all refugees in Greece. We also support local sportclubs in order to enable our employees to stay in good physical and mental shape. We also have an agreement with a fitness center where all employees can work on their physical shape at discounted tariff. • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. • Royal Rotra has not ever received any complaint from any stakeholder in relation to any human rights violations. Neither has Rotra been subject to any incident regarding human rights. 3 Royal Rotra has had the honor having met all standards and requirements of SMETA and successfully completed the audit! SMETA stands for Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit: an assessment aimed at ensuring ethical entrepreneurship in companies. The areas considered were labor, health & safety, environment and business ethics. Above all Rotra has had the honor at its 100th Anniversary of being granted the royal status by her Majesty the Queen: Royal Rotra (in 2009). Labour • Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rightsrelated risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. • Rotra's Human Resource policy and contracts with employees describe required rights and employer obligations (e.g. safety and health, non-discrimination/equal chances, working hours, wages etc.). This according to Dutch/Belgian Law. Besides that CAO (logistics Union in the Netherlands) is applicable to working activities regarding working hours, health and safety etc. We continually strive to assess our employees’ skills and goals. In order to maintain a high-quality service and give all our employees the opportunity to develop and gain knowledge we have our own Rotra Academy. • Implementation • Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. • Working area for all our employees meet the strictest requirements; both office staff and our drivers/Warehouse employees. We renew our trucks periodically > meet the strictest, most recent requirements in relation to safety and environment and are subject to strict maintenance programs. We also introduced our own Rotra Academy. Professional teachers train all our well educated employees at the Rotra Academy (drivers, Warehouse-employees, office staff and management) in order to increase quality as well as in favor of health and safety. We want to enable our personnel to improve their skills. All this info is shared and documented in our webportal. Labour rules and Code of Conduct are written at wallsheets throughout all our premises. In 2015 we moved with 2 of our premises to new locations in order to facilitate further growth and enable our employees to work in a well-equipped new environment which meets the space we need with our larger amount of Rotra employees. Furthermore we have taken in use new WHS facilities in 2017. In 2017 we also have come to an initial agreement with local governments to expand 4 our premises in Doesburg. This collaborative effort should lead to the 21ha expansion in Doesburg and employment for 350 new colleagues. • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. • Rotra has never been involved in any incident or investigation in relation to the Global Compact labour principles. Furthermore as stated in the Human Rights section Rotra successfully completed the SMETA audit > SMETA stands for Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit: an assessment aimed at ensuring ethical entrepreneurship in companies. The areas considered were labor, health & safety, environment and business ethics. Above all we are considering/preparing an employee-satisfaction survey within our company in order to be sure the employees are as satisfied as we think they are and enable us to change/adapt things whenever necessary. Environment • Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. • Rotra uses its key position by converting its policy into concrete actions and results and in doing so actively contributes to a sustainable society in which people, planet and profit go together. Rotra is strongly committed to providing sustainable service and by means of its Rotra Academy, communicates this awareness to all its employees and externally by our Rotra Newsletter, social media and our website. • Implementation • Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. • Rotra's green policy dates right back to the 80s of the past century. Rotra developed its first trailers for train transport (Hupac Transport) to Southern Europe; currently still hundreds of trailers are leaving by train on a monthly basis. In the early 80s Rotra developed the first volume combinations; the first vehicle to pass the LZV (Long Heavy Vehicle)-test in the Netherlands in 2004 was a Rotra-roadtrain! In 2016 we added 2 new roadtrains (i.e. Ecocombi’s) to our fleet. In recent years Rotra has fulfilled its pioneering role in sustainable logistics by introducing trucks running on alternative fuels. After taking into use Europe's first truck on ethanol in 2007, the first clean Econic natural gas truck was introduced in the Benelux in the summer of 2009. In 2011 Rotra introduces trucks on CNG (Compressed Natural Gas) and LNG (Liquefied Natural Gas). In 2016 we have 5 taken in use 4 new trucks on LNG (9 trucks in total) especially for the shipments within the Netherlands and Belgium. In the summer of 2010 Rotra provided its 5000m2 large Automatic Bicycle Warehouse (ABW) in Doesburg with solar cells. By using this renewable, environmental friendly, energy Rotra establishes an annual emission-reduction of over 48.000 kgs CO2! In 2014 Rotra started the construction of its own container terminal at its premises in Doesburg. Rotra expects to handle 10.000 containers yearly and therefore saves up to 194 truck-loads from Rotterdam/Antwerp to Doesburg v.v. by road weekly. The terminal has been taken in use January 2017! In 2018 we will start with our own 2nd ship. With this environment-friendly alternative for the increasing congestion by road Rotra establishes, besides extra service to our customers, a substantial CO2-emission reduction. Within this project Rotra has built a filling station at its terminal, which will be used for the filling of LNG (Liquefied Natural Gas) for both trucks and barges as clean and quiet alternative for fuels such as diesel. The first multimodal inland LNG-station in Europe. Rotra believes in LNG as the clean, quiet and safe fuel for the future and supports with this initiative the sustainable use of the multimodal transport chain. The project is supported by the European Union with a contribution from its TEN-T program. At the moment Rotra is working on the development of AGV’s (Automatic Guided Vehicles) together with various organizations (DAF Trucks, Twente University, TNO, Port of Rotterdam etc.) in order to make transport more sustainable, efficient and safe. However, as it is impossible to reduce the CO2-emission to zero and Rotra's ambition is 100% climate neutral transport, we would like to tackle the residual emission with our clients. Therefore, we offer our clients the possibility to transport 100% climateneutral together with Rotra. With our product Rotra Green Footprint we collect shipments worldwide 100% CO2-neutral and deliver them at their destination. We can do this by compensating the CO2-emission, in cooperation with the Climate Neutral Group (www.climateneutralgroup.com), with investments in sustainable energy projects. • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. • Rotra has been awarded the Lean&Green Award for its sustainable strategy. The environmental performance is measured by the objectives stated by the organization of this award > 20% CO2 reduction in 5 years of time. 6 The Rotra Group compensated 815.305kgs CO2 in 2017 with our product ‘Rotra Green Footprint’. We hope we can continue this positive trend in cooperation with our well esteemed clients and partners. In 2018 Rotra will be awarded The Green Award > with our own Container Terminal we are capable of facilitating sustainable innovative transport and therefore will be Green Award member from now on. In addition we will give a discount on our services to all other Green Award 'winners'/participants. Anti-Corruption • Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anticorruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. • Rotra does not accept any form of bribery and corruption; neither employees, nor Rotra's management nor our partners/suppliers worldwide. We select our partners according to strict criteria (I.e. manipulation, moneylaundering, bribery, charitable benefits/gifts, market abuse or manipulation). We don’t tolerate and/or provide any unreasonable benefit of any type. • Implementation • Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. • Rotra maintains strict guidelines for employees how to act in case of bribery. Integrity is an important part of our policy and stated in our Code of Conduct. We also publish them on our Intranet and wallsheets throughout all offices; everyone is any moment of the day aware of our people, planet, profit statement. New personnel is strictly screened by our HRM in order to eliminate any chance of corruption. • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. • Rotra has never been involved in any incident or investigation in relation to corruption and/or bribery. Our predicate '' Royal'' is a big honour and ultimate proof of anti-corruption. We monitor regulations and act accordingly. We have an agreement with Dutch government to only have limited taxmonitoring because of proven mutual trust. We are also AEO certified and 'known shipper' in favour of our customs and Air&Ocean activities. 7
