Sustainable business Investor has a long tradition of being a responsible owner, company and employer, and firmly believes that sustainability is a prerequisite for creating long-term value. Companies that are best-in-class when it comes to operating in a sustainable way, will be able to provide superior products and services, and recruit the best employees, thereby outperforming competitors long-term. Our sustainability work as a company and employer Guidelines and policies As a company, Investor continuously works to improve our social, Investor’s Board of Directors, in cooperation with the Manageenvironmental and economic impact. For information about our ment Group, has formulated an internal framework for how business model, see pages 8-9. Investor should act as a responsible owner, company and As an employer, Investor focuses on providing a best-in-class employer. These topics are addressed in our Code of Conduct working environment where ethical behavior and respect for and in our internal policies for Anti-Corruption, Sustainability each individual is key. This enables us to recruit and retain the and Whistleblowing. Investor’s Code of Conduct can be found best talents. For more information, see page 26. on our website. All employees and company representatives are Investor’s direct environmental impact is limited, but we expected to comply with our policies. We hold regular trainings actively strive to limit our impact and carbon footprint. For 2017 and all documentation is available on Investor’s intranet. In 2017, we will report our carbon emissions to CDP. The report will be a company-wide conference about corporate culture was held, available on our website. Our largest source of emissions is during which discussions about our core values and our Code of business trips, why we carbon offset all flights. Conduct were important parts. Investor’s internal regulations are We are committed to the UN Sustainable Development Goals monitored continuously and updated at least annually. and have identified contributions to a number of them. Number SUSTAINABILIT Y INFORMATION 8, Decent Work and Economic Growth, is the most central one, Materiality assessment as it focuses on how we can contribute to sustainable and long Investor has conducted an in-depth materiality assessment, term economic growth, while ensuring safe and fair working taking material risks into account. Sustainability risks are further conditions. Among other things, Investor has been involved in described in note 3, Risks and risk management, on page 48. a working group together with other Swedish investors, with Our most significant sustainability issues have been identified the aim of developing more efficient performance indicators and prioritized via analyses, ongoing dialogs and interviews with and processes. internal and external stakeholders. Investor’s most relevant stakeholders are, among others, shareholders, portfolio companies, employees, partners, and society, as they affect how well Priority High priority The matrix illustrates Investor’s main sustainability priorities and below is High Business Financial strength ethics & long term return a description of our highest priorities. Indirect economic influence • Financial strength and long-term return: Sustainable business to create Indirect influence on long-term value. sustainability related issues • Business ethics: Ethical business conduct and prevention of unethical Corporate governance Importance to stakeholders Tax behavior, corruption and bribery. Equality & Active ownership in diversity sustainable business • Indirect economic influence: Investor’s contribution to employment, models growth, wealth, research, innovation and development. Transparency • Active ownership in sustainable business models: As owners, we stress the importance of sustainable business models, customer benefit, Direct environprocesses and innovation in the portfolio companies. mental impact, Due diligence including climate sustainability change evaluation • Corporate governance: Corporate governance matters, such as board Attract & keep talents /talent management independence, competence and compensation, are handled in an adequate and transparent manner. • Indirect influence on sustainability related issues: As owners, we have an active dialog with the portfolio companies regarding the management of Medium Suppliers & advisors sustainability issues and risks, such as the impact on climate and environment, health, safety, bribery and corruption, as well as human rights. Medium High Influence on Investors business success 10 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T – S u s t a i n a b l e b u s i n e s s I N V E S TO R 2017 Investor performs from an economic, environmental and social INVESTOR’S SUSTAINABILITY GUIDELINES perspective. The assessment is based on Investor’s investing activInvestor’s sustainability guidelines describe our basic expectations which ities and our impact as an owner is covered in “Active ownership are applicable to all our companies. We expect them to; for sustainable business models” and “Indirect influence on sus• act responsibly and ethically, tainability related issues”. The results from the assessment are • comply with local and national legislation in each country of operation, used to further pinpoint our sustainability priorities and reporting. • continuously improve social, environmental and economic impact, • support and invest in innovation, Our sustainability work as an owner • analyze risks, formulate policies and objectives, as well as to have During the past years, Investor has developed a more structured adequate processes in place to manage and monitor sustainability risks, approach to sustainability as a long-term, responsible, and active • sign and adhere to the UN Global Compact and its ten principles and the owner, as this is where we have the most impact. Our most OECD guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, important contribution is when our companies improve their • in an appropriate form, transparently report sustainability objectives, competitiveness by, for example, developing innovative products risks and progress, and services that reduce energy and water consumption, as well • encourage and promote diversity in the organizations, as improving waste management, human conditions and decreas• have an active dialog with stakeholders such as suppliers and trading ing carbon emissions. We have high expectations on our compapartners, and nies’ sustainability efforts, guided by Investor’s sustainability • have a secure reporting channel (whistleblowing) in place. guidelines and the company specific focus areas. If a serious sustainability related issue occurs in one of our Company specific focus areas companies, the business team is responsible for raising the Sustainability is included in each of our listed matter internally within Investor and for monitorcore investments’ value creation plans, ing the steps the company in question takes with an overview of the sustainability to address the issue. The business team performance, our view and two to INVESTOR’S is also responsible for reporting the SUSTAINABILIT Y INFORMATION three company specific focus SUSTAINABILITY GUIDELINES process and actions taken within areas. These differ depending Describe our ten basic expectations, Investor. Investor’s board repreon the risks and opportuniapplicable to all our companies. sentatives are responsible for ties that are relevant for ensuring that relevant each company. Examples actions are taken within COMPANY SPECIFIC of focus areas are innousin e s s o p p o the company. REPORTING teb rtu FOCUS AREAS ea vation, energy efficiency Cr ni tie Our sustainability work Are included in the value cre and diversity. The comReporting s is included in our Long-term, ation plan for each listed core pany specific focus Annual Report, on responsible and investment and vary depend Our sustainability efforts our website and in the active owner ing on each company’s areas are presented Communication of Progress opportunities and challenges. are disclosed in our annually to Investor’s (UN Global Compact). Re t s Annual Report, on our du s ce r i co Board of Directors, and sk s and website and in the Comwe communicate the munication of Progress to plan, at least annually, to CONTINUOUS FOLLOW-UP the UN Global Compact. the chairs and encourage Through a sustainability questionnaire, we annually The listed portfolio compathem to discuss it with the monitor our sustainability guidelines, and the company nies, a number of the whollyspecific focus areas are monitored by our analysts on an ongo rest of the boards. ing basis and reported annually to Investor’s Board of Direcowned subsidiaries within tors. We compile the companies’ sustainability ­Patricia Industries and EQT publish work in an internal index, to evaluate, monitor and Continuous follow-up develop our companies long-term. their own separate sustainability Investor considers sustainability matters reports, which can be found on their in all investing activities. Through the annual respective websites. Our sustainability KPIs sustainability questionnaire, sent out to all portfolio include aggregated data per business area, to give a companies for self-assessment, we follow-up and monitor their better understanding of our companies’ sustainability efforts. The progress. Our analysts track the development continuously and wholly-owned subsidiaries within Patricia Industries have sustainthe company specific focus areas are monitored through the same ability sections focusing on the material aspects for each process and principles as for the value creation plans. company, taking significant risks into account, and describing policies, activities and outcomes, see pages 19-22. I N V E S TO R 2017 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T – S u s t a i n a b l e b u s i n e s s 11 Outcome – sustainability KPI’s We support our companies’ efforts to create sustainable business models, continuous development and the improvement of their social, environmental and economic impact. Measuring sustainability performance is an important tool to understand the development in our portfolio companies. In the following section, key indicators for the most relevant sustainability areas are presented, for Listed Core Investments, Patricia Industries (wholly-owned subsidiaries and partner-owned investments) and EQT (EQT Group, referring to EQT AB and EQT Partners AB, excluding funds). INNOVATION AND SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS MODEL LABOR R&D intensity Employees To ensure long term competitiveness, the continuous improveDedicated, skilled and healthy employees are fundamental to our ment of our companies is highly important. Innovation is a key companies’ development. With nearly 500,000 coworkers worldcomponent in the development of new and increasingly efficient wide, it is crucial that our companies work with competence products and services, and, consequently, sustainable business development, employee engagement and ensuring a healthy models. The share of resources spent on R&D varies. work environment. These figures refer to the number of employees per year-end and are not adjusted for investments or divestments within the companies. SEK m. spent on R&D compared to sales1) Number of employees % 2015 2016 2017 10 Total 499,074 497,074 491,777 Listed Core Investments 478,204 475,015 468,991 5 Patricia Industries 20,500 21,602 22,275 n/a EQT 370 457 511 0 Total Listed Core Investments Patricia Industries EQT of our portfolio companies measure employee 95% satisfaction on a regular basis. 2016 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y INFORMATION 1) Aggregated R&D expenses/aggregated sales. BUSINESS ETHICS SOCIETY % Policy 10 governance In our history of more than 100 years, Investor has created value Acting 5 responsibly and ethically is crucial for Investor’s compathrough our companies’ activities, rendering returns for our comnies 0 to maintain high levels of credibility among business e.t. partpanies’ shareholders as well as our own. We aim to set a good ners andTotalt Noterade The Code other stakeholders. Industries Patriciaof Conduct andEQT policy example when it comes to conducting business in a sustainable Kärninvesteringar frameworks 2016 are 2017important components for employees and stake­ way. Our indirect economic influence contributes to job creation holders to act responsibly and in accordance with corporate and technological innovation in our companies. ­values. In 2017, our total dividend amounted to SEK 8.4 bn., whereof of our portfolio companies have a Code of almost SEK 2 bn. was distributed to the Wallenberg Foundations. 100% Conduct. These foundations’ purpose is to grant funding to scientific research in Sweden, which in turn benefits many companies, including ours. ANTI-CORRUPTION Investor does not tolerate bribery or corruption under any Example from our companies: circumstances. We refrain from giving and receiving any induceOur companies within Patricia Industries have intensified their ments, including gifts or other benefits, that could risk creating work against bribery and corruption during the year. Among an unhealthy loyalty or be perceived to do so. Investor expects all others, BraunAbility, Laborie, ­Permobil and Vectura have our companies to assess the risk for bribery and corruption and strengthened their policies and guidelines and have conducted have applicable policies, trainings and compliance procedures in company-wide trainings, e.g. classroom training, e-Learnings place to mitigate the identified risks. and dilemma discussions, to further increase awareness. of our portfolio companies have an Anti-corruption 100% policy and training in place. 12 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T – S u s t a i n a b l e b u s i n e s s I N V E S TO R 2017 ENVIRONMENT HUMAN RIGHTS Carbon emissions, tonnes/SEK m., sales Investor expects all of our companies to comply with all applicaEnvironmental and climate impact are significant issues. As ble laws, regulations, and appropriate standards in the markets owners, we support our companies in their pursuit of efficient in which they operate. Respect for human rights, reasonable and sustainable products and services, as well as energy efficient working conditions and freedom of association are key aspects. processes. In order to contribute to a more environmentally oriInvestor supports the UN Global Compact and its ten principles ented society, we expect our companies to have environmental as well as the ILO conventions and the OECD guidelines for and sustainability policies which map how they take responsibilMultinational Enterprises. We also support and respect internaity for these issues. tionally proclaimed human rights. This applies to both the companies’ and their suppliers’ and partners’ operations. Tonnes of carbon emissions per SEK m., in sales1) of our portfolio companies have signed the 4 3 85% UN Global Compact. 2 1 of our portfolio companies have a whistleblowing 0 2015 2016 2016 2017 2016 2017 100% system in place to report violations. Listed Core Investments Patricia Industries EQT 1) Tonnes carbon emissions in relation to sales in SEK m. Figures are based on direct and indirect emissions in Scope 1 and 2, for the two latest available years as reported by our portfolio companies. Sobi’s carbon emissions (within Listed Core Investments) only include its Swedish operations. Example from our companies: 4 3 Ericsson has defined its salient human rights issues as the right Example 2 from our companies: to privacy, the right to freedom of expression and labor rights. The 1 companies within Patricia Industries have focused on improvThey were the first Information, Technology and Communicaing 0 their 2015 measurement 2016 of carbon 2016 emissions 2017 to have a better basis tions company to report according to the UN Guiding Principles SUSTAINABILIT Y INFORMATION forNoterade their prioritization Kärninvesteringar and target setting for reducingEQT the emisPatricia Industries Reporting Framework. Ericsson conducts regular due diligence sions from their operations. Permobil, BraunAbility, Laborie, The processes, identifying, preventing and mitigating its human Grand Group, Aleris and V ­ ectura subsequently made their first rights’ risks in the countries where it is present. measurement of company-wide emissions during the year. Atlas Copco has increased its focus on opportunities to partner with customers, in order to further understand and address human rights risks in the value chain. The existing customer 4 assessment tool is complemented by in-depth dialog regarding 3 human rights, and field visits, if relevant. 2 1 0 DIVERSITY Listed Core Investments Patricia Industries EQT Distribution 2015 2016age,2017 gender and nationalities We are convinced that diversity is key to success and expect our companies to encourage and promote diversity in their organizations. Over the last years, diversity has improved. However this remains an important area for improvement. In Investor’s Board of Directors 4 and Management Group, female representation amounts to 40 percent and 40 percent respectively. 3 Gender distribution, Board of Directors Gender distribution, Management Group 2 % % 1 100 100 0 80Noterade Kärninvesteringar Patricia Industries EQT 80 60 60 40 2015 2016 2017 40 20 20 0 0 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Total Listed Core Investments Patricia Industries EQT Total Listed Core Investments Patricia Industries EQT Women Men Women Men Female representation in the portfolio companies’ Board of Female representation in the portfolio companies’ Management Directors amounts to 25 (23) percent. The average age is 57 (57). Groups amounts to 25 (25) percent. The average age is 51 (51). In % total, there are 18 (16) nationalities represented. In total, there are 23 (19) nationalities represented. 100 % 80 100 60 80 40 60 20 40 I N V E S TO R 2017 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T – S u s t a i n a b l e b u s i n e s s 13 0 20 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Totalt Noterade Patricia Industries EQT 0 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Kvinnor Män Kärninvesteringar Totalt Noterade Patricia Industries EQT
