2018 Sustainability Report 3D Text: Improve Demond Rachon Bryant Jr., 2018 Juxtaposition Arts We tapped youth design apprentices at Minneapolis, MN based Juxtaposition Arts to interpret Sustainability at 3M and design this cover. Learn more inside. A Sustainability story Amanda Riley, BBDO Account Supervisor, says: “Right off the bat, JXTA asked us to treat them like we would any other vendor partner despite the age and experience level of the apprentices. While there were suitable for framing more ‘teaching’ opportunities than we would have for our typical vendor partners, we tried to stay true to our standard creative development and review process.” Chris Corum, BBDO Creative Lead, agrees. “The apprentices didn’t disappoint. From the beginning, they were engaged with 3M as a client and the Sustainability Report as a creative challenge to solve. They embraced 3M has a history of contributing to organizations that the challenge, bringing multiple options of concepts improve the lives of people in their communities. and executions throughout the entire process. Their After completing their work on the 3M Sustainability This year, the tables have been turned. An organization proficiency with design software and the other tools of Report project, the three apprentices will join about 70 that improves the lives of people in its community is creative professionals was impressive, far exceeding my other youth in working this summer at JXTA on other contributing to 3M. expectations for designers so young.” client jobs, preparing themselves for what’s next in their professional lives – and working on projects that help the More specifically, Juxtaposition Arts (JXTA) has made a About the experience, Demond, a high school junior who north Minneapolis community thrive. strong, artistic contribution to the cover and inside pages wants to someday work in visual development for video of this year’s 3M Sustainability Report. games, says, “This experience definitely pushed my Reflecting on the process, Demond says: “I’m going to abilities to the limit – and that’s a good thing.” Avahnii, a be better prepared when I eventually go out into the real Located in North Minneapolis, JXTA is an inner-city arts high school sophomore who may go into art, politics, world, because this is what the real world is like.” organization that provides young artists with paying jobs or law, says, “I feel like 3M and BBDO helped us with and a creative learning environment while championing (Left to right) Demond “DJ” Bryant, Patricio De Lara, and Avahnii Lewis all of our concepts, to make sure everything had a Patricio is in the same camp: “Getting this experience the revitalization of the community that surrounds it. meaning.” Patricio, a college sophomore who is a has been immense.” passionate believer in telling stories with art, adds, “I’ve JXTA students come from all over the Minneapolislearned that no matter how well you can draw, you still And what about the finished product, Avahnii? “I think it This talented young trio immersed themselves in learning St. Paul area to be employed here while learning need that core idea.” really gets the message across that Sustainability is wise.” about Sustainability at 3M, and followed a formal design professional design, production, and marketing skills in process, initiated by the report’s design agency BBDO, one of five educational studios. to generate an art concept that would capture the spirit of “Improving Every Life”. They developed dozens of “We have studios that train kids in Textiles & Screen potential concept “sketches”, worked with BBDO and Printing, Environmental Design, Graphic Design, 3M to narrow them down and eventually collaborated Contemporary Art, and Tactical Urbanism,” says Bobby with each other to refine and extend the chosen concept. Rogers, JXTA Graphic Design Lab Lead. “The primary focus of these studios is to prepare each student beyond where they’re expected to be at their age, so when they complete their training they can move forward in their lives, whether they’re headed to college or into the real world.” When 3M discovered the community-building mission of this institution, it asked three apprentices from JXTA’s Graphic Design studio to develop the original art used in this year’s Sustainability Report: Demond “DJ” Bryant, Avahnii Lewis, and Patricio De Lara. 2 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 3 Contents Our Leadership Feature Stories Every Life Who We Are How We Work What We Create About Report Message from our CEO 6 Innovating with Purpose 12 Introduction 44 Introduction 58 Introduction 84 Introduction 180 Report Scope and 204 Boundaries Message from our CTO 8 Purpose Inspired Impact 24 Global Challenges 46 Our Values, Vision, and 62 Corporate Governance 86 Our Customers 182 Strategies 94 188 Indices to GRI and 208 Materiality 48 Enterprise Risk Innovation Management UNGC Communities 64 98 198 2025 Goals 54 Corporate Code of Our Products Assurance Statement 220 Engaging Our 72 Conduct Stakeholders Human Rights 106 Metric Tables 226 Diversity and Inclusion 76 Compensation 114 Employee Programs 118 Health and Safety 130 Environmental 138 Management Raw Materials 144 Water 152 Climate and Energy 156 Suppliers 168 A message from Inge G. Thulin G4 In partnership with our customers, 3M uses and doubling 3M’s pipeline of diverse leaders. Additional SD 1-2 science every day to improve lives and help achievements from 2017 include: solve society’s toughest challenges – from • We convened customer conversations focused on clean air and clean water, to advanced health care and Sustainability, and embedded Sustainability into our food safety. We recognize the unique and inspiring business strategies globally. opportunity we have: to grow our enterprise while making the world stronger, safer, and healthier. • We invested more than $70 million to support education, environmental, and other programs in To that end, we remain committed to making significant our communities. investments in Sustainability-inspired innovation. In 2017, • We launched 3M Impact, a skills-based service 3M invested $1.9 billion in research and development, as program that sends 3Mers to communities around we continue inventing and manufacturing cutting-edge the world to help solve a pressing need. Sustainability solutions. Last year, in fact, 3M products helped our customers reduce their greenhouse gas • We received the prestigious Catalyst Award for emissions by 13 million tons. our leadership in advancing diversity and inclusion, while receiving 100 percent scores on the LGBTQ Our commitment to Sustainability extends to our own Equality Index and Disability Equality index. operations, and has for decades. In 1975 we launched a pioneering program called Pollution Prevention Going forward, we will continue to invest in developing Pays, which empowers 3Mers to find creative ways products that help our customers reach their goals, to make our company more efficient. This initiative while increasing our own Sustainability efforts in continues today, and has led to 15,000 projects that accordance with the United Nations Global Compact have prevented two million tons of air, water, and and its principles. waste pollution. Thank you for joining us in this journey toward improving Last year we also continued to make progress on our every life. 2025 Sustainability Goals, which we laid out three years ago. These include investing in sustainable materials, Inge G. Thulin increasing energy efficiency and water management, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, 3M 6 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 7 A message from John P. Banovetz As Senior Vice President of Research and Development and Chief Technology Officer, I have the opportunity each day to see how our technologies, our science, and our people help to solve some of the world’s greatest challenges and improve lives. Whether it is through the incorporation of sustainable materials in our products or helping customers be more sustainable, we recognize that societal challenges both require and provide opportunity for game-changing innovation. At 3M, Sustainability serves to drive innovation – in our manufacturing, in our products, and in new technologies. It’s inspiring to see how working toward a greater good, and doing so with creativity and collaboration, sparks new ideas and applying science to life, drives progress. Furthermore, it is inspiring to see how individual contributors can create positive change to drive business opportunities as well as personal fulfillment – something I see within 3M teams every day. As we look to further leverage Sustainability to enable innovation across the company, in partnership with customers and partners, we are thankful to be doing so on a foundation of science and innovation. We continue today to be a leader in Sustainability, while recognizing our unique capability to innovate in ways that serve both business growth, advance every company, enhance every home, and improve every life. John P. Banovetz 3M Research and Development Lab Senior Vice President, Research and Development and Chief Technology Officer 8 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 9 Feature Innovating with purpose 12 Playing it cool in data centers 12 For decades, holding securely to the concept of greener chemistry 14 3M facility spotlight: Stafford Springs, Connecticut 15 3M facility spotlight: Sumaré, Brazil and 3M Brazil Institute 16 3M facility spotlight: Tuas, Singapore 18 3M yellow carpet project puts students on the right path 19 stories Biodegradable mulch material gets field test 20 Stand up for less plastic in landfills 22 Breathing easier in the face of air pollution 23 Purpose inspired impact 24 Making an impact on individuals, communities, and the world 24 Support (and applause) for the next generation of vocational professionals 26 How a 3M community is attracting a skilled workforce 28 3M Pro Bono Committee advocates for the unrepresented 30 3M Brockville, Ontario plant a leader in emissions reduction 31 Sustainability, as viewed from the summits 32 Consumer business group pilots Supplier Responsibility Code new assessment process 34 Turning trays into trees 36 Customer first partnership in West Europe: 3M and BASF 38 A partnership with students that helped produce something essential to remote Canadian communities: Fresh food 39 Conservation at 3M includes hearing 40 Playing With the explosive growth of the internet, artificial intelligence, cloud computing, and high-performance computing (HPC), data centers are powering dramatic changes not just in business but in quality of life. it cool However, with this constant use of data, it’s no surprise that data centers are working hard to keep up, presenting both great opportunities and great challenges. One of the biggest challenges is the massive amount of in data energy that data centers consume in order to operate. In the U.S., for example, data centers consume some 2 percent of the total energy consumption according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), much of it simply to run chiller units and fans to air-cool the centers computing hardware. To help alleviate the cost of server cooling and its impact on the environment, 3M is helping lead the immersion cooling revolution for data centers. How does immersion cooling work? Immersion cooling involves putting electronics directly in a non-conductive fluid, allowing heat to be transferred directly from components into the heat transfer fluid. In traditional cooling systems, heat must transfer through several levels of thermal interface materials, air, heat exchangers, and working fluids. Immersion cooling simplifies thermal design and increases heat transfer efficiency. Liquid immersion cooling using 3M fluids contributes to a lower cost of ownership in many ways. As efficient heat conductors, they need less cooling machinery and less space between components. The improved cooling capacity means you can position electronics closer together – so you can fit 10 times the compute density in a given space. And with greater thermal efficiency, processing power can be increased dramatically. Finally, liquid immersion cooling eliminates airborne contaminants and simplifies thermal design to reduce moving parts. This means data centers can run their electronics at full capacity with less wear and tear. Learn more about the secret formula making a splash by helping protect your tech: here 12 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 13 For decades, holding 3M facility spotlight: securely to the concept Stafford Springs, Connecticut of greener chemistry The 3M facility in Stafford Springs, CT manufactures filters and filter cartridges for the 3M Industrial Both of these products help 3M customers achieve high-quality end product, which supports our Vision of Business Group and the Separation & Purification “3M technology advancing every company”. For nearly half a century, the formula for success with Sciences Division. Scotch® Brand adhesive products has involved more And as much as our products do for people, Stafford than their ability to stick. It’s based on green chemistry One of those products, 3M™ Zeta Plus™ Series Filters, Springs personnel also do for people. Our Connecticut principles that have helped 3M move away from the are used in the biopharmaceutical industry, increasing Community Relations Council provides support to solvents often associated with adhesives. operating efficiencies over conventional plate and United Way, Invention Convention, Supplies for Schools, frame filters and improving the manufacture of critical, and Supplies for Non-profits. We also support our local In 1968, 3M replaced the solvent adhesive previously life-saving drugs. schools with grants for STEM-focused development used in Scotch® Magic™ Tape and Scotch® Brand including the high school robotics team. And employees single-sided Home & Office Tapes with a water-based Another product, 3M™ DF Series Filters are used in a also participate in two volunteer events each year. For adhesive invented by 3M scientists. Scotch® Brand wide range of process industries, from coatings to food example, 20+ employee volunteers and family members Packaging Tapes, meanwhile, have been made with a and beverage, and provides up to three time more life participated at the local food shelf for a day, assisting in solvent-free adhesive for more than a decade, a rarity in than most conventional bag filters. This minimizes filter packing and delivering food for those in need. the packaging tapes category. change-out and disposal cost, product loss, labor, and operator exposure to process fluids. The science of Scotch® Brand products hasn’t stopped there, either. Scotch® Greener Home and Office Tapes are made from 65 percent recycled or plant-based materials and all Scotch® Super 77™ and Scotch® Spray Mount™ Spray Adhesives sold in the U.S. comply with the lower VOC limits set by the California Air Resources Board (CARB) in January, 2017. 3M’s dedication to reducing the impact Scotch® Brand products have on the environment has been producing positive results for a long time. In short, it’s how we roll. 14 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 15 3M facility spotlight: Sumaré, Brazil Sumaré is a city of 250,000 located about 90 minutes Most Brazilian students in public schools come from northwest of São Paulo, Brazil’s largest metropolitan families with low income, which often impacts their area. Almost 1,900 employees work at the 3M facility perspective on careers and life. They assume they will here, supporting abrasives, adhesives, tapes, consumer, follow in their parents’ footsteps. They do not see how automotive, and health care products. Among them far they can go by studying and working hard. But when are an increasing number of products that support the they are motivated to do more in science, it can expand company’s commitment to Sustainability. Two examples: the limits of their world. • Ponjita™ Natural Fiber Bath Sponge is made of The 2017 program started with 120 teachers from natural malva and jute fibers plus recycled PET public schools in 32 cities around Sumaré and Ribeirão (polyethylene terephthalate) fiber, water-based Preto who attended a course in Science Practice resin, and mineral. Production of this sponge and Methodology. The course included online and consumes fewer resources and less energy – and in-classroom content, and, at the end, each teacher who generates less waste – compared to a single-use completed the course was presented with a certificate exfoliating sponge. recognized by the São Paulo government. There was also • 3M™ Transparent Multipack Tape 694 is a clean one other requirement for receiving those certificates: removal tape that replaces packaging films as a teachers must have at least one student share his or her multipack solution. Compared to shrink wrapping project at the 3M Institute Exhibition. The projects are film, Multipack tapes reduce the amount of energy the students’ own innovative solutions to problems that consumed in production. In addition, experiments occur in daily life. In 2017, 102 projects were chosen as replacing customers’ shrink wrapped plastic finalists. Seventy-two 3M volunteers helped judge the packages with multipack showed a 25 to 30 projects, and awarded prizes to students they felt had percent reduction in plastic waste per year. This the best three projects in each of seven categories. product, which was originally developed in Sumaré, For this competition and other contributions, the 3M is now being replicated by 3M around the world. Brazil Institute has had a huge impact on students and teachers, who can often be the difference in how The 3M Sumaré facility also houses the 3M Brazil students view opportunities. In the last four years, 198 Institute, a non-governmental organization (NGO) teachers have been trained and certified as part of funded by 3M Brazil to promote the entrepreneurship of this program. future generations, based on ethical values, citizenship, and Sustainability. 3M Brazil has been a subsidiary of 3M Company since 1946. In 2017, 3M Brazil, in partnership with the 3M Brazil Institute and São Paulo University, sponsored the fifth annual Science Challenge and Exhibition, to boost student interest in science; and to prepare teachers to teach it. 16 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 17 3M yellow carpet project puts students on the right path The safety of a child is a high priority for any parent. With that sobering statistic in mind, 3M Korea went Whether it be at home, in a car, at play, or at school, to work to make crossings safer for students. They mom and dad want their children surrounded by collaborated with local communities, the International protective environments. Child Rights Center, and other non-government organizations through seminars and volunteer programs, 3M facility spotlight: In Korea, this is especially important at school crossings. to better understand the fundamental issues of road According to The Korea Times, police data reveals Tuas, Singapore safety. Then they launched the Yellow Carpet project, that nearly 80 percent of fatal car accidents involving creating bright yellow paths and signs with 3M graphic children were reported in or near school crosswalks. films, to catch the attention of both drivers and children. Experts suggest these accidents can either be caused by lack of attention to approaching vehicles on the part of students, or by speeding or lack of caution on the part 3M has been improving lives in Singapore for more than Other plastic waste products are processed into of drivers. 50 years. After starting in the 1960s as a regional trading different types of resins used to create wall switch operation with eight employees, it has grown into a covers, electrical casing, films and bags, stripping bands, company with more than 1,600 employees, and has stationery, and other household products. established local capabilities to serve the needs of local, regional, and global customers. Also at Tuas, 3M is in the process of voluntarily installing and operating a 2.2 megawatt photovoltaic solar system Nowhere is this stated more emphatically than at the that, when complete, will provide up to 10 percent of the 3M Tuas manufacturing facility. facility’s energy requirements. This facility, first opened in 2009 in the western region It’s probably no coincidence then that, since opening, of Singapore, manufactures products for personal Tuas has gained ISO 14001 (environmental management safety, traffic safety, automotive aftermarket, industry systems), ISO 9001 (quality management systems), ISO and health care customers, employing many innovative 13485 (quality management systems – medical devices), processes and technologies. Among them: extrusion and OHSAS 18001 (health and safety management coating, precision clean coating, microreplication, systems) certification – and won numerous awards for printing, and solventless adhesive coating. everything from innovation to technical excellence, pollution prevention, ergonomics, and safety. In 2017, And what is made here is matched by what is it was honored with a Singapore HEALTH Award, conserved here. courtesy of the Singapore Health Promotion Board, in recognition of its strong commitment to promoting The Tuas facility is a zero-landfill site – 100 percent workplace health. of the waste generated is converted into energy or recycled. In the recycling category, 3M partners with a This is a location that seems to win at whatever it does. group of innovative vendors in this part of the world to turn waste into reusable items. One vendor, for example, takes waste plastic film, cuts it into sheets, and crushes the sheets into flakes to create a polycarbonate alloy resin that is then molded into trays (see photo above). 18 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 19 Biodegradable mulch material gets field test The University of Nebraska-Lincoln (UNL) has specialty PLA material is not new. Among other applications, crop research plots in eastern and western Nebraska it’s used in medical sutures which are engineered to where the research has little to do with crops, and much degrade over time. But the USDA has stringent standards to do with fabric of 3M-developed biodegradable mulch for PLA-based biomulch. It must not contain any fossil that covers the soil within each row of plants. carbon and it must be reasonably degradable in soil within two years. The study underway now in Nebraska Biodegradable mulch, also known as biomulch, is a fabric will evaluate the rate of biomulch degradation in soil that is made from polylactic acid (PLA), derived from and track the ultimate fate of material as either carbon corn, not petroleum. dioxide (CO2) or soil organic matter. The research being conducted in these plots will Research is timely for organic production practices determine whether this 3M fabric can work for because the demand for organic foods is growing USDA-certified organic vegetable production. More faster than the supply. According to the Organic Trade specifically, it is to determine whether the fabric will Association, organic food sales in the U.S. increased 8.4 biodegrade after the crop is harvested, not remain in the percent in 2016, compared to an increase of 0.6 percent soil over the long-term or have to be removed by hand. in total food sales. Dr. Sam Wortman, assistant professor of environmental Final results of the UNL research are expected to horticulture in the UNL Department of Agronomy be released in November 2019; two years after and Horticulture, says, “We are partnering with 3M the biomulch was initially incorporated into the Company’s Corporate Research Labs (CRL) to evaluate soil. However, periodic updates on the progress of bio-based fabric mulches that provide season-long weed degradation will be made available. suppression, conserve soil moisture, and can be left in the field and incorporated into soil at the end of the growing season.” 20 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 21 Stand up for less plastic in landfills Unfortunately, a lot of plastic ends up in landfills today. Here’s why: the 3M Precision Standing Desk is made In fact, almost 80 percent of plastic that’s discarded with 45 percent postconsumer recycled content and, goes there, compared to 12 percent that is incinerated as such, can help a company achieve LEED® 2009 and 9 percent that is recycled. Increasingly, however, Green Building Certification EB O&M MR Credit 2.2 companies like 3M are looking to create products that Sustainable Purchasing: Durable Goods, which requires support a circular (“refurbish, reuse, recycle”) economy a minimum of 10 percent postconsumer material. This that helps keep a greater volume of discarded plastic in is in addition to its height and tilt adjustability, which the recycled world. enables workers to precisely set their most comfortable standing work position. One such example is the 3M™ Precision Standing Desk. Not only does this sit-stand workstation allow you to In other words, the more you see of the 3M Precision alternate between sitting and standing at work, its virtues Standing Desk in offices, the less plastic you’ll see can also be measured in environmental Sustainability. heading for landfills. Which is, from every perspective, something to stand up for. Breathing easier in the face of pollution As a purpose-driven business, 3M is continually looking media is capable of filtering at least 90 percent of to apply its core technologies to challenges that affect non-oil-based particles such as PM2.5, dust, pollen, and peoples’ lives. One such challenge is air pollution. automobile exhaust particles. Our 9501V model filter More than 7 million premature deaths can be linked media is capable of filtering at least 95 percent of those to air pollution every year, according to the World same particles. Of course, users have to follow the user Health Organization. instructions and select and use the product properly to obtain desired results. Air quality guidelines are not confined to Asia. Parts of Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, India, and many other places around the world also face significant health risks due to air pollution – from vehicle exhaust, agricultural burning, power generation, and even natural occurrences such as 3M’s line of respirators volcanoes, sand storms, and forest fires. use filter media capable of It’s a cloud of concern that led 3M to launch a line of filtering 90 or 95 percent respirators that helps protect wearers from breathing in air pollution particles. Our 9001V respirator filter of airborne particles. 22 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 23 Making an impact on individuals, communities, and the world When 3M Senior Manufacturing Technology Engineer How 3M Impact Makes an Impact Michelle Ji was asked about the value of participating in the 3M Impact program in Vietnam, she answered with According to 3M Impact Program Manager Meghan an African proverb: “If you want to go quickly, go alone. Faricy, it offers benefits to at least three key If you want to go far, go together.” stakeholders. “It helps our 3M participants develop leadership and cross-cultural skills. It helps the 3M brand Going far and going together are what the 3M Impact expand its universe. And, most important, it helps local program is all about. communities solve pressing problems.” This initiative, piloted in 2017, gives 3M employees an The Participants opportunity to lend their business skills, experience, For 2017, the 3M Impact program team sought 50 and energy to local nonprofit organizations, social employees who wanted to share their talents with enterprises, and government agencies in markets the world. where the need is great and the work is relevant to 3M’s businesses. The idea was inspired by feedback These final participants came from across the company from employees globally who said they were seeking – 3M Corporate as well as all five business groups. impactful, skills-based community engagement Applicants averaged 10 years of service at 3M with opportunities. company start dates ranging from 1975 to 2015. The Timeline market of 5.2 million households. Educational campaigns possibility will be evaluated based on the success and 3M Impact is another way for 3Mers to embrace their on the topic of hand hygiene are not unique, but, until outcomes of the 2017 program. opportunity to spend their time on a project of their LaBobo, there had been no handwashing device that helped people change “knowing” into “doing.” A fourWhen asked to elaborate on her feelings about the 3M choice as part of our 15% Culture. Before traveling to person 3M Impact team spent two weeks with HappyTap Impact program, Michelle Ji said, “We need to start their destinations, 3M Impact program participants managers collaborating on a promotion, distribution and thinking of each other as global citizens in a global spent time for the preceding six weeks involved in communications plan to market LaBobo, kicking off on community. As 3M is a global company, its employees team building and backgrounding on the social needs Global Hand Washing Day, October 15. should have a global mindset and experience teams and in their project location. Then they traveled to one of cultures outside of their own.” four locations – Hanoi or Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam; About the experience, Kris Hansen, one of the 3Mers Jakarta, Indonesia, or Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia – where, who worked with HappyTap, said, “The 3M Impact Part of the credit for making the 2017 Impact program for two weeks, they helped local organizations develop program serves the dual purpose of making a real successful goes to our implementation partner, Pyxera solutions within the confines of real-world resources and and personal global impact at a company committed Global. Pyxera is recognized and highly regarded local challenges. passionately to pursuit of a social mission, and providing globally for developing safe, effective, engaging the most significant and impactful professional business and community partnership projects. Ideal partners for 3M Impact are small, community-level organizations, like HappyTap Co., Ltd. Based in Ho development experience I’ve ever had.” To learn more on the 3M Impact program, including a Chi Minh City, Vietnam, HappyTap is a young, social Future impact video highlighting some of our 2017 teams, please see enterprise dedicated to promoting hand washing as here. a simple, inexpensive way to prevent the spread of According to Faricy, 3M is considering a number of disease, particularly among children. One of HappyTap’s possibilities for expanding 3M Impact in the future, from solutions is a portable washing station named LaBobo addressing needs in more regions across the globe to (“washing sink” in Vietnamese). HappyTap aims to matching up 3M business groups, areas, or divisions market LaBobo in 15 provinces in southern Vietnam, a with specific business or societal opportunities. Each 24 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 25 Support (and applause) for the next generation of vocational professionals The Wall Street Journal headline said it was “the thrill of For 3M, Worldskills aligns well with the company’s victory in welding, baking and bricklaying.” “Every life ambition,” says 3M European business manager for Sustainability, Rich Miles. “We both Officially, it was the Worldskills™ International respect the social and physical environment, focus on Global Competition, the world’s largest vocational Sustainability, drive global growth, and utilize innovative skills competition, comprised of 51 different skill technology and superior quality to provide value and categories, held in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, in service to our customers.” October 2017. Worldskills also aligns well with 3M’s product portfolio, Since 1950, Worldskills has been raising the profile since approximately 80 percent of the skills categories and recognition of skilled people, and showing how in the competition make use of 3M personal protection important skills are to achieving economic growth and equipment. And, in all, eight different 3M divisions have personal success. Regional competitions are held in products that are used in various categories. even-numbered years and winners move on to the global competition in odd-numbered years. Beyond the competition, 3M was represented in three showcase spaces, which ran concurrently with This year’s event, for which 3M was a Global Industry the competition: a corporate Sustainability space Partner, featured 1,300 competitors aged 25 and under showcasing 3M’s core technologies; a “try a skill” from 77 different countries, each demonstrating her space for health and safety solutions; and a car painting or his proficiency in a particular category. Categories and repair space, which featured a live demo of car included everything from hair dressing to mobile wrapping. Further, 3M partnered with BASF to sponsor robotics to, yes, welding, baking, and bricklaying. the first Sustainability award at Worldskills. Winners received gold, bronze, and silver awards. All of this seemed especially timely given the state of In addition to the competitors, the event was attended employment among youth around the world: 73.3 million by representatives from government, trade industries, youth are unemployed, and without the skills needed to educational institutions, and partners, who came to acquire employment. The market needs advocates, like experience the competition and participate in an array of Worldskills, to promote the value of learning a skill. education and skill-focused conferences. 26 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 27 This initiative also helps fund professional development for teachers and provides scholarships for students There’s a pride that focused on continuing their education in STEM (Science, Technology, Electronics, and Mathematics) careers. The program has had a significant impact on enrollment in “pathway” classes like welding and drafting, with our company is stepping forward student numbers increasing more than 500 percent in the last four years. The City of Hutchinson has also received widespread recognition for its work on the TigerPath program. It and supporting this. We want to see this has won a “City of Excellence” award from the League of Minnesota Cities, a “Local Government Innovation Award” from the Humphrey School of Public Affairs, as well as visits from U.S. senators and congressional representatives from Minnesota. Miles Seppelt, become the template Economic Development Director for the city, has also made presentations throughout the state, explaining for communities and How a 3M community is the rationale and mechanics of putting together such a program. facilities like ours to be able to replicate to fill attracting a skilled workforce “We’re really creating a new national model for how to address the need for a skilled workforce,” says Seppelt. “We identified a need for skilled workforce development, and the response from our local manufacturing community – including 3M – has that pipeline. been sensational.” The buzz around vocational skills training today isn’t just Hutchinson High School already provides hands-on Joe Nelson “3Mgives invests in initiatives like the TigerPath program the sound of welding equipment or electric saws. It is the classroom training in welding and mechatronics, a Plant Engineering Manager, 3M Hutchinson not only to develop a diverse talent pipeline for 3M demand being heard worldwide for job applicants that combination of electronics and mechanical engineering. communities,” says Matt Ladhoff with 3Mgives, “but have vocational skills. However, the community saw a need for additional to raise interest, awareness, and exposure to relevant strategies to expand the local talent pool. Employers like 3M in small-to-medium sized career opportunities that students can benefit from in communities everywhere have been facing an ongoing Among them: enabling students to earn college and their own communities.” shortage of skilled-labor candidates. By all accounts, the industry credentials before graduating from high school; Adds Joe Nelson, Plant Engineering Manager at 3M gap between open positions and qualified job candidates changing stereotypes by showing students and parents Hutchinson, “There’s a pride that our company is will widen in the coming years. In Hutchinson, what careers look like in the 21st century; cultivating stepping forward and supporting this. We want to see Minnesota, this challenge prompted businesses, school-employer relationships; dramatically upgrading this become the template for communities and facilities educators, and city government officials to collaborate career and technical education facilities at the high like ours to be able to replicate to fill that pipeline.” on a $1.36 million effort to educate students about school; and creating Tiger Manufacturing, a real-world manufacturing – a first of its kind effort in the state. business, based in the high school, that makes real The 3M Hutchinson plant started manufacturing Scotch® products for real customers. Brand Cellophane Tape in 1947. Seven decades later, The three-year “TigerPath” initiative – developed by 24 Scotch® Magic Tape, ScotchBlue™ Painter’s Tape, air local businesses, along with Hutchinson High School, Thanks in part to a donation from 3Mgives, students at filtration products, multiple films, and more are made Ridgewater College and the Hutchinson Economic the high school are now able to learn real-life skills they there. 3M Hutchinson is the city’s largest employer, with Development Authority – is designed to help build a can use when they graduate and move on to a two-year more than 1,700 workers in the town of 14,000. talent pipeline between the high school in Hutchinson vocational college or even a four-year college. and local advanced manufacturing employers. 28 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 29 3M Brockville, Ontario plant a What do these four compelling stories have in common: professionals to new areas of the law. It broadens perspectives while sharpening legal analysis and client • A young Syrian college student seeks help fleeing communication skills.” the brutal conflict occurring in his homeland. Attorneys, working pro bono, come to his aid, and eventually he is able to obtain a residency permit in Europe Harms also says pro bono efforts create opportunities for 3M legal professionals to make connections with peers at 3M who might be able to help them at work in leader in emissions reduction • After 11 years of advocating for their client, a legal the future. team wins an appeal to vacate the death penalty In all, 125 3M legal professionals logged more than 1,900 In January 2017, the Canadian province of Ontario Platinum level with ISO 50001 Energy Management previously imposed on a Texas man hours of service with several nonprofits in 2017. introduced a carbon cap and trade system designed to Certification in 2012. • At workshops in Germany and China, lawyers offer reward businesses that reduce their greenhouse gas tailored legal training and legal advice to local social Harms says projects are selected based on two criteria: (GHG) emissions. It achieved this status in part by installing combined networks “One, is it a project of interest to the lawyers in the heat and power (CHP) engines, which allow 3M to office? It needs to be a cause they believe in. And two, Facilities in Ontario that emit 20,000 tons or more generate power internally while still being connected • In India, a lawyer speaks about professional ethics can we partner with an organization that will help us of CO2e each year are required by law to participate to the grid. In cold weather months, the heat created and values in a skills training program organized by develop the legal confidence we need to address the in this program, which supports the province’s 2020 by the CHP engines is used to warm the facility. Yearan NGO that works for the underserved and people subject at hand?” GHG pollution reduction goal. Facilities that emit round, it is used for manufacturing processes that with disabilities 10,000–20,000 tons of CO2e – such as the 3M tape require heat. She cites the legal department’s collective responsibility manufacturing plant in Brockville – can voluntarily join. What these stories share, first of all, is their alignment Other projects associated with Brockville’s ISO 50001 as the key to performing their highest quality work. with Goal 16 of the United Nations Sustainable Which 3M Brockville did. platinum certification included light-emitting diode Development Goals, which calls for the promotion “The scientists here at 3M have really set that example,” (LED) lighting, which improved light quality while of peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable Harms says. “Within two calls, you can get the world’s Volunteering to participate supports 3M’s 2025 reducing energy consumption by up to 90 percent; and development, access to justice for all, and the expert on a particular topic. We pride ourselves in Sustainability Goals around climate and energy. In an internal communications program designed to raise establishment of effective, accountable institutions at offering the same quality of legal service within our addition, it provides the tape manufacturing facility with awareness of the importance of energy conservation, all levels. global legal network.” a $657,000 benefit over three years. Facilities that don’t which won an award in 2016 from the Canadian participate in the cap and trade system pay a “carbon Industry Program for Energy Conservation. What they also have in common is the 3M Pro Bono More on the Pro Bono Committee’s work can be found: tax” of 3.34 cents/cubic meter of gas purchased. Committee, a group that for decades has leveraged here. 3M Canada is also the first company in Canada to attain the legal skills and experience of 3M Legal Affairs 3M Brockville will also serve as a pilot site for all aspects enterprise-wide ISO 50001 certification. professionals in the name of good corporate citizenship of Ontario cap and trade, which is expected to expand to and community support. other Canadian provinces in future years. For the last four years, Maureen Harms, 3M associate general counsel, has led the committee’s volunteer 3M Pro Bono But then leading is nothing new for Brockville. Committee efforts to educate and represent low-income and Brockville became the first Canadian facility to reach underrepresented clients through partnerships with the Superior Energy Performance® (SEP™) at the “good works” organizations. In recent years, these advocates efforts have expanded to include the U.S., Europe, Latin America, and Asia. According to Harms, working outside the day-to-day confines of the corporate world opens up one’s mind to think differently. “Our lawyers gain significant experience learning how to work outside of their core for the competence. They can see themselves contributing in a real, significant way to make a difference. The feedback from clients is immediate and gratifying. unrepresented At the same time, the experience exposes legal 30 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 31 3M Canada Sustainability Summit 3M Sustainability in Health Care Summit Nearly 100 thought leaders from academia, industry, For the third year in a row, 3M’s Health Care Business Sustainability and the federal government gathered at the 3M Canada Group held its health care summit at the Innovation Sustainability Summit to examine Sustainability from Center in St. Paul, Minnesota. This summit brought different perspectives. together thought leaders on Sustainability in health care to share best practices and help attendees identify new “For 3M, Sustainability is a core value that influences ways to secure economic, social, and environmental everything we do, but we know that we don’t have all benefits from Sustainability programs. the answers to protecting our planet,” said Mojdeh Poul, President of 3M Canada. “That’s why we work closely Keynote speaker for the one-day event was Charlotte with our suppliers, our customers, and our communities Ersbøll, Senior Advisor with United Nations Global – through events like this – to share ideas about how to Compact, the world’s largest voluntary sustainable as viewed from In recent years, 3M has been creating opportunities work together to address the Sustainability challenges business initiative, with stakeholders in 165 countries and for customers and industry leaders to meet and share we all face.” local networks in 73 countries. Ersbøll stated, “Finding their insights and opinions on the many issues affecting the solutions that can really disrupt the way we are the summits Sustainability. The event featured: keynote presentations by two conducting our business, so that the business becomes distinguished professors on the megatrends affecting the driver of positive change. The companies that are 2017 was no exception. Sustainability practices, and the role of corporations determined to be part of solution will be the winners in in building a sustainable economy, case studies from the future.” Other speakers covered a range of topics, In October, the company hosted two Sustainability industry leaders, and a panel discussion, featuring including climate change and the impact to health care, events: the 3M Canada Sustainability Summit, held in Canadian federal government officials, on the topic of health system operations, life cycle assessment research, King City, Ontario, and the 3M Sustainability in Health what is being done to accelerate the country’s transition and community recycling. Care Summit, held at the company’s Innovation Center in to a greener and more innovative economy. St. Paul. Attendees were exposed to the breadth of 3M through shared discussion around several 3M science-based solutions during the innovation center tour, as well as through interactive displays with packaging, environmental, health, safety, and business colleagues. 32 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 33 Consumer business 3M isn’t just committed to environmental and social implemented and documented, including safety governance in our own business. We’re also committed training and safety records, greenhouse gas emissions, to working with suppliers that share the same ideals. and required environmental permits and reporting. Records evaluated included employee time cards versus group pilots Supplier To that end, the company issued a revised Supplier employee payroll, verification of employee age, and Responsibility Code (SRC) in 2016. The SRC is based maximum allowed workweek (including overtime). on our corporate values for sustainable and responsible Responsibility Code new operations and aligns with the 10 Principles of the United Upon completion of the on-site review, the 3M team met Nations Global Compact, of which 3M is a signatory. independently to discuss and categorize the findings. The SRC is also materially consistent with the Electronics The lead assessor provided a verbal review of those Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct, findings to the supplier’s management team. assessment process now known as the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA). Corrective Action Prevention Action Plan Resolution To assure supplier alignment with the SRC, we actively 3M’s lead assessor provided the Corrective Action verify their performance against our expectations on a Preventive Action Plan (CAPA) to the suppliers, who risk-prioritized basis – using a Due Diligence Management then worked with 3M to document and assure adequate System that is modeled after the Organization for resolutions of the findings. Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Key elements of improvement But this isn’t the end of the story. In 2017, 3M developed • The scope of assessments has been expanded with a new supplier review process that puts more emphasis the addition of questions related to labor/human on how suppliers are addressing social and environmental rights and EHS, including two new segments challenges. The new process was also positioned as covering ethics and management systems a more collaborative assessment rather than an audit, • The updated SRC pilot process aligns with 3M aiming to build the capacity of its suppliers. values, regulations, Key Accounts, and industry China was selected as one of the regions for testing the standards new process, and 3M’s Consumer Business Group (CBG) • There is cross-functional group participation in the volunteered to participate in the assessments to provide assessment feedback before it was implemented globally. • The upfront self-assessment, which is completed CBG engaged two key 3M suppliers for the pilot and before the on-site assessment, allows the team to completed assessments in June 2017, following these focus on areas of concern steps: Above all, the SRC pilot process confirms alignment Self-Assessments and conformance to 3M’s requirements, reduces the risk of disrupting business with suppliers, and assures The suppliers were sent self-assessments, which they continuity of 3M’s business with customers. Further, completed and returned to 3M prior to their on-site it helps us deliver on 3M brand equity and quality, assessments. The responses were evaluated by 3M, and strengthens our supplier relationships through and specific areas were highlighted for in-depth review collaboration and education. during the on-site assessment. Similar pilot assessments were conducted in other On-Site Assessments countries to validate the new process and tools. Beginning in 2018, the SRC assessment process will be The on-site assessments included a tour of the rolled out globally using an approach that prioritizes manufacturing location, employee dormitory, and higher risk suppliers by a number of factors including cafeteria. A 3M cross-functional assessment team geography, business category, and a measure of how conducted several employee interviews as well as essential a supplier’s solutions are to 3M’s and its a review of processes and records with the supplier customer’s business. management team. During the review, the 3M team checked to see that certain processes had been 34 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 35 Turning trays into trees What do you do with 18,000 plastic trays that are no longer usable in a drug delivery systems production line? If you’re the 3M manufacturing facility in Loughborough, The $10,500 savings achieved by recycling the trays England, you use science, creativity, collaboration, and was then donated to Earth Restoration Services, which an eye for Sustainability to turn those trays into trees. works with schools across the United Kingdom to plant trees and wild flower meadows. But let’s start at the beginning. The Loughborough facility was installing a new filling line that made the Schools in communities close to the 3M sites received old trays and their lids obsolete. The trays and lids were native tree saplings, wild plants, and planting materials initially put in storage, but this required a lot of space. in 2017, providing students with a way to improve and In fact, if you placed the entire 18,000 on top of each learn from their environment. other, the resulting stack would be almost twice the height of the Burj Khalifa in Dubai, the world’s tallest building. So, after consulting with the plastic injection “ molding specialists who were making the new trays, 3M manufacturing technology engineer Paul Eastwood hit It’s a great solution for on a new idea. Instead of sending the trays to a landfill, they would be recycled for use in manufacturing at the 3M facility in Gorseinon, 200 miles down the road. us, for the environment, Paul consulted with MGS Technical Plastics, a company that has been supplying protective side shields for a and for the schools that production line at Gorseinon for several years. Neil will be benefitting from ” Garrity, manufacturing director at MGS, explains: “The the plantings. trays were made from a plastic polymer known as ABS (acrylonitrile butadiene styrene). Our materials team is very experienced in working with ABS and we arranged for the trays to be ground down into small pellets so that we could process them into shields.” Paul Eastwood 3M Manufacturing Technology Engineer 36 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 37 Customer first partnership in West Europe: A partnership with students that helped produce something essential 3M and BASF to remote Canadian communities: According to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, around 90 percent of the 570 million farms worldwide are considered to be family farms, The 3M Key Accounts team worked with BASF to develop a strategy for meeting the needs of smallholder farmers, particularly those in developing countries. Fresh food owned by individuals or families. Around 85 percent of the world’s farms are smaller than 2 hectares, and The solution: a professional farmer safety kit that In a Telefónica survey of 12,000 millennials in 27 Following the competition, the St. Mary’s team smallholder farmers and their families working small plots combines BASF’s knowledge of crop production countries, a strong majority of respondents said completed construction of a pilot system on the roof of of land on almost every continent support the livelihoods techniques and know-how in the responsible use of plant they believe they can make a difference in their a university building in September and is working toward of one-third of the world’s population. Although the word protection chemicals with 3M’s personal protection local communities. construction of a 1,000-liter year-round aquaponics small may accurately describe their farm size it doesn’t equipment (PPE) solutions. system they can replicate throughout Nova Scotia and One group that can very likely make an immediate beyond. The system would allow remote Indigenous do justice to the contribution they make to the world’s “We want to ensure that all farmers have the opportunity difference is the Enactus team from St. Mary’s University peoples to raise tilapia and produce vegetables at an food supply. Fact is, small farmers produce nearly 70 to work in a safe environment. Smallholders have a in Halifax, Canada, which was honored at the 2017 affordable price. percent of all food consumed globally. specific need for information, advice and equipment Enactus Canada National Exposition with the 3M Canada BASF is a leading global supplier of chemicals used to when it comes to the responsible use of crop protection Problem Solving Project Partnership Award. To learn more on the 2017 Enactus Canada Nation help smallholder farmers protect and produce crops. products,” said Andy Beadle, Global Sustainability Finalist, see here. and Product Stewardship Manager at BASF’s Crop 3M is a proud supporter of Enactus, a learning platform In their world, the responsible use of their products Protection division. “With 3M, we are pleased to have that cultivates entrepreneurial action among postand the health and safety of their customers are key a partner at our side whose expertise and inventiveness secondary students, with the goal of transforming lives Sustainability imperatives. in producing high-quality protection equipment are and creating a better, more sustainable world. According to Alessio Arcando, Key Accounts Director, unmatched. We partnered because we feel a strong As part of its 2017 Canadian national competition, more West Europe, 3M had been working with BASF at connection based on values and a long-standing than 2,700 students created 280 community projects, different levels of their company, from procurement to commitment to promote human health and safety.” guided by academic advisors and business experts. In the C-suite, in the area of Sustainability. “Sustainability This kit, which has been distributed to 50,000 a highly competitive field, the St. Mary’s team stood activities are no longer just a ‘nice to have’”, Alessio says. smallholder farmers in Africa and parts of Asia, is out. Addressing food shortages in Canadian Indigenous “They are a major business requirement for delivering designed to help farmers employ safe practices to communities, they created an aquaponics system that efficient growth. For BASF, Sustainability is core business minimize their exposure to crop protection products. makes it possible for isolated communities to grow their and, like many international companies, they chose to Included in the kit are 3M disposable respirators, safety own fruits, vegetables, and fish year around. partner with us because 3M has a strong reputation for being ahead of the curve on Sustainability issues.” glasses and gloves, as well as easy-to-understand, “Enactus students are innovative problem solvers and, picture-based instruction materials that show thanks to partners like 3M, are ready to challenge the where, when, and how to use each PPE product, status quo for the benefit of social good,” said Nicole along with instructions on how to handle agricultural Almond, president of Enactus Canada. Liisa Sheldrick, chemicals safely. communications and 3Mgives leader, 3M Canada, “Customer first means driving customer-centricity. added, “Projects like this reflect 3M’s belief in applying Working in collaboration with BASF, we learned science to improve lives – with our customers, partners, exactly what the customers’ needs were, and together and communities.” we developed a solution that creates real value for smallholders and their families.” The award-winning St. Mary’s University Enactus Team. 38 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 39 Conservation at 3M includes hearing The 3M approach to hearing protection goes well CAOHC also sponsors a certification course for beyond earplugs and earmuffs. It is a full complement physicians and audiologists who oversee an audiometric of tools and resources designed to help governments monitoring program. and corporations move from a strategy that has been primarily hearing loss documentation to one of 3M’s internal policy is to use credentialed or licensed prevention or early intervention. personnel to administer hearing tests. We currently have 90-plus 3M employees with active certifications. In other words, shifting from reactive to proactive. But many countries lack local alternatives for dedicated At the heart of this approach is the notion of credentialing in hearing conservation skills. So, along collaboration. with the Midwest Center for Occupational Health and Safety, we developed a pilot program consisting Consider, for example, the Council for Accreditation of a CAOHC instructional course and a standardized in Occupational Hearing Conservation (CAOHC) and exam that fill the gap in these countries. Already, this the University of Minnesota’s Midwest Center for program has brought the CAOHC Occupational Hearing Occupational Health and Safety. Conservation course to China, resulting in certifications for 3M employees and health and safety professionals The CAOHC is an independent credentialing agency in multinational companies from China, India, Singapore, that has developed certification courses covering the and Taiwan. A second course will be conducted in essential elements in hearing conservation programs. March, 2018 to expand the program. We expect to do The “occupational hearing conservationist” course the same in Latin America and other areas where staff covers ear anatomy, physiology, and diseases of the certification can help facilities prevent or reduce the ear; hearing testing including audiometers, audiometric severity of noise-induced hearing loss. techniques; noise measurement and control; hearing protection devices; employee training, recordkeeping, The power of working together is coming through loud and program evaluation. Those that successfully and clear. complete the course can perform quality audiograms, deliver education, and conduct hearing conservation interventions. They are also able to screen audiograms for further review by an audiologist or physician. 40 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 41 Our Every Life Ambition Introduction 44 Global Challenges 46 Materiality 48 2025 Goals 54 Our Every Life Ambition | Introduction Introduction We are committed to improving our business, our planet, and every life. Sustaining our business, and our planet, means We aim to help make that world a reality. Improving protecting natural resources and empowering individuals every life is an exciting endeavor and our purpose. and communities throughout the world to encourage progress. And above all else, it means uniting under a This is the continued story of our purpose: common goal: improve every life. #improvinglives. Imagine a world where every life is improved—where natural resources are readily available, people have access to education and opportunity, and communities are safe, healthy, connected, and thriving. 44 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 45 Our Every Life Ambition | Global Challenges Water safety solutions. Creative innovation, technology, education, and collaboration are all critical if we are to People consume it, farm with it, and tackle these human health and workplace manufacture products with it. Reducing safety concerns. water consumption and improving water Global For decades, 3M has had entire business divisions quality are important elements of water focused on creating products and services for human stewardship. Aging infrastructure and health, protection, security, and safety. We are increased demand are at the forefront to assure socially committed to helping improve the health and safety of equitable, environmentally sustainable, and people worldwide so we can all focus on what matters economically beneficial use and treatment of water. most to us. Some of our customers are finding it difficult to source Challenges We also embrace this commitment for our own or deliver clean, accessible water. We can help them operations, and to that end, will continue to take steps solve this problem by developing technology that to protect our most important asset – 3M employees. increases water efficiencies and improves quality. We will continue to work to reduce our corporate water footprint and offer products that enhance water quality, Education and Development thereby respecting this important resource. At 3M, we believe science is just science until you use it to improve the world with the Climate and Energy products and services we offer. Our science At 3M, we look at Sustainability in terms of shared Access to a dependable energy supply not only impacts our customers, but also makes a difference in the way we work. global needs and the future of our business. directly affects all businesses and communities. From air emissions to fossil As a technology company, 3M recognizes the importance of well-trained science, technology, fuels, 3M takes a proactive and engineering and math (STEM) graduates as well as collaborative approach to addressing the critical need for a skilled workforce in advanced energy demand and climate change – in our operations manufacturing and vocational skills – we need bright G4 SD As a company rooted in scientific exploration, and the belief that every problem has a solution, Raw Materials and for our customers. minds to step into specialized roles and help our 2, 14 we are applying our technological expertise to Energy usage and climate concerns require systematic company and our customers solve future challenges. The world’s population is growing larger, help solve some of the world’s biggest challenges on raw living longer, and consuming more. With change, and we’re here to help drive that forward. We will continue to support empowerment and materials, water, energy and climate, health and safety, this increased pressure on our finite Partnering with our customers will help us understand enrichment to enable people everywhere the and education and development. We frame our goals natural resources and materials, we must their needs and address those needs. The issues around opportunity to live life to their fullest potential. and actions around these shared global challenges. move beyond low-cost, recyclable effective use of energy resources and climate change materials to renewable products. Companies that are complex and interconnected. Overcoming global challenges requires recognition address this issue not only help the planet, but they also of their interdependence, commitment across the We will continue to seek solutions that promote gain a competitive advantage in the marketplace. company, and collaboration with partners, customers, energy conservation, clean energy infrastructure, and and communities. We are looking at ways to build Improving raw material usage through product design reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. purpose into leadership and talent development across and operational considerations provides benefits the company, to recognize business opportunities throughout the supply chain in material use, energy, and that help the company grow while addressing societal transportation efficiency. Health and Safety issues, and to expand and improve our partnerships with customers and suppliers by working together toward We will continue to innovate into the future, developing Global health and safety issues are solving their Sustainability challenges. renewable alternatives for impacted resources, prevalent in workplaces around the world. revolutionizing recyclable materials, and becoming Governments, corporations, and more sustainable. consumers are driving global demand for safety, protection, healthcare, and food 46 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 47 Our Every Life Ambition | Materiality Materiality Our Commitment Data provided in our Sustainability Report includes information on issues that were found through the materiality assessment to have the highest potential to G4 At 3M, we look at Sustainability in terms of impact our reputation and that are of great importance SD 20-21, 48 shared global needs and the future of our to internal and external stakeholders. Because we are a business. As the population grows, particularly in diversified company, several other environmentalemerging economies, challenges like energy availability, related topics and performance indicators relevant to raw material scarcity, human health and safety, education, various sectors of the company are also included in the and employment must be addressed to assure people report. 3M’s Senior Vice President and Chief Technology across the globe can lead healthy, fulfilling lives. For Officer reviews and approves our Sustainability Report. additional information, see Global Challenges. Our 2025 Sustainability Goals were developed in 2014 Our materiality assessment is a vital component of our based upon that year’s materiality assessment. Sustainability strategy and reporting, whether the issues are a result of our own activities or our business relationships and is based on a robust, stakeholder-driven approach. By understanding the critical issues from both internal and external perspectives, we can deepen our social license to operate and develop corporate strategy, goals, targets, programs, initiatives, and a stakeholder engagement strategy to advance Sustainability globally. 48 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 49 Our Every Life Ambition | Materiality Our Actions 3M and the readers of this report can understand the degree of importance our stakeholders place on each issue, the ability of 3M to make a positive difference 3M Materiality Tiers Stakeholders increasingly expect companies to on the issue, and the level of impact an issue may have Tiers 2014 2016 G4 SD 2, 18-19, 27 do things that benefit society in more direct on our reputation. ways and are not solely focused on benefits to Energy use Energy use the company. That is why we made such an active effort Materiality with respect to Sustainability reporting, 1 Community safety and health Community safety and health to involve stakeholders when we developed our 2025 as defined by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) goals. These goals go well beyond advancing our guidelines, includes topics and indicators that Reducing waste Water quality environmental stewardship efforts. They are framed reflect the organization’s significant economic, Tier 1 issues are highest priority to address. Of these, 3M should Reducing toxic substances Working conditions around global challenges. This is apparent when one environmental, and social impacts or would considers how well our goals align with the United substantively influence the assessments and decisions actively manage issues that have Water shortages Ethical business Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainability Development of stakeholders. the highest degree of 3M control Water quality Scarcity of raw materials released in 2015. This Agenda, including 17 Sustainable according to stakeholders. The Sustainability materiality assessment conducted Working conditions Human rights Development Goals (SDGs), is designed to build upon the historic work of the Millennium Development Goals, by GlobeScan determined the material aspects Ethical business Climate change and stimulate important action in three dimensions of for a wide range of 3M stakeholders outside of Air quality sustainable development: economic, social, 3M, encompassing geography, stakeholder type, and function. Transparency and environmental. We set our goals with the perspective that we have to be All material aspects defined within this report Availability of products and services Availability of products and services successful as a company while also supporting the are deemed material for all entities within the 3M 2 with Sustainability attributes with Sustainability attributes communities where we operate. It’s a two-pronged organization. The prioritization for the different aspects may vary within 3M operations and Air quality Treatment of workers approach that is both practical and thoughtful – and Tier 2 issues are areas in which filled with the integrity 3M is known for. geographies, but they are still material. Climate change Reducing toxic substances 3M is expected to act, but that are perceived as less urgent. Human rights Water shortages Our view of Sustainability is about finding those intersections where our goals move us forward toward 3M Materiality Aspect Categories: Treatment of workers Reducing waste from operations growth while supporting the company Vision to Transparency Food safety* advance, enhance, and improve. Raw Materials Scarcity of raw materials Sustainability at 3M also includes collaborating to find Human health better solutions for customers. The way we see it, global challenges must be addressed together to assure we can Water Engagement with citizens on Engagement with citizens on all live healthy, fulfilling lives. That’s why we are 3 sustainable behavior sustainable behavior committed to partnering with customers to identify and collaborate on solutions to help them address their goals. Climate and Energy Tier 3 issues are perceived as least Employment Employment urgent for 3M to address, but are Advocating laws supporting Advocating laws supporting still material and often still drivers Sustainability Sustainability Materiality—past, present Health and Safety of our overall reputation. and future Supporting community building Supporting community building Human health In 2014 and 2016, 3M commissioned GlobeScan, an Education and Development Workplace diversity* independent research consultancy, to assist us in better understanding our stakeholders’ perspectives of key Improving access to education* social and environmental issues, as well as assessing Governance and Ethics Responding to natural disasters* 3M’s corporate reputation and leadership opportunities in the area of Sustainability. *New attributes added in 2016 One result of this work is our evidence-based Sustainability materiality matrix. From this matrix, 50 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 51 Our Every Life Ambition | Materiality Materiality assessment results from 2014 and 2016 show similar issue tiers, but some shifts in importance for thus are considered an area to leverage in terms of management of human rights. Looking forward… to develop products that enable customers to improve water quality, and modify operations, as necessary, to stakeholders. For example: 3M will continue to work hard on issues that are most reduce water discharges. Throughout, we will work to In this context, community safety and health has be transparent in communicating about 3M products material to the company and perceived to be most Transparency moved from Tier 2 to Tier 1 priority, become the greatest potential influencer of 3M’s and business practices. within our control: air quality, working conditions, ethical suggesting that transparency is increasingly important reputation, followed by a related issue: supporting business, water quality, and transparency. in a global, interconnected world. Scarcity of raw community building. In other words, there is great Every two to three years, we will continue to materials, air quality, and climate change have also opportunity to make an impact in the areas where 3M More specifically, we will focus on developing complete a comprehensive third-party materiality moved from Tier 2 to Tier 1 priority, joining existing products are made and people live. products that enable safer and healthier workplaces assessment continuing our commitment as a purposeenvironmental issues such as energy use and water for customers, and assuring safe and healthy working driven business. In addition, we will be looking at quality, and further supporting the notion that these It should be noted that none of the issues added to the implementation of the GRI Standards and ways to conditions throughout our supply chain. We will do our issues would benefit from holistic management. Human GlobeScan study in 2016 – food safety, workplace measure and evaluate broader societal impacts. part to assure that 3M business partners follow ethical rights has also moved from Tier 2 to Tier 1 priority. diversity, improving access to education, and responding business practices and that a strong business conduct This issue is also linked with working conditions which to natural disasters— were found to be a Tier 1 priority. and compliance system is in place at 3M. We will look are perceived to be within 3M’s realm of control, and 3M Sustainability Materiality Matrix 2014 3M Sustainability Materiality Matrix 2016 View of Customers, External and Internal Stakeholders View of Customers, External and Internal Stakeholders Perceived ability of 3M to Perceived ability of 3M to 2014 make a positive difference Community 2016 make a positive difference Water Quality Low High Safety and Health Low High Supporting community building Water Scarcity shortages Community Air quality safety and of raw Working health materials conditions Climate change Improving Ethical Impact on 3M Reputation Impact on 3M Reputation Energy use access to Human business Availability education rights Water quality Supporting of products Reducing waste community Working Air quality and services with Reducing toxic building sustainability attributes conditions Responding Transparency substances Food safety to natural Climate change disasters Availability Human of products and Energy use Scarcity of Ethical Employment services Employment raw materials rights business with Workplace sustainability diversity Reducing Engagement Treatment attributes toxic Transparency with citizens on of workers substances sustainable Engagement with citizens Treatment behavior on sustainable behavior of Workers Human health Water Reducing Waste Shortages Human health from operations Advocating Advocating laws supporting laws supporting sustainability sustainability Importance to Stakeholders Importance to Stakeholders 52 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 53 Our Every Life Ambition | 2025 Goals 3M 2025 Sustainability Goals Baseline Year 2015 Goals Raw Materials Climate & Energy Invest to develop more sustainable materials Improve energy efficiency indexed to net sales and products to help our customers reach their by 30% environmental goals Increase renewable energy to 25% of total Reduce manufacturing waste by an additional 10%, electricity use indexed to sales Ensure GHG emissions at least 50% below our We have been setting global environmental goals at Achieve “zero landfill” status at more than 30% of 2002 baseline, while growing our business Raw Materials 3M since 1990. A strong part of our company history, manufacturing sites Respect our planet’s resources and reimagine waste these goals have helped dramatically reduce our own as a nutrient to ensure we have abundance for Help our customers reduce their GHGs by 250 environmental footprint and established us as a leader in future generations. Drive supply chain Sustainability through targeted million tons of CO2 equivalent emissions through environmental stewardship. raw material traceability and supplier performance use of 3M products assurance In 2017, we entered the second year of an ambitious Water 10-year goal cycle. The 2025 Sustainability Goals we Promote clean water for everyone, everywhere so that are now pursuing reflect a heightened commitment every person, business, and community has the water Health & Safety to going beyond compliance and thinking holistically they need to thrive. Water about how our operations and products affect the world and every life in it. We see the opportunity, in the Provide training to 5 million people globally on next decade, to create systemic change that addresses Climate & Energy Reduce global water use by an additional 10%, worker and patient safety global Sustainability challenges involving raw materials, Transform the way the world uses energy because it indexed to sales water, climate and energy, health and safety, as well as impacts the climate, and the climate impacts everyone. education and development. For additional information Engage 100% of water-stressed/scarce communities on the development of our 2025 Sustainability Goals, where 3M manufactures on community-wide Education & Development see Our Materiality Assessment. approaches to water management Health & Safety Our customers, and the communities in which we Improve the health and safety of people worldwide so Invest cash and products for education, community, operate, deserve it. Our people are motivated by it. we can all focus on what matters most to us. and environmental programs Our future will be all the better for it. 100% participation in employee development Education & Developement programs to advance individual and organizational Support empowerment and enrichment to provide capabilities people everywhere the opportunity to live life to its fullest. Double the pipeline of diverse talent in management to build a diverse workforce 54 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 55 Who We Are Introduction 58 Our Values, Vision, and Strategies 62 Communities 64 Engaging Our Stakeholders 72 Diversity and Inclusion 76 Who We Are | Introduction Our Awards Award. The award, the first of its kind in Latin America, was created to promote ethics and encourage companies to take voluntary steps to prevent corruption, Our people bring our vision to life in extraordinary creating a more ethical, transparent, and honest ways. Here you can find information about some of business environment. 3M Brazil was recognized for top the recognition programs honoring the outstanding management’s commitment to ethics, their policies and contributions of 3Mers in 2017. procedures, and their risk monitoring and analysis. Forbes’ list of “The World’s Most Reputable Companies” for 2017 Introduction 3M has been named to Forbes’ list of “The World’s Most Reputable Companies” for 2017, which highlights the As we reported in 2017, 3M is one of three 2017 winners top 100 most reputable companies based on feedback of the Catalyst Award, based on a rigorous assessment collected in quarter one from approximately 170,000 conducted by Catalyst Inc., which cited the company’s consumers around the world who are familiar with the “I’m In. Accelerating Women’s Leadership” initiative, companies. 3M ranked 22nd on this year’s list— climbing leadership development platforms, workplace flexibility, eight spots from 30th place in 2016 (second place in the mentoring programs, and external community efforts on medical and equipment industry). behalf of women. Our Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer, Inge Thulin, accepted the award in New York in March. The other two winners Barron’s Ranking of “Most Respected were Rockwell Automation and BMO Financial Group. Companies” for 2017 Who We Are 3M placed ninth in Barron’s latest ranking of America’s most respected companies. To compile the list, Barron’s surveyed money managers about their view of the most (and least) respected companies among the 100 largest A sense of purpose is at the heart of how we approach It’s even become a selling point for current and potential publicly held U.S. companies in the Standard & Poor’s every business, every idea, every product, every life, 3M employees. Research has shown that Sustainability, 500 index. and every community we touch. It is the foundation and “making a difference in the world”, is one of the of all that follows. Reflecting our core purpose, 3M top areas of interest for 3M employees. This insight, The World’s Most Ethical Companies® program, Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality employees are empowered and encouraged to pursue in turn, has led us to develop programs that benefit managed by the Ethisphere® Institute, honors companies purpose-driven innovation. employees, community partners, and 3M. For example, that excel in “promoting ethical business standards and Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 2017 Corporate through our skills-based service program, 3M Impact, practices internally, enabling managers and employees Equality Index is the national benchmarking tool on teams of employees have the opportunity to travel to to make good choices, and shaping future industry corporate policies and practices pertinent to lesbian, Working in a highly collaborative environment, our communities around the world where they experience standards by introducing tomorrow’s best practices gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) employees. scientists use 46 core technology platforms, ranging challenging and rewarding development opportunities today.” According to the Institute, honorees have also For the seventh straight year, 3M earned a perfect from adhesives and abrasives, to sensors and electronics that enable them to grow as leaders and share their skills historically out performed other companies from a score of 100 percent and, along with it, the distinction materials. They leverage these technologies to invent to make a positive difference in the world. At the same financial perspective, supporting the notion that sound of being named among the “Best Places to Work for unique, customer-inspired products that are marketed time, community partners gain expertise, knowledge, ethical practices are appreciated in the competitive LGBT Equality”. through our five business groups. and actionable plans from 3M teams. 3M benefits from marketplace. This year’s honorees spanned 23 countries developing globally-minded employees who are excited and 57 industries. It was the fifth consecutive year 3M Sustainability also permeates our culture. It is formally to explore innovative solutions and address challenges in made the list. Best DEI Places to Work included in our leadership behaviors and our annual new and growing markets. In the third annual Disability Equality Index® (DEI®) performance review process. What’s more, employees 3M Brazil: Pró Ética Certification Award survey, 3M earned a top score of 100 percent, making are educated and encouraged to “think sustainably”— at 3M one of the “Best Places to Work for Disability home, at work, and everywhere in between. Improving For the fourth year, 3M Brazil was recognized by the Inclusion”. lives and making the world a better place is more than a frequent conversation, it’s become an expectation. Brazilian Government with the Pró Ética Certification 58 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 59 Who We Are | Awards 2020 Women on Boards Winner Other Featured 50 Best Places to Work for New Dads Awards 3M was named a “V” company, with 18 percent of Fatherly.com named 3M on its list of 50 Best Places to women on the board, by this organization whose goal is Work for New Dads coming in at 28th. to increase the percentage of women on U.S. company boards to 20 percent or greater by the year 2020. On August 13, 2017 the percentage of women on the board Great Places to Work® DIVERSEability MAGAZINE increased to 25 percent with the election of Amy E. 3M was recognized in the Fall/Winter 2017 issue of Euronext and Vigeo Eiris included 3M, for 2017, in The following countries and areas were ranked by Great Hood to 3M’s Board. DIVERSEability magazine as being “Best of the Best Top the Euronext World 120 and Euronext U.S. 50 based Places to Work® and awarded as a best place to work upon Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) in 2017: Disability-Friendly Companies”. Companies Where Top Millennials Most performance. Index components are reviewed and updated twice a year, in June and in December. • 3M Bolivia Want to Work LEAD2017 Award Winners Companies included in this index have achieved the • 3M Brazil National Society of High School Scholars (NSHSS) 10th highest scores, as determined by review nearly 330 HR.com named 3M on its list of Best Experienced/ • 3M Costa Rica Annual Career Survey, conducted by Hanover Research indicators, assessed by the agency. Senior Leaders Program and Best Global/International identified 3M as the eighth most dream company to • 3M El Salvador Leadership Program. work for among respondents in 2017. • 3M Greece (3M Hellas) • 3M Guatemala 2017 Energy and Sustainability Award, • 3M Honduras American Institute of Chemical • 3M Japan Engineers (AIChE) • 3M Mexico 3M’s Dual Brightness Enhancement Film team was • 3M Panama recognized for a groundbreaking innovation with wideFTSE Russell confirms that 3M, in 2017, has been • 3M Panama Pacifico reaching and demonstrated benefits for liquid crystal For the 18th consecutive year, 3M was selected as a independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good display (LCD) manufacturers looking to reduce the member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, a global • 3M Poland criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to become a environmental footprint of LCD devices. stock index that recognizes and tracks the performance constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series. Created by • 3M Poland Global Service Center (GSC) Europe, of leading Sustainability-driven companies worldwide. the global index provider FTSE Russell, the FTSE4Good Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) Index Series is designed to measure the performance • 3M Portugal Environmental Leader of companies demonstrating strong ESG practices. The Projects of the Year • 3M Spain FTSE4Good indices are used by a wide variety of market • 3M Turkey 3M Brookings, South Dakota was recognized for participants to create and assess responsible investment their efforts to minimize water consumption for their funds and other products. • 3M Latin American (LATAM) Region, Best location’s vacuum pump system. With the new system, Multinational Workplaces 3M Brookings decreased annual water consumption for MSCI ESG Ratings • 3M Central American and Caribbean Region, Best the vacuum system by over 18 million gallons annually, Workplace in Central America and Caribbean reducing the location’s water consumption in gallons per MSCI ESG Ratings provide institutional investors with a square foot by 32 percent. EcoVadis awarded 3M a Gold Recognition Level for robust ESG integration solution. In 2017, awarded 3M an achievements in the top 1 percent of suppliers assessed AAA rating, the highest rating. in corporate social responsibility (CSR) in global Supply Chains. 60 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 61 Who We Are | Our Values, Vision, and Strategies Our Values Our Vision Our Strategies 3M’s actions are guided by our corporate Vision and Every successful endeavor – whether it’s a social cause, To help achieve our corporate Vision, we have six values of uncompromising honesty and integrity. We a political movement, or a business – needs a vision. strategies that are engrained across our business. are proud to be recognized worldwide as an ethical and Something to reach for. Something to unite people The first four focus on growth, the fifth is around law-abiding company. As a company, we are committed around. 3M continues to be inspired and motivated by developing our people, and the last strategy is around to sustainable development through environmental our corporate Vision that guides our work every day: operational excellence. protection, social responsibility, and economic success. • Expand relevance to our customers and our presence in the marketplace Our guiding values include: 3M Technology Advancing Every Company • Gain profitable market share and accelerate market • Act with uncompromising honesty and integrity in 3M Products Enhancing Every Home penetration everywhere everything we do • Invest in innovation, invigorate existing market 3M Innovation Improving Every Life • Satisfy our customers with innovative technology and opportunities, and focus on emerging megatrends superior quality, value, and service • Intensify capabilities to achieve regional • Provide our investors an attractive return through self-sufficiency sustainable, global growth Our Vision helps define what we do, how we do it, and • Build high performing and diverse global talent where we do it. At the same time, it establishes a stretch • Respect our social and physical environment around • Drive consistent superior levels of operational goal for all employees at 3M. And it captures what the world excellence differentiates us from competitors as an enterprise. • Value and develop our employees’ diverse talents, initiative, and leadership What we do and have done for 115 years is advancing, enhancing, and improving. How we have done it, and • Earn the admiration of all those associated with continue to do it, is through technologies, products, 3M worldwide and innovation. Where we do it is for every company, in every home, and for every life all around the world. In short, this Vision serves as a daily reminder to all of us of what the 3M brand stands for. 62 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 63 Who We Are | Communities Communities 3M investments and volunteers make a positive impact on our world. Our Commitment A three-part giving strategy 2025 Goal: Invest cash and products for education, Our Actions community and environmental programs. G4 3M helps build sustainable communities Education: 3M empowers the next generation of EC 7-8 through strategic investments, business scientists and engineers through investments in Education expertise, and the thoughtful engagement of initiatives that increase student interest and achievement We continue to invest in increasing access and 3Mers worldwide, who volunteer and leverage their As a company that thrives on applying science to life, in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics opportunity for people worldwide to succeed in STEM skills and experience to make a difference. we understand the importance of inspiring the next (STEM), and business, to help build a diverse pipeline of and business fields, and to improving lives through global talent. investments in environment and community programs. generation of scientists, innovators, and inventors. The social investment arm of 3M, 3Mgives, is governed Cash, in-kind investments, and employee engagement As part of our commitment to supporting STEM, 3M by the 3M Foundation Board of Directors and Corporate Community: 3M enhances community vibrancy by embraces programs that encourage students to develop Contributions Committee comprised of senior level remain core to our 3Mgives strategy. Since 1953, assuring access to basic needs, preparing youth for a fascination and a love for science. We also partner executives in the company. The 3M Foundation Board we have invested $1.58 billion in cash and product life-long success, increasing access to quality and with organizations that help young people understand of Directors guides the social investment strategy by contributions in 3M communities. diverse arts opportunities, and contributing to global how science impacts and improves lives. Our goal is to identifying focus areas, allocating budget, and giving humanitarian relief efforts. increase STEM and business opportunities, and advance strategy advice for execution by 3Mgives staff. The equitable outcomes for all students. In addition, our strategy includes partnering with leading community Environment: 3M invests in programs promoting investments are helping to build a diverse pipeline of organizations that have a proven track record for Sustainability and environmental stewardship in the talent by increasing access to quality education for delivering results. communities where 3M employees live and work. communities around the world. 64 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 65 Who We Are | Communities Saint Paul Public Schools Frontline Sales Initiative WorldSkills™ In our corporate headquarters community, we are 3M’s commitment goes beyond traditional philanthropy; 3M is a Global Industry Partner of WorldSkills increasing Saint Paul Public School (SPPS) students’ during the summer of 2017, a record 60-plus university International, a not-for-profit movement that brings access to STEM programs. Through a 40-year students from more than 20 universities across the U.S. together industry, government, organizations, and partnership with SPPS, thousands of 3Mers have served participated in the 3M Frontline sales and marketing institutions to promote the benefits of and need as mentors, science fair judges, and career speakers internship program. Their itinerary included a two-week for skilled trade professionals through grassroots – in addition to providing 17,000 students with school introduction to 3M, eight weeks in the field selling community projects, skill competitions, and knowledge supplies on the first day of school every year. Today, products for one of 3M businesses, and a one-week exchange. In 2017, 3M sponsored the WorldSkills more than 12,000 students in SPPS are involved in a review of their experience. At the end of the program, competition in Abu Dhabi with more than 1,300 3M-sponsored STEM activity, such as FIRST LEGO Frontline students are often offered and accept jobs competitors, 50 skills, and 75 member countries League and FIRST Robotics teams, summer STEM with 3M. represented, all working together to help prepare the Gitanjali Rao Camp, and our signature program, 3M STEP (Science workforce and talent of today for the jobs of the future. Training Encouragement Program), for high school juniors and seniors. Young Scientist Challenge Scholarships, Fellowships, and Learn more on WorldSkills: here. Non-Tenured Faculty Grants The Discovery Education 3M Young Scientist Challenge, DonorsChoose.org for grades five through eight, was launched in 1999 by 3M is helping students of diverse backgrounds Community Discovery Communications and has been co-sponsored pursue careers in STEM by providing undergraduate In addition to supporting students in St. Paul, Minnesota, scholarships, undergraduate research scholarships, and by 3M since 2008. Its mission: to cultivate the next 3M invests in a more vibrant world through partnerships 3M partners with DonorsChoose.org to broaden the fellowships to students at the University of Minnesota, generation of American scientists at an age when that advance inclusiveness, diversity, and strength in our company’s support of STEM projects in classrooms University of Illinois, Georgia Tech, and other institutions interest in science often declines. communities. We support the arts, youth development, across the country. Today, 3M’s U.S. locations invest of higher learning. In addition to providing student and basic needs, and provide humanitarian aid in times more than $500,000 annually in classroom projects Through the years, the one-of-a-kind competition has support, for more than 25 years 3M technical leaders of need. led by teachers. Since 2015, 3M has funded more than sparked the imaginations of students and enhanced have directed financial support to promising academic 2,800 STEM projects impacting 276,000 students science exploration, innovation, and communication leaders to support the advancement of research and across the country. across the U.S. Students are invited to create a one teaching in relevant STEM and business fields. In 2017, Humanitarian Aid to two minute video describing a new, innovative 3M provided more than $500,000 in support to 54 In 2017, 3M responded to an unprecedented level of solution that could solve an everyday problem. All non-tenured faculty members. 3M Visiting Wizards natural disasters, including earthquakes in Mexico videos are judged by a panel of experts in science and and multiple devastating hurricanes and wildfires, by The 3M Visiting Wizards program, which started in St. communication including current and former teachers, Paul, Minnesota many years ago, continues to spark scientists, and representatives from school districts 3M Manufacturing and establishing a global relief fund. As part of this fund, 3M and 3M employees invested more than $4.5 million in an interest in science among young people around across the country. After the judging, 10 finalists have Academic Partnership cash and products to support communities in crisis – in the world. 3Mers provide science demonstrations and an opportunity to participate in a summer mentorship 3M launched the Manufacturing and Academic the U.S., Mexico, Puerto Rico, and several other regions hands-on experiments on a variety of topics, such as the program with 3M scientists, and travel to 3M Partnerships (MAP) Program in 2017, to promote of the world. This support provided immediate relief to properties of light and color, cryogenics, microbiology, headquarters to compete in the final event. advanced manufacturing training and careers through the people in those areas, and helped assure that those thermodynamics, and electricity. Learn more on Gitanjali Rao, a sixth-grader from Lone thoughtful partnerships in our largest manufacturing affected by a natural disaster received the care they Tree, Colorado and 2017 Discovery Education 3M Young communities. 3M works with partner technical colleges needed to reestablish self-sufficiency. This kind of exposure at an early age helps students understand how science impacts everyday life, and Scientist Challenge winner: here. and surrounding high schools to provide exposure to advanced manufacturing. The program provides encourages young people to become interested 3M Volunteers and Global Volunteer Day in STEM. scholarships, educator training, and help with curriculum Higher Education development. In 2017, 3M invested over $800,000 In September 2017, 3M marked its fourth annual Global In 2017, more than 33,000 students attended a Visiting toward this initiative and is planning to grow this Volunteer Day in 3M communities around the world. 3M is also helping to develop the next generation of Wizards demonstration. More than 800,000 have collaboration in the coming years. Here are three examples of what took place: STEM and business leaders by providing scholarships, participated in presentations since the program’s fellowships, and internships, in addition to supporting Learn more on 3M MAP: here. inception in 1985. professors who are turning ideas into innovation. The See typical Visiting Wizards demonstrations for company recently grew its commitment to advancing magnets, colors and lights, and the science of air at career pathways by increasing investments for advanced 3M Visiting Wizards. manufacturing training and skills development through partnerships with relevant vocational schools and skilled trades organizations. 66 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 67 Who We Are | Communities 3M Brazil Global Pro Bono Engagement communities. These programs address improving basic (as told by 3M volunteer leader Liliane Moura) standards of living in the community, making a lasting 3Mers provide skills-based, consulting services to impact on Earth’s ecosystems, improving science-based “We had 50 3M volunteers serve as judges for the social enterprises and nongovernmental organizations education for youth, and contributing to the efforts final round of the VII University Student 3M Institute around the world through 3M Impact and 3M of critical partners in the community, especially those Award. The goal was to identify and support projects Catalyst Leadership Way programs, in partnership that provide economic development to underserved that promote social development in education, health, with PYXERA Global. The 3M Impact program, populations. or environment. Every university student in Brazil established in 2017, deployed employees from around could participate. The award criteria was low cost, the world to Southeast Asia to address Sustainability Learn more on some of these efforts in Canada and easy replication, and the benefits it can provide to a and community challenges in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh England, under our featured stories. community. The winners of the first award created City, Vietnam, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, and Jakarta, a bread soup bowl that is still produced in three Indonesia. Through the 3M Catalyst Leadership Way 3M Spain Global Volunteer Day, Winning Science Circuit Team 3M Austin, Texas – Tarmac TX institutions, to serve soup to people who live in the Program, 3M deployed senior executives to support streets and have no home. The bread soup bowl can communities in Bangalore, India and Shanghai, China. Tarmac TX is a nine-month accelerator program that be eaten and it is very nutritious. And after the soup is The winning team received a science award and all of supports Austin-based social entrepreneurs who are consumed, the bowl doesn´t produce any garbage and the children received a snack and a scientific pack of Learn more on the 3M Impact Program: here. developing community-enhancing technology solutions, doesn´t need to be washed. The award for winning went 3M products, including masks.” by connecting them with 12 3M employees who have to the sponsoring university, which uses the money to expertise in marketing, business development, and help the idea become a real solution for our community.” 3Mgives Volunteer Match information technology to help with critical strategic Just as 3M is committed to improving lives through our products and science, issues. As a free accelerator, Tarmac TX provides Throughout the year, the 3Mgives Volunteer Match pathways to economic opportunity and promotes 3M Philippines encourages volunteerism by donating to schools and our 3M workforce is dedicated to making a difference in our communities. The 3M inclusiveness and diversity in tech entrepreneurship. (as told by 3M volunteer leader Rika Sophia organizations where 3Mers and alumni volunteer their Impact program was launched by 3Mgives Among their many solutions, Tarmac TX 2017 startups Kamibayashi) time. Since 2000, in the U.S., 3Mgives has provided to empower our employees – including are working to improve the quality of life in the Austin “Employees of 3M Philippines and 3M Global Service more than $7.10 million on behalf of over 30,000 leading scientists, engineers, and business community, protect the environment, and serve children Center Philippines kicked off celebrations for Global volunteers to 3,770 organizations in 50 states. leaders – to collaborate with game-changing and students in schools, foster children, and the blind Volunteer Day in 2017 by supporting the Give2Achieve NGOs, and social enterprises in addressing community. campaign, which aims to raise funds to rehabilitate Collaborative Community Engagement the world’s greatest challenges. and educate street children in the Philippines. Our community partner, Virlanie Foundation, has been our 3M works with innovative nonprofit partners like Michael Stroik Environment adopted community since 1997. In that time, Virlanie GlobalGiving.org to digitally crowdsource investment Director, 3Mgives Foundation has given back smiles and dreams to over decisions. For example, 3M empowered 3Mers to G4 3M invests in initiatives that foster sustainable 17,000 street children by providing developmental direct corporate contributions to global nonprofits EN 13 communities. This includes projects that intervention for children and their families. Our aligned to 3M Sustainability priorities. In response to the Another way 3M recognizes the importance of good protect threatened ecosystems, support local volunteering efforts in 2017 included shirt sales to help devastation of several disasters, 3M matched employee corporate citizenship, and supporting the communities economies, enhance livelihoods, and promote scienceraise funds, outreach activity, and both employee and contributions through key partners, like GlobalGiving.org in which we operate, is through 3M Legal Affairs. based environmental education. family involvement. With Give2Achieve our employees and American Red Cross, to inspire 3Mers to double By leveraging legal skills and experience, 3M Legal were highly engaged and motivated to achieve a Affairs helps bridge the gap and strengthen both the their impact in affected communities. Closed Loop Fund common goal – fight child poverty through education.” community and the justice system. Learn more on these efforts: here. Cities across the U.S. spend billions of dollars sending MENTOR: The National Mentoring recyclable materials to landfills. The Closed Loop 3M Spain Partnership Fund (CLF) is a collaborative social impact fund (as told by 3M volunteer leader Ana Brage) Local investments. Global impact. that gives cities access to capital needed to build Every young person needs supportive relationships comprehensive recycling programs. At the same time, “On Global Volunteer Day, we welcomed 25 young To maximize positive social impact in the communities to guide them as they develop and grow into thriving, it gives companies like 3M access to an important people from Aldeas Infantiles, an organization in which we operate, 3M manufacturing facility productive, and engaged adults. 3M partners with supply of recycled materials for use in packaging. dedicated to nurturing vulnerable children, to spend a locations receive an annual budget to invest in their MENTOR to make sure this kind of support is in place, 3M’s $5 million commitment to the CLF has already fun evening with us in our Innovation Center and learn own backyards. To help support their efforts, 3Mgives by providing quality programming to local organizations, helped fund 12 projects that have improved recycling science applied to life. The children were divided into recently introduced four programs that collectively and to train mentoring leaders. In 2017, 3M presented access and diversion for 4.1 million households, and teams to complete a science circuit, performing six provide approximately $1.50 million of additional MENTOR with our Inaugural Global Volunteer Partner provided $17 million in economic benefit to participating tests as they searched for the best ‘nanoscientific’. funding to organizations that demonstrate the ability Award, as an organization that aligns with 3M’s values in municipalities. This partnership is one of 3M’s innovative to create a long-term, sustainable impact in their volunteerism. 68 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 69 Who We Are | Communities approaches to strategic social investing. It is the learn about more opportunities to support local company’s first program-related investment that will be organizations through volunteerism. In addition, we paid back to 3M Foundation to recycle funds back into expect to expand our newest volunteer program, 3M the community in the future. 3M is also supporting CLF Impact, which deploys some of 3M’s most talented and with a scoping grant to explore international regions that engaged employees to global markets to work with could receive the greatest impact from their approach to social enterprises, nongovernmental organizations, environmental stewardship. and universities focused on solving the world’s largest problems. And we will continue expanding our focus on STEM education to develop specific programs relating Looking forward… to advanced manufacturing skills positions. Our goal is to expand the pipeline of manufacturing talent, particularly In 2018, 3Mgives will continue to strengthen our among veterans and groups underrepresented in the culture of service by engaging our most impactful manufacturing industry. asset – our people. We will continue to implement a new volunteer technology platform to help employees #improvinglives means enabling G4 better patient outcomes, lifelong EC 7 oral health, and a safer food supply. 2017 Giving by Focus Area Our innovative solutions help customers, from hospitals and clinics, to food and pharma companies, improve sustainability and patient health. Cash In-Kind Total Volunteer Hours Community $17,700,000 $24,800,000 $42,500,000 190,000 Education $15,100,000 $12,800,000 $27,900,000 83,700 Environment $2,980,000 $66,700 $3,050,000 22,000 Total $35,900,000 $37,600,000 $73,500,000 296,000 Values presented in this table represent the most current values, in $USD, but are still subject to change. 2017 Global Giving by Region Cash In-Kind Total Volunteer Hours Asia Pacific $1,810,000 $2,240,000 $4,060,000 6,740 Europe/Middle East/Africa $621,000 $312,000 $933,000 6,700 Latin America $2,990,000 $979,000 $3,970,000 3,230 Canada $1,500,000 $680,000 $2,180,000 2,050 United States $27,700,000 $29,800,000 $57,500,000 277,000 OUS, Region Not Defined $1,230,000 $3,680,000 $4,910,000 – Total $35,900,000 $37,600,000 $73,500,000 296,000 Values presented in this table represent the most current values, but are still subject to change. Health Care 70 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 71 Who We Are | Engaging Our Stakeholders Engaging Our Stakeholders As a science-based company, our stakeholders include See how our stakeholder-driven approach to customers and consumers, investors, government Sustainability materiality serves as a foundation agencies, industry organizations, subject-matter for our Sustainability strategy and reporting. experts and academia, non-government organizations, other corporations, and more. It is through collaboration and partnerships that G4 Stakeholder engagement can help guide 3M can accelerate Sustainability in our company SD 15-16 companies on doing business the right way. It and in the world. We value our partnerships with can also have a direct impact on a company’s numerous stakeholders as a way to not only address financial success (sales, share price, and investments), our Sustainability issues, but to help our partners on its operations, and on its reputation. 3M has created a address their Sustainability challenges. 3M has robust, stakeholder-driven approach to Sustainability joined numerous organizations globally to advance materiality that serves as a foundation for our Sustainability through collaboration with the Sustainability strategy and reporting. Through organization and its members. Memberships understanding critical Sustainability issues from both have provided a forum for working on key internal and external perspectives, 3M can strengthen Sustainability issues that are relevant to both its social license to operate and develop corporate 3M and our stakeholders. strategy, goals, targets, programs, initiatives, and a stakeholder engagement strategy to advance Memberships and partnerships help provide us Sustainability globally. with diverse viewpoints on Sustainability, a better understanding of the positions of our stakeholders, 72 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 73 Who We Are | Engaging Our Stakeholders and a mechanism to learn from the successes and failures of our peers contributing to our commitment to Nonprofit Organizations Government/ purpose-driven business. Who Who Who Customers and NGOs Regulators We rely on a robust business conduct assessment process to help assure the external organizations that we • Partnering to understand societal concerns • Complying with laws, regulations, and policies • Providing diverse innovative product solutions that help our partner with share our commitment to business integrity. Why • Providing support to advance and solve global issues Why • Supporting and engaging on development and Why customers deliver on their promises modification changes • Offering a diversified portfolio of high quality products • Providing products with Sustainability attributes to address Stakeholder Engagement • Alliance to Save Energy and help solve global environmental challenges • United Nations Global Compact • American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy How How • U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Strategy (ACEEE) • Corporate Eco Forum • U.S. EPA Green Power Partnership • Forum for the Future • Retail Industry Leaders Association • U.S. EPA Energy Star Program How • Friends of EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) • Sustainable Brands 3M’s stakeholder engagement strategy continues to • TFT (The Forest Trust) • World Business Council for Sustainable Development evolve. We continually look to our stakeholders to help • The Nature Conservancy • Net Impact us increase understanding, broaden our awareness, • PYXERA Global seek technical input and expertise and evaluate possible • The RECYCLING PARTNERSHIP Who Local Communities collaborations, and strategic partnerships. We rely • World Resources Institute (WRI) Who Suppliers, Contractors, on their counsel and expertise to help guide us. We • WorldSkills™ believe stakeholder engagement should be based on • Supporting and engaging in citizenship activities across Industry Associations our value chain candid and authentic dialog, grounded in the company’s Why • Providing economic and social value to communities while • Partnering with suppliers and contractors that meet or values, and should contribute to the evolution of our minimizing environmental impact exceed expectations Why strategic priorities. Investors • Supporting safe and healthy communities • Supporting collective efforts to deliver business results Who • Collaborating to identify, resource and amplify • Innovative cash investments in evidence-based nonprofit Sustainability initiatives Levels of engagement with stakeholders vary greatly organizations • Respecting human rights for workers across our by geography, type, and function. For example, 3M • Delivering profitable returns on investment How • Skills-based service opportunities leveraging the rich value chain • Disclosing timely, concise, and relevant information employees globally are engaged frequently through Why set of skills in the 3M workforce (related to Economic, Environmental, and Social Issues) • Transformative product donations that improve • Air & Waste Management Association Sustainability communications and events with diverse • Responding to inquiries lives globally • Alliance to Save Energy topics based on our material aspects, while we may • Upholding corporate values • More information can be found in the Collaborating with How • American Chamber of Commerce (AmCham) engage annually for an industry association meeting, Our Communities section of this report • American Chemistry Council (ACC) we may also have engagements around a specific issue. • Dow Jones Sustainability Index • American Industrial Hygiene Association • CDP • The Conference Board How • MSCI We engaged with many internal and external • The Conflict Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI) • National Investor Relations Institute • European Chemistry Industry Council (CEFIC) stakeholders in setting our 2025 Sustainability Goals. Our 2014 and 2016 materiality assessments both Academia and • Green Chemistry & Commerce Council (GC3) Who • The Institute of National Pact (InPACTO) demonstrated that our 2025 goals remain aligned with Scientific Organizations • Minnesota Chamber of Commerce our stakeholder expectations – see the Materiality • National Association of EHS Managers (NAEM) section for more information. Our goals are aligned Who Employees • National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) • National Climate Coalition (NCC) • Engaging on technical scientific research to develop with the key global challenges, as well as the United Why innovative solutions for society • Pressure Sensitive Tape Council Nations 2030 Sustainable Development Goals. As such, • Respecting human rights and diversity they present unique opportunities for partnerships and • Supporting, optimizing, and promoting development Why • Harvard Medical School, The Center for Health and the collaboration, which 3M is actively seeking. and growth Global Environment • Ensuring a safe and healthy work environment How • Iowa State University, Center for Bioplastics and • Ensuring equal opportunity Biocomposites • Providing competitive compensation and benefits • University of Minnesota, Center for Sustainable Polymers • Attracting and retaining the highest talent by being a • Environmental Initiative company for which employees are proud to work • Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change • Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry • Committee to Encourage Corporate Philanthropy • The League of American Bicyclists How • The Science Museum of Minnesota • U.S. Business Leadership Network 74 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 75 Who We Are | Diversity and Inclusion Diversity and Inclusion At 3M, diversity and inclusion are where all employees can do their best, and are free to Doubling our diverse talent in management/leadership essential and inseparable to our success. report workplace concerns without fear of retaliation or reprisal”. positions will ultimately help build a diverse pipeline for executive leadership as well. That said, we recognize that definitions of diversity vary between countries and To foster this kind of workplace, we follow our Equal cultures. In the U.S. and in many other countries, we Employment Opportunity (EEO) policies, which prohibit all provide our people with the opportunity to opt-in and Our Commitment That’s why the 3M Code of Conduct includes forms of discrimination or harassment against applicants, confidentially provide information such as disability this guideline: employees, vendors, contractors, or customers on the status, veteran status, sexual orientation, race/ethnicity, basis of race, color, creed, religion, sex, national origin, and gender. At 3M, we foster an inclusive environment where age, disability, veteran’s status, pregnancy, genetic employees feel safe, engaged, and free to create and information, sexual orientation, marital status, citizenship The 3M definition of diversity includes gender, race/ Be Respectful: We strive to have a work environment innovate. Our diversity and inclusion strategies are status, status with regards to public assistance, gender ethnicity/nationality, people with disabilities, U.S. that reflects and values the best in all of us, where we inextricably linked to our corporate strategies. identity/expression, or any other reason prohibited by law. military veterans, and people who identify as lesbian, treat each other respectfully and professionally, and Our affirmative action policies and programs are designed gay, bisexual, transgender, questioning, and intersex The way we look at it, a diverse, global workforce – where individual differences are valued. to assure equal opportunities for qualified minorities, (LGBTQI). To measure progress against our 2025 people with different experience, ethnicity, age, gender, women, covered veterans, and individuals with disabilities, goal, we use a Diversity Index which represents the faith, sexual orientation, personalities, styles, and ways and also to provide reasonable accommodation to total number of diverse future leaders within the of thinking – helps us relate more closely to the needs 3M’s Respectful Workplace Principle states that individuals with disabilities. company globally. of all 3M customers, suppliers, and channel partners “everyone is entitled to respectful treatment in around the world. the 3M workplace. Being respectful means being Note: In the U.S. and in many other countries, we treated honestly and professionally, with each provide our people with the opportunity to voluntarily Just as important, it’s the right thing to do. Diversity and person’s unique talents, background, and perspectives 2025 Goal: Double the pipeline of diverse talent in self-identify and confidentially provide information such inclusion are about creating intellectual and emotional valued. A respectful workplace is free from unlawful management to build a diverse workforce. as disability status, veteran status, sexual orientation, oxygen for all people to flourish and feel comfortable to discrimination and harassment, but it involves more and race/ethnicity. collaborate, agree, disagree, and respectfully exchange, than compliance with the law. It is a work environment learn, and create. that is free of inappropriate or unprofessional behavior Increasing diversity in every region in which we and consistent with 3M’s ethics and values – a place operate is a core part of our Sustainability strategy. 76 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 77 Who We Are | Diversity and Inclusion Our Actions Reflect Watch an interview with Mr. Thulin and Deborah Gillis, President and Chief Executive Officer of Catalyst: here. • Military and Veterans Support Network • Native American Network Different minds • New Employee Opportunity Network (NEON) Every day, we work to assure that the 3M workforce is inspire. Catalyst Award representative of the people with whom we do business. • Women’s Leadership Forum This entails: Connect For 30 years, the Catalyst Award has been a prestigious At 3M, great mids don’t think alike. In 2017, two ERNs celebrated over 40 years of • Strengthening 3M’s reputation as a great place for Different minds inspire. honor presented to select companies that distinguish continuous employee engagement: the Women’s diverse people to work Every one of us has the power to themselves in accelerating progress for women in the Leadership Forum and the African-American Network. • Seeking and attracting diverse and qualified make a difference and strengthen Wonder workplace. 3M was one of three 2017 winners of this our culture of inclusion. Also, the Native American Network, a circle of candidates globally award, based on a rigorous assessment conducted people from American and First Nations Indian tribes, by Catalyst Inc., which cited the company’s “I’m in. • Building our global pipeline of diverse candidates celebrated its 25th anniversary. Accelerating Women’s Leadership” initiative, leadership development platforms, workplace flexibility, mentoring Beyond our day-to-day efforts to support diversity in 2017, we also actively promoted initiatives to engage our Wonder: Imagine what we can accomplish together. programs, and external community efforts on behalf of Diversity-Focused Recruiting Events women. Inge Thulin accepted the award in New York people, attract the best talent, and make everyone feel The company is developing global communication, in March. During 2017, we participated in several recruiting events safe and included. events, and training, inspiring employees to activate the to connect with people and talk about employment “Different Minds” campaign. opportunities at 3M, including: Employee Resource Networks Different Minds Inspire Campaign • American Indian Science and Engineering Society 3M Employee Resource Networks (ERNs) are grassroots At 3M, we know that inclusion is the key to unlocking • Grace Hopper Celebration Meaningful innovation and relevant brand organizations designed to nurture leadership skills, and the power of our diversity. An inclusive culture is one collaboration across cultures, lifestyles, and genders, • Reaching Out MBA experiences are no longer driven by great that supports and appreciates differences, and provides through networking. Open to all employees, these individuals but by great teams that embrace • National Black MBA/Prospanica fair and equal opportunities for everyone. It is a culture organizations help 3M recruit, engage, and retain diverse diversity in thought and collaboration. where people realize they are respected for their whole • National Organization for the Professional talent and work with our businesses to provide relevant and unique selves, and that they belong. Inclusion leads Eric Quint Advancement of Black Chemists and customer insights that can expand our marketplace reach. to engagement, which in turn fosters the collaboration, 3M Vice President and Chief Design Officer Chemical Engineers creativity, and innovation that drive long-term growth for • 3M Pride (LGBTQ and allies) • National Society of Black Engineers 3M as well as for our people and our customers. • A3CTION (Asians and Asian-Americans Coming • Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers Together for Innovation and Opportunity Network) In the inaugural 2017 Inclusion Index (a measure of Catalyst CEO Champions For Change • Society of Women Engineers (National and how included employees feel in the workplace, based • African American Network Regional events) on responses to questions in the 3M Standard Opinion Inge Thulin, our Chairman of the Board, President, and • disAbility Awareness Network Survey), a large majority of responding employees felt Chief Executive Officer, became a founding member • Latino Resource Network included in the workplace. Moving forward, we will work of the Catalyst CEO Champions For Change initiative Invent a New Future Challenge to engage all employees as we enhance our culture of focused on accelerating diversity, inclusion, and gender inclusion. equality in the workplace. Mr. Thulin signed on to this Each year since 2014, 3M has sponsored the Invent a initiative at the 2017 Catalyst Awards ceremony, where New Future Challenge, a business case competition that At the 3M Global Inclusion Day event on October 30, 3M was recognized for our proven approach to expand celebrates the extraordinary thinking of college students 2017, the Diversity and Inclusion team launched a new opportunities for women and business. around the world. Thirdor fourth-year undergraduate campaign: “Different minds inspire”. This campaign students and those pursuing an advanced degree in is centered on three actions employees can take to As part of this commitment, Mr. Thulin, along with more marketing, sales, supply chain/logistics, engineering, strengthen our inclusive environment: than 40 other Chief Executive Officers and industry science, and/or technical studies are encouraged to leaders, made a personal pledge to advance women’s participate. In 2017, students in 13 countries competed Reflect: Identify your own unique strengths. representation over the next five years, particularly at in the local round. Fourteen finalists were then flown to the senior level and within the Board of Directors, and the U.S. for the global case competition finals at 3M’s Connect: Understand and appreciate the unique actively sponsor a diverse group of women. The initiative world headquarters in St. Paul, Minnesota. Members perspectives of others. is also intended to encourage more organizations to of the final winning team each received a six-month The chairs and co-chairs of the ERNs lead development and make commitments around increasing gender equality in community-based events within their own networks – as well as mentorship with a 3M senior leader in their respective the workplace. collaborate across networks to champion inclusion at 3M. 78 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 79 Who We Are | Diversity and Inclusion countries. Another positive outcome of the competition: On the Hirepurpose career portal, candidates can Military Bowl Best Places to Work for Disability more than 25 students were hired for full-time 3M research companies, receive job search advice, and make Over the past 10 years, the Military Bowl football game Inclusion positions in their local countries. sure their applications reach veteran advocates at each employer partner. A team of Hirepurpose career coaches has served as a premier regional event benefiting 3M earned a top score of 100 percent on the 2017 also provides personalized guidance and support online, the United Service Organizations (USO) and other Disability Equality Index®, making 3M one of the over the phone, and at bases across the U.S. groups that support members of the Armed Forces ‘Best Places to Work for Disability Inclusion’. We have and their families. In 2017, 3M announced a three-year improved our score every year over the three years the sponsorship agreement with the Military Bowl and, along index has been in place. Participating in the index helps Minnesota National Guard Women’s with other corporate sponsors, helped raise $100,000 us identify ways we can further enhance our policies Leadership Forum at the December 2017 Military Bowl game played in and practices around disability inclusion. Reaching a top Annapolis, Maryland. At the game, 3M also presented score strengthens our reputation as a great place for all On September 16, 2017, more than 700 members the 3M Play to Win award to George Garcia III, the son people to work, and helps us attract more candidates of the Minnesota National Guard attended the third of two active-duty U.S. Air Force service members, who with different abilities, backgrounds, and experiences. annual Women’s Leadership Forum at 3M corporate took on important family responsibilities while both his headquarters. Topics included emotional intelligence, parents were deployed. Representing people with disabilities is an important leadership, high performing teams, and a championship Left to right: dimension of our Sustainability goal to double the Vamshi Voruganti, USA, Pennsylvania State University, culture. Among the speakers: Maureen Bausch, pipeline of diverse talent in management by 2025. And Industrial Engineering Minnesota Super Bowl LII Host Committee Chief it’s part of our commitment to be an inclusive culture and Eunseo Jean Kim, South Korea, Hanyang University, Executive Officer, as well a range of local business and Industrial Engineering workplace where people of all abilities can thrive. government leaders, and representatives from five of Bruno Ferreira de Oliveira, Brazil, Universidade Federal da Bahia, Chemical Engineering Minnesota’s professional sports teams (Lynx, Twins, On October 23, 2017, 3M held a disAbility Employment Annu Mann, India, Xavier School of Management, MBA Wild, Vikings, and Timberwolves). Awareness Month Celebration in honor of being Abdulkhaleq Ahmed Al-Mansaf, King Abdullah University of named a Best Place to Work for Disability Inclusion. Science and Technology (Kaust), Chemical Science The celebration included a presentation from Believet™ Canine Service Partners, which provides highly skilled Working With Those Who Have Served assistance dogs, free of charge, to disabled veterans. 3M is a strong supporter of initiatives that provide employment help to veterans of U.S. military service. Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality From left to right: Skip Driessen, Ingar Grev, Kevin White, and Hiring Our Heroes is a nationwide initiative that assists For the seventh year in a row, 3M scored 100 percent Rory Yanchek veterans, transitioning service members, and military on the Corporate Equality Index (CEI) for 2018, making spouses find meaningful employment opportunities. The the company one of the ‘Best Places to Work for LGBTQ For additional information, see: Military Bowl, a game Equality’. The CEI is administered by the Human Rights effort is backed by an advisory council comprised of 25 with a larger purpose. Campaign and benchmarks corporate policies including of America’s biggest employers, including 3M. Elements of the campaign include: non-discrimination workplace protections, domestic Rally at the Wall Events National Industries for the Blind (NIB) partner benefits, and transgender-inclusive health care. • Establishing best practices for employing veterans • Providing mentors to help transitioning veterans 3M has partnered with NIB, the nation’s largest resource At the Military Support Network Wall located at 3M and their spouses headquarters in St. Paul, Minnesota, the company for jobs and training for people who are blind, for Looking forward… more than 30 years. In 2017, the company sponsored • Enlisting a similar commitment from small and sponsored six Rally at the Wall events throughout 2017 an individual for an eight-month NIB Fellowship for In 2018, we will continue our journey of steady progress medium-sized business to demonstrate support for the men and women who Leadership Development, working with the web toward our goal of increasing the pipeline of diverse have transitioned from the military to 3M. These events services team of the 3M Business Transformation / talent in management. In addition, through the “Different Hirepurpose provides career guidance and a recruiting focused on networking and recognition of veterans hired Information Technology group. There he was involved minds inspire” campaign, we will engage 3Mers in portal for transitioning military service members. Its at 3M. in several projects including digital planning, consumer activities and behaviors that strengthen inclusion and overall mission is supported by Hirepurpose’s employer analysis, AB Testing, and providing daily feedback on create space for respecting diverse perspectives. In partners – Fortune 1000 companies that understand the electronic formatting. 2019, we will focus on integrated collaboration, by impact and value of hiring veterans, including 3M. combining diverse capabilities and people on teams, to share knowledge and discover breakthrough outcomes. 80 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 81 Introduction 84 Corporate Governance 86 Enterprise Risk 94 Corporate Code of Conduct 98 Human Rights 106 Compensation 114 Employee Programs 118 Health and Safety 130 Environmental Management 138 Raw Materials 144 Water 152 How Climate and Energy 156 Suppliers 168 We Work How We Work | Introduction Introduction How We Work Sustainability is embedded firmly at the core of 3M unexpected opportunities for breakthroughs. Our and in the strategic planning process we use for every unique “15% Culture” gives them the freedom to follow region, every market, and every business. their instincts. At the same time, our Tech Forum is a key enabler of collaboration. This self-directed, selfIn each of our business groups and regions we have organized group unites 10,000-plus scientists and dedicated Sustainability leaders who develop a relevant engineers who work together to solve problems across and well-informed strategy specific to their market oceans and continents, regardless of which business demands and business goals. they’re from. Annually, like many companies, we go through a For the D, 3M development teams within each of our strategic planning process during which our divisions business groups draw upon our core technologies to and regions develop their business strategies for the next create products for targeted markets and geographies. few years. However, unlike others, we formally require that each plan address Sustainability factors relevant to Moving forward, we will continue to expand beyond our their market needs and business opportunities. own operations and focus more on 3M Sustainability goals and the needs of our customers and communities. While we recognize the importance of what we do in R&D at 3M is a little different: our own businesses, and will continue to innovate there, we see that far greater impact can be realized when we we separate the R and the D. partner to understand and overcome the challenges we face together. First, the R. Scientists in our central laboratory are free to focus on pure research, in search of unscripted, 84 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 85 How We Work | Corporate Governance Corporate Governance 3M believes that good corporate governance practices Board committees, and Board and management serve the long-term interests of stockholders, evaluation. The Board’s Nominating and Governance strengthen the Board and management, and further Committee is responsible for overseeing and reviewing enhance the public trust 3M has earned from more the Guidelines at least annually and recommending any than a century of operating with uncompromising proposed changes to the Board for approval. The integrity and doing business the right way. Corporate Governance Guidelines, the Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, the charters of the Board committees, the Director Independence Guidelines, and the Board of Directors Code of Conduct provide the framework for the governance of the company and are Our Commitment available on our website at www.3M.com, under Investor Relations— Governance. G4 3M’s Board of Directors has adopted Corporate The Board’s current leadership structure is SD34-41 Governance Guidelines which provide a characterized by: framework for the effective governance of the company. The guidelines address matters such as the • a combined Chairman of the Board and Chief respective roles and responsibilities of the Board and Executive Officer; management, the Board’s leadership structure, the • a strong, independent, and highly experienced responsibilities of the independent Lead Director, Lead Director with well-defined responsibilities that director independence, the Board membership criteria, support the Board’s oversight responsibilities; 86 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 87 How We Work | Corporate Governance • a robust committee structure consisting entirely Our Vision captures our aspirations and guides our of independent directors with oversight of various corporate direction – 3M Technology Advancing Every Our playbook is working types of risks; and Company, 3M Products Enhancing Every Home, 3M • an engaged and independent Board. Innovation Improving Every Life. For 115 years, we have advanced, enhanced, and improved companies, homes, The Board of Directors believes that this leadership and lives around the world. Our six strategies provide Portfolio Management structure provides independent Board leadership and the roadmap for achieving our goals. They guide us engagement while deriving the benefits of having to actively identify and align to external opportunities our CEO also serve as Chairman of the Board. As the including customers, markets, and macro trends while individual with primary responsibility for managing the continuously investing in our internal capabilities such company’s day-to-day operations and with in-depth as technology, manufacturing, global reach, and the 3M Investing in Innovation knowledge and understanding of the company, our Brand. Our Leadership Behaviors (Play to win, Innovate, CEO is best positioned to chair regular Board meetings Foster collaboration and teamwork, Prioritize and as the directors discuss key business and strategic execute, Develop others and self, Act with integrity and issues. Coupled with an independent Lead Director, this transparency) describe how leaders lead at 3M. combined structure provides independent oversight Business Transformation Our Code of Conduct serves as a constant reminder while avoiding unnecessary confusion regarding the of our core values. The Code is structured around six Board’s oversight responsibilities and the day-to-day core values – Be Good, Be Honest, Be Fair, Be Loyal, Be management of business operations. Accurate, and Be Respectful. On March 5, 2018, the Board appointed Michael F. 5©April 3M 2018 . All Rights Reserved. 1 Our Playbook also defines three Key Levers that we use Roman CEO, effective July 1, 2018. He succeeds to operationalize our Playbook throughout the company Inge G. Thulin, who is appointed to a newly created and create value across 3M – Portfolio Management, position, executive chairman of the Board, also effective Investing in Innovation, and Business Transformation. July 1, 2018. In combination, the five elements outlined in the G4 Portfolio Management seeks to align resources behind the best opportunities, investing in attractive, highPlaybook serve as the foundation for our strategy. We are focused on succeeding in attractive global SD 40 Our Actions Board’s Role in the Company’s value markets, while de-emphasizing or exiting less markets ensuring we deliver value to our customers, Long-Term Strategy attractive spaces. Investing in Innovation is an important element in delivering premium value for our customers shareholders, and employees. Board Refreshment Each year management presents to the Board, and and premium returns for our shareholders. Business the Board discusses and approves, detailed long-term Transformation starts and ends with our customers and Lobbying and Political We regularly add directors to infuse new ideas and fresh perspectives into the Boardroom. In the past five is fundamentally transforming the company and how strategic plans for the company, the international business, and each of the company’s business groups. we do business. We are optimizing and standardizing Activities Principle years, seven new independent directors have joined our global business processes to generate scale and our Board. In recruiting directors, we focus on how the Each presentation includes an overview of the business As a concerned member of our communities, 3M leverage, deploying a single instance global enterprise experience and skill set of each individual complements group, the financial performance, an assessment of actively participates in public policy and legislative resource planning (ERP) system that provides data those of their fellow directors to create a balanced the portfolio for growth opportunities using a SWOT advocacy, or “lobbying.” As appropriate, 3M also transparency across the enterprise, and creating a global Board with diverse viewpoints and backgrounds, deep analysis (i.e., strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and participates in political activities to elect and work service model to optimize our supply chain and business expertise, and strong leadership experience. Amy E. threats); strategic priorities to drive the three key value with elected representatives and government officials. services operations. All of these activities significantly Hood joined the Board in August 2017. Amy Hood is creation levers—Portfolio Management, Investing in 3M’s Government Affairs organization coordinates and enhance customers’ experiences with 3M, making our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Innovation, and Business Transformation; plans to drive oversees 3M’s lobbying and political activities. 3M customers more efficient and competitive, while also of Microsoft Corporation, responsible for leading the the four corporate fundamental strengths—Technology, Political Activities Board, which is made up of senior improving our internal efficiency and productivity in worldwide finance organization, including acquisitions, Manufacturing, Global Capabilities, and Brand; and the 3M executives, oversees 3M’s political contributions everything that we do, in a sustainable way – making us treasury activities, tax planning, accounting and projected long-term financial performance. and the activities of 3M’s Political Action Committee more competitive and profitable. reporting, and internal audit and investor relations. She (3M PAC). 3M PAC is a nonpartisan fund comprised of brings tremendous skill and experience to the Board, Our company’s long-term strategy is outlined in the 3M voluntary employee and stockholder contributions that especially in strategic business development, finance, Playbook, which consists of five elements: our Vision, is used to make contributions to U.S. federal, state, and and digitization. Strategies, Code of Conduct, Leadership Behaviors, and local candidates as permitted by law. These activities Key Levers. must always comply both with applicable laws and 3M’s Lobbying and Political Activities Principle. 88 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 89 How We Work | Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Highlights Corporate Governance Guidelines Board Size and Independence Independent Lead Director Meeting Attendance 3M Shareholders 98% • Independent Lead Director with robust authority • Overall attendance at Board and committee meetings 3M Board of Directors • 11 out of 12 Directors • Combined Chairman and • There were seven Board meetings are independent CEO positions in 2017 Director Tenure Director Age Other Public Company Boards Corporate Auditing Board Committees 3 5 2 2 Chairman of the Board, 2 2 Compliance and Business Conduct President and • Nominating and Governance Committee 1.4 Chief Executive Officer • Audit Committee 1 7.3 64.3 Average 3M Foundation Board • • Compensation Committee Finance Committee years years Board positions (Independent Corporate Contributions) 3 4 4 3 5 Corporate Operating 0-4 years 5-9 years < 59 years 60-65 years 0 boards 1 board Committee 10-14 years 15-18 years 66-70 years 71-73 years 2 boards 3 boards Corporate Environmental, Crisis Management Business Conduct Other Committees & The Corporate Governance Highlights above reflect the Board’s current 12 directors. One of the directors, Vance D. Coffman, is no Health & Safety Committee Committee Centers of Excellence longer eligible to stand for re-election as he has reached the mandatory retirement age. (EHS) Committee Stockholder Engagement organization also attended these meetings and summarized 3M’s more than 40 years of environmental Corporate Staff Functions Business Group Management Area Management • EHS Consumer • Asia Pacific We maintain a vigorous stockholder engagement stewardship. The feedback from these meetings was • • Sourcing/Supply Chain Electronics & Energy Canada program. During 2017, members of senior management shared with the Board of Directors and helped inform the • • • Finance Health Care Europe/Middle East/Africa met with a cross-section of stockholders owning Board on corporate governance practices and trends. • • • Information Technology • Industrial • Latin America approximately 35 percent of our outstanding shares • Engineering/Packaging • Safety & Graphics • United States or approximately 50 percent of our institutional • Human Resources stockholders. The meetings included an overview of the • Community Affairs company and a discussion of the company’s practices • Office of General Counsel on corporate governance. Staff from our Sustainability • Public Affairs • Marketing/Sales/Communications • Research and Development • Strategy and Corporate Development • Security 90 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 91 How We Work | Corporate Governance Governance Actions Diversity International trade policy, agreements, and • and, (2) driving Sustainability within 3M operations and supply chain. Sustainability is now embedded across enforcement Our committees are designed to assure the execution G4 For 3M, diversity, in its myriad manifestations, the company with dedicated teams in research and • Immigration and workforce development of 3M’s vision for the future. The Board currently has 12 LA is fundamental to innovation, performance, and development (R&D), Supply Chain, business groups, and • Regulatory relief and economic development policy directors and the following four committees following 12 relevancy. 3M employees reflect that diversity. regions across the globe. Recently, the establishment of an executive committee, the Science, Technology, • Cyber security policy their charter: Audit, Compensation, Finance, and The Board of Directors regards diversity as an important Nominating and Governance. During 2017, the Board of factor in selecting Board nominees to serve on the and Sustainability Committee, elevates the visibility • Patent Protection and legal reform Directors held seven meetings. Overall attendance at Board. Although the Board has no specific diversity and focus on science, technology, and Sustainability • Sustainability and environment policy Board and committee meetings was 98 percent. policy, when selecting nominees, it actively considers across the enterprise. The Committee demonstrates a diversity in recruitment and nomination of directors, commitment to each of these three focus areas as core Detailed information on each can be found in our 2017 such as gender, race, and national origin. The current to the advancement of 3M; research and development is U.S. “Top-10” Priority Public Policy Issues. Director Independence composition of our Board reflects those efforts and the the heartbeat of our company, and Sustainability drives and enables innovation – in our manufacturing, in our importance of diversity to the Board. products, and in new technologies. The committee will G4 SD The Corporate Governance Guidelines and Director Independence Guidelines provide that An inclusive culture at 3M is built on our Be Respectful assess and advance strategic growth areas, long-term Governance Links 41 independent directors must comprise a Principles— to respect the dignity and worth of investments, and Sustainability – inspired innovation For more information on corporate governance at substantial majority of the 3M Board. A director is individuals; encourage the initiative of each employee; opportunities. Committee members are: Inge Thulin, 3M, see: “independent” if the Board affirmatively determines that challenge individual capabilities; and provide equal Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive the director has no material relationship with the opportunity. 3M is continuously focusing on building and Officer; Michael Roman, Chief Operating Officer • Corporate Officers company directly or as a partner, shareholder, or officer maintaining an inclusive culture. Additional information and Executive Vice President; H.C. (Hak Cheol) Shin, • Board of Directors of an organization that has a relationship with the on our inclusive culture can be found in the Diversity and Vice Chair and Executive Vice President, (Committee Inclusion section. Chair); Nicholas Gangestad, Senior Vice President and • Committee Composition company and otherwise meets the requirements for independence of the listing standards of the New York Chief Financial Officer; and John Banovetz, Senior • Governance Documents Stock Exchange. The independent directors will make Vice President, Research and Development and Chief • Annual Reports and Proxy Statements the Board decisions on corporate governance matters. Commitment to Sustainability Technology Officer. The Guidelines specify the criteria by which the At 3M, we are working hard to advance every Additional information can be found in our Looking forward… G4 independence of our directors will be determined, SD company, enhance every home, and improve 2018 Proxy, Commitment to the Environment and including strict guidelines for directors and their 43-46 every life. We apply our expertise, and Sustainability: here. immediate family members with respect to past technology to solve problems collaboratively, and with a We regularly post governance news, events, and employment or affiliation with the company or its focus on long term, sustainable solutions that presentation information in the Investor Relations section independent registered public accounting firm. The demonstrate our commitment and societal purpose. Lobbying and Political of our website. See 3M Events and Presentations. Guidelines also prohibit Audit and Compensation Committee members from having any direct or indirect Sustainability is fundamental to our business – from Sustainability-inspired innovation to product Activities Principle financial relationship with the company, and restrict stewardship to Sustainability in our operations. As we All 3M PAC receipts, disbursements, and contributions both commercial and not-for-profit relationships of all seek to improve every life, we see partnerships to help are publicly disclosed as required by law. 3M’s reports directors with the company. Directors may not be given our customers and communities achieve their are available on the Federal Election Commission personal loans or extensions of credit by the company, Sustainability goals as key to that ambition. website. Corporate contributions directly to candidates, and all directors are required to deal at arm’s length political committees, ballot measures, Section 527 with the company and its subsidiaries, and to disclose Our corporate vision states: “3M technology advancing organizations, and issue advocacy or “lobbying” any circumstance that might be perceived as a conflict every company... 3M products enhancing every are outlined in our Political Activities and Issue of interest. home... and 3M innovation improving every life.” It Advocacy report. is that vision – carried out in collaboration with our customers, communities, and partners – that guides our In 2017, 3M’s top priority public issues were: Sustainability strategies and goals and aspirations. • Tax reform In January 2013, our CEO elevated the company’s • Health care reform focus on Sustainability, with emphasis in two areas: (1) developing and commercializing products which help • Defense our customers solve their Sustainability challenges; • Transportation and infrastructure investment 92 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 93 How We Work | Enterprise Risk Enterprise Risk Our Commitment Risk Oversight At 3M, we continually evaluate our approach to potential G4 The Board has delegated primary responsibility risks facing the company. The concept of risk appetite SD 46 for the oversight of risks facing the company to and tolerance is an essential component of our strategic the Audit Committee. The 3M Company Board planning, and it’s the responsibility of our senior business of Directors Audit Committee Charter states that the leaders to plan accordingly. committee will “discuss policies and procedures with respect to risk assessment and risk management, the It is our firm belief that good corporate governance company’s major risk exposures, and the steps practices serve the long-term interests of stockholders, management has taken to monitor and mitigate strengthen the Board and management, and further such exposures.” enhance the public trust 3M has earned from more than a century of operating with uncompromising integrity The Vice President and General Auditor, Corporate and doing business the right way. Governance includes Auditing, whose appointment and performance is broad risk oversight by the Board and its committees. reviewed and evaluated by the Audit Committee, is Risk analysis is reported to the full Board, the General responsible for leading the formal risk assessment and Auditor, and Chief Compliance Officer. Both the General management process within the company. The Auditor, Auditor and Chief Compliance Officer are appointed by, consulting with the company’s senior management, and report to, the Audit Committee of the Board. annually assesses the major risks facing the company and works with those executives responsible for managing each specific risk. The Auditor periodically 94 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 95 How We Work | Enterprise Risk reviews with the Audit Committee the major risks facing Corporate Operations Committee and the company’s the company and the steps management has taken to full Board of Directors. monitor and mitigate those risks. Global ERP Deployment Strategy and Timeline 3M places particular emphasis on protecting our While the Board’s oversight of risk is primarily performed company against emerging risks in an ever-changing by the Audit Committee, the Board has also delegated to world. Case in point: cybersecurity. Strong cybersecurity Foundation Deploy and Optimize Today other committees the oversight of risks within their areas programs are essential, and we continue to invest in 2011 2012 – 2020 of responsibility and expertise. information technology systems and activities around cybersecurity training and awareness, especially Pilot Countries We believe this governance of risks by Board Established when it comes to avoiding phishing and other threats methodology committees, who share information with the full targeting 3M. Board, is appropriate for a diversified technology and Global Service Centers (GSC) manufacturing company like 3M. 3M’s 10-K, Item 1A, outlines risk factors applicable to the company. 1:1 Board Member-General West Europe Ramped-up Auditor Meetings organization U.S. Central & East Europe/Middle East Africa In 2017, the Vice President, General Auditor met with Our Actions each independent 3M Board member, to discuss risk management in general as well as specific risk-related Supply Chain Centers of Expertise (COE) APAC Developed Latin America topics facing the company. These meetings gave Board blueprint Corporate-Level members an opportunity to share what risk issues were top-of-mind for them, and which should be reviewed 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 and addressed by the Board. For most Board members, 3M’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) initiative, the most critical risk in 2017 and into the future launched in 2001, has helped assure adequate was cybersecurity. recognition and ownership of the most significant potential risks to the company’s shareholder value, using site is ultimately ranked based on the risk they pose to the company, and necessary steps are taken to minimize Looking forward… a process that proactively identifies and communicates potential risks. Acquisitions are of particular focus as enterprise risks within the company. This includes: Business-Level we bring each new sight under 3M’s protocol with the 3M will continue deploying a single enterprise resource planning (ERP) system on a worldwide basis, to provide confirming that appropriate plans and oversight exist proper training. a consistent, comprehensive, and discrete information 3M serves customers through five business groups. for all major risks; providing for ongoing review and platform for our businesses everywhere. It’s another Annually, leadership from each business group In addition to EHS risk analysis, we have a crisis plan for assessment of risk; and aiding in generating awareness example of our commitment to continual growth and presents to the Board, and the Board discusses and every single 3M plant in the world. Although we hope and engagement of general risk matters throughout adaptation to emerging risks in an ever-changing world. approves, detailed long-term strategic plans for the to never use our Crisis Management Plans, it’s critically the company. The approach provides a customized company, both at the area and business group level. important that we have them in place, keep them up to capability that leverages 3M’s comprehensive, Each presentation includes an overview of the business date, and drill often to make sure everyone understands experience-based global knowledge and capabilities group, shortand long-term financial performance and what to do should an emergency occur. We care about rather than tools often used in financialor insurancegoals, an assessment of portfolio growth opportunities; the safety of our people and communities around oriented businesses. strategic priorities to drive the three key value creation the world. To assure long-term success, we are committed to levers—Portfolio Management, Investing in Innovation, discovering and preparing for all potential threats to and Business Transformation; and plans to drive the The Crisis Management Planning Guidelines are our Vision. Risk owners familiar with the environmental, four corporate fundamental strengths—Technology, designed to provide a common framework for economic, and business aspects within the company Manufacturing, Global Capabilities, and Brand. integrating crisis management into the standard are interviewed and requested to complete a thorough operations of each 3M facility. All plans must be assessment for their respective risk(s). Together, with prepared in accordance with good engineering subject-matter experts and senior management, the Facility-Level practices and with the full approval of management. outcomes are mapped to demonstrate the relative level Also, to evaluate the effectiveness of the plans, scenario of risk and likelihood of risk. This ‘heat map’ identifies the Our Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) exercises are conducted periodically at facilities. highest risk areas to focus internal efforts on. In addition, organization looks carefully at each 3M site and new external resources and data are continuously reviewed acquisition, and performs a crisis risk analysis that to assist in the risk identification process. The results of considers factors such as potential impact to the our various risk assessment exercises are shared with the environment, the community, and 3M employees. Each 96 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 97 How We Work | Corporate Code of Conduct Corporate Code of Conduct For 3M people, there is only one ethical road to travel. The high road. Our Commitment answering questions and providing direction when the right choice may not be clear. G4 G4 The Code of Conduct is part of our 3M Living by our Code of Conduct enhances our reputation SD HR 6, 10, 56-57 1 playbook and is critical to driving and promotes trust with our customers, in our company, sustainable growth. We know that and in the quality of our products. building an ethical foundation protects the corporation and increases corporate value. 3M’s Code of Conduct defines how we work: Be Good We owe it to ourselves, our shareholders, and our Be Honest customers to do the right thing. Be Fair Through the years, 3M has built a reputation globally for Be Loyal taking an ethical approach to business. That said, with Be Accurate 91,500 employees and subsidiary operations in 70-plus Be Respectful countries, it’s no easy task to do business the right way, everywhere, every day. 3M employees, including all supervisors, managers, and other leaders, are responsible for knowing and To make it as simple as possible, we have developed following the ethical, legal, and policy requirements one Code of Conduct that applies globally. Our Code that apply to their jobs and for reporting any suspected of Conduct summarizes 3M’s compliance principles violations of law or the Code. Executives and managers and raises awareness for doing business “the right way, are accountable for creating and promoting an inclusive always, and everywhere.” The Code is our guide for 98 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 99 How We Work | Corporate Code of Conduct workplace environment where compliance and ethical business conduct are expected and encouraged. • A 24-hour helpline and website through which employees and others can report concerns and ask Reporting Concerns connection logs containing Internet Protocol (IP) addresses. Web-based reports are made through a questions G4 G4 Upholding 3M’s Code of Conduct and secure internet portal, which does not trace or show The Code is available in 22 languages and sets clear expectations for not only employees, but also • Programs to conduct appropriate due diligence on SD SO values is the responsibility of everyone user screen names. 3M has a strong position against business partners, potential and new acquisitions, 58 5 acting on 3M’s behalf. We encourage retaliation as is reflected in the Non-Retaliation Policy relevant stakeholders and business partners. All new and within 3M’s Employee Obligations and Reporting and candidates for hiring and promoting our employees to ask questions or report their concerns employees receive a copy of the handbook and it is also Principle. 3M prohibits retaliation against anyone who to the Compliance and Business Conduct Department, available electronically. • Investigation expertise raises a business conduct concern or cooperates in a 3M Legal Counsel, their Human Resources Manager, or • Incentives and discipline to address compliance their management. 3M makes clear that speaking up is company investigation. successes and failures the right thing to do. We know our employees care about Business Conduct Committees the company and want to do the right thing. The Compliance and Business Conduct Department has the responsibility to review every business conduct The 3M Business Conduct Committee is composed concern that is reported. After review, the Department of several senior executives and is chaired by 3M’s Compliance Training In addition, 3MEthics.com is a 24-hour confidential and anonymous (where permitted by local law) helpline and determines which reports require an investigation and Chief Compliance Officer. The Committee has and Education online reporting system. It is managed by a third-party if an investigation is needed, assigns the appropriate oversight for 3M’s various compliance efforts and, vendor and is available both internal and external to investigation resource. For concerns that are as appropriate, updates the Audit Committee of the G4 3M offers a comprehensive online compliance 3M. Reports are reviewed and responded to by the substantiated, disciplinary action is taken. Discipline 3M Board of Directors and Corporate Operating SO 4 training program to all employees worldwide. Compliance and Business Conduct Department or other calibration comes, when needed, in a range of forms Committee. Additionally, similar committees exist at The program’s training modules are assigned to responsible staff departments. consistent with similar past violations, from warnings, country or regional levels to operationalize and prioritize employees based on their role and area of responsibility to suspensions, to termination. Disciplinary actions may compliance activities. within the company. Most courses are mandatory for The system does not trace phone calls or use caller impact one or more persons associated with a single approximately 46,000 global employees, who are identification, nor does it generate or maintain internal substantiated violation. Below is a graph illustrating required to take modules on a twoto four-year cycle, Global Compliance Program depending on the course. Offered in 22 languages, the training modules include: 3M’s global compliance program is managed and 3M Global Allegations and Disciplinary Actions administered by the Compliance and Business Conduct • Data Privacy and Protection: The Real World Total Number Department, led by the Chief Compliance Officer and • Understanding Information Security Vice President of Compliance and Business Conduct. and Protection The department is staffed with compliance professionals • Gifts, Entertainment, and Travel 800 stationed at company headquarters and around the world. The Chief Compliance Officer reports directly • Avoiding Bribery and Corruption: 700 to the Audit Committee of the 3M Board of Directors, A Global Overview which assists the Board in oversight of 3M’s legal and • Understanding Global Competition 600 regulatory compliance efforts. This direct reporting • Creating a Harassment-Free Workplace line assures the independence of the Compliance and • Code of Conduct and Ethical Decision Making 500 Business Conduct Department, which is responsible for overseeing and administering strategic, systematic, and • Recognizing Conflict of Interest 400 operational components of 3M’s compliance program. The Compliance and Business Conduct website on The compliance program is designed to meet the U.S. 3M’s intranet offers additional on-demand online 300 Federal Sentencing Guidelines and, as designed, meets training courses. In addition to online training, the similar global standards and the general requirements of Compliance and Business Conduct Department, in close 200 other countries’ anti-bribery laws. The program has the collaboration with 3M Legal Affairs, local compliance following attributes: contacts, finance, and human resources, provides 100 frequent, tailored in-person training to businesses, • A core set of business conduct principles subsidiaries, staff groups, and third parties. Some of this 0 • Education, training materials, and the schedule training occurs as part of an annual schedule and other 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 upon which compliance training is conducted training occurs as requested or deemed appropriate. • Periodic evaluations, audits, and measurements of Allegations Reported Substantiated Allegations Disciplinary Actions the compliance program’s effectiveness 100 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 101 How We Work | Corporate Code of Conduct five-year metrics for business conduct-related reports raised using our reporting tools found at 3MEthics.com. investigation metrics and communication tools to management to help facilitate employee discussions. 3M’s Non-Retaliation Process Commitment to This communication campaign is supported by 3M does not tolerate retaliation against anyone for Anti‑Corruption In 2017, the number of questions or concerns reported “Speak-up” posters with a fresh brand design that is raising a concern. To monitor for this risk, several months to the Compliance and Business Conduct Department electronically made available in 21 languages. Employee G4 G4 As a member of the United Nations after an investigation closes, the investigator contacts increased by 31.4 percent. We believe this increase awareness to “Speak-up” also increased through the reporter to discuss if the person has experienced SD SO 15 4-5 Global Compact, 3M is committed to reflects employees’ greater awareness of their reporting periodic risk-based compliance evaluations of our support Principle 10 on Antiany form of retaliation. This is done either by phone or obligation and the available reporting channels. This business operations and regional initiatives by our local Corruption. Our commitment and involvement in a via email for non-anonymous reporters. For anonymous increased awareness reflects various activities in 2017, compliance teams. working group associated with Principle 10 give us the reporters who used 3MEthics.com to raise a concern, including deployment of executive videos encouraging opportunity to learn best practices related to antithe follow-up is handled through 3MEthics.com to employees to “Speak-up”, and providing enhanced corruption from peer companies. In addition, 3M maintain anonymity. If claims of retaliation are identified, actively conducts benchmarking with similar companies, the investigation team will follow up on them. All and helps educate other professionals working in anticoncerns raised are expected to be made in good faith. corruption through the participation of our Chief “Speak-up” Posters Compliance Officer and other Compliance and Business 3M encourages all employees to “Speak-up” to raise a Assessments Conduct Department professionals in anti-corruption conferences and organizations. concern or suspected violation of the Code. The posters G4 A dedicated team within 3M’s Compliance and 3M’s Anti-Bribery Principle requires compliance with all are available in 21 languages. SO 3 Business Conduct Department conducts applicable anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign periodic compliance and anti-bribery Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and local evaluations in various 3M subsidiaries and operating laws where 3M operates. It applies to 3M employees, units each year. These evaluations are selected using as well as to our business partners. In addition, objective and subjective risk factors, and include reviews anti-corruption policies and procedures have been of financial transactions, compliance records, interviews communicated to all employees, and “Global Bribery and with business personnel, and audits of selected thirdCorruption Awareness” training is required of employees party intermediaries. In 2017, we interviewed over 550 in higher-risk roles, including those in Legal, Audit, non-production employees as part of the evaluation Sales, Marketing, Export and Global Trading. The Chief process. Additionally, in 2017, we introduced an Compliance Officer provides quarterly updates on all enhancement to this program called “local evaluation.” activities to the Audit Committee of the Board. A local evaluation uses the same methodology of the existing evaluation program but has smaller teams, a 3M’s commitment to anti-corruption is also reflected more focused scope, and is completed in half the time. in our management of third-party intermediaries and Finally, the Compliance and Business Conduct other business partners. Based on an assessment of department had an internal assessment of the program transaction, geography, and other risk factors, 3M completed by 3M’s Internal Audit function. The results conducts due diligence reviews of our third parties. of the assessment have been used to create prioritized Depending on the outcome of the review, we respond action items to drive further improvements and to any identified risks with training, inclusion of relevant enhancements to our compliance program. contractual terms, and other risk-mitigating controls. Not only do audits, evaluations, and risk assessments Further, the Compliance and Business Conduct Chính Sách Ứng xử Kinh doanh và Tuân thủ của 3M help detect opportunities for improvement and gaps Department collaborates with 3M Legal Affairs on due in processes or procedures, they also reinforce the diligence processes related to potential new venture importance of operating in an ethical, compliant manner. investments and mergers and acquisitions. These Trung thực là chính sách processes help identify risks in the target company tối ưu của chúng ta. before acquisition or investment and accelerate our efforts to integrate an acquired company’s employees Hãy lên tiếng. Hãy đặt câu hỏi. to 3M’s compliance program and culture. Ultimately, Hãy trở thành thành viên của 3M the Compliance and Business Conduct Department is Hãy nói ra những mối quan ngại. Truy cập 3M-Ethics.com Tiếng Việt 120-11067 Bạn cũng có thể liên hệ với giám đốc, Bộ phận Tuân thủ & Tiến hành Kinh doanh, Pháp chế hay Nhân sự. charged with conducting a complete risk review and implementing any necessary remediation activities 102 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 103 How We Work | Corporate Code of Conduct with employees about compliance. Among the items upon the closing of every acquisition, using an established protocol and expert staff. In 2017, as part of our compliance integration process, we piloted a Our Actions provided were flash cards featuring case studies from actual investigations where poor ethical decisions were made, highlighting best practices and available compliance culture survey to help identify areas or resources. The kit included other items that remind our topics that should be prioritized during our compliance Conflict of Interest leaders of their important role in promoting a culture of integration process. Certification compliance and the commitment to doing business the right way. Approximately 47,000 non-production employees Political Values are required to complete an annual conflict of interest In addition to the flash cards, executives received a series of more detailed case studies to create additional certification. In addition, all employees are required to G4 3M respects our employees’ right to engage in dialogue with employees about how to identify and SO 6 the political process and, at the same time, 3M disclose potential conflicts of interest on an on-going basis. Starting this year, an enhancement was made Global Compliance Days manage potential ethical concerns. The studies were is committed to prevent potential corruption. based on real events and were created in a format that to 3M’s Employee Management System (EMS) to Around the globe, 3M celebrates Compliance Days When allowed by law, any corporate political allowed them to be used easily in standard employee support and centralize the record keeping of all or other types of interactive sessions, to engage contributions outside the United States require approval presentations and communication packages. These employee disclosures, in compliance with local laws. employees on the topic of ethics and doing the right by the Area Vice President and assigned legal counsel. case studies were issued on a periodic basis to keep the Centralizing the record keeping eliminated storage in thing. For the first time in 2017, the U.S. held an event content relevant and current. For additional information on our Code of Conduct multiple disparate systems and supporting processes. at corporate headquarters, “Bringing the Code to Life,” please visit: The enhancement further improves governance of which featured our Chairman of the Board, President, these matters and promotes transparency and a culture and Chief Executive Officer, Inge Thulin, as well as https://www.3m.com/3M/en_US/company-us/ of compliance. Now, supervisors have visibility to keynote speaker Allan McDonald, who spoke about the Looking forward… about-3m/compliance-business-conduct/code/ employee disclosures and the management system ethical and leadership lessons learned from the Space We are focused on enhancing our culture of compliance automates the annual review and update processes. Shuttle Challenger disaster. The day also featured Veena and improving our controls to drive process efficiency The Compliance and Business Conduct Department Lakkundi, Chief Compliance Officer and Vice President Third Party Brochure oversees the new process and provides training and as well as Ivan Fong, Senior Vice President and General and further mitigate risk. guidance to supervisors, employees, and other local Counsel of 3M. In addition, representatives from various We are launching new strategies to support our 2018 To enhance our communications and expectations with resources who assist with this process. 3M has also compliance departments from around the company focus of “Everyone Living the Code,” throughout the third parties, 3M has an online training course and has incorporated conflict of interest disclosure requirements were stationed at booths to engage employees. world. We will build upon our established culture of created a brochure for our business partners. The online as part of the due diligence process for third-party ethics and compliance, by initiating programs to reach training course covers anti-bribery and is available in intermediaries. key employees with compliance messaging pertinent 22 languages. The brochure, available in 27 languages, provides another way for 3M to communicate with our Leadership Communications to their roles. For example, we will conduct one-on-one business partners regarding our commitment to combat Executive Videos Aids and Toolkits in-person training sessions for global employees in critical leadership roles, incorporate more case studies in global bribery. Executives and Managing Directors around the globe employee communications and training, and review and To further enhance our culture of compliance, we test different communication channels and methods to created a series of short videos featuring 3M executives. this year received a leadership kit designed to reinforce our commitment to compliance by providing resources reinforce key messages or raise employee and business In these videos, the executives share personal stories partner awareness of compliance expectations and about ethical situations they have faced in their careers and tools for leaders to help facilitate discussions concern reporting mechanisms at 3M. Additionally, we Doing business the right way is a key element and how they handled them. The videos were translated will continue to enhance our third-party due diligence of sustainable growth. Our customers want into 10 languages and distributed globally. process. We will work to simplify the design and process to do business with companies they trust and to minimize touchpoints and reduce cycle times. We employees want to work for a company with will also continue to assess the scope of our third-party purpose and values. diligence process and make necessary adjustments to address current global risks. Finally, we will focus Veena Lakkundi on analyzing data captured through our compliance 3M Chief Compliance Officer and Vice President program to better identify, prevent, and mitigate risk. We Compliance and Business Conduct will leverage this information to improve metric reporting packages provided to our stakeholders and inform future evolution of our compliance and ethics program. 104 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 105 How We Work | Human Rights Human Rights At 3M, there is only one way to do business. The right way. Our Commitment through our global policy statements, a management system utilizing self-assessments, audits, training, and ultimately, metrics tracking. Our audit process is truly 3M is committed to assuring human rights in our own global, and we are increasing the number of assessments operations and in any business that works on our behalf. we are performing, which gives us a global perspective Our Human Rights Policy applies to all 3M employees, on our own internal locations, particularly our contingent workers, anyone doing business with or on manufacturing locations. behalf of 3M, and candidates for hire at 3M. In 2014, we became a participant of the United Nations Global We support the United Nations Guiding Principles Compact (UNGC), thereby committing to align our (UNGP) on Business and Human Rights, and its “protect, operations and strategies with the UNGC principles on respect, and remedy” framework. Our human rights human rights. management system helps us manage salient human rights issues. We support the principles of due diligence outlined in the UNGP. Furthermore, our Code of The principles that guide us Conduct requires compliance with all applicable laws and respect for internationally recognized human rights G4 Within our own business, 3M’s approach for in all of our global operations. HR managing and assuring human rights aligns with 4-6 3M’s Code of Conduct, which recognizes the We also recognize the International Labor Organization right of employees to have a respectful workplace. We Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights continue to implement our human rights program at Work. Adopted in 1998, the Declaration commits 106 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 107 How We Work | Human Rights Member States to respect and promote principles and Freedom of Association and Forced and Compulsory Labor In addition, we conduct audits of site workplace and rights in four categories, whether or not they have human resource practices, as well as assessments and ratified the relevant conventions: freedom of association Collective Bargaining G4 3M complies with all applicable laws and audits of suppliers to assure compliance with 3M’s and the effective recognition of the right to collective 3M works diligently to create a work HR employment regulations and does not engage or expectations related to labor practices (see the Supplier bargaining; the elimination of forced or compulsory G4 G4 6 participate in forced labor. We have those same section of this report for more details). labor; the abolition of child labor; and the elimination of SD HR11 4 culture that affords all employees the expectations for all vendors doing business with us. discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. opportunity to work without fear of intimidation, reprisal, or harassment, in an environment where employees are able to get their questions Human Trafficking Assuring Human Rights Human Rights Elements addressed in a fair and timely manner. In all locations, through Training the company’s relationship with employees, whether Our approach to human trafficking, sometimes referred to Our commitment to upholding human and workplace as “modern slavery,” is very simple: we do not tolerate it. We perform global training to assure that all 3M union or nonunion, is a key responsibility of all leaders, G4 rights is embodied in the 3M Human Resource assisted by human resources representatives. Human HR employees comply with the law, 3M’s Code of Principles, which respect the dignity and worth of all Our Human Rights Policy contains our prohibition on 2 Conduct and supporting policies, standards, resources professionals work with all employees to individuals, encourage the initiative of each employee, human trafficking. We are committed to using effective and procedures. 3M Compliance and Business maintain positive employee relations. challenge individual capabilities, and provide equal systems and controls to prevent human trafficking Department has created a Compliance Training and opportunity for development. Our Human Rights Policy has a specific subdivision from taking place anywhere within our business or Certification Program that assures all 3M employees are on the freedom of association, which assures that we supply chains. aware of and understand their responsibilities and respect “the ability of employees to choose whether or obligations. 3M’s Compliance and Business Conduct Respectful Workplace The prohibitions apply to 3M and its subsidiaries as well not to join unions and engage in collective bargaining, Department is responsible for the management and as to our federal contracts and subcontracts for either 3M’s Respectful Workplace Principle states that as permitted by applicable laws in the countries where administration of the Compliance Training and commercial or non-commercial items. “everyone is entitled to respectful treatment in the 3M does business.” In the event of business operations Certification Program. 3M workplace. Being respectful means being treated changes, we follow all applicable local laws and Expectations regarding labor and human resource regulations regarding notice periods for both union and Our Global New Employee Compliance Course honestly and professionally, with each person’s practices also apply to our suppliers (see the Supplier non-union employees. Program is based on employee records in the 3M unique talents, background, and perspectives section of this report for more details). They apply to Human Resource (HR) system. Employees are valued. A respectful workplace is free from unlawful the selection and retention of all suppliers worldwide. Approximately 16 percent of 3M’s global workforce assigned courses based on their job function, country discrimination and harassment, but it involves more 3M suppliers must comply with all local country labor is unionized. We are aware that in some countries, location, production/non-production, and supervisor/ than compliance with the law. It is a work environment and human resource laws and cannot use labor that is collective bargaining rights are not protected or non-supervisor status. Email notifications are sent to the that is free of inappropriate or unprofessional behavior obtained through mental or physical coercion, physical recognized. Nevertheless, 3M assures that freedom employee’s 3M internet email address informing them of and consistent with 3M’s ethics and values— a place punishment, slavery, or other oppressive labor conditions of association and collective bargaining aspects of their course requirements and timeline for completion. where all employees can do their best, and are free to and cannot engage in any form of human trafficking. our Human Rights Policy apply to all 3M employees New employee courses are due within 60 days of report workplace concerns without fear of retaliation or worldwide. assignment. reprisal.” Filing, Addressing, and Working Hours and Living Wages Child Labor/Minimum Resolving Workplace Concerns Human Resource When concerns related to human rights, labor practices, 3M complies with minimum wage legislation globally, Hiring Age environmental, or safety issues arise, our employees are Security Standard and we make every effort to exceed legal minimum encouraged to raise questions or report misconduct or wage. Our competitive compensation reflects our G4 The permissible hiring age for employees may G4 With the alarming rise in corporate security practice of establishing competitive salary ranges based HR 5 vary based on the laws of different countries. potential misconduct to the Compliance and Business Conduct Department, 3M Legal Counsel, their HR 7 breaches worldwide, this standard presents the on actual pay data from benchmark peer companies However, 3M has adopted global expectations general information technology security Human Resources Manager, their management, or to in manufacturing. 3M also complies with all applicable regarding the hiring of minors. Even if local law permits controls required to achieve Human Resource Security 3MEthics.com. See 3M’s Business Conduct website for laws relating to overtime and breaks. it, 3M will not hire any employee or contingent worker based on industry standards and best practices. more information regarding how to report a concern. (individual provided by a third-party staffing agency to Additional information on reporting concerns can be Roles and responsibilities of information security perform temporary work) below the age of 16 for any found in the Code of Conduct section. employees, contingent workers, and suppliers must job. If the applicable laws impose a higher minimum age requirement than 16, 3M follows the stricter standard in be defined and documented in accordance with the 3M has a strong position against retaliation as is reflected compliance with the law. 3M Information Security Management System (ISMS). in the Non-Retaliation Policy and within 3M’s Employee Background verification checks on all candidates for Obligations and Reporting Principle. 3M prohibits employment, contingent workers, and suppliers must be retaliation against anyone who raises a business conduct carried out in accordance with relevant laws, regulations concern or cooperates in a company investigation. 108 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 109 How We Work | Human Rights and ethics, and be proportional to the business • Agenda 21—United Nations Convention Within our own business contract workers are held to the same safety and health requirements, the classification of the information to be against Corruption requirements as 3M employees. accessed, and the perceived risks. Within 3M, our approach to managing and assuring See the Health and Safety section for additional human rights aligns with the 3M Code of Conduct, As part of their contractual obligation, employees, information on this assessment process. contingent workers, and suppliers must agree to and Human Rights Due Diligence which recognizes the right of employees to have a respectful workplace. sign the terms and conditions of their employment G4 The 3M Code of Conduct describes the contract, which states not only their own, but their organization’s responsibilities for information security. SO company’s business conduct principles, or core To protect that right, our Field Employee Relations Our suppliers 2 values, which set forth global corporate (ER) Assessment tool enables any 3M location to selfexpectations for all 3M employees and certain third assess its policies and practices. Using the tool, and Management must require employees, contingent At 3M, we recognize the choices we make for our parties who act on 3M’s behalf. Those values have not tracking data throughout the assessment process, local workers, and suppliers to apply security in accordance material and service providers must also reflect our changed over time. The principles in this Code remain managers can review practices related to 3M’s Human with established policies and procedures. All 3M values. We want our suppliers to share our commitment consistent with 3M’s longstanding business conduct Rights Policy, identify strengths and opportunities for employees and, where relevant, contingent workers and to maintaining compliant, responsible, and sustainable principles, its values, and our shared ethical standards improvement, and develop an action plan for closing any suppliers, must receive appropriate awareness training operations and practices. In addition to full compliance for conducting business with uncompromising honesty potential gaps. and regular updates in organizational policies and with all applicable labor and human resource laws, we procedures, as relevant for their job function. and integrity. expect our suppliers to be committed to upholding In 2017, a stakeholder asked 3M to demonstrate its commitment to the 3M Human Rights Policy in China. the human rights of workers, and to treating them with In our view, human rights due diligence requires a We explained that for the past eight years, the ER dignity and respect as understood by the international holistic approach. So we assess our own business, Our Actions Assessment tool has been used at all 3M locations in community. This applies to all workers including others acting on our behalf, suppliers, government China to evaluate the workplace environment. As a result temporary, migrant, student, contract, and direct relationships, acquisitions, mergers, and divestitures – to of those evaluations, we have identified and addressed employees. These expectations are laid out in the 3M identify the salient human rights issues applicable to We will continue to develop products and procedures to more than 100 action items. Every year in China, Supplier Responsibility Code. our business. We have a grievance mechanism in place, promote safety for 3Mers, our customers, and suppliers. we also provide training for production supervisors, 3MEthics.com, which can be used to raise a concern At the same time, we have a strong business conduct production leaders, and lead operators on critical We have a 2025 goal to drive supply chain Sustainability regarding any adverse human rights impacts. We also and compliance system in place at 3M, and will continue aspects of emergency room assessment. In addition, through targeted raw material traceability and supplier comply with all applicable laws, and honor the principles to work to assure that 3M business partners follow we collaborate across locations through a monthly ER performance assurance. For details on our prioritized of internationally recognized human rights when faced ethical business practices. forum, an event in which ER professionals can discuss supplier assessment process, see the Supplier section. with conflicting requirements. relevant topics and share best practices and processes. Human Rights Charters Human Rights Assessments For additional details on our employee processes, Government Relations see the Diversity and Inclusion and Employee G4 3M continues to support several Programs section. G4 Under our Be Fair Principle, 3M is committed to Our assessment on human rights aligns with our SD HR G4 15 human rights charters. Among them: HR 4-5, 9 corporate Human Rights Policy, as outlined 6 being a responsible company with uncompromising integrity in all its dealings with under Our Commitment, and includes: safe and healthy workplace, respectful workplace, workplace Others acting on 3M’s behalf local, state/provincial and national governments, and • United Nations Global Compact their prime contractors and subcontractors around the security, work hours and wages, freedom of association, • Universal Declaration of Human Rights Upholding 3M’s Code of Conduct and values is the world. In all of our activities with governments, we child labor, forced labor, or recruitment fees to obtain • European Convention on Human Rights responsibility of everyone acting on 3M’s behalf. carefully follow all applicable laws, rules, and employment. Evaluations are integrated into other Multiple processes are in place to assure 3M’s principles regulations. • United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and assessment and management processes, based on are being upheld by others acting on 3M’s behalf. Case Human Rights material issues regardless of where they’re identified Before entering into any government contract, or any in point: our approach to health and safety. within the value chain. agreement related to a government customer, 3M • International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work Under our Workplace Environmental, Health and employees must consult 3M’s Government Contract 3M continues to implement our human rights program Safety Principle, 3M’s Code of Conduct requires 3M Compliance Department or their business unit’s assigned • OECD—Organization for Economic ­Co-operation through our global policy statements, a management employees to select and retain suppliers, contractors, or legal counsel. and Development Guidelines for Multinational system utilizing self-assessments, audits, and training. outsourced manufacturers and service providers who Enterprises, including OECD Due Diligence Based upon this assessment process, we have Human Trafficking and forced labor-related provisions comply with all applicable laws and regulations and Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals determined that in our various spheres of influence are also included in 3M’s government contract meet 3M’s environmental, health, and safety values. from Conflict-Affected and High Risk Areas (our own business and others acting on 3M's behalf), flow-down requirements for suppliers. In the United In addition, at 3M locations, all visitors, vendors, and the sphere with the greatest potential for human rights States, the government has adopted a regulation (FAR impact is within our supply chain. 52.222-50) prohibiting human trafficking, including 110 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 111 How We Work | Human Rights slavery, servitude, forced and compulsory labor, and coercion to induce a commercial sex act or to procure Partnering with Local the same – all of which result in the deprivation of a Communities and Customers person’s liberty by another in order to exploit them for personal or commercial gain. 3M has implemented Under our Be Respectful Principle, 3M’s core values processes to assure compliance with the U.S. FAR, include treating each other and our stakeholders including a Human Trafficking Prevention Standard. with respect and respecting our social and physical For more information, see Doing Business with environment. #improvinglives means applying our Government Agencies and Contractors Principle. With our Every Life Ambition, we work to imagine a world where every life is improved. The power is in science to protecting people and partnership. As a global corporation, we believe that we enhancing communication. Acquisitions, Mergers, have a significant responsibility to society in general, and especially to the communities in which we live and work. and Divestitures We create products that inspire creative communication and visual impact and assure safety across diverse industries and applications – from workers to roads, to We have created a robust, stakeholder-driven approach facilities and security—we provide sustainable solutions in an ever-changing world. G4 3M regularly pursues the sale and purchase of to Sustainability materiality that includes human SO 2 business interests. For each business that may rights. Our materiality assessments and stakeholder be acquired or divested, human rights issues are engagements are vital components of our company’s prioritized and addressed relative to risk and compliance strategy and reporting. Details of our materiality during the acquisition integration or divestiture process. assessment can be found in our Materiality section. Our 2025 Sustainability Goals were developed from the materiality assessment. For additional information on our stakeholder engagements, see the Engaging Our Stakeholders section. Looking forward… In 2017, 3M issued our first statement under the United Kingdom Modern Slavery Act, which expects companies to disclose their efforts to eradicate modern slavery and human trafficking in their own operations and their supply chains. 3M is committed to furthering the principles of this law, and our first statement details how. We will continue to strengthen our due diligence management system to identify and address any salient human rights issues within our sphere of influence, and stay aligned with internationally-accepted frameworks like the United Nations Guiding Principles. Safety & Graphics 112 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report How We Work | Compensation Compensation Our Commitment As detailed in the 3M Board of Directors Compensation compensation. Anyone who owns shares of 3M common A significant portion of the total compensation • Committee Charter, all aspects of this compensation are stock can vote at the company’s annual stockholder should be paid in common stock to align reviewed regularly by the Compensation Committee, meeting, using a proxy. The proxy can be submitted by directors’ interests with the long-term interests 3M is committed to providing competitive market pay which is composed solely of independent nonemployee phone, by mail, or on the internet. The Proxy statement of stockholders and comprehensive benefits. In addition to providing a directors. The committee, along with an independent that accompanies the actual proxy itself describes • The structure of the compensation should be professional work environment that promotes innovation compensation consultant, assesses the design and the matters that are to be voted on, and provides simple and transparent and rewards performance, 3M’s total compensation risks associated with executive compensation, information on those matters so stockholders can make for employees includes a variety of components for and recommends changes when appropriate. Its an informed decision. Results of votes are filed with Periodically, at the request of the Committee, Frederic sustainable employment and the ability to build a strong recommendations related to compensation for 3M’s the Securities and Exchange Commission within four W. Cook & Co., Inc. conducts a survey of director financial future. Chief Executive Officer are subject to ratification by all business days of the annual meeting, and are made compensation at other large U.S. companies and of the independent members of the Board of Directors. available on the 3M website. provides expert advisory support to the Committee on Executive Compensation Policies the compensation of non-employee directors. The Compensation Committee reviews stakeholder and Practices proposals relating to executive compensation matters Director Compensation 3M is a pay-for-performance company. In addition and recommends to the Board the company’s response G4 The Nominating and Governance Committee Leadership Behaviors to such proposals. to base salary, executives are compensated for their contributions to the company's growth, profitability, SD 51-52 periodically receives reports on the status of Compensation for 3M employees is not just tied to what Like most of 3M’s U.S. employees, 3M executives Board compensation in relation to other large they do, but how they do it. This holds true for general and other goals. This compensation falls into one of two U.S. companies and is responsible for recommending to are also eligible to participate in three deferred leadership responsibilities as well as performance categories: short-term cash incentives in the form of an the Board changes in compensation for non-employee compensation plans, which enable them to save for related to Sustainability issues. Leadership Behaviors annual performance-based award opportunity, as well directors. In developing its recommendations, the retirement or other reasons, and receive certain other establish what is expected, and also how everyone can as long-term equity incentives in the form of annual Committee is guided by the following goals: benefits. Approximately 100 executives participated demonstrate and meet those expectations through their awards of performance shares and stock options, and in in this program in 2017, including all of the Named actions and interactions. certain circumstances (for purposes of hiring or retaining • Compensation should fairly pay directors for work Executive Officers. key talent, for example), grants of restricted stock or required in a company of 3M’s size and scope restricted stock units. 3M’s 2018 Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement provides additional detail on executive 114 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 115 How We Work | Compensation Six behaviors of effective leaders at 3M: Our Actions Employee Stock Purchase Plan The 3M General Employee Stock Purchase Plan continues Short-term Incentive Plan 3M has the same annual incentive plan (AIP) design Play to win Prioritize and execute Compared to peers, 3M has an industry-leading formula to be seen as a model among companies worldwide. The for everyone, from the Chief Executive Officer all the for compensation that helps provide equitable pay company offers a 15 percent discount on stock purchases way down through the organization – the same payout for all employees. We compare 3M salary data and to eligible employees worldwide through convenient curves, thresholds, maximums, metrics, and metric Foster collaboration Develop others and teamwork and self compensation practice annually, and make both market payroll deductions. In 2017, participation among weightings. By direction from the Compensation and competitive adjustments as needed, to assure our employees was 33 percent worldwide. Committee of the Board of Directors and our continuous pay levels at each grade level are competitive. If they improvement efforts, we are evaluating ways to Innovate Act with integrity and transparency are not, we adjust accordingly, by market, to keep maintain better competitiveness and alignment with our pace with other global enterprises. Ultimately, we New Self-Service HR Platform competitors. factor in performance accelerators based on an annual 3M innovation takes a lot of people who are constantly In 2017, 3M moved to a new global human resources performance review and the Leadership Behaviors searching for new and better ways to make innovation software platform. This easy-to-use, self-service discussed above under Our Commitment. happen. People who challenge the status quo and platform enables managers to make better and faster welcome change. And people who know how to Our performance compensation includes short-term decisions using real-time business insights. For both leverage internal and external networks to create variable pay and long-term equity and cash incentives managers and employees, the platform provides more win-win solutions. for some employee categories. Multiple employees fall transparency, efficiency, and accuracy regarding within each employee category, and their respective compensation practices. To make sure we are constantly innovating, our leaders performance-related compensation may vary. must create an environment that allows and challenges people to seek out new ideas and process improvements At 3M, the proportion of total rewards aligned with Looking forward… that drive success. Our “Innovate” Leadership variable (incentive) pay increases with job level and is Behavior includes an expectation to support 3M’s reflective of the job level’s influence on both shortand Sustainability goals. long-term results. Eligibility for Annual Incentive Plan HR Manager Sessions (AIP) and Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) are based Ratings of achievement of measurable targets impact Following up on similar events in 2016, a series of virtual on job level, considering both the job level’s ability to employees who are eligible for variable compensation. HR manager sessions will be held worldwide in 2018 influence the incentive period being measured and market Ratings of Leadership Behaviors impact long-term to provide managers and supervisors with a refreshed competitiveness for these types of compensation. variable compensation for those employees in understanding of 3M’s approach to competitive pay, senior positions. Additional information on 3M Total Rewards can be pay-for-performance, Chief Executive Officer pay ratio, found in our Employee Program section. and to help them communicate to employees where they stand in the pay range for a given grade compared Employee Compensation to peers and employees at other companies. The aim Global Market Pricing Project is to increase transparency about each employee’s All employees have the opportunity to grow through compensation and the processes 3M uses to make sure challenging work and rewarded on their efforts. According to company surveys, 66 percent of global 3M their pay is competitive. Our employee performance review process directly employees believe they are being paid competitively. connects to an individual’s compensation. The intent of To drive consistency and transparency in compensation the process is to align individual goals and performance practices across all regions, we implemented the global with business objectives and outcomes, creating a market pricing project work completed in 2016. Using win-win situation for the employee and the company. In common job descriptions and grades throughout the addition, the process helps identify and develop leaders world, this project used data from three global surveys to meet 3M’s ongoing talent needs. to benchmark pay levels, map job grades, and create a consistent short-term incentive plan, which helps take Additional information on 3M’s employee development manager discretion out of compensation. and compensation can be found in our Employee Programs section. Additional information on the project launch can be found in Looking forward. 116 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 117 How We Work | Employee Programs Employee Programs When people grow, our company grows. Our Commitment Intensify capabilities to achieve regional • self-sufficiency • Build high-performing and diverse global talent Our science not only impacts our customers around the world, it makes a difference in the way we work. • Drive consistently superior levels of operational excellence Engaged employees, we believe, are more satisfied with their work, tend to stay longer, and are more productive To learn more, visit Our Corporate Values and Vision and and committed. So we foster and reinforce behaviors Diversity and Inclusion sections. that support engagement on many levels, including networking, collaboration, and diversity and inclusion. If you want to develop as an individual, there are many We focus on the quality and the impact of professional things that make 3M the place to be. development and career growth. Our company touches nearly every industry in every To bring our corporate Vision to life, we have six market around the world. If you work at 3M, you strategies that are engrained across our businesses: have a range of development opportunities few other companies can offer. Our people can live in different • Expand relevance to our customers and our countries, learn different cultures, and develop different presence in the marketplace skills across different industries. • Gain profitable market share and accelerate market penetration everywhere It’s possible for someone to go from a lab, to marketing, to sales, to business development, and all the way up to • Invest in innovation: invigorate existing market the C-suite. 3M is so diverse that people can reinvent opportunities and focus on emerging megatrends themselves and their career all within one company. 118 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 119 How We Work | Employee Programs It is also a priority for our executives – from the Chief Executive Officer on down – to develop the company’s Pay Medical Plan Enhancements • Fitness center discounts • Weight management programs future leaders. We offer a competitive base pay and, depending on In 2016, Omada became available for 3M employees and reimbursement position, variable incentive pay linked to company and and adult dependents enrolled in the 3M Medical Plan. Omada is a program aimed at reducing the risk of • Confidential Employee Assistance Program (EAP) individual performance. developing Type 2 diabetes and heart disease through • Tobacco cessation offerings and incentive Our job is to lead the development of While base pay applies to all employees, variable pay is weight loss, improved diet, and exercise. Since the our leaders. • Resources to help manage medical care and make offered to eligible employees and may include annual program was launched, over 4,800 members have lost informed health care choices incentives, sales incentives, or other incentives. See the a collective 32,000 pounds, significantly reducing their Inge G. Thulin • Consultation and referral around child and elder Compensation section for more details. risk of developing chronic disease. Chairman of the Board, care, as well as financial and legal services President and Chief Executive Officer, 3M Livongo, a diabetes management program for • Parenting groups, scholarship programs, and Benefits employees and adult dependents with Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes, was introduced in 2017. This program includes personal growth resources 2025 Goal: 100 percent participation in employee • Access to on-site health and personal services in G4 Medical, dental, and vision plan options, an unlimited supply of test strips at no cost, a blood development programs to advance individual and our headquarters location, including an on-site organizational capabilities. LA savings and retirement plans, a 3M employee glucose monitor that also provides tips and alerts, and pharmacy, medical center, vision center, and a 3 stock purchase plan and many other resources the support of one-on-one coaching. By the end of 2017, full-time dietitian can enhance a 3M employee’s life, both physically nearly 800 employees and dependents enrolled in the and financially. program. • 3M Club that provides discount tickets and Our employees are encouraged and supported to an avenue to share hobbies and interests with pursue areas of interest and develop career paths and All regular full-time employees in the U.S. are eligible for Best Doctors was also introduced in 2017 and provides other employees opportunities aligned with those interests. these benefits— regular part-time employees who work an expert medical review and second opinion service at least 20 hours/week are also eligible. Some programs to help employees and dependents receive the right Additional resources and opportunities offered: and benefits may differ internationally due to local laws diagnosis and treatment plan. • Tuition reimbursement for employees and Our Actions and regulations. Telehealth services have been available to all 3M scholarships for eligible dependents As we reported in 2017, we updated our parental leave Medical Plan members for the past several years. • Adoption assistance Our most valuable resource is our people, and we invest policy for U.S. employees in 2016 to enable each parent Telehealth allows employees and their dependents to receive same-day, online, or telephone-based medical • Flexible work arrangements in their success. We offer a wide range of benefits and to play an active role in nurturing his or her family, discounts designed to help our people live their best. We regardless of gender or sexual orientation. The policy care for dozens of common health conditions. • Diverse career and development opportunities also provide tools, opportunities, and support for people offers the flexibility to make it work for both one’s job • Group auto and home insurance who want to grow their careers. and family. Mothers and fathers of newborn or newly adopted children are entitled to up to 20 weeks of Life at 3M • Employee store to purchase 3M products online or at many 3M locations Parental Leave – 10 weeks of paid leave (four weeks at 3M Total Rewards 100 percent and six weeks at 50 percent) and 10 weeks of unpaid leave. Working part-time is also an option 3M employees can grow through challenging work by leading important projects, working with diverse, • Support for community involvement: Matching Gifts, Volunteer Match, 3Mgives (our community G4 G4 3M Total Rewards includes a range of using one of the 3M standard part-time schedules. While talented people and finding endless opportunities to giving program) EC LA plans and programs that are intended there can be different definitions for “parental leave”, develop skills – while enjoying access to many perks, programs, and resources. in the U.S. during 2017 a total of 1,077 employees took 3 2, 10 to attract, retain, and motivate the high-performing employees we depend on for growth advantage of all or part of this time offered to them with Education and Career Growth and success. 3M regularly benchmarks its compensation this new benefit. and benefits with those of companies that are 3M Healthy Living Program Today’s business environment demands that we become comparable in size and scope to assure that we remain Further information on 3M’s wide range of benefits and faster and more flexible in anticipating and exceeding discounts designed to help employees live their best can The 3M Healthy Living Program offers a variety of the needs of our customers, shareholders, and highly competitive. be found at: Benefits. resources, rewards, and incentives to help employees employees. Creating a high-performance culture built on 3M Total Rewards break down into three areas: pay, live a more active and healthy life. A sampling of continuous learning helps 3M achieve business growth benefits, and life at 3M. opportunities available includes: for the company and professional growth for employees. • 3M Medical Plan premium discount for being tobacco-free and taking steps to improve health • On-site fitness centers at select locations 120 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 121 How We Work | Employee Programs Investing in our People including Leadership Behaviors, 3M-defined functional competencies, Lean Six Sigma (LSS), Sustainability, and and achieve sustainable growth. In addition, 3M has long prioritized taking a well-rounded view of an individual’s The Standard Opinion Survey program enables us to regularly assess the state of employee engagement and G4 The growth of our people is essential to the supervisory content. Develop U provides access to tensperformance, assuring that employees are treated in a other workplace factors critical to high performance and LA growth of our business. Although we achieved of-thousands of unique, just-in-time learning resources fair and consistent manner: being a great place to work. We provide in-depth reports 9-11 over 25 hours per year of training and in over 15 languages; allowing 3M’s global workforce to for the leaders of the business units surveyed and assure • Performance goals, linked to higher-level development per full-time equivalent (FTE) employee, engage in employee development. their leaders and top 3M leadership are aware of these organizational goals, are set jointly between the those hours are only one part of the picture. We leverage survey results. This is a cycle of continuous improvement Leveraging a technology platform launched in early individual and his or her leader a 70-20-10 development model which indicates that for us, year after year. 2016, employees create or update development • Tools provided to leaders facilitate conversations over the course of a career, 70 percent of learning is plans that include activities to elevate individual skills between leaders and employees to assure Each unit that surveys must review their results, present done on the job, 20 percent comes through other and further career development. Employees can use mutual understanding of expectations and them to their employees, and execute an action plan employees, and only 10 percent of meaningful additional skill-mapping tools in collaboration with their desired behaviors to address the issues that arise from the results. We development is reached through formal training. supervisors to identify long-term desired goals and built supports into our process that make it easier to • Feedback on progress toward these goals is Our learning orientation and philosophy focuses on define actions needed to help reach those goals. bring about successful change through action planning provided formally, twice a year, and supervisors are experiential learning and skill building rather than – such as accountability checks, and specific tools to 3M has recently completed a process to define and taught and encouraged to provide routine feedback classroom-style training. While we can estimate that action results. We identified key drivers of employee communicate global functional competency models. to help employees adjust performance and meet or our training numbers are close to averages found engagement and developed and deployed learning These models clarify expectations regarding the exceed goals in other large manufacturing companies, measures opportunities for leaders (e.g., multiple on-demand knowledge, skills, and abilities to be developed over • Management Team Reviews function not only instructional videos on engagement). We continually such as training hours or costs per employee are not a career within a specific function. Based on shared to provide comprehensive information about an assess survey content and update as needed to assure leading human capital performance indicators for 3M. expectations, career paths are aligned with investment in employee, but also to further the goal that rating alignment with company strategy and major initiatives. We believe indicators that align people’s results to training and development resources. Each function with considerations will be consistent for employees Thus our surveys support strategy and business the success of the company are direct performance a completed competency model leverages 3M’s new within an organization objectives directed at supporting sustainable corporate indicators of development programs. Leadership and learning platform to direct employees to relevant training success through our employees’ behavior on the job. employee engagement, employee retention rates, brand opportunities. Functions also provide development Each year, all 3M non-production employees identify recognition, acquisition integration milestones, and Lean suggestions that can grow the competency through their contributions in meeting their specified goals Six Sigma project value are a few examples of indicators that contribute to 3M's recognition as an industry and on-the-job activities or social learning through a coach or mentor. Currently, the competency-based resources through an employee performance process. 3M strives to have 100 percent of non-production employees Employee Turnover global leader. cover approximately 95 percent of the non-production complete the entire performance review process. In G4 Our global voluntary turnover rate continues to 3M has prioritized learning and career development professional employee population. 2017, all eligible employees were rated through the LA be under 6 percent, a source of great pride for opportunities not only for leaders, but for all calibration meetings, and these employees and their 1, 4 our company. Compared to most companies, employees. Further, 3M has separate processes for supervisors received tasks to complete the year-end 3M employees love working here, and they rarely leave employee performance and career development. Performance Assessment process in the performance system. the company. We calculate voluntary turnover This permits employees the freedom to create meaningful development plans without performance or and Contribution separately from retirements, company initiated turnover, and reductions in force. Voluntary employee turnover is compensation implications. G4 Throughout the year, employees meet with their Employee engagement and defined as turnover due to employee initiated reasons LA supervisor to evaluate progress on current goals continuing improvement of (e.g., returning to school, going to another job in a 11 and adjust them as needed to align to any different company). Employee Development changes in priorities. the workplace Total turnover includes voluntary turnover and all Effective employee development programs are crucial to Our process includes two components: measurable For more than 50 years, 3M has been conducting other forms of turnover (e.g., termination as a result enable our goal of 100 percent of employees engaging targets agreed upon by each employee and his/her surveys to solicit employee observations, attitudes, of restructuring, termination for poor performance, in development activities. With the global launch of our supervisor; and Leadership Behaviors ratings, which and opinions. Our Standard Opinion Survey program retirements). Our total employee turnover rate is an new employee learning platform, Develop U, employees reflect the extent to which the employee engaged in covers the entire globe and provides specific and annualized rate that measures employees who have are easily able to access development resources to core behaviors that allow 3M to execute our strategies relevant feedback to major units within the company terminated or retired from 3M during the calendar support their career aspirations and advance strategic and meet our objectives. (e.g., divisions, locations, countries). All employees have year, excluding foreign service employees and 3M capabilities within 3M. Develop U provides employees the opportunity to complete the 3M Standard Opinion temporary employees. with a personalized experience by recommending The performance assessment process helps hold each Survey and our average response rates are typically of our employees accountable for their contribution and Temporary employees are 3M employees hired relevant content based on their role within the about 85 percent. everyday behaviors. The process aligns personal goals temporarily with intent to be employed short-term. organization. Additionally, content is organized and with organizational goals— we strive to achieve our They do not include contingent workers. aligned to directly support 3M’s organizational priorities: goals in ways that support and strengthen our culture 122 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 123 How We Work | Employee Programs 3M follows all applicable local laws and regulations regarding notice periods in the event of business Global Executive and Spark Networks and Collaboration operations changes. Leadership Development Launched for the first time in 2017, Spark is a yearlong development journey for individual contributors and 3M has numerous pathways to support organizational frontline leaders with potential to reach manager level. communications, learning, and knowledge management. 3M’s Human Resources (HR) department is unique in There are a variety of corporate and job functional that we have one global system to track HR information. 3M Leadership Way For the first time, 3M has leveraged the power of technology to offer leadership development and bring systems to methodically help information and At every 3M location around the globe, we have The 3M Leadership Way is a suite of high potential together (virtually) more than 3,700 leaders from around knowledge emerge and flow to the right people at the instant access to this information – using our global leadership development journeys within the 3M Global the world under one journey. right time to add value. For example: reporting tool. Academy of Innovative Development. It brings one Formal Learning Networks: Develop U, our employee consistent approach to how 3M develops leaders across Development for People Leaders learning platform, allows 3Mer’s access to development New Employee Onboarding all geographic areas, business groups, and functions. Each program is an integration of customer-focused, resources to support their career aspirations and In 2017, 3M launched a refreshed suite of development advance strategic capabilities within 3M; additional 3M invests in onboarding and developing new results-driven, and experience-based learning that takes offerings for People Leaders. With focus on the critical information included above under Employee employees so that they have the tools, resources, and leaders outside the classroom walls to sharpen their skills that leaders need to be successful in managing Development. In addition, our Corporate Learning networks they need to succeed. Our onboarding process skills with leadership challenges for our customers and others, the Essentials for People Leaders program System continues to support employees to enroll in, begins at the time a candidate accepts a job offer and in our global communities. Common threads run through emerged as a multi-module program with flexibility to deliver, track, and report on learning activities and continues through the first year of employment. the development journeys, and includes core content be delivered as face-to-face classroom training or as has served the learning needs of 3M business units, (i.e., 3M Playbook including our Vision) tailored to each online, virtual training. This flexible delivery format is key locations, and learning organizations globally. A consistent, comprehensive onboarding platform level of leadership. to scaling a consistent development experience for all provides pre-start information delivery and engagement leaders of 3M while still allowing for needed localization Intranet Knowledge Platforms Databases: 3M’s intranet for new employees on the front end, and clear metrics, Our 3M Leadership Way promise is to develop our top to fit the needs of local people leaders. site structure is set up so that each employee has a Work reporting, and tracking for 3M on the back end. This talent to unleash their full potential, and add value to the Center as one of the quick-link tabs following login. investment sets new employees up to be successful and company, our customers, and the world we live in. In addition, new development channels were launched in Each Work Center is a collection of tools, systems, and to make meaningful contributions from the start. 3M Leadership Way Journeys: Develop U with additional content for aspiring, new, and processes that are used routinely in daily work practices experienced People Leaders. Here, leaders can access, to successfully complete projects and work assignments Catalyst at no-cost, curated content including: in an employee’s functional work area. Company Accelerated Leadership Catalyst is a 12-month journey focused on developing • Transition toolkits news for employees is available on a global news site, Development the company’s top 250 leaders. These individuals are game changers with aspiration, potential, performance, • Annual performance and development timelines 3M Particles. and with a pace even beyond their high potential peers and support Best Practice Descriptions/Processes: As a diverse Leadership development is a competitive advantage to make a step change impact for 3M and the world we • Self-paced eLearning and videos available in up to technical company, 3M shares best practices several at 3M. To maintain this competitive advantage, we are live in. 14 languages ways. Two of the most widely used internal mechanisms leveraging new technologies and delivery methods, are the 3M Tech Forum and the 3M Engineering and thereby ensuring impact, consistency, and global Amplify Manufacturing Technology Organization. These two inclusivity. Amplify is a nine-month journey for leaders with Leadership Coaching organizations provide an extensive network of expertise Through various stages in a leader’s career journey, there potential to reach the director level. Similar to the through specialized chapters focused on 3M’s core 3M is building a stronger coaching and development technologies and other emerging markets. are many development opportunities and programs Catalyst journey, Amplify is scaled to the leadership culture. As a new opportunity for our leaders, 3M has available, across every geographic region and 3M challenges faced by future directors. These individuals invested in an internal team of certified Leadership Company Education: In addition to a variety of general business. Most programs are available at no additional already lead teams and organizations across every part Coaches to support and accelerate the development courses, webinars, etc., 3M offers specialized extended cost to employees and include a range of online and selfof 3M. of leaders throughout the world. Starting in 2017, these courses to increase skills leadership coaching. paced offerings that cover core skill development aligned Ignite coaches worked 1:1 with 3M leaders over the course of to the 3M Leadership Behaviors, ranging from personal Idea Sharing: Idea management is driven differently three-month engagements to focus on key development effectiveness to financial acumen. These programs Ignite is a six-month journey for leaders with potential across the company depending on organizational goals. Leadership Coaching unleashes leaders’ full are also focused on the future – embedding inclusive to reach senior manager level. These individuals are needs and what works best for the area of work. Some potential, empowering them to positively impact their leadership strategies, development through corporate transitioning to lead teams and development is focused platform examples include Yammer, Wiki Enterprise, and team, organization, and ultimately, grow the business. social responsibility, and mentoring opportunities. on critical challenges such as vertical and horizontal various 3M internal and external social media channels. management savvy and building and leading high More than 2,000 leaders have already been through this Systems are implemented and available globally to share In 2017, 3M was honored to receive two LEAD Awards performing teams. coaching skill-building program that allows leaders to best practices and ideas. Additionally, since about 1948, hosted by HR.com – for global leadership programs and learn and apply a simple coaching framework. we’ve encouraged our employees to spend 15% of their for experienced senior leader programs. 124 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 125 How We Work | Employee Programs working time on their own projects and sharing those ideas with colleagues. Our Footprint 3M Global Females in Management G4 G4 The employee metrics in the charts are Percentage of Total Employee Awards SD LA 9-10 1, 12 reflective of employee headcount as of December 31, 2017 (total number of and Recognition 3M full-time and part-time employees) not 3M full-time 30 equivalent (FTE) employees. Due to acquisition 3M sponsors many corporate award programs to honor integration schedules onto 3M’s human resources individuals and teams that make significant contributions 20 systems, detailed employee information below may to the company. In addition, many divisions also have differ from employee totals in 3M financial reports. their own specific ways of recognizing and rewarding 10 people. Across 3M, management can choose from a variety of monetary and nonmonetary awards to show appreciation for exceptional contributions. Examples of Looking forward… 0 corporate awards include: Work will continue toward our 2025 goal of 100 percent 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 employee participation in development programs, by • Awards for specific professionals, such as the continuing to leverage the transformative power of Global Marketing Excellence Award and the Circle 3M Global Employees by Region technology. This will enable us to increase the reach, and of Technical Excellence and Innovation Award Full and Part-Time, Total speed, of development and transcend the uncertainty • Awards for cross-functional teams, such as the surrounding our global landscape. Golden Step Award 100,000 • Awards focused on employees who improve safety or pollution prevention 90,000 • Two prestigious lifetime achievement awards: the Engineering Achievement Award and the Carlton Society recognition, which honor employees for 80,000 their scientific achievements 70,000 60,000 Global 50,000 Asia Pacific 40,000 Canada 30,000 Europe/ 20,000 Middle East/ Africa 10,000 Latin America 0 United States 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 126 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 127 How We Work | Employee Programs 3M Global Female Employees by Region 3M Global New Employee Hires by Region TotalGlobal New Employee Hires by Region 3M Global Female 3M Percentage of TotalEmployees Employees by Region Percentage of Total Employees Total 50 16,000 16,000 50 Global 14,000 40 Global 14,000 40 Asia Pacific 30 Asia Pacific 12,000 12,000 30 Canada Canada 20 10,000 Europe/ 10,000 20 Middle East/ Europe/ Africa East/ Middle Global Africa 8,000 Global 10 8,000 10 Latin America Latin America Asia Pacific Asia Pacific 0 United States 6,000 6,000 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 United States Canada 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Canada 4,000 Europe/ 4,000 Europe/ Middle East/ Africa East/ Middle 3M Regional and Global Employee Age Distribution Africa 2017Regional 3M and Global Employee Age Distribution Percentage 2,000 2017 Percentage 2,000 Latin America Latin America 100 0 United States 100 0 United States 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 90 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 90 3M Global Female Hires by Region 80 3M Global Female Percentage of TotalHires Hiresby Region 80 Percentage of Total Hires 70 60 70 60 60 60 50 50 50 Global 50 Global Generation Z 40 40 (>1994) Generation Z 40 (>1994) 40 Asia Pacific Asia Pacific 30 Generation Y 30 30 (1981-1994) Generation Y (1981-1994) 30 Canada 20 Canada 20 Generation X 20 (1961-1981) X Europe/ Generation 10 (1961-1981) 20 Middle East/ Europe/ Africa 10 Middle East/ Baby Boomers Africa 10 0 (1943-1960) Baby Boomers Latin America 0 (1943-1960) 10 Asia Canada Europe/ Latin United Global Latin America Asia Pacific Canada Europe/ Middle East/ Latin America United States Global Pacific Middle East/ America States 0 United States Africa Africa 0 2013 2014 2015 2015 2017 United States 2013 2014 2015 2015 2017 128 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 129 How We Work | Health and Safety a pre-qualification process before they may perform work on 3M premises. That process includes, among other things, reviewing the contractor’s employee injury/ Health illness rates, Experience Modification Rates (EMR), employee training records, and safety committee activities. Pre-construction safety reviews also are conducted to address potential hazards and controls related to the work. Contractor performance evaluations also include safety reviews. and Safety Each 3M location has a Contract Coordinator who is the main 3M contact for working with contractors on safety issues. The Contract Coordinator is empowered to participate in pre-bid meetings and pre-qualifications for contractors. He or she is on-site and therefore available for contractor meetings and safety reviews as necessary and appropriate. Contractors are asked to submit notification to 3M of worker hours and any injuries occurring while Since 2006, worldwide lost time rates have performing work in accordance with a 3M contract. Any contractor incidents are reported in the 3M Worldwide decreased 42 percent for 3M employees. Incident Management System (WIMS), including injuries and contractor worker hours. In 2017, a contractor fatality occurred as a result of injuries sustained during an arc flash explosion. Additional preventive measures were implemented to further strengthen the safety of the operation. Our Commitment our safety standards. We visit locations, perform audits of record-keeping practices, and review incident data, the quality of our investigations and corrective G4 As a company that makes a vast array of actions taken. Process Hazard Management SD products designed to protect workers, 3M is 10 front and center in the global effort to bring To assure consistent reporting and metrics globally, 3M is committed to rigorously managing the risks new science and innovation to workplace safety. At the 3M, like many multinational companies, follows the U.S. associated with hazardous processes, such as those with same time, as an enterprise with 91,500 employees Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) potential to result in catastrophic fires, explosions, and working around the world, we are always taking steps to recordkeeping rules and formulas to record and measure sudden release of toxic materials. We use a Hazardous further advance the safety of our employees. injury and illness rates worldwide. At all facilities within Process Evaluation Tool (HazPET) to categorize 3M’s operational control, 3M employees and contingent hazardous processes. Process hazard analyses (PHAs) employees are covered by our injury and illness are used to assess the effectiveness of existing Employee Health and Safety recordkeeping rules. safeguards. Layers of Protection Analysis (LOPA) is also used in some instances to evaluate safety critical devices The 3M Safety and Health Policy applies to 3M and systems, providing more attention to independent operations everywhere, including new acquisitions. Contractor and Visitor Health protection layers. In 2018, facility sitting assessments will help us identify and mitigate “maximum credible Hazards in 3M's workplaces must be well understood and effectively managed to protect 3M employees, and Safety event” scenarios that could impact workers at some visitors, locations, and surrounding communities. facilities, and a global initiative will build on 3M’s existing 3M requires all visitors, vendors, contingent workers, guidance to our facilities around effectively managing In addition, in the spirit of continuous improvement, and contract workers at 3M locations to follow potential combustible dust hazards. much is being done to evaluate opportunities to raise all applicable 3M workplace safety and health requirements. For example, contractors must complete 130 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 131 How We Work | Health and Safety Our Actions standards related to safety and health. 3M utilizes a variety of tools to manage risks from hazards in the workplace. We’ve used specialized tools successfully 3M Regional and Global Lost Time Incident Rate Per 100 3M Employees (200,000 Work Hours) G4 Global Safety and for a number of years in the areas of process safety, LA industrial hygiene, and ergonomics. Each of these 6 Health Plan Tool disciplines uses a risk management approach to 0.80 Worldwide categorize hazard levels and define appropriate levels The 3M Global Safety and Health Plan (GSHP), which 0.70 of control. is part of 3M's Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) Asia Pacific management system, is required to be implemented As part of our continuous improvement efforts, in 2017, 0.60 by global 3M locations. This approach utilizes a wellsome GSHP elements were reviewed and updated developed self-assessment process that is categorized including new site self-assessment questions. 0.50 Canada into multiple elements addressing various areas and 0.40 Europe/ Middle East/ 0.30 Africa Significant Injury/Illness In 2013, 3M instituted a new approach to dealing with hazards that have the potential to result in fatalities or 0.20 Latin America or Fatality Assessments serious injuries. In 2014, we implemented metrics to 0.10 and Rates measure our progress toward a five-year goal of 100 percent conformance to the following six standards for 0.00 United States At the end of 2017, over 78,000 risk assessments had managing risk in certain high-hazard activities: 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 been completed which resulted in the identification and • Safety and health hazard recognition and risk reduction of risk associated with more than 23,000 Global Health and Safety Plan High Hazard Standards By Region assessment higher hazard activities. This development has been 2017 Percentage • Incident and potential hazard reporting, record accompanied by a steady decrease in severe incidents keeping, investigation, and follow-up over the past four years. 100 • Powered industrial vehicles Since 2012, the SIF (Significant Injury/Illness or 98 • Machine guarding Fatality) rate at 3M has resulted in a net reduction of 37.2 percent. This represents fewer significant injury/ • Work at height 96 illness incidents per year. The following chart shows • Process hazard analysis 94 the worldwide SIF rate trend for all 3M employees, contingent workers, and contractor workers combined. 92 90 3M Global Serious Injury/Illness Incident (SIF) Rate Total 3M, Contingent, and Contractor Employees 88 86 0.20 0.18 84 0.16 82 0.14 0.12 80 Safety and Incident and Powered Machine Work at Process Hazard 0.10 Health Hazard Potential Industrial Guarding Height Analysis 0.08 Recognition Hazard Vehicles 0.06 and Risk Reporting, Assessment Record Worldwide Asia Pacific Canada 0.04 Keeping, 0.02 Investigation Europe/Middle East/Africa Latin America United States and Follow-up 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 132 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 133 How We Work | Health and Safety Static Discharge globally to assist ergonomic subject matter experts. This new tool is being used to better understand ergonomic OSHA. Noise exposures were so successfully reduced (12 14 dBA across 24 different areas and departments) During the month of September 2017, the Alexandria location achieved a significant milestone by removing Improvement Plan risks and define equipment or process changes that that in 2015, 22 of the 24 areas in hearing conservation the last of the 24 targeted areas successfully leaving the could reduce risks. 3M also defined a new system to had been removed, and 199 of 203 employees were facility at 100 percent hearing conservation free. With continuing growth in electronic devices and perform ergonomic assessments for potentially high-risk no longer required to be included in the 3M Alexandria technology, static discharge is a potential hazard at work tasks. That new system is planned for phased Hearing Conservation Program. In 2016, 3M Alexandria Moving forward, 3M Alexandria will continue to evaluate more than 80 percent of 3M facilities. At each location global implementation in 2018. initiatives were recognized for statistically driven noise on new and existing processes, and implement where there is potential for static discharge incidents, noise exposure assessments, cost-effective noise Buy-Quiet principles to assure that noise exposures a competent, trained coordinator is required. In 2017, Online ergonomic training is also available 24/7 to any reduction efforts, documentation of results, and the remain reduced and controlled. While the extent of an we continued our static discharge control efforts employee who wants to learn more and has access to implementation of Buy-Quiet principles, when the individual facility’s risk or opportunities may differ, 3M through improved procedures, instructions, and the 3M Intranet. All of these efforts have paid off in facility was awarded the NHCA/NIOSH Safe-InAlexandria’s success story demonstrates that significant related documents, as well as training for operators, reduced numbers of ergonomic recordable injury cases; Sound™ Award by the National Hearing Conservation advances in noise control can be achievable and management, environmental, health, and safety (EHS) see Recordable Incident Rate chart. Association (NHCA) and the National Institute for economical in both shortand long-term. personnel, and engineers who are responsible for design Occupational Safety & Health (NIOSH). and mitigation efforts. In addition, the Electrical and Management of Change (MOC) sections of the Global Chemical and Noise Safety and Health Plan Standard have been updated to include new audit questions and explanations. At the end Exposure Risk Management 3M Global Recordable Incident Rate Category of 2017, 98 percent of applicable locations had a fully Per 100 3M Employees (200,000 Work Hours) competent, trained coordinator and were fully engaged To accurately assess exposure management programs in a static discharge improvement plan. and activities, 3M uses the comprehensive approach outlined by the American Industrial Hygiene Association 0.60 (AIHA). In the past decade, over 95 percent of all Electrical Work Precautions chemical agents and noise baseline exposure risk assessments have been completed for all jobs, At 3M manufacturing locations, we use live electrical 0.50 including annual air and noise sampling plans, exposure current in a variety of different ways, including assessment validation plans, hearing conservation electroplating, electrochemical processes, and creating programs, and respirator and personal protective heat for furnaces using raw current. The company equipment programs. The results of these assessments 0.40 requires each location to implement an Electrical Safety help us determine whether any changes in exposure Program to assure equipment is designed, installed, management programs are warranted. used, and maintained to minimize electrical hazards in the workplace. 3M requires that work conducted 0.30 These concerted risk assessment and management on or near energized electrical parts or circuits must efforts are paying off. One example: the 3M facility in be performed by qualified individuals. In addition, the Alexandria, Minnesota. company mandates that all workers whose jobs may 0.20 expose them to the risk of electrical shock are trained in Over the past six years, 3M Alexandria has taken on electrical safety. In 2017, to raise the level of protection the challenge to reduce noise and eliminate hearing for employees working around these processes, we conservation areas in its facility, as prescribed by 0.10 took proactive steps to define the processes and, where appropriate, implement stronger safety controls. 0.00 Ergonomics Risk Management 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Significant changes have been made to the Ergonomic Contact with Exposure, Physical Agent Risk Reduction Process (ERRP) at 3M, to better Object/Equipment Chemical Exposure understand ergonomic related risks and identify Ergonomics Miscellaneous Slip, Trip, Fall sustainable controls for jobs across all operations. A more efficient and effective ergonomic risk assessment Exposure, Noise Exposure Transportation analytical tool has been developed and deployed Biological Agent Accident 3M Alexandria, Minnesota 134 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 135 How We Work | Health and Safety use nonionizing radiation sources evaluate facility Hearing Conservation performance around managing hazards during routine 3M Regional and Global Recordable Incident Rate use and maintenance of radiation sources, security of 3M is participating in a global pilot program with the Per 100 3M Employees (200,000 Work Hours) radiation sources, training of personnel, and regulatory Council for Accreditation in Occupational Hearing compliance. Conservation (CAOHC). Looking forward, we expect to expand CAOHC certifications in Latin America, 2.50 Details of 3M’s Healthy Living Program and other health Asia, and other areas where staff certification can help and safety employee programs can be found in our facilities prevent or reduce the severity of noise-induced Employee Program section. hearing loss. 2.00 Learn more on CAOHC certifications: here. 1.50 Global EHS Team G4 3M’s global EHS team continues to evolve to its Ergonomics 1.00 LA 5 current operational state which we believe sets For ergonomics, a new global system for identifying us apart from our peers. Comprised of and addressing ergonomic risks is being developed on business-level EHS committee members, regional EHS a new platform for global deployment in 2018. The new managers, and Corporate subject matter experts, this system will allow anyone in the world to perform initial 0.50 committee will work with EHS facility staff globally to ergonomic risk assessments through a computer or hand address and replicate best practices, solve problems and held device. 0.00 drive worthy EHS initiatives to operational-level. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 In 2017, 100 percent of 3M manufacturing locations Environmental, Health, and Safety Worldwide Asia Pacific Canada Europe/Middle East/Africa worldwide had active employee safety and health committees. In 2018, we are also focusing on increased synergy Latin America United States between Environmental, Health, and Safety, engineering and supporting functions. One tactic for this will be an Looking forward… Environmental, Health, and Safety Summit including representatives from each of these functions. The goals of the Summit will be to identify and create Global Safety Conference Additional Steps to Protect Employees and those working on opportunities to more efficiently and effectively 3M reinforced its dedication to employee safety Employees 3M’s behalf implement engineering controls, resulting in improved and accelerated Environmental, Health, and Safety by holding a Global Safety Conference in May, An important initiative during 2018 will be to improve 3M’s Corporate Radiation Protection and Compliance program performance. 2017. Attended by nearly 200 3M health and safety existing behavioral safety processes, with the aim of professionals from 14 countries representing all 3M group (CRPC) assures the safe, legal, and ethical use assuring that gains from these improved processes can operational regions, this conference featured inspiring of sources of radiation. This includes uses of radiation be sustained over time. Our strategy is to use the core keynote speakers Deborah Hersman, President and in both manufacturing and research and development, components of behavioral safety – namely, observations Chief Executive Officer of the National Safety Council, ionizing radiation sources such as radioactive materials and data collection – and integrate them into existing and Jim Spigener, Senior Vice President of Dekra Insight, and x-ray emitting devices, and non-ionizing radiation Lean Six Sigma (LSS) and Risk Management processes pioneers in behavior-based safety. Content for the main sources such as lasers, microwave and radiofrequency to further engage employees performing day-to-day conference was generally structured around managing radiation, magnetic fields, ultraviolet, infrared, and tasks where higher hazards are present. We see a risks for process and personal safety, with a focus on visible light. CRPC provides hazard evaluations, unique opportunity to document and understand how prevention of fatalities and severe incidents. including radiation surveys and recommendations on workplace decisions are being made by operations and control measures, to assure that 3M employees are safe maintenance personnel when faced with circumstances and that radiation sources are used in full compliance that could place them at increased risk of an injury or of federal and state regulations. CRPC develops and illness. provides training for both radiation source users as well as facility Radiation Safety Officers to help protect 3M employees, our customers, and the public. Annual program audits for facilities that use ionizing radiation sources and similar periodic audits for facilities that 136 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 137 How We Work | Environmental Management Environmental Management 3M has long recognized the necessity for responsible environmental management and conservation of resources. Our Commitment G4 3M formalized its commitment to environmental Chemical Waste Standard; Waste Management Program SD 14 stewardship when the company’s Board of Standard; Water Management Standard; and our Global Directors adopted the 3M Environmental Policy Climate Change Position Statement. in 1975. This policy established the framework for our approach to responsible environmental management and 3M's strategies for sustainable development encompass conservation of resources, emphasizing prevention of the pursuit of customer satisfaction and commercial pollution at the source. success within a framework of environmental, social, and economic values. We are committed to complying Since then, we have created supporting policies using a with all applicable environmental requirements needs-driven process. When we identify potential risks worldwide. Beyond compliance, the company to the environment, health, and safety of our employees, continues to make significant investments to reduce products, and communities, we take steps to modify the environmental footprint of our operations; and our processes and standards that address these risks. products with sustainable attributes help customers reduce their environmental footprint and help to Our strategy and resulting actions are demonstrated meet their Sustainability goals. Always, 3M believes in the following policies, positions, and standards: environmental policy and regulations should be guided Acquisition, Divestures, and Mergers Standard; by science-based decision making. Environmental Policy; Energy Policy; Greenhouse Gas Management Operations Standard; Disposal of 138 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 139 How We Work | Environmental Management Our Actions Environmental Incident Management Environmental Management Implementation assessments, biodiverse areas may be identified. Where applicable, a public database search is completed, which includes a wetland database. Site visits also identify G4 Setting and implementing global environmental areas such as rivers, creeks, and potential wetlands that EN policies, management systems, and key G4 Since 2010, all 3M locations globally are Implementation of our EMS continues to increase are on or near the location. 27 performance metrics enables 3M to continually EN 24, 29, 34 required to internally report environmental throughout the world and has translated into reduced integrate and drive environmental stewardship into each exceedances, spills, agency notices, and fines costs through operating efficiency, improved Additional biodiversity assessments are conducted of the company’s five business groups globally, assuring through one dedicated system – 3M's Worldwide environmental compliance, reduced monitoring costs, during our annual evaluation utilizing the definitions consistency and innovative environmental thinking. As Incident Management System (WIMS). This includes: reduced energy and waste disposal costs, and increased and tools established by the World Business Council reflected by our environmental performance indicators employee activity. Our EMS is also expanding our for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) to screen the and 2025 Sustainability Goals, environmental • Exceedances: emissions or other environmental company’s various uses of water. Additional details on Sustainability image around the globe, which has strong stewardship is a core corporate commitment backed by parameters above permitted or allowable this process can be found in the Water section. financial benefits. decades of proven performance. regulatory levels Our approach calls for each site to establish, implement, • Significant Spills: spills that are above a designated and maintain documented environmental objectives Applying ISO 14001 Management risk-level based on the more stringent of a regulatory requirement or an internal company set and targets. When establishing an EMS plan, each The ISO 14001 Environment Management System (EMS) volume and threshold 3M location must address financial, technological, G4 3M’s Environmental Management System standard is an internationally-recognized approach for operational, and business considerations. The objectives SO 8 (EMS) framework provides structure and • Agency Notices: notices received by 3M for alleged and targets should be measurable and consistent with managing the immediate and long-term environmental consistency for overseeing daily activities, and deviations from an environmental regulatory or impacts of an organization's products, services, and our environmental policy, including our commitments puts the company in proactive, rather than reactive, permitting requirement processes. In 2017, 3M continued working with an to prevent pollution and be compliant with applicable mode regarding its environmental focus. We have • Fines: compensation paid by 3M to address an outside consultant to help individual locations learn how regulations and other requirements. extensive global systems in place to identify, track, and administrative fine or penalty imposed by an to transition and recertify to the latest version of this manage relevant information on corporate-wide environmental regulatory agency 3M’s multifaceted strategy for implementing standard, which was established in late 2015. 3M is on environmental management and performance. This environmental management systems and global auditing track for timely recertification of all relevant sites to the includes covering a full range of environmental WIMS has led to continuous improvement related to of environmental compliance for our operations is updated ISO 14001 standard. compliance and operational performance metrics increased awareness of responsibilities, understanding key to understanding any potential gaps and gaining relevant to 3M operations, some of which are provided To aid facilities in becoming recertified to the new of the holistic system, and more consistent reporting resolution quickly. All manufacturing locations, and in this report. standard, three new training modules were developed requirements for 3M’s global operations. new acquisitions based on their integration progress, in the 3M Global Learning System. The modules are are required to complete a Global Environmental Information and performance data on a majority of used by learning coordinators to create courses, manage these program elements are tracked and reported Environmental Investments Management Self-Assessment (GEMSA) at least annually. In 2017, GEMSA updates consist of a detailed learner roles, process certifications, and run reports; through corporate electronic reporting systems. by learners to search for courses and launch e-learning evaluation of the location’s systems alignment for Quarterly scorecards report data at the facility, division, G4 In 2017, 3M expended about $33 million for classes; and by supervisors to view the learning activities business group, and corporate levels. Scorecards are EN 31 capital projects related to protecting the assuring environmental compliance and management system performance. of their direct reports and pre-book courses. reviewed by executive management for performance on environment. This amount excludes selected indicators, enabling 3M to monitor and identify expenditures for remediation actions relating to existing As of the end of 2017, approximately 70 percent of ISO GEMSA elements reflect procedures, systems, and successes, risks, and opportunities for performance matters caused by past operations that do not contribute 14001-certified 3M locations successfully completed processes that are comprehensive and mandatory to improvements and footprint reductions worldwide. to current or future revenues, which are expensed. third-party certification audits for the new version of the maintain compliance with legal or other requirements. Capital expenditures for environmental purposes have standard. Altogether, our ISO 14001-certified locations Additional ISO 14001 elements and associated questions included pollution control devices – such as wastewater account for approximately 96.7 percent of 3M’s total are provided to enable sites to conduct further review treatment plant improvements, scrubbers, containment product output. of their EMS. Data from the assessments are validated structures, solvent recovery units, and thermal oxidizers through audits, site visits by subject matter experts, and The remaining locations, which will go through – at new and existing facilities constructed or upgraded other data systems. certification audits in early 2018, are recent 3M in the normal course of business. Consistent with the acquisitions and/or 3M office/logistic centers. The ISO company’s emphasis on environmental responsibility, capital expenditures (other than for remediation Environmental Site Assessment 14001 certification scope is specific for each location. Our approach is to champion ownership at individual projects) for known projects are presently expected to G4 Outside 3M’s EMS and GEMSA, 3M has locations to produce the best possible EMS results. be about $66 million over the next two years for new or expanded programs to build facilities or modify EN 11-13 completed environmental site assessments at manufacturing processes to minimize waste and most locations with the goal of identifying reduce emissions. potential historical liabilities. As a result of these 140 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 141 How We Work | Environmental Management Third-Party Assurance • 3M uses a variety of tools and resources for compliance auditing, including: EHS Professional Training Looking forward… of Sustainability Metric – ­Internally developed compliance protocols, As part of our ongoing training efforts, in 2017, 3M In the coming years, we will be working on increasing Reporting created by subject matter experts in regulatory conducted monthly webinars for environmental management employees on topics that have global efficiency across the organization through Business Transformation, a global platform of standardized programs and 3M processes Bureau Veritas (BV) provided independent thirdinterest. The webinars were recorded and placed on a business processes, and the integration of related tools – ­3M’s GEMSA as an evaluation tool website that allows convenient access for those who party verification of 3M’s 2017 environmental data with our environmental management processes. We (volatile organic compound emissions, water, waste, – ­Externally purchased compliance protocols, couldn’t attend the live events. The webinars included will also drive the continued evolution of our global environmental compliance metrics, energy consumption, especially for operations outside the United such topics as ISO 14001:2015, The Transition; What’s environmental regulatory programs, with the aim of and greenhouse gas emissions) included in this 2018 States, to assure local compliance obligations are New with Environmental Policies and Standards; Spill translating complex or ambiguous requirements into clear Sustainability Report. For additional information on our understood and met Prevention Control and Countermeasure (SPCC) Plan compliance directives for 3M facilities. third-party assurance, see Bureau Veritas’ Assurance Overview; Refrigerant Management Update; Recent – ­Internal environmental compliance experts from Statement. Facility Audit Trends; and Waste Resources and Vendor around the company Auditing, to name a few. – ­External environmental consultants, as needed, Facility Self-Assessments to provide additional expertise and third-party verification of our auditing protocols and Auditing – ­Complete and robust documentation of audits 2025 Goals Scorecard 3M verifies regulatory compliance and alignment with – ­Findings, with assignments of responsibility and 3M Goal Goal Progress prioritized sections of the self-assessment, conducting due dates for closure environmental-related audits on a risk-prioritized basis. – ­Detailed reviews of findings, to assure corrective In 2017, we updated the EHS Auditing Standard and EHS Reduce Global Manufacturing Waste 5.21 5.33 5.03 actions are complete 10% Auditor Guideline. In all, our facility audits covered sites that manufactured 22.6 percent of total product output. 3M’s environmental auditing program is audited 2015 2016 2017 2025 Key objectives of audits: Metric Tons per MM USD Net Sales periodically by 3M’s Corporate Auditing department. All EHS auditors, with the exception of 3M EHS Managing Global Risk and Compliance professionals who are guest auditors, are required Achieve 30 28.2 26.6 27.9 Maintain Develop Manage risk to take a certification test. 3M EHS professionals are compliance environmental assigned to an audit team or lead auditor to provide professionals at more than 30% of manufacturing sites 2015 2016 2017 2025 support on the auditing process and/or a specific Percentage of Total Manufacturing Sites subject during the audit. Share best practices Identify common areas Build common understanding Reduce Global Water Use 10% 0.00139 0.00149 0.00145 for improvement of requirements Compliance Analysis and Documentation 2015 2016 2017 2025 Million Cubic Meters per MM USD Net Sales In an effort to create more consistency in global auditing What comprises the auditing process: of locations, 3M has refined its Compliance and Auditing 937 962 935 • Manufacturing, distribution, and laboratory Management and Metric Systems (CAMMS). CAMMS 30% operations are audited for environmental is the corporate system for maintaining environmental compliance on a frequency based on relative risk compliance documents and determinations. It allows 2015 2016 2017 2025 us to conduct internal compliance audits in the context MMBtu per MM USD Net Sales • At least annually, all global operations are assessed of applicable regulatory requirements and company against a variety of criteria to establish a prioritized policies and standards. In addition, CAMMS utilizes list of locations for compliance auditing a risk assessment tool for prioritizing resources to Increase Global Renewable Energy 25 0.50 7.60 17.9 25% implement corrective actions. 2015 2016 2017 2025 Percentage of Total Electricity Purchase 142 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 143 How We Work | Environmental Management | Raw Materials Raw Materials Earth’s natural resources are limited. 2025 Goal: Reduce manufacturing waste by an 2025 Goal: Achieve “zero landfill” status at more than Our drive for preserving them is not. additional 10 percent, indexed to sales. 30 percent of manufacturing sites. We’ll continue to drive ‘zero waste’ thinking with our In addition to our waste reduction goal, we plan to product designs and process technologies, as well as increase repurposing, reusing, and recycling of potential Our Commitment encourages waste minimization and recycling whenever possible. Per the Standard, each 3M location has a Waste Management Coordinator who is responsible waste reduction work at our manufacturing operations. 3M Corporate Environmental Operations identifies waste materials to divert from landfill disposal. A location receives zero landfill status when it has gone G4 The world’s population is growing larger, living for coordinating appropriate waste training for all opportunities for efficiency improvement and measures a full calendar year without sending any manufacturing SO 2 longer, and consuming more – which puts a personnel. Compliance with all 3M and other regulated progress toward raw material usage and waste reduction operations waste to a landfill. It will continue to be a zero strain on finite natural resources. To address waste requirements is evaluated through the internal goals for locations within our global manufacturing landfill location as long as no manufacturing operations this challenge, 3M continuously looks for ways to environmental auditing program. footprint. The results and raw data are used to identify, waste is sent to a landfill. Waste, as defined here, does recover, reuse, and recycle by-products and other waste quantify, and prioritize projects to improve, utilizing Lean not include ash generated from 3M material sent to a material. We are moving from recyclable to renewable Our Disposal of Chemical Waste Standard calls for Six Sigma (LSS) methodology. waste-to-energy or incineration location controlled by a materials in our product and package design. Improving appropriate management and disposal of chemical third party. our raw material usage through product design and waste, to manage risks and protect the environment. Results are reviewed quarterly and annually within operational considerations provides cost benefits This includes efforts to reduce the amount and hazards regions, businesses, and divisions against goals and throughout our supply chain, in material use, energy, and of waste materials generated, to recycle or reuse those tracking metrics. Specialized teams work on a variety transportation efficiency. materials whenever practical, and to control waste disposal through final disposition. of projects and programs, ranging from basic office recycling to more complex projects such as developing Our Actions The 3M Waste Management Standard applies to all 3M and capturing intrinsic waste materials generated off a In 2017, we continued with our company-wide strategy locations and provides a framework for managing all manufacturing line. Through an evaluation process, all on reuse, reduction, and internal recycling, as well waste types from the time of generation until reused, aspects of waste reduction benefits or risk are reviewed. as collaboration with our own technical community, recycled, treated, or disposed. The Standard sets a channel partners, and civic and conservation leaders in baseline for several core waste program elements and communities where 3M operates. 144 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 145 How We Work | Environmental Management | Raw Materials Waste from manufacturing locations accounts for the As such, we continuously look for ways to recover, majority of waste in 3M’s environmental footprint. 3M’s reuse, and recycle by-products and other waste material waste metrics include 3M manufacturing operations when feasible. And when it’s not usable, we responsibly 3P Global Pollution Prevention Achievements: 1975-2017 with total output greater than 4.54 metric tons per dispose of waste materials. The concept of maximizing First Year Total Pollution Prevention Cumulative Totals, Short Tons year (10,000 pounds) which represents 98 percent of beneficial raw material use is important both internally Sales Value of Production (SVOP) of our manufacturing and externally to address the global challenge of 2,500,000 locations. resource efficiency and scarcity. 3M practices waste minimization whenever practical to reduce the amount and hazards of waste materials generated. Between 2015 and 2017 there has been a 3P (Pollution Prevention Pays) 3.52 percent reduction in absolute total hazardous waste The 3M Pollution Prevention Pays (3P) program is based 2,000,000 or a 9.29 percent reduction as compared to total waste. on the belief that a prevention approach to pollution 3M is also dedicated to operating in accordance with is more environmentally effective, more socially all regulations and managing waste materials safely and acceptable, and more economical than treatment. Begun responsibly. All 3M locations are required to manage all more than 40 years ago, the program has prevented returned, recycled, and waste materials from the time of more than 2.36 million short tons of pollutants and saved 1,500,000 generation until reused, recycled, treated, or disposed. over $2.1 billion based on aggregated data from the first year of each 3P project. Success has been achieved We work closely with Corporate LSS to increase waste thanks to voluntary participation from employees across reduction across all locations. Our waste indexed to net the company, including research and development, sales has decreased 26.4 percent since 2005. manufacturing, logistics, transportation, and packaging. 1,000,000 Innovative projects are submitted and then reviewed and selected based on defined criteria by a 3P committee Maximizing beneficial use of representing Research and Development, Engineering, raw materials Environmental, Health and Safety, Manufacturing, Sustainability, and Supply Chain organizations. G4 Raw material usage is a measurement of overall 500,000 EN product and process yield throughout our As part of the program, select projects are honored 23, 28 manufacturing processes and is a key metric for based upon their exceptional achievement. In 2017, 3M. It’s indicative of operational excellence in our one division, one country, and several facilities were product design and manufacturing processes. Our raw recognized for their 2016 achievements at the July 2017 material usage includes the product, the process, and all Executive Conference. 0 by-products. • The 3M Commercial Solutions Division was named 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 3P Division of the Year, for preventing 3,780 tons of The diversity of manufacturing technologies, processes, pollution, at a cost savings of $12.5 million Total Air Pollution Total Waste Pollution Total Water Pollution and products at 3M provides opportunities for creative Prevented Prevented Prevented � waste usage solutions for the company. Accurate • United Kingdom received 3P Country of the Year waste identification is a continuous education process honors, for preventing 4,740 tons of pollution at a and provides a foundational opportunity to further cost savings of $3.3 million advance waste minimization and recycling at all our • Exceptional Awards went to 3M Rockland (Air locations. One business’s by-product may connect as Emission Reduction), 3M Nevada (Greenhouse another business’s raw material. As we continue to grow Gas Reduction), 3M Tilton, 3M Kamen (Waste internationally, integrating consistent, yet resourceful, Reduction), and 3M Brookings (Waste and Water waste management practices in accordance to 3M Reduction) standards remains a key objective. 146 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 147 How We Work | Environmental Management | Raw Materials Global Waste Diversion by Type Global Waste Metric Tons Metric Tons per MM USD Net Sales 350,000 7.0 300,000 6.0 250,000 5.0 200,000 4.0 150,000 3.0 100,000 2.0 50,000 1.0 0 0.0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2005 2010 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 *Waste no longer includes waste-to-energy Waste-to-Energy Offsite Recycle Offsite Reuse* Onsite Recycle + Reuse* *Does not include Onsite Recycle & Reuse and Offsite Reuse from 3M's Industrial Mineral Product (IMP) Division Zero landfill Dumpster diving to reach zero Zero landfill is a goal that resonates with our local In 2017, 3M Cynthiana, Kentucky, which manufactures Global Waste by Disposal Type such iconic 3M products as Post-it® Notes and Scotch® Metric Tons communities as well as our suppliers and customers. However, it has various definitions for different people Packaging Tapes, joined 52 other 3M locations in and locations. We’ve spent a lot of time during our goal achieving zero landfill status. 200,000 development process benchmarking peer companies 3M Cynthiana originally set a goal to be “landfill free” that span relevant business sectors and industries. in 2010. Step one in achieving this goal was creating an 150,000 And we’ve chosen a holistic definition: zero landfill employee team focused on reducing waste sent to the means no waste is sent directly to a landfill from a 3M landfill and increasing recycling efforts. Since then this manufacturing location in a calendar year. While we 100,000 team made many trips – or “dumpster dives” as team want to have all locations divert waste from landfills and members call them – to the local landfill to identify increase beneficial reuse, this goal may not be financially 50,000 waste streams that could be recycled. or technically feasible for all locations in 3M. Between 2010 and 2016, landfill waste was reduced by 0 Our location waste data are reported in a corporate over 70 percent (per pound of product), and the facility 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 database quarterly. The data are third-party validated was recycling or reusing over 95 percent of its waste. To at select locations and at the corporate level. We also eliminate the last waste being sent to landfill, the facility Treatement/Incineration Landfilled require locations meeting this goal to complete an leveraged a local waste-to-energy operation. internal assessment to assure accurate reporting. *Waste no longer includes waste-to-energy By the end of 2017, 27.9 percent of 3M locations had attained zero landfill status. 148 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 149 How We Work | Environmental Management | Raw Materials The facility had its first zero waste to landfill quarter in the fourth quarter of 2016 and has successfully Looking forward… maintained that status throughout all of 2017. As we look ahead, 3M is focusing on initiatives that will help us engage more of the value chain. We’re This achievement contributes to our Sustainability goal looking to get high yields and reuse waste in other to achieve “zero landfill” status at more than 30 percent locations, processes, and products. We’re testing of manufacturing sites by 2025. disruptive technology that makes clean-up easier, using fewer solvents. Kaizen waste reduction events #improvinglives means changing Kaizen is the Japanese word for “continuous how industry works, from improvement.” In 2017, in a continuation of previous efforts, teams at 12 3M U.S. locations held kaizen events purification to aerospace. to prioritize efforts that will reduce manufacturing waste. The events included facility walk-throughs, waste-byWe provide thousands of innovative products, from tapes and cause analyses, and identification of opportunities for abrasives, to adhesives and filtration systems; helping solve some improvement. With our learnings from these events, we of the world’s biggest challenges across diverse markets. developed a LSS Sustainability Tool Kit with templates and examples for replication use at our global locations. Part of the solution requires utilizing LSS within a location to segregate and manage material flow for waste streams and analyze the availability of internal and external waste handling alternatives. As locations identify opportunities to divert waste streams, we protect 3M’s reputation while managing waste, and set up contracts with our haulers, recyclers, and waste-to-energy companies to confirm that our material is handled appropriately. Aligning with Business Transformation Aligning with 3M’s LSS as a basis for driving continuous improvement, the True Cost of Waste Black Belt project was designed to assist in achieving our 2025 goal of reducing manufacturing waste by 10 percent indexed to sales. By using the LSS tools, the project team quickly determined that a primary issue for manufacturing locations is lack of visibility regarding the quantity and cost of waste streams. The project used Business Transformation and our global Enterprise Resource Planning System to gain visibility into each manufacturing location’s waste, thereby allowing them to better use LSS tools for project identification and prioritizing, and ultimately reducing waste. Industrial 150 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 151 How We Work | Environmental Management | Water Water 2025 Goal: Reduce global water use by an additional 10 percent, indexed to sales. 3M uses the definitions and tools established by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) to screen the company’s various locations and their water use with validated WBCSD water availability, population, and biodiversity information both on a 3M operations must manage their water resources country and watershed basis. In 2017, 25 sites with through compliance with regulatory requirements, annual water use equal to or greater than 1,000 cubic conservation and reuse, and reporting of water meters were located in water-stressed areas as defined usage internally. by the extremely high baseline water stress value according to the WBCSD-Global Water Tool. Our Commitment future consumer demands. In addition, water quality must comply with local regulations and be reliable in the long term. 2025 Goal: Engage 100 percent of water-stressed/ scarce communities where 3M manufactures, on Each 3M site located in a water-stressed area is required to understand its water use, associated business risks and impacts, and to work with local water resources to community-wide approaches to water management. understand potential impacts on the surrounding area. Water is an important component for the manufacturing Those sites are also requested to do water conservation With an eye on our footprint and the strength of our and support systems of several of our products. Because planning, outlining current and future water conservation technologies and collaboration, we acknowledge we of this, 3M continues to actively understand, manage, Partner with local communities to advance water efforts. Annual stress-level screening evaluations are can continue to make a difference in water availability and work toward reducing our corporate water footprint recycling and conservation. Ultimately, we aim to help conducted for global operations using available updates and quality around the world. while providing innovative solutions to our customers. these communities build and manage their own clean from the water tool, an analysis of site operations and water efforts into the future. water usage and local conditions. We respect our ecological and ethical responsibility and have a vested interest in preserving and improving water Water Quality and Availability availability and quality relative to our operations and the Risk-Mitigation Planning G4 Water is the most valuable natural resource for communities we serve. At 3M, we continually evaluate our Our Actions EN G4 G4 3M’s Water Management Standard provides a company22 life and thriving ecosystems; therefore, our wide framework, including both general and specific EN SO approach to opportunity and risk. We G4 We are continuously evaluating our water use planet’s consumption must be nurtured and EN 9, 11-12, 14 2 elements for water management. The standard requires believe the whole concept of risk footprint with a consistent, company-wide thoughtfully managed. We recognize that reducing appetite and tolerance is an essential component of 8, 10 3M operations to manage their water resources through focus on reuse, reduction, and internal water consumption in our operations and improving strategic planning. This includes a broad risk oversight by understanding the balance of water use, compliance recycling, as well as collaboration with our own technical water quality are important elements of optimizing our the Board and its committees, with committee-level risk with regulatory requirements, systematic and prioritized community, channel partners, and civic and conservation environmental stewardship. Quantitatively, the analyses reported to the full Board and executive-level conservation practices, and reporting usage. Water leaders in communities where 3M operates. availability of water must meet the needs of current and internal auditor and Chief Compliance Officer appointed resources include water intake, effluent water discharge, and rainwater. by, and reporting directly to, the Audit Committee. 152 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 153 How We Work | Environmental Management | Water 3M’s total water usage includes sanitary, process, water-stressed or water-scarce. However, they also heating, cooling, remediation, and other miscellaneous contribute significantly to our conservation efforts. As sources. Water usage data are tracked and reported the company continues to grow globally, thoughtful Global Water Usage annually on a global basis for manufacturing sites that consideration is placed on the type of operations and Million Cubic Meters per MM USD Net Sales produce greater than 4.54 metric tons (10,000 pounds) availability of water sources. of product per year. The reported data accounts for 0.003 98 percent of Sales Value of Production (SVOP) which provides solid coverage of water use considered Global Water Withdrawal 2017 Percentage Global Water Withdrawal material to 3M’s operational environmental footprint. 2017 Percentage Total water consumption has decreased 37.2 percent 0.002 between 2005 and 2017 indexed to corporate-wide net sales. Results also indicate that a majority of 3M Surface water use in operations is for processing products in 22.8% manufacturing and heating or cooling of those processes 0.001 and associated operations. We continue to improve our Surface Groundwater data accuracy through monitoring and measurement. 46.2% 22.8% Public Municipal Water conservation efforts have been achieved through 20.6% 0.000 recycling, reuse, product redesigns, and improvements to our buildings and manufacturing processes. A Other Groundwater 2005 2010 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Sources majority of our water-intense manufacturing operations are located in the U.S. and Europe, in areas that are not 10.5% 46.2% Public Municipal Corporate Water Stewardship Team As part of these efforts, we are looking at alternative Global Water Usage 20.6% In 2017 our Corporate Water Stewardship team, with ways to evaluate baseline water usage and the potential water cost and savings provided by capital expenditures Million Cubic Meters executive management sponsors, continues to review at our facilities, including efforts to pilot the tool at one Other policies, programs, and procedures while expanding of our U.S. facilities. We are taking our learnings from 50 Sources our global internal systems, to create, identify, and this tool and looking at ways to implement them within 45 10.5% share best management practices related to water conservation. our water strategy. 40 As part of this team, we are closely working with our Corporate Energy Management group to evaluate Looking forward… 35 the synergy between water and energy. Through this 30 work we are implementing water reduction projects at A 10-year plan to address global targeted facilities. For further information on our actions water challenges. in energy, see Climate and Energy. 25 Our 10-year strategic plan will focus not only on water use reduction, but also on collaboration and 20 Evaluating Opportunities in Industrial social innovation in search of solutions for emerging 15 Water Reuse and Cost of Water global water challenges. In addition, we will consider the counterbalance between water reduction, water 3M is a part of a team, working under the auspices of quality, and water-related risks to reflect the concept of 10 the Water Environment & Reuse Foundation (WERF), ‘respecting every drop’. 5 on a scorecard to evaluate opportunities in industrial During the first part of 2018, as part of our Corporate water reuse. The team is working to develop a tool that Water Stewardship Team, we are currently evaluating 0 can provide a facility-level estimate of the true cost of and looking to update our Water Management Standard 2005 2010 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 water, provide flow/cost breakdown by water use area to reflect our efforts throughout our value chain. and consistency in data requirements based on processspecific changes. 154 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 155 How We Work | Environmental Management | Climate and Energy Climate and Energy Our Commitment Extensive public policy engagement on both goals and policies. For climate change strategy and GHG Provide full credit for early reductions in • • climate change and energy conservation emission guidance, the Corporate EHS Committee has GHG emissions • A decades-long track record of improving energy appointed a corporate Climate Change Steering Team. • Balance multiple country-level priorities, including efficiency at our locations energy reliability and independence, national A steady focus on climate and energy security, and economic growth and employment conservation. • Serving our customers through a wide range of innovative products that help them improve energy Public Policy Engagement • Include provisions that promote the efficient efficiency and reduce their carbon footprints 3M endorses voluntary approaches to GHG emissions allocation of emissions reductions and assure all management. Any mandatory GHG emission reductions sectors contribute to reduction targets, with the Through the years, 3M has been a proactive leader in effect of allowing fair competition and avoiding should be developed through international negotiations addressing both the challenges and the opportunities presented by climate change and energy conservation. Executive-Level Commitment and follow these policy principles: market distortions within industrial sectors or across national boundaries G4 Climate change and energy efficiency are high• Apply broadly to countries or groups of countries Our proactive leadership is best defined by five areas of action: SO priority issues throughout 3M, up to the and GHG emission sources 3M is actively engaged in public policy development 2 Corporate Operating Committee and Chief • Be guided by science-based decision making to address climate change concerns. For additional • Executive-level commitment to these important Executive Officer. The Corporate Environmental, Health information, see our Engaging Our Stakeholders section. • Utilize a consistent, market-based approach topics and our related principles, commitments, and Safety (EHS) Committee has been empowered by and risk-mitigation planning efforts company leadership to take proactive steps and be • Encourage investment and protect intellectual responsible for all final decisions on climate change and property to facilitate technology breakthroughs • Industry-leading efforts to reduce our own greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions energy strategy, including setting company reduction • Include provisions for carbon emissions trading and/or alternative investment and compliance programs 156 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 157 How We Work | Environmental Management | Climate and Energy Risk-Mitigation Planning 3M has taken a broad approach to managing our energy footprint, which includes evaluating the impact of new products and manufacturing processes as well as new Our Actions on September 1, 2017, includes 69 turbines on a 14,000acre site. G4 Severe weather and long-term trends could EC affect 3M’s operations and supply chain. To equipment and locations; and reducing the energy This is the second wind energy agreement for 3M within 2 address these and other risks, 3M maintains a footprint of our manufacturing and administrative Energy Management the last two years. With this agreement, our total wind energy purchases now have reached 579 megawatt systematic Business Continuity and Planning Process locations. In addition, we actively share information about our energy management program with external Energy management at 3M goes beyond hours of wind energy or 17.9 percent of our company’s and Crisis Management Program which coordinates G4 efforts of local crisis management teams maintained at stakeholders, such as suppliers, customers, and other EN 3, 5, 6 energy-efficiency efforts in factories and total global electricity use. each 3M location and international subsidiary. interested organizations. buildings. It is a team effort guided by the global Corporate Energy Policy and coordinated by the Holding treasure hunts to find Corporate and local plans take into account the risk of Corporate Energy Management team, with oversight by natural disaster, infectious disease, employee safety, 3M’s Corporate Energy Manager and Engineering Vice conservation opportunities 2025 Goal: Increase renewable energy to 25 percent protection of assets, customer service, and other President, and active support from the Chief Executive of total electricity use. In 2016, 3M conducted energy treasure hunts at eight business continuity requirements. Officer. The group based in St. Paul, Minnesota regularly 3M locations, focused on building up energy-based engages with company-wide stakeholders to expand Supply chain risks are mitigated using a variety of project hoppers and, ultimately, making continuous their global footprint and grow a culture of energy, management practices, including: Achieving this goal will mean adding nearly 800,000 improvement toward the company’s 2025 goals. forming a Corporate Energy Leadership Team. Members MWh of renewable energy use globally. The primary Multi-sourcing of raw materials of this inter-departmental team come from In 2017, 16 more sites joined in the hunt. These sites • sources of this renewable energy will be wind and solar. Environmental Operations, Location Operations, identified approximately $5.0 million in energy savings • Pre-qualification of potential outsource Finance, Sourcing, Engineering, Energy Management, opportunities, an average of 12.3 percent of their energy manufacturers Corporate Marketing, and Public Affairs. Each spend. Several more sites are scheduled in the future. • Maintaining appropriate stocks of raw materials 2025 Goal: Ensure GHG emissions at least 50 percent department provides cross-functional contributions, below our 2002 baseline, while growing our business. assuring that: To see our efforts in action, see additional information • Contingency plans with key suppliers to assure under Energy Summit. allocation to 3M in the event of supply disruption • Energy-efficient technologies are being used 3M is in a leadership position due to our early actions, • Opportunities are being identified in the Combined heat and power Science-Based Targets starting more than 10 years ago, to reduce our GHG emissions. We are committed to continuing that design process • Renewable energy opportunities are identified and We also identified areas of focus that will make a 3M, as a science-based company, supports a proactive leadership even as we grow the company in order to step-change in the energy and carbon intensity of our financed approach of science-based GHG emission reduction help our customers address the issue of climate change. operations. The implementation of combined heat and targets. We have a long record of being proactive on this • Data are tracked routinely and consistently power systems and heat recovery systems at certain 3M issue, as demonstrated by our 68.1 percent reduction in By conserving energy, reformulating products, and by locations locations has a large potential to improve efficiency and absolute Scope 1 and 2 (Location-based) GHG emissions prioritizing opportunities, 3M has been able to achieve reduce our combined direct Scope 1 and indirect Scope from our operations through 2017, from a 2002 baseline. industry-leading GHG emission reductions. Other 3M reviews its Strategic Energy Management Plan 2 GHG emissions. The implementation of advanced This ambitious reduction currently aligns with the companies are setting goals to move closer to the annually to prioritize programs and meet global goals. energy information systems in our manufacturing concept of science-based goal setting, in that it far achievements we have already realized. The plan uses input from stakeholders, including locations is expected to give operations personnel exceeds the reductions called for to date in the Intermanufacturing directors, plant managers, operations information they can use to more effectively manage governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fourth employees, and executive management. Goals of the energy use. Assessment Report (AR4). See Looking forward below 2025 Goal: Help our customers reduce their GHGs by plan include to continuously improve results, leverage for additional information. 250 million tons of CO2 equivalent emissions through engineering expertise and advances, drive facility-level Learn more on how we are implementing these systems use of 3M products. efficiency improvements, maintain top management at our facilities: here. support, and protect 3M’s reputation. 2025 Goal: Improve energy efficiency indexed to net sales by 30 percent. While 3M has made significant GHG emission Catching Wind ISO 50001 reductions across our global operations, we realize we can make far greater contributions by helping our In a continuing effort to increase the use of renewable The internationally recognized ISO 50001 standard customers reduce their GHG emissions through the use energy sources, 3M signed an agreement to purchase and the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) Superior Energy efficiency improvements help reduce energy of our products. For additional information on how we 100 megawatts of wind energy from Akuo Energy. This Energy Performance (SEP™) certification program, use, associated costs, and GHG emissions. work with our customers, see Our Customers. agreement includes the sale of wind energy from a 150 help 3M locations become attuned to recognizing and megawatt wind turbine plant located near Rocksprings, seizing opportunities to increase energy efficiency in site Texas. This Akuo Energy project, which began operation 158 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 159 How We Work | Environmental Management | Climate and Energy operations, and move from delivering energy projects We continued our Lighting Challenge in 2017, focused on Hunt training session. The 3M Corporate Environmental • 3M Taiwan, for increasing solvent recovery in a loosely-organized fashion to a structured system of 3M locations upgrading their lighting systems to lightteam gave its first live and in-person group training with efficiency and reducing steam consumption in management. By integrating the systematic ISO-based emitting diode (LED) technology. It is estimated that over a global team of participants, using tools, resources, and solvent recovery units framework of “plan-do-check-act” for the management 250,000 lamps have been purchased for installation training for successful treasure hunt events. At the end • 3M India, for energy cost reductions related to the of energy in on-site operations, our locations have seen in 2017, producing a cost savings of approximately of the day, participants identified an estimated $190,000 installation of a rooftop solar system that meets 10 savings in energy costs and consumption, expansion $3.2 million. in annual energy cost savings. percent of the Ranjangaon facility’s power needs of employee engagement, and increased visibility to the tracking of site energy performance. 3M has been Plant Engineering and Energy Global Energy Excellence Awards busy increasing its ISO 50001 and SEP-certified profile, 2017 Plant Energy Award with 28 locations now certified or working toward Leadership Summit The Energy Excellence Award honors individuals and certification under those two programs. At the conclusion of each year, the Corporate Energy In June 2017, leaders of our growing energy network teams that incorporate the goals of the Corporate Management team recognizes the top facilities in our met in St. Paul, Minnesota as a part of the Plant Energy Program in engineering projects. The projects In 2017, we were recognized by the Clean Energy program for their results in energy metrics. To qualify, Engineering and Energy Global Leadership Summit. For and individuals nominated actively demonstrate their Ministerial (CEM) Energy Management Leadership these facilities must demonstrate an active culture of the first time, 3M included a specific energy track, with commitment to include energy efficiency in the design Awards program. 3M was one of 34 organizations, energy management practices on-site, as evidenced inspirational results. More than 160 energy professionals of projects, in equipment selection, or in the use of across 21 countries, to receive the Energy Management by their delivered project savings, their energy team who work at various levels throughout the corporation alternative energy supplies. The award is one of global Insight Award. The award recognizes 3M’s role in assessment score, and the resulting improved efficiency attended. recognition within the 3M Engineering community. building awareness of ISO 50001 and contributing in energy intensity on-site. Fourteen platinum awards, In May 2017, three awards were given at the 2017 to global knowledge of energy management six gold awards, and three silver awards were presented Over the course of three days, we had 12 energyEngineering Awards ceremony in St. Paul, Minnesota: implementation. 3M has been invited to speak at two to facilities with the most impressive results. specific 3M presenters and seven poster session related events: joint China-U.S. Energy Efficiency forum • 3M Greenville, South Carolina for eliminating participants, with an electrical meter vendor and the at Denver in October; and the International Energy solvent from the curing process for box Department of Energy offering unique breakout session Agency (IEA) Workshop on Energy Management sealing tapes opportunities. Topics covered included: Systems and Digital Technologies for Industrial Energy Efficiency and Productivity, at Paris in December. • How to Build a Cross-Functional Energy Team • On-Site Solar at 3M Locations We are transforming the ways we use • The Value of Energy Metering and evaluate energy • Energy Programs in Canada Global Energy Use Energy Project Prioritization MMBtu In 2017, 3M piloted a project at select facilities focusing • on energy reduction opportunities in heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) technology. We realized On the final day of the conference, the 3M Cottage Grove, Minnesota facility hosted an Energy Treasure 30,000,000 approximately $175,000 in savings with optimization of HVAC units completed at no cost. With the successful demonstration of this project, we seek to introduce this process at more 3M facilities in 2018. 20,000,000 Also in 2017, we have seen energy monitoring getting increased visibility and support within engineering on new projects and upgrades. This new metering technology will aid in the identification of energy costs 10,000,000 associated with the manufacturing process and allow for better analysis to reduce energy costs both during production and non-production time periods. In addition, we developed an energy analysis tool for 0 use by all 3M locations. The tool is designed to provide 2005 2010 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 quick analysis and identification of energy projects, and estimated payback periods. It uses actual site energy costs and weather data for analysis of energy costs in 2017 Plant Engineering & Energy Leadership Summit lighting, motors, makeup air, and compressed air. June 13, 2017 160 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 161 How We Work | Environmental Management | Climate and Energy Global Energy Use These quality system elements coupled with third party efficiency, upgrading equipment, reducing our demand MMBtu per MM USD Net Sales review of our emissions have assured that 3M’s GHG for energy use, increasing our use of renewable energy, inventory is always in line with the five core principles and implementing and maintaining pollution control of relevance, completeness, consistency, accuracy, and technologies. These methods, and more, are integral 1,350 transparency. to the company’s overall success and assist us with the challenge of helping to address global climate GHG emission reductions are achieved through a change concerns. 1,200 variety of methods: improving process and equipment 1,050 900 Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Scope 1 and Scope 2 750 Million Metric Tons CO2 equivalents 600 20 New Methodology 450 18 300 16 150 14 0 12 2005 2010 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 10 8 Direct Emissions (Scope 1) and Laboratory maintains an accreditation to ANSI/ ISO/ IEC 17025 through A2LA, an ILAC MRA signatory, 6 Indirect (Scope 2) for a number of laboratory methods. Although it is not possible to put 3M’s GHG inventory methodology 4 G4 Since 2002, 3M has reduced Scope 1 GHG on the lab’s scope of accreditation, our calculation EN 15-19 emissions by 76.4 percent, providing a direct methodology has been improved by working with a 2 and immediate reduction in our impact on the number of the quality system elements required by environment. During this same timeframe, we have ANSI/ISO/IEC 17025, including: 0 achieved a 68.1 percent reduction in absolute Scope 1 and 2 Location-based GHG emissions. What makes • Defined responsibilities and interrelationships of all 2002** 2005 2010 2012* 2013* 2014* 2015* 2016* 2017* these reductions even more impressive is that they key staff occurred even as the company grew sales and • Documentation of key personnel qualifications Scope 1 GHG Emissions Scope 2 Location Based Scope 1 GHG Emissions Scope 2 Location Based production during this timeframe. (AR5/MRR Method) GHG Emissions (AR4 Method) GHG Emissions • Control over quality system documents (AR5/MRR Method) (AR4 Method) The GHG inventory has been calculated from 2002 and procedures *2012-2017 U.S. EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 based inventory accounting is not directly comparable to 2002-2011 WRI/IPCC TAR, AR4 based GHG accounting to the current year by the 3M EHS Laboratory in • Control of records *Under U.S. EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 methodology, >95% of total reported emissions are from Kyoto gases **2002 Inventory recalculated according to U.S. EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 methodology (2.7% Increase over original reported value) accordance with the World Resources Institute (WRI)/ • Corrective and preventive action system World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) GHG Protocol Corporate Greenhouse Gas • Internal audit program Accounting and Reporting Standard. The 3M EHS • Documented and approved calculation procedures 162 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 163 How We Work | Environmental Management | Climate and Energy Indexed Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Scope 1 and Scope 2 Metric Tons CO2 equivalents per MM USD Net Sales GHG Emissions from Our sell, and the diversity of their uses by businesses and consumers across the globe. Many of our approximately Suppliers and Customers 55,000-plus product lines are “intermediates” with 1,200 (Scope 3) many potential downstream applications, each with a different GHG emissions profile, making it impossible to New Methodology G4 3M has been developing our Scope 3 GHG reasonably estimate downstream emissions associated EN4, 17, 30 emissions inventory since the publishing of the with the use of these products. 1,000 WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard in October 2011. We place a high value on sound science Evaluating Customer GHG 800 and decision-making. When the complexity of the supply chain does not allow for direct calculation, an input/ Emissions Reductions output model calculation method is used. G4 3M has a process in place to develop We continuously evaluate our methodology and auditing EN 7 reasonable estimates for reductions in customer GHG emissions associated with use of 3M 600 practices to assure meaningful, consistent, and accurate products. This process is based on the ISO 14064-2 comparison of emissions over time. At this time, a standard for determining GHG emissions reductions. base year has not yet been established for Scope 3 The standard compares emissions from the project GHG emissions. scenario (3M product scenario) against a 400 baseline scenario. For this report, the model for our Scope 3 Category 1 (Purchased Goods and Services) and Category 2 (Capital The boundary of the 3M product scenario is nature Goods) GHG emissions changed. The new model is to end-of-use or nature to grave. Where reliable 200 based on the 2017 EPA United States environmentallyinformation is available, we include emissions associated extended input-output model (USEEIO) factors (USEEIO: with disposal of 3M products. The 3M product A new and transparent United States environmentally scenario uses high-level estimates and averages for extended input-output model, Yi Yang, Wesley W. manufacturing emissions (e.g., energy per pound 0 Ingwersen, Troy R. Hawkins, Michael Srocka, David of product produced at a location rather than more 2002** 2005 2010 2012* 2013* 2014* 2015* 2016* 2017* E. Meyer. Journal of Cleaner Production 158 (2017) specific information). 308-318). The boundaries of the baseline scenario match the 3M Scope 1 GHG Emissions Scope 2 Location Based Scope 1 GHG Emissions Scope 2 Location Based Recalculation of prior year’s Scope 3, Category 1 and product scenario, except that we apply conservative (AR5/MRR Method) GHG Emissions (AR4 Method) GHG Emissions 2 GHG emissions, using this new model, is reflected in (AR5/MRR Method) (AR4 Method) assumptions. Conservative is defined as a choice this year’s report. Prior published Scope 3 data are not that creates a minimum in the GHG emissions of the *2012-2017 U.S. EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 based inventory accounting is not directly comparable to 2002-2011 WRI/IPCC TAR, AR4 based GHG accounting directly comparable to this report. *Under U.S. EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 methodology, >95% of total reported emissions are from Kyoto gases baseline scenario. For example, if data does not exist **2002 Inventory recalculated according to U.S. EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 methodology (2.7% Increase in absolute emissions over original reported value) During an internal audit of these prior-year values, we for a chemical in the baseline scenario, we assume identified a separate underreporting error for the 2016 the emissions to be zero. In some cases, there is no reported values for our Scope 3 Category 1 and 2 GHG equivalent to the 3M product, so the baseline scenario is Greenhouse Gas Quality System emissions of 7 percent and 4 percent, respectively. the absence of the 3M product entirely. This error arose from incorrect raw data used in prior The uncertainty for these studies is ±50 percent, which calculations using the old model. The recalculated data approximates data of fair to good quality as defined in Relevance Completeness Consistency Accuracy Transparency for 2016 corrects this error. It is reasonably likely that the WRI/ WBCSD Product Life Cycle and Accounting similar raw data input errors exist in previously published Standard Quantitative Inventory Uncertainty Guide. Clearly defined Strive to calculate Data based on Audit (internal and Clear disclosure Scope 3, Category 1 and 2 data for 2015 and prior years. boundaries and report all GHG approved scientific external) GHG of processes, According to our calculations, in 2017 alone, our emissions; data methods; should emissions and procedures, For 3M, Categories 9 (Downstream Transportation customers avoided emitting about 13 million metric coverage 99+ methods change, calculations assumptions, and and Distribution), 10 (Processing of Sold Products), 11 tons CO2 equivalents through use of various 3M percent of inventory 3M will, wherever limitations of the (Use of Sold Products), and 12 (End of Life Treatment product platforms calculated in accordance with possible, recalculate GHG inventory of Sold Product) pose a unique challenge. This is the ISO 14064-2 and 3M EHS Laboratory standard prior years’ inventory due to the number and complexity of products we operating procedures. 164 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 165 How We Work | Environmental Management | Climate and Energy Global Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Emissions Metric Tons per MM USD Net Sales local regulations. We evaluate all equipment options, select those that are the most environmentally effective Looking forward… and cost-effective, and assure proper operation of 3M is supporting the further implementation of ISO emission control equipment. Technologies include 50001 though a collaborative effort with the Canadian, 0.350 Thermal Oxidization, Solvent Recovery, Carbon Mexican, and U.S. governments. Adsorption, Biofiltration, Electrostatic Precipitators, 0.300 Baghouses, Scrubbers, and Cyclones. We will continue work to understand and evaluate methodologies for setting a science-based GHG 0.250 emission target. One challenge is the current gap Ozone Depleting Substances in availability of a certified reduction scheme for all 0.200 entities. We have evaluated the methods currently G4 The Montreal Protocol is the first worldwide EN 20 agreement designed to protect human health provided by the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTI) and determined that these may not support 0.150 and the environment against the adverse effects the operations of a large, highly diversified entity of the depletion of the stratospheric ozone layer. The such as 3M. So we are now actively working to find a 0.100 Protocol identifies the list of ozone depleting substances science-based approach that could be appropriately (ODS) that are targeted for control practices, reductions, applied to a company with our broad set of product 0.050 or total phase-outs and provides a phase-out schedule. categories and markets served. Moving forward, we will In addition, some countries have established regulations continue to track how the SBTI expands its methodology 0.000 regarding the management of refrigeration appliances. offerings, and evaluate other options that may become 2005 2010 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 3M has set forth requirements in order to provide a available. However, above all, we will continue to work framework for how 3M operations are to manage their toward achieving our four existing climate and energy refrigeration appliances containing ODS in the context related goals. of applicable international protocols, local regulations, We will continue to track the evolution of climate change and current and future economic impacts. These related regulations globally. Through understanding Air Quality Management and calculates the combustion emission rates using accepted emission factors. requirements include conformance to the Montreal Protocol when applicable. from both internal and external perspectives, we can strengthen and develop corporate strategy, goals, G4 An important component to 3M’s Sustainability targets, programs, initiatives, and engagement to Main VOC by Source Type EN 21 strategy is our commitment to improving air Clean Air Assistance Project Funding advance Sustainability globally. quality globally. • 3M’s VOC emissions are primarily attributed to coating lines In November 2016, 3M made a financial contribution As a company that uses many solvent-based materials, to support the Environmental Initiative’s Clean Air • Reactors and mixing are also significant sources of 3M inherently releases volatile organic compounds Assistance Project (CAAP) in Minnesota. The primary VOC emissions (VOCs) from many of our manufacturing processes. objective of this project was to assist small businesses Because of this, many of our locations require permits with emission-reduction initiatives, primarily those VOC by Location with rigorous VOC tracking requirements. Even where involving volatile organic compounds (VOCs). In tracking is not required from a regulatory perspective, • 90 percent of our locations emit less than 100 tons 2017, two solvent-based auto body shops in St. Paul, 3M voluntarily tracks VOC usage and emissions from per year VOC Minnesota were converted to waterborne paint systems. major sources of emissions in order to identify further This change eliminated an estimated 2,950 pounds of • 30 percent of our locations emit less than 1 ton per opportunities for reduction. 3M has developed internal VOC emissions annually. Public project funding, which year VOC programs to minimize its VOC emissions. We track leveraged 3M’s initial contribution, was provided by and report emissions based on raw material usage, government, community organizations, and companies engineering estimates, and stack test data. Implementing and maintaining connected to the two businesses. For many 3M manufacturing processes, NOx, SO2, pollution control CO, and PM are emitted as products of combustion. 3M has made significant progress in reducing air These pollutants are tracked and reported externally emissions – at the source, and by improving process where required by federal, state, or local regulations for efficiencies. Where emissions cannot be reduced within individual locations. 3M internally tracks all fuel usage the process, 3M installs and maintains air emission control equipment as required by federal, state, and 166 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 167 How We Work | Suppliers Suppliers Defining and aligning Sustainability expectations for our supply chain around the world. Our Commitment to maximize the positives and mitigate the potential negatives by aligning our supplier expectations with our own corporate values. We expect our suppliers to be transparent about their environmental and social 2025 Goal: Drive supply chain Sustainability through practices, provide improvement ideas, and work with us targeted raw material traceability and supplier to transform our shared supply chain when needed. performance assurance. We actively verify our new and existing suppliers’ performance against our expectations on a riskprioritized basis, using our Due Diligence Management G4 We understand that our Sustainability impacts System, which is modeled after the Organization for SD 12 extend beyond our own operations. By Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) purchasing raw materials and services from Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. small and large companies all over the world, we participate in a global, complex, supply chain. And it Our Due Diligence Management System consists of doesn’t stop there. Our suppliers have their own the following elements, which aid with our continuous suppliers, extending back to the original source of improvement efforts. each material we use. At each step in the supply chain, there are benefits (like employment and community-building) as well as the potential for negative impacts (like pollution or unsafe or unfair labor practices). Our commitment is 168 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 169 How We Work | Suppliers The SRC is based on the 3M corporate values for If the assessment identifies gaps or findings, a Supplier sustainable and responsible operations and aligns with Corrective Action Request (SCAR) is established to 3M Supply Chain Due Diligence Management System the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, assure appropriate resolution and conformance with of which 3M is a signatory. The SRC is also materially 3M’s requirements. If a supplier is unwilling to work with consistent with the Code of Conduct of the Responsible 3M on the identified gaps or not able to close the issues Business Alliance (RBA), formerly known as the within a reasonable timeframe, alternative actions are Values Transparency Transformation Verification Report Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC). determined with a cross-functional business team to establish strong identify and assess design and audit supply chain report on supply escalate and resolve the situation. policies and risks in the supply implement a strategy due diligence chain due diligence The SRC, as with our previous 3M Supply Chain management chain to respond to activities Policies, establishes 3M’s expectations for new and systems identified risks existing suppliers anywhere in the world, and for any supplied material or service. Our new supplier vetting Additional Expectations for process includes review of the SRC expectations and Higher-risk Supply Chains confirmation that their programs and practices, as well as their subcontractors, involved in the supply of products G4 G4 G4 In addition to the global SRC Our Commitment Our Action Our Action Our Action Our Action and/or services conform to standards that are consistent EN EN LA expectations for all suppliers, 3M Supplier 90K suppliers Paper Supply Chain Cumulative Supplier California Supply with the SRC. Our contract agreements have included 13 33 15 certain areas warrant Responsibility Code 120 countries Traceability Process Assessments Chain Transparency additional and specific formal expectations to drive more Act Disclosure expectations from our Supply Chain Policies, and are 200 sub-categories Technical sustainable responsible practices. In particular, our use 3M Conflict now being updated to phase in and incorporate the SRC. Minerals Policy Capabilities Close UK Modern Slavery of certain minerals that have the potential to be sourced to Customers Act Statement We expect our suppliers to establish and implement from conflict areas, and our use of timber-based 3M Pulp and Paper Form SD their own relevant policies and programs in alignment products and other plant materials (pulp and paper). Sourcing Policy Conflict Minerals with this SRC, and to enforce these expectations with Report their own suppliers, thereby propagating our high 3M Sustainable Sustainability standards up our supply chains. Focus: Conflict Minerals Forestry Another prioritized area in our raw material supply 3M’s Vice President of Strategic Sourcing and network is the responsible sourcing of minerals. 3M Packaging Solutions is accountable for 3M’s Responsible deplores the violence and inhumane treatment that has Sourcing program. Executive leaders from Supply occurred in the Democratic Republic of Congo, adjoining Chain, Compliance & Business Conduct, Strategic countries, and other high-risk regions as defined by Sourcing, Legal, Sustainability, Human Resources, and global regulatory bodies, and is committed to supporting Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) are updated at responsible sourcing of 3TG (tin, tantalum, tungsten, least semi-annually on the program’s status and have the Strong Policies aligned with Chains Act, the United Kingdom Modern Slavery Act, and the U.S. Federal Acquisition Regulations opportunity to provide input on the various programs and gold) from all such regions. In 2017, 3M refreshed its Conflict Minerals Policy, as well as 3TG-related our Values (FAR) on forced labor and human trafficking. and activities. objectives for our suppliers as part of our responsible • Environment, Health, and Safety: we expect our sourcing expectations. 3M expects its suppliers to adopt The 3M Supplier Supplier Risk Assessment & a similar policy and due diligence management system, G4 G4 G4 G4 EN HR LA SO Responsibility Code suppliers to care as much about the safety of their workers and their communities as 3M does, and and require the same of their suppliers. Supply Chain Transparency 32 10 14 9 (SRC) outlines 3M’s to implement proper procedures and controls to foundational social and environmental expectations in In addition, 3M is an active member of the Conflict-Free protect them. the following areas: G4 G4 Our general supplier performance Sourcing Initiative (CFSI), now known as the Responsible • Labor: requirements align with the 3M Human • Ethics: expectations align to the 3M Code of EN SO verification process begins with a selfMineral Initiative (RMI), which develops tools and Conduct holding our suppliers to the same high 33 2 assessment questionnaire (SAQ). The guidance for companies on conflict minerals. Rights Policy, and includes important concepts like standards of honesty and integrity. Suppliers are SAQ is used to understand supplier programs and freely chosen employment (no forced, bonded, or to prohibit any form of bribery and corruption, and Our membership in RMI and various sub-teams such whether they are in conformance with 3M expectations. trafficked labor), restrictions on working age (no prevent conflicts of interest. as the Smelter Engagement Team (SET), Plenary Team, An on-site assessment may be conducted, by 3M or child labor), and appropriate working hours and and special activities like the Due Diligence White Paper • Management Systems: we expect our suppliers to third party, and any deficiencies are ultimately corrected wages. Setting these expectations helps assure update have provided an opportunity for 3M to offer our have processes in place to systematically conform through a Corrective Action Preventive Action (CAPA) our suppliers’ actions will reflect 3M’s values on ideas and learn from other member companies as we all to the 3M SRC, as well as all legal requirements, process, which may include announced or unannounced human rights as well as the values underlying the work together on this important journey. and to commit to continuous improvement. follow-up assessments. International Labor Organization (ILO), and laws such as the California Transparency in Supply 170 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 171 How We Work | Suppliers Focus: Pulp and Paper 3M has prioritized pulp and paper products as an Supplier Diversity 4. Further disrupt the status quo by working to move some of our tier two dollars to tier one and focusing on diverse suppliers in our request for Our Actions G4 Equal access to business opportunities is not area that warrants additional formal expectations, EC just deserved, it’s a priority. Regional selfproposal (RFP) activity due to potential environmental risks like deforestation 9 sufficiency is a focus area for 3M, and we Responding to risks, and habitat loss, potential human rights issues like In 2017, 3M spent $1.42 billion with small businesses, infringement of indigenous peoples’ rights, and potential recognize its importance for business reasons as well as in building connections with local communities. representing 26.4 percent of our U.S. domestic spend. transforming our supply chains unsafe labor practices. As a global paper purchaser and Although we collect data around the proportion of We also spent $223 million with diverse suppliers, which Sustainability leader, 3M is well-positioned to positively represents 3.96 percent of U.S. domestic spend. Our G4 G4 We are constantly managing changes spending on local suppliers at our significant locations of influence practices throughout the forest products’ operation, this information is business confidential. progress is routinely communicated to leadership across SD SO12 2 in supply markets both where there is supply chain. We adopted our current Pulp and Paper the organization. an opportunity to extract value and Sourcing Policy in the spring of 2015 to set standards of 3M has a long-standing commitment to sustainable defensively where necessary to secure supply. As excellence for our suppliers and their suppliers through business practices and supporting the economic success We remain committed to supporting small business described above, we focus efforts on the salient issues in all tiers of supply to the forest. of our communities, including working with both diverse and diverse suppliers and their positive impact on the categories where human rights and environmental risks and small-business suppliers. For 3M purposes, a diverse economic viability of communities. 3M continues to are the greatest. More broadly, we conduct robust risk This policy makes it clear that we want to source supplier is any supplier who qualifies for one or more of reassess elements of our approach, working across the prioritization to determine other suppliers we will engage paper products from suppliers who share our values the following classifications: Minority-owned business, industry to glean best practices. via an assessment against our SRC, which includes and are committed to protecting the world’s forests. Women-owned business, Small Business (including policy and contract conformance. Annually we evaluate our suppliers of pulp and paper More on our Supply Diversity program can be found in Small Disadvantaged, HUBZone, Woman, and Veteran/ raw materials, pulp and paper-based third-party the Partners and Suppliers Diversity section, here. 3M has historically used industry indices to identify Service Disabled Veteran). manufactured products, and paper-based packaging higher-risk supply chains and has recently adopted the to prioritize engagement with those most significant to 3M proactively identifies diverse suppliers to procure use of a data-driven software solution in conjunction our business, and those with the possibility of supply goods and services, strongly encourages the use of with industry information and Lean Six Sigma (LSS) chain entities of higher environmental or social risk. Our diverse suppliers across our sourcing organization, tools to optimize and strengthen its risk management engagement hinges on extensive communication and and reaches out through our involvement with various processes. The criteria matrix helps rank global education of our suppliers on our policy expectations, organizations, including the National Minority Supplier suppliers, using multiple factors like: geographic, and inquiries regarding our suppliers’ policies and Development Council (NMSDC), Women’s Business category, and business critical elements to determine systems to assess the Sustainability of their supplier Enterprise National Council (WBENC), Metropolitan where assessments should be performed. network and conformance to our code and policy. We Economic Development Association (MEDA), Small also expect our suppliers to disclose the entities in their Business Administration (SBA), and others. supply chain, all the way to the forest source. We believe that only through transparency can we truly identify 3M establishes goals and regularly tracks the dollar potential Sustainability risks and collaborate to raise the value of goods and services purchased from small performance of our shared supply chains. businesses and diverse suppliers in concert with goals Cumulative Supplier Assessments, since 2008 set annually with the U.S. Federal Government as part Total number We partner with The Forest Trust (TFT) for their of our Subcontracting Plan for Federal Government expertise in developing and implementing responsible contracting. 6,000 sourcing policies, and improving forest management practices across global supply chains. We also To achieve our goals, 3M has implemented a four-part strategy aimed to: 5,000 actively collaborate with other TFT responsible paper members, our suppliers, and peer companies to advance 1. Increase our spend with current diverse suppliers 4,000 Sustainability in the global paper supply chain. In the by reviewing our existing diverse suppliers by big picture, our goal is to assure that the virgin wood diversity category fiber used in our pulp and paper-based products and 3,000 packaging comes from sources that protect forests and 2. Identify additional diverse suppliers in our existing respect the rights of workers and people who live in or supply base by reviewing our top non-diverse 2,000 may depend on forests for their livelihood. suppliers by spend category 3. Find “new-to-3M” diverse suppliers 1,000 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 172 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 173 How We Work | Suppliers Verifying our Supplier Conflict Mineral Actions We’re continuing to stay abreast of emerging and recent legislation such as the European Commission’s Paper Supply Chain Traceability Process 2017 Percentage Performance regulation on conflict minerals, to assure that our Forging ahead with continuous conformance and due diligence management system Applicable for all suppliers, are aligned. Members of our European Government improvement G4 G4 G4 EN HR 32 10-11 LA14-15 we apply our supply chain risk Affairs team have been closely aligned with industry Not Yet Engaged assessment process to 3M’s Conflict Minerals program, now in its fifth year, and government to understand the scope, impacts, and or Traceable prioritized suppliers, each of which must complete a SAQ and/or be subject to an on-site assessment as has gone through continuous improvement, based on learnings from past campaigns and identifying ways timing of the new European regulation. The team has proactively assessed potential applicability so 3M will be 16% Traceable to Forest Source or 100% specified in our SRC. to optimize and increase the effectiveness of program best prepared to implement the new rule. Recycled Through 2017, over 5,000 self-assessments or on-site activities. Additional information can be found in the 3M Conflict Traceable to 34% audits of suppliers have been conducted in prioritized A 3M Six Sigma project was initiated in 2017 to define, Minerals Securities and Exchange Commission filings Paper Mill countries, including China, India, Korea, Malaysia, Taiwan, Thailand, Brazil, Mexico, Russia, and Turkey in measure, analyze, implement solutions, and define controls that will sustain gains in the Conflict Minerals found on 3M Supplier Direct, Supplier Responsibility Expectations. 21% the past six years. program. As a result, numerous improvements were implemented including contracting with a Conflict Traceable to Minerals third party provider to accelerate the process. Pulp and Paper Actions Pulp Mill Forced Labor and 29% We make use of the RMI Conflict Minerals Reporting Human Trafficking Template (CMRT) to help our prioritized 3TG suppliers Pulp and Paper Policy implementation 3M's efforts to eradicate forced labor and human gather and report information on the smelters and on the ground refiners in their supply chains. Our requests include trafficking from its direct supply chains are discussed in links to 3M’s Conflict Minerals website, which covers Throughout our policy implementation, we have more detail in 3M's California Transparency in Supply our Conflict Minerals Policy, and 3M training on how seen several examples of marked improvements TFT helps us review information we obtain from our Chains disclosure and 3M’s United Kingdom Modern to attach their CMRT to 3M’s website survey tool. in responsible sourcing practices as a result of our supplier surveys, and combines that with geography Slavery Act Statement. These disclosures communicate In addition, the website directs suppliers to training engagement with suppliers. These include: and industry-specific knowledge to conduct “desktop” our commitment to legal and ethical practices through resources available through the RMI. risk assessments of our supply chains. We use these our membership in the United Nations Global Compact • Meeting with suppliers’ senior corporate executives assessments to prioritize further engagement to learn and implementation of 3M’s Code of Conduct, and on the importance of assuring responsible and more about our suppliers’ responsible sourcing and working with others to abolish human rights atrocities, Conflict Mineral Traceability Progress sustainable supply chains, and agreeing to *based on Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP) sustainable forestry practices. This deeper engagement especially as it relates to human trafficking, forced collaborate on that goal could take the form of a series of web conferences, labor, modern slavery, etc. 3M is committed to doing • Suppliers establishing new Sustainability positions in-person meetings, or field assessments at the mill and/ our part to eradicate human trafficking in any form from within their companies or forest level. We do not limit this engagement to our the global supply chain. We have robust policies and RMAP • Significant increases in supply chain traceability direct suppliers. In fact, as appropriate, we will work systems in place to control these practices in our own Not Enrolled directly with tier two or tier three suppliers on policy operations and with our suppliers. As 3M sets a high bar and transparency for itself regarding labor and employment, it expects the 17% • Increased engagement by our suppliers with their conformance verification work, with a goal of involving our direct (tier one) supplier(s) in these activities same from its suppliers as articulated in the SRC. upstream supply chain whenever possible. RMAP Active Through an online survey, our suppliers can provide With TFT, we have conducted 11 field assessments so 2% complete supply chain information all the way to the forest sources, or they can easily forward parts of the far across all regions. Three of those assessments were of tier two pulp mills, which were also attended by a online survey to their suppliers (paper or pulp mills, for tier one supplier. 3M’s participation on supplier field RMAP Conformant example) for completion. We aim to work with suppliers assessments with TFT helps us to understand first-hand 81% and peer companies to document as much of our global paper supply chain as possible, to amplify our efforts to the challenges faced by pulp and paper companies and forest managers around the world. This in turn enables drive sustainable practices throughout the supply chain. us to actively participate in developing solutions and pushing forward conversations about responsible sourcing and sustainable forestry. 174 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 175 How We Work | Suppliers Pulp and Paper Assessment Collaboration for change Looking forward… 3M Brazil is a signatory to The National Pact to Eradicate Using LSS methodologies, a project is being conducted Slave Labor, which was established in 2005, and is to develop a more efficient and effective way of now institutionalized in InPACTO (the Institute for the obtaining, managing, and storing supplier-related Completed National Pact) a trade association focused exclusively information. The new 3M SRC Supplier Declaration • Austria (1) on collaborative efforts among members, including 3M, will be included as part of this project. All suppliers • Brazil (1) committed to the goals of the National Pact. will be required to complete the declaration, stating • Canada (2) • China (3) they understand the SRC and that they and their • Japan (1) subcontractors will have programs and practices • Sweden (1) • Taiwan (1) Supplier of the Year Award that are consistent with the SRC. The process will be rolled out globally in 2018, reflecting the increased • United States (1) In 2017, 3M recognized 15 top suppliers among supplier expectations related to Labor, Ethics, EHS, and Planned thousands in its global supply base, for world class Management Systems. • Brazil performance in providing products and/or services. • Chile These suppliers were identified and rated based on We recognize there are risks in the supply chains of • Russia strategic spend, contract compliance, actions taken other materials. Through our partners like RMI, TFT, to improve 3M’s relevance, and overall supplier and InPACTO, we are continuing to increase our performance (quality, delivery, responsiveness, cost, understanding and options to mitigate risks through technology, and Sustainability roadmaps). collaboration. For example, RMI is actively working on formulating risk mitigation tools for the cobalt industry. Each assessment results in a comprehensive report • Work with at least 450 landowners across 36,500 Learn more about the Supplier of the Year Award: here. 3M is committed to expanding our due diligence efforts detailing the supplier’s performance against our acres in the project counties to connect them with for higher risk materials to further mitigate risk to our policy requirements, and action items to address any technical assistance and resources to get them business and advance responsible supply chains. performance gaps. We expect each supplier to develop started in forest management corrective action plans with reasonable timelines, • Engage at least 160 woodland owners within and continue to collaborate with 3M on resolution of the project area to enhance, restore, or expand identified opportunities. More information on these bottomland hardwood forests and quality habitat assessments can be found in our Pulp and Paper for at-risk species on at least 13,000 acres Sourcing Policy progress reports. Pulp and Paper Sourcing Policy • Certify at least 120 landowners in a recognized Engagement Status, Percentage forest certification standard Conservation in the Carolinas 100 In May, 3M helped launch the Carolinas Working Forest Conservation Collaborative (CWFCC) along with the Responsible Paper Summit American Forest Foundation, International Paper, and The Procter & Gamble. in Shanghai 80 In November 2017, 3M co-sponsored a Responsible We have joined this collaboration to engage directly with 60 Paper Summit in Shanghai, China. Over 40 family woodland owners in the U.S. Coastal Carolinas representatives from more than 20 pulp and paper Plain to support sustainable forestry, conservation of product producers in the greater China area attended bottomland hardwood forests, and the enhancement 40 two days of discussions on what it means to be part of habitat for at-risk species. Through the CWFCC, we Product Paper of a responsible and sustainable global paper supply intend to accomplish the following objectives: chain, and how to advance sustainable forestry and responsible paper sourcing in the Asia Pacific (APAC) 20 • Increase awareness and understanding of the Packaging Paper importance of sustainable forestry and active region. An impressive list of ideas and proposed actions management among 30,000 woodland owners were generated during this summit, and has resulted in 0 Overall who collectively own 2.4 million acres of forestland momentum toward more engagement and sustainable 2015 2016 2017 in the Coastal Carolinas Plain region practices throughout these organizations and their supply chain partners. 176 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 177 What We Create Introduction 180 Our Customers 182 Innovation Management 188 Our Products 198 178 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 179 What We Create | Introduction Introduction What We Create Our customers’ challenges are our challenges. Using our 46 technology platforms and collaborative culture, we invent products that help our customers solve the issues they are facing in many areas, including health, safety, and energy. We are not stopping here. We have established aggressive goals for 2025, ranging from investing in sustainable materials and energy efficiency, to community-wide approaches to water management and helping our customers reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. We have also set 2025 goals around building a diverse workforce and educating individuals on worker and patient safety in healthcare and industrial settings. 180 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 181 What We Create | Our Customers Our Customers 3M science impacts the world around us in real ways every day. Our Commitment 3M has the resources, reach, and responsibility to improve the marketplace and society. We leverage our 46 core technology platforms to improve lives in a variety of ways. 3M is: • The light management technology making road Where many companies view the topic of Sustainability signs brighter and easier to read, and electronic in product development as a challenge, at 3M we have displays more vivid and colorful…while drawing taken an offensive approach, working to identify and less power understand future Sustainability needs, and to expand our portfolio of products with Sustainability advantages. • The adhesive technology holding your car, hotel, and cellphone together; our adhesive platform is By embedding Sustainability into our research and applied in many other areas, from medical dressings development (R&D) process, our brands and the mindset and dental fillings to Scotch® tapes and Post-it® of our suppliers and customers, we’re able to move 3M’s notes growth to new levels and advance our commitment to • The filtration technology that protects people’s improving our business, our planet, and every life. health and safety, from respirators and masks for industrial and health care workers to air filters and water treatment systems for home 2025 Goal: Invest to develop more sustainable materials and products to help our customers reach their environmental goals. 182 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 183 What We Create | Our Customers We recognize some of our greatest positive impact In short, Business Transformation is helping us build 3M’s market-leading medical Tegaderm™ transparent We have 54 customer technical centers across the can be realized by helping our customers improve their strength on strength, drive to higher levels of customer dressings, which fit snug, breathe easy, and allow for globe where our customers can experience firsthand the environmental footprint. For that reason, an increased focus satisfaction, and to: painless inspection. breadth of 3M technologies and how they can benefit on delivering more sustainable materials and components from them. We also have labs in 36 countries where our • Move to a simpler, more automated environment is core to our innovation and Sustainability strategy. scientists work closely with our customers to develop • Standardize global, end-to-end processes “Insights to Innovation” (i2i) solutions for their specific problems. • Leverage Lean Six Sigma (LSS) 3M works “eye-to-eye” with end-user customers to • Strengthen governance Some of the problems addressed in our technical centers 2025 Goal: Provide training to five million people invent solutions to their unique problems. and labs are connected to regional and local megatrends. globally on worker and patient safety. This model often makes use of the 3M Insights to Globally, for example, rapid population growth in Leveraging unique capabilities to create urban areas is creating challenges related to energy Innovation process, a process that involves exploration, value for our customers optimization, validation and ideation, and ultimately efficiency, clean water, and environmental protection. We will continue to support empowerment and Our local scientists leverage our technologies to develop enrichment for global health and safety issues through allows new business teams to move from “I think” to Technology itself is not sufficient to create differentiated relevant solutions that are unique to their region, often our commitment to improve the health and safety of “I know.” products and solutions. Our innovation truly comes collaborating with local customers. people worldwide so we can all focus on what matters from the confluence of customer and market insights, Insights to Innovation includes a close focus on both most to us. To measure progress against this goal, we technology, and our culture of collaboration and global and local megatrends. The way we look at it, with will track the number of training instances through our Health Care and Personal Safety Academies. entrepreneurship. We strive to invent things that are not only new, but useful. That is why collaborating with new market needs come new opportunities to deliver Addressing customer value to our customer. customers is essential. It assures we are in tune with Sustainability expectations their needs. Our most successful products are infused Technical capabilities close We know many of our customers have strong Our Actions with strategic customer insights throughout the entire product development process. Sustainability and corporate responsibility expectations to customers for their suppliers, just as we do for ours. 3M always We have an initiative called Customer First that’s all wants to be the supplier of choice for our customers. As an organization, we believe that the best way to about understanding our customers’ business models, Two different models for acquire insights is to be close to the customers. With As demonstrated in this report, we set our sights on world-class performance in Sustainability and corporate what they have promised their customers, and what our role is in the value chain. Found throughout our 3M gathering insights that in mind, we have built a large global presence and infrastructure as well as technical capabilities close to Playbook, it is helping our customers deliver on their our customers. promises. It is our Vision, as we aspire to advance every “Customer-inspired innovation” company, enhance every home, and improve every life. Back in the 1920’s when one of our scientists visited Here are some examples of our Customer First approach the local body shop of a customer, he watched workers Technical Capabilities Close to Customers in action. struggling to get clean lines for two-tone paint jobs. His 54 customer technical centers and labs in 36 countries. observation led to the invention of Scotch® masking tape. Business Transformation starts and ends Today, in 36 international labs – and in 54 technical with our customers centers – our scientists work directly with local customers to solve their unique challenges. We take the 3M Business Transformation leverages our strengths time to get to know them, to learn how they live and in technology, manufacturing, and global capabilities, work – and to understand what we can do to improve to provide a more positive overall experience for our their lives. customers. This transformation centers around the creation of one global, seamlessly integrated platform This includes challenges our customers have come coupled with standardized business processes, to us for help with, as well as challenges they didn’t Customer resulting in: even know they had, as the 3M scientist behind our technical center • Improved service delivery creative medical dressings can tell you. His division had Laboratory • On-demand capabilities a program that allowed scientists to be embedded in a hospital for an entire week. While there, he observed • Better responsiveness nurses repeatedly lifting up bandages to inspect wounds More than 100,000 customers visited this year. • Enhanced collaboration and intravenous (IV) sites. A simple idea struck him: • Increased customer intimacy Why not make the bandage transparent? That led to 184 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 185 What We Create | Our Customers responsibility, and we believe we meet or exceed customer requirements in these areas. Looking forward… To succeed in today’s fast-moving world, we must As proud as we are to share our Sustainability story continue to see around the corner to where the market is with our customers, we are also motivated to influence going. We gain insights by understanding megatrends: and encourage alignment and harmonization among the proliferation of industry standards and partner to drive • Reimagining natural resources: supply and demand real Sustainability improvements where they are needed. of natural resources, including fossil fuels, minerals, renewables, water, and food will experience a powerful transformation Education that inspires, • Shifting demographics: a gradual but powerful credibility that empowers shift in the composition, location, and sheer size of the Earth’s population is at the core of nearly all Proper use of health and safety products is critical to observable global trends infection prevention, personal safety, and overall health. • Expanding digital economy: digitization is #improvinglives means making Building on our existing customer education program, we seek to enhance access to training on worker and fundamentally changing how businesses and individuals interact, make decisions, and conduct life easier and more productive at patient safety in both healthcare and industrial settings. daily operations home and at work. Through the 3M Academy, learning is designed to • Evolving economic landscape: the center of world suit the users: on-demand education, live webinars, economic influence is transitioning from dominance We are creating innovative products that keep homes clean, in-person events, and education resources. Our site or of developed countries toward an increasingly offices organized, and buildings well-maintained. yours, training delivered where and when you want it multipolar environment and in the way you need it. We will continue to leverage our diversified technology As a manufacturer of health care devices and supplies, portfolio to create innovative solutions for our customers 3M not only provides great products, we also deliver and markets. We are evolving our technology platforms education and training on worker health and safety and for the changing and anticipated needs of high-growth to health care professionals at hospitals and clinics, markets, and we are augmenting our material science professional conferences, and via online webinars – all expertise with digital where appropriate to create value around the world, through the 3MSM Health Care for our customers and for 3M. Academy. In 2017 alone, we offered over 350 learning modules. That’s not only important to helping customers get the most out of our products, it’s our commitment Educating customers on worker and to helping professionals improve outcomes for their patient safety patients and customers. We will continue our efforts to drive growth by engaging The same holds true for our Personal Safety Division our customers in a trusted, best-in class education where we understand the most important part of offerings and delivery systems. In 2018 and beyond, our every product is keeping people safe and healthy. In focus is to provide our customers and partners relevant a rapidly evolving business and occupational health and timely education in a contemporary, flexible format. and safety landscape, one thing remains the same, We look to create value for our customers and partners the need for effective training and education to help through workforce development and retention, and create and maintain a healthy and safe workplace. Our personalization, through an efficient global platform. education and training programs can instruct workers This will expand upon current online and in-person on: workplace safety hazards and health risks; regulatory events via eLearning webinars, modules, and product personal protection equipment (Occupational Safety application training. This efficient global education and Health Administration, OSHA); and proper use and platform also will help promote accurate and transparent maintenance of 3M products. This includes a mobile reporting as we strive toward our 2025 worker and training and demonstration center in the U.S. that will patient safety training goal. Consumer appear at numerous locations thought out the year. 186 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 187 What We Create | Innovation Management What We Create | Innovation Management Innovation Management Applying science to solve problems and improve lives. Our Commitment invent unique products for a variety of industries. No single business owns any of these platforms. They are owned by the company and can be leveraged by any At 3M, we believe science is just science – until you of the businesses to serve their respective customers use it to improve the world. That is or markets. 3M Science. Applied to Life.™ Our “15% Culture” – instituted six decades ago – inspires We are a company rooted in scientific exploration and creativity, risk-taking, and collaboration. It gives 3Mers discovery. We believe that every problem has a solution. the freedom to take risks, and learn from our mistakes. All our businesses are connected by our fundamental That freedom is essential to scientific discovery. 3Mers strengths – technology, manufacturing, global have the freedom to spend 15% of their time on projects capabilities, and our brand – which allow us to invent, that interest them. Out of that time come new ideas that build, and sell products across our vast global network. might eventually become successful new 3M products. Research and development (R&D) is our heartbeat. We 3M has earned more than 109,000 patents over the continue to invest in R&D, in close partnership with our years, a testament to the strength of our innovation customers and the marketplace. R&D fosters a constant engine. Every year, on average, 3M earns 3,000 patents. stream of unique and cutting-edge products, which drive organic growth. In fact, in 2017, we invested 1.87 billion We are in nearly 200 countries, with two thirds of (USD) or nearly 6 percent of our sales back into R&D. We our workforce and sales outside the U.S. Employing are committed to continue our investment in R&D. integration and collaboration across businesses, geographies, and scientific disciplines helps us effectively There are no silos – our 46 technology platforms are and efficiently bring new ideas and products from the lab shared and combined across businesses and regions to to the factory to customer’s homes and businesses. 188 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 189 What We Create | Innovation Management With operations in about 70 counties, we can serve our customers wherever they are. We are expanding Product Safety, Compliance, Alternatives to Animal Testing Our Actions our technology capabilities around the world. We and Stewardship Policy 3M is a major advocate for the use of alternative test To understand 3M you have to understand our four collaborate with customers to discover solutions methods (non-animal) to help develop safe products together and identify challenges that they may not be 3M’s Product Safety, Compliance, and Stewardship fundamental strengths which are leveraged across the wherever practical. 3M is currently utilizing many of aware of, finding answers by utilizing 3M’s technology, Policy underscores our commitment to commercializing entire enterprise: technology, manufacturing, global these alternative methods, such as computational manufacturing, and global capabilities. and selling products that are safe for their intended capabilities, and our brand. toxicology and in vitro testing using isolated tissues or use(s), compliant with all applicable Environmental cells. We are also investing in the internal and external The policies and standards that guide the design, We are not a conglomerate with distinct and Health and Safety (EHS) regulations and 3M development of new methodologies that replace animal manufacture, and marketing of 3M products share a disconnected businesses. Our model is different. All our expectations, and developed with a goal to continuously testing. Where animal testing is required, we follow our common foundation: the 3M Code of Conduct. businesses are connected by these four strengths which improve the EHS performance of products and Animal Welfare in Testing and Research Policy. allow us to invent, build and sell products across our vast corresponding manufacturing processes. Other The Code of Conduct is an overarching guide to the global network. elements of this policy: appropriate decisions and actions of 3M individuals and teams as they go about their work. It defines our values • Each 3M Business Unit must maintain processes Additional policies and the responsibilities 3M employees and 3M suppliers for the effective global review of product safety, G4 • Human Subject Research Policy compliance, and stewardship requirements. This have to live up to them. includes consideration of EHS aspects relevant PR 3, 6 • Advertising/Product Representation Policy Under this broad umbrella of values are principles that throughout the life cycle of a product, including more specifically outline what 3M believes is the ethical raw material selection, product design, formulation, approach to various work situations, including situations manufacture, marketing, sale, intended and that involve innovation management of 3M products. anticipated use or misuse, recycling, and disposal. • Business processes must be incorporated into New Product Introduction (NPI) and Management of 3M’s Fundamental Strengths Product Safety, Quality, and Change (MOC) procedures, and product safety, Stewardship Principle compliance, and stewardship requirements must be integrated into the development, G4 G4 G4 In the Code of Conduct, one commercialization, and sale of 3M products. SD EN PR 14 27 1-3, 6 principle reinforces our commitment to product Technology Manufacturing Global Capabilities Brand safety, quality, and stewardship: the Product Safety, Quality, and Stewardship Principle. Product safety, Hazard Communication and Ability to share and Utilization of 3M Subsidiary front and Brand equity in the 3M quality, and stewardship must always be primary Composition Disclosure combine elements of 3M’s manufacturing footprint back office footprint that brand and in strategic considerations during design, manufacture, marketing, broad technology portfolio and technology, including allows for the effective brands that are shared and sales of 3M products. 3M employees must know G4 Communicating the potential hazards of 3M to produce unique, process trade secrets, development, adaptation, across business groups. and follow all applicable laws, regulations, and 3M PR 2-3, 6 materials supports 3M's core values and is an differentiated products, leading to higherand commercialization of policies, standards, and procedures for product safety, integral part of keeping stakeholders informed translating to premium performing products and products. quality, and stewardship and must report and respond to about 3M materials. The vehicles for communicating margins. lower unit costs. concerns in a diligent manner. 3M management is these hazards and product chemical components responsible for addressing reported concerns and include Safety Data Sheets (SDS), product labels, ensuring that 3M employees are properly trained in product literature, transportation classification applicable laws and regulations and 3M policies, documentation, and other communications tools. Each standards, and procedures. business unit must evaluate the potential hazards of 3M materials and transmit, in local country language(s), As well, we look at it as our responsibility to produce information about the hazards to employees, products with superior environmental performance contractors, and customers, to meet all regulatory across their entire life cycle, and to work with our requirements and 3M standards and guidelines, and to suppliers and business partners so that their operations promote informed decisions about the materials’ proper support these same objectives. and safe handling, use, and disposal. 190 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 191 What We Create | Innovation Management Technology Programs Leveraging Technologies Across Our Business 3M science is comprised of 46 technology platforms, ranging from adhesives and abrasives, to microreplication, and nonwoven materials. Ad Adhesives AbAbrasives AdAdhesives Fi Films Md Industrial Safety & Graphics Health Care Electronics & Energy Consumer Medical Data Management Structural Scotchlite™ reflective Medical tapes and Electronics assembly Post-it® notes, Scotch® Am Fl Ec Mf adhesives and material and car wraps dressings liquid adhesives and tapes, Command™ Advanced Materials Fluoromaterials Energy Components Mechanical Fasteners bonding tapes tapes strips CeCeramics Nt Nanotechnology Ac Acoustic Control Fe Flexible Electronics Mi Microbial Detection and Control Co Nw Mo Advanced Nonwoven Molding Pe Predictive Engineering RpRadiation AnAnalytical Fc Flexible Converting Pr Process Design Bi Biotech Fs Filtration, Separation, Op Optical Composites Materials and Modeling Processing and Packaging and Control Purification Communications Do Dental and Po Porous Materials Mr Pm Microreplication Polymer Su Surface As Application In Inspection and Se Sensors Dd Drug Delivery Im Imaging Tt Track and Trace Orthodontic Materials and Membranes Processing Modification Software Measurement Em Sm Pd Pp Vp Es Is We Di Lm Wo New-to-the-World Solutions from Combining Technologies Electronic Materials Specialty Materials Particle and Precision Processing Vapor Processing Electronics and Integrated Systems Accelerated Display Light Management Wound Dispersion Processing Software and Design Weathering Management Materials Processing Capabilities Applications Our Technology And versatile enough to virtually eliminate the needs for screws inside your smartphone, making it stronger, These technology platforms are owned by the company. lighter, and more durable. Development teams within each of our businesses And of course, our adhesives are found in the 3M and corporate research laboratories draw from these products you’re most familiar with like Post-it® Notes, High-Performance Medical Dressings Filtek™ Dental Adhesives, technologies to develop unique solutions for their Window Film Restoratives and Crowns Scotch® Tape, and Command™ Strips. customers and markets. Here’s an example of how one 3M technology platform, Imagine: that’s just one technology. There are similar Ad Fi Nt Lm Ad Fi Fc Nw Am Ce Nt Do stories with each of the 46 platforms. Adhesives Films Nanotechnology Light Management Adhesives Films Flexible Converting Nonwoven Advanced Ceramics Nanotechnology Dental and adhesives, is applied to different markets through our and Packaging Materials Materials Orthodontic Materials various businesses. Imagine, too: if a single technology platform can be Sm Wo Su Pm Co Bi Pd Su leveraged in that many ways and across that many Specialty Materials Wound Surface Polymer Advanced Biotech Particle and Surface We engineer our adhesives to be strong enough to hold Management Modification Processing Composites Dispersion Processing Modification markets, think of the endless possibilities when we planes, cars, and hotels in one piece. combine them. At the same time, we engineer them to be gentle enough for human skin… as you’ll find in our medical tapes and dressings. 192 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 193 What We Create | Innovation Management Driving success today, while NTI Framework building for the future. new ideas that fuel the 3M innovation pipeline. The collaborating takes place at an annual global event, spring Identify Identify superior product Develop symposiums, recognition programs, and many chapter the market concepts to meet the technical Commercialize We are always making investments to make our events held throughout the year. Included among our opportunity customer needs solution company even stronger, which includes our technology capabilities. That is why we invest close to 6 percent of Tech Forum chapters are the Global Product Stewardship Post-Launch and the Green Chemistry chapters. Explore Qualify Deploy our sales in R&D, which in 2017 equaled $1.87 billion. Manage changes As our Chief Executive Officer says, he leads 3M with one eye on the microscope – driving results day Deliver efficient growth Create Make Launch Execute to day, month to month, quarter to quarter –and the By leveraging strategic partnerships with several Idea Concept Feasibility Develop Scale Up other eye on the telescope, making sure we are making stakeholders internally and externally, 3M is able to investments for five, 10, 15 years down the road. transform diverse ideas and creativity into superior Identify Identify Develop Optimize product Prepare for launch the market superior product the technical and test customer technologies, business assets, and innovative opportunity concepts to meet solution acceptance product platforms. customer needs Product Design Criteria Our New Technology Introduction (NTI) framework In 2017, we have been working to bring additional clarity helps us manage the design and development of a new NPI Framework and consistency to the policies and standards that technology which may be used in several different support the Product Safety, Quality, and Stewardship new products. Principle. Meanwhile, our seven-phase New Product Introduction (NPI) process provides the robust framework for Product Stewardship Product Responsibility Liaisons (PRLs) or Product Stewards, embedded within 3M businesses and countries Product Stewardship Audits developing products from idea to launch. G4 PR Responsibility for product stewardship at 3M is shared across a broad spectrum of functions of operation, act as champions of EHS, regulatory, and Sustainability. They help assure our products meet Together, 3M’s NTI and NPI processes provide a 1 positioned within businesses, regions, and or exceed requirements stemming from 3M policies, 3M has been on the leading edge of product common framework for technology and product corporate staff groups. Together, individuals across this governmental regulations, and from our customers. stewardship audits, beginning with self-assessments in commercialization for all global business. Information spectrum work to support 3M's core value of respect for international regions in 2007, and incorporating global is required at every step, or gate, in the process, along In 2017, we continued our efforts to further enhance on-site audits in 2014. These audits evaluate, among our social and physical environment. with deliverable tasks. Having consistent practices the extent to which our new products improve lives in other elements, product hazard and risk assessment, throughout the company for technology and product socio-environmental terms. For example, we introduced chemical control, lifecycle management, and consumer creation assists in risk analysis by providing a common a Sustainability Attributes Analyzer tool to educate product safety. The goal of these audits is to assure that language from which to share tools and best practices cross-functional teams on how to think about improving regions are meeting corporate standards, and to share and manage project portfolios. the Sustainability attributes and applications of products best practices globally. Life Cycle Management from before a new idea even gets drawn out on paper all the way through the finalization of the manufacturing Collaboration Life Cycle Management Research & Development scale-up and product launch. This builds on our longstanding LCM process to further integrate Sustainability Life cycle management (LCM) is 3M’s approach into the core of who we are at 3M. One of many things that makes 3M a singular company to assuring that EHS and associated regulatory Raw Materials Manufacturing is our commitment to collaboration. There are no silos considerations are integrated into the development Acquisition & Production here. We collaborate with each other. Across businesses. Across technologies. Across oceans and continents. and commercialization of 3M products through 3M’s Life Cycle Assessments (LCA) NPI process. At each of the seven phases of NPI, our Case in point: the 3M Tech Forum, a self-directed and business teams provide LCM deliverables. Likewise, In addition to the LCM program which applies to all 3M self-organized catalyst for the 10,000-plus people in 3M’s we evaluate LCM impacts from product modifications products, we also complete ISO 14040-compliant LCAs through our corporate Management of Change process. Disposal Distribution & for select 3M products. At 3M, we primarily complete technical community. Begun more than 60 years ago, Recycling Transportation the Tech Forum gives 3M researchers the opportunity to We leverage these LCM processes to continuously cradle-to-gate LCAs, since the majority of our products compare notes with global colleagues, collaborate around improve the EHS performance of our products. have use and disposal life cycle stages that are difficult Protect Use to characterize. We also complete cradle-to-gate LCAs the company’s 46 technology platforms, and develop & Reuse 194 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 195 What We Create | Innovation Management for a number of internally-produced chemicals that Packaging Solutions provides continuous support are used in manufacturing of 3M products. While it is throughout the value chain: collaboration with 3M R&D not possible to complete full LCAs for all 55,000-plus on potential packaging solutions; work with suppliers to unique 3M products, evaluation of these intermediates optimize incoming packaging; work with supply chain to allows us to have a better understanding of the minimize scrap packaging and support sourcing’s efforts potential environmental impacts of key components to audit; and tracking conformance of top suppliers. and processes. Looking forward... Global certification of our #improvinglives means enabling a LCA process In 2018, we will be implementing our newly adopted Chemical Management Policy. This policy reflects the connected world from energy and In 2017, 3M LCA teams in the U.S. and Europe renewed evolving values of 3M and our stakeholders. Under this policy, to continually improve the EHS attributes of our the grid to electronics. their process certifications from The International EPD® products, 3M had identified specific chemicals whose System to demonstrate that appropriate procedures are We are dedicated to creating products that improve not just the use in products and manufacturing processes is subject in place to produce scientifically-sound, technicallyelectronics we have today, but our ability to innovate and advance to approval by the Corporate EHS Committee. the technology of tomorrow from efficient electronic devices, defensible LCAs and EPDs (Environmental Product to assuring reliable sources of power. Declarations). Rather than conduct independent Building on our legacy of environmental stewardship, third-party reviews for each individual product LCA we are actively enhancing Sustainability in 3M product or EPD, the teams will continue to undergo an annual development, new product introduction (NPI), and recertification process which evaluates conformance of a redesigned version of Life Cycle Management the underlying management system with the program (LCM). As part of this effort, we are looking at global rules and ISO standards. This global certification of Sustainability issues as a source for innovation, more the LCA process for multiple parts of our organization sustainable component selection as well as chemical is thought to be the first of its kind. It streamlines our and Sustainability touchpoints in NPI. In 2018 and 2019, processes and reduces time and cost, which enables we expect to be able to identify 3M products that carry us to complete LCAs for a larger portion of our diverse Sustainability advantages and to enhance customer product portfolio. visibility of 3M chemical management achievements. We will continue to deploy our “7 R” approach to Lifecycle approach in sustainable packaging – remove, reduce, reuse, recycle, renew, revenue, and research – and identify packaging design opportunities to integrate life cycle thinking and processes into packaging development. We will also G4 In 2017, we continued our long-standing work with key suppliers to identify opportunities on EN 28 commitment to efficient paper and packaging Sustainability initiatives and continue collaboration use. Over the last four years, globally, we have efforts with cross-functional stakeholders. reduced designed packaging weight of more than 12,000 metric tons, over half of which has come from paper-based packaging. Packaging Solutions support starts early at 3M, with engagement within our NPI and LCM processes. In an effort to help 3Mers design packaging using a lifecycle approach, a new model was piloted in 2016 through 2017. This model demonstrated encouraging results and will be deployed in 2018. Electronics & Energy 196 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 197 What We Create | Our Products Our Products $31.7 billion sales We bring all of our solutions G4 SD Consumer 4, 8 to different markets through our five business groups, which Making life easier and more productive at home and work increases speed and efficiency Supplying an array of innovative products that keep homes cleaner, offices organized, and by sharing technology, buildings well-maintained, our consumer business is home to some of our most iconic brands and well-known products, including Post-it,® Scotch,® manufacturing, marketing, Scotch-Brite,® Filtrete,™ O-Cel-O,™ Nexcare,™ and Command.™ and other resources across all business groups. $4.59 billion sales 198 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 199 What We Create | Our Products Electronics & Energy Industrial Advancing a connected world From purification to aerospace, we change how industry works We turn 3M technology into difference-making solutions for customers in electronics and energy We provide thousands of innovative products markets around the world. We contribute to including tapes, abrasives, adhesives, specialty reliable sources of power including solutions that materials and filtration systems to dozens of improve the dependability, cost-effectiveness, diverse markets – from aerospace and automotive and performance of electronic devices; electrical to purification and construction to general products, including infrastructure protection, and manufacturing. All, with a transformed approach power generation and distribution helping connect to customer engagement. the world’s power grid. $5.16 billion sales $10.9 billion sales Health Care Safety & Graphics From preventing infections and From protecting people and protecting wounds, to improving oral improving road safety and health and ensuring food quality mobility to enhancing visual and design communication Supplying innovative and reliable products that help health care professionals improve the quality and Our products – personal protective equipment, efficiency of care, we are a global leader in medical safety and security products, track and trace and oral care products, and drug delivery and health solutions and more – increase the safety, security, information systems. We are also bringing enhanced and productivity of people, locations and systems contaminant screening technology to the food around the world. Also, we inspire creative safety table. communication and design with a broad portfolio of graphic solutions that enhance visual impact. $5.81 billion sales $6.15 billion sales 200 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 201 About Report Report Scope and Boundaries 204 GRI Index and UNGC 208 Assurance Statement 220 Metric Tables 226 About Report | Report Scope and Boundaries About Report Report Scope and Boundaries Report Schedule and Period and fully integrated onto 3M systems. All data included in the report is global data unless otherwise specified. Current Issue: May 8, 2018 Any significant organization changes are identified in the Next Issue: Scheduled for May 2019 Annual Report 2017 and 2018 Notice of Annual Meeting Previous Issue: May 9, 2017 & Proxy Statement. Before 2010, 3M’s Sustainability Report was a fully integrated website. Therefore, copies before 2010 are Data Collection, Adjustments, not available. and Verification This report provides a summary of the activities in fiscal year 2017 (January 1, 2017, to December 31, 2017). The data provided in this report through facts and figures is based on activities during 3M’s fiscal year 2017. For some performance indicators, the previous Organizational Boundaries year’s data are provided to allow for annual comparisons. This report covers 3M’s owned manufacturing facilities and leased facilities worldwide, including joint ventures Report Data Collection (if greater than 50 percent 3M ownership) and partially owned subsidiaries (if greater than 50 percent 3M Due to the size and geographical extent of our ownership) where 3M has full operational control. operations, it is at times difficult to obtain all data Acquisitions are included in data sets once legally owned points. Therefore, to the extent possible, limitations and 204 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 205 About Report | Report Scope and Boundaries assumptions are stated as information in the report. The data reported in this report has been reviewed for environmental goals are normalized per net sales. 3M does not adjust sales data for inflation. Data Verification education and development. 3M self-declares the 2018 report as “In Accordance-Core”. accuracy and completeness, including the reliability of Internal Verification: 3M has conducted an internal the systems used to obtain the data. 3M generally does not adjust its base-year verification of the information provided in this report. environmental metrics data to reflect changes in United Nations Global Compact The objectives for our assurance process included: Unless noted below, corporate staff have also verified 3M’s organizational structure. As a result, 3M sets Communication on Progress the implementation of policies and management systems environmental targets that are normalized or indexed • Accuracy and completeness of data through audits and self-reporting systems. to production (tons emitted or net sales) to assure the The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic policy • Reliability of systems used to measure and environmental progress we report publically is not initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning • Financial Data: Financial information referenced in record data unduly influenced by changes to our organizational their operations and strategies with 10 universally this report is collected and reported in accordance • Reliability of ratios compiled from underlying data accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, structure. However, in the case of our greenhouse with the United States Securities and Exchange environment, and anti-corruption. 3M committed to the gas emissions data, 3M follows the World Resource • Adherence to the GRI G4 Reporting Guidelines Commission through the Annual Report 2017 United Nations Global Compact principles in early 2014. Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable • Implementation of internal policies and related • Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Data: The Development GHG Protocol. Consequently, we readjust This report includes an index of our Communication management systems as reported EHS data in this report is related to release to the our greenhouse gas emissions base-year data in the case on Progress implementing the 10 principles as well as environment, safety performance, management of business acquisitions and divestitures. • Presentation of a complete and fair picture in the alignment with the United Nations 2030 Sustainable systems implementation and regulatory report as a whole Development Goals (SDGs) within the content of this compliance. Data collection systems are in place at Whenever feasible, 3M adjusts base-year and other 2018 Sustainability Report. applicable sites to track and collect environmental, years’ data if data collection methods change or data Third-Party Verification: Bureau Veritas [“Assurance health and safety data through the corporate-wide errors are identified. Any significant changes in the Provider”] provided independent third-party assurance EHS reporting systems (e.g., Environmental Targets measurement methods and/or data values applied to key for this report covering activities January 1, 2017 to Global Reporting Initiative Database, Worldwide Incident Management environmental metrics from previous years are disclosed December 31, 2017. Bureau Veritas provided moderate Reporting Guidelines System, etc.) in the report. Significant changes are defined by 3M’s level of assurance in accordance with AA100AS-2008, Sustainability Report as changes greater than 5 percent Type 2. Bureau Veritas’ assurance letter can be found in 3M has developed this report using the Global Reporting • Social Data: The data related to employee Initiatives’ G4 Guidelines. The GRI Index table outlines of the original data point. the report under Assurance Statement. metrics, metrics, social practices, and community where specific GRI reporting elements and indicators programs has been derived from various databases Reporting year 2017 unionized global workforce value is are addressed in the report. from within the Human Resources and 3Mgives organizations. The data have been reviewed 45 percent lower than previously reported in last year’s Sustainability Report. This change is due to an improved Global Principles and and verified by the departments responsible for internal global database system and potential historical Guidelines United Nations Global Compact maintaining the internal reporting systems calculation error. This change was identified during an Principles and 2030 Sustainable • Responsible Sourcing Systems and Data: The internal audit. Development Goals Global Reporting Initiative policies and management systems implementation Between 2005 and 2010, 3M adopted a holistic Refer to the GRI Index table for cross-references of in this area has been reviewed and verified by The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a networkdefinition of waste to drive the company’s waste content in this report with the 10 Principles of the United the departments responsible for maintaining the based organization that includes representatives from reduction efforts toward more sustainable solutions, Nations Global Compact, as well as alignment with the internal reporting systems business, government, labor, third-party advocacy such as pollution prevention. 3M’s waste reduction goal United Nations 2030 Sustainable Development Goals groups, and academia. The GRI organization has Sites acquired by 3M are integrated into 3M programs and progress during this period included recycling. In (SDGs). developed a framework for Sustainability reporting. and reporting systems via a prioritized functional 2011, 3M returned to a more conventional definition of Following the GRI Sustainability framework advances integration schedule. Timeframe for integration varies waste that considered recycling as neutral (contributing neither toward total waste nor toward good output). two important objectives: transparency and the ability Contact 3M depending on subject matter reporting requirements and to compare results from one organization to another. site systems before being acquired; however, on average 3M has developed this report using GRI G4 Guidelines. It is through collaboration and partnerships that 3M’s 2025 goal program utilizes 2015 as the base-year. integration ranges between one to three years. The following GRI index outlines where specific GRI 3M can accelerate Sustainability in our company to Starting with this program, waste disposed and waste by disposal type does not include waste-to-energy. reporting elements and indicators are addressed in the improve every life. You can contact 3M Sustainability at Total hazardous and total non-hazardous includes report or other reporting sources including the Annual Sustainability@mmm.com. Base Year and Other waste-to-energy. Report 2017, 2018 Notice of Annual Meeting & Proxy or Adjustments Reporting year 2016 offsite reuse values represented other noted sources on 3M’s Investor Relations website. in this report are 5.8 percent lower than previously Our material aspects are identified in the GRI Index and 3M’s Annual Report 2017 and Investor Relations website reported in our 2017 Sustainability Report. This change reflected in our 2025 goals with focus on raw materials, document any changes to financial data. Several of 3M’s is due to a data error identified during an onsite audit and water, climate and energy, health and safety, and review of our internal definition for offsite reuse values. 206 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 207 About Report | GRI Index SD General Standard Disclosure GRI Connections GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker Message from our Chief Executive Officer 6 of the organization G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and Message from our Chief Executive Officer 6 opportunities Global Challenges 46 Materiality 48 Organization Profile GRI Index G4-3 Name of organization 3M Company G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services Our Products 198 Annual Report, 10-K, pages 4-7 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 3M Company 3M Center St. Paul, Minnesota, United States Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index G4-6 Number of countries operating in, and countries with significant operations 70-plus and UN Global Compact Report on Progress Corporate Code of Conduct 98 Annual Report, 10-K, page 10 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Annual Report, 10-K, page 4 G4-8 Markets served Our Products 198 Annual Report, 10-K, pages 4-7 G4-9 Scale of organization Employee Programs 118 Sustainability Metric Tables 226 SD EC EN HR LA PR SO Annual Report, 10-K, pages 4-7 G4-10 Total number of employees 91,500 UNGC Principle 6 Standard Economic Environment Human Rights Labor Product Society Corporate Code of Conduct 98 SDG 8 Disclosure Practices Responsibility Health and Safety 130 Sustainability Metric Tables 226 Annual Report, 10-K, page 4 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective 16 percent UNGC bargaining Principle 6 Human Rights 106 SDG 8 G4-12 Description of supply chain Suppliers 168 G4-13 Significant changes in organization during Annual Report, 10-K, pages 74-78 reporting period G4-14 Precautionary approach Global Challenges 46 Environmental Management 138 Innovation Management 188 208 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 209 About Report | GRI Index GRI Connections GRI Connections GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* G4-15 External Sustainability charters, principles or initiatives Stakeholders Human Rights 72 106 Governance G4-16 List memberships of associations and Stakeholders 72 G4-34 Governance structure Corporate Governance 86 organizations G4-35 Delegation of authority for Sustainability topics Corporate Governance 86 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-36 Executive level position for Sustainability topics Corporate Governance 86 G4-17 Entities in consolidated financial statement Annual Report, 10-K, pages 4-10 and 71-75 G4-37 Process for stakeholder feedback to highest Corporate Governance 86 SDG 16 governance body G4-18 Process for defining the report content and Materiality 48 aspect boundaries G4-38 Composition of board Corporate Governance 86 SDG 5, 16 3M Board of Directors G4-19 Material aspects Materiality 48 and Committee Composition G4-20 Aspect boundary within Materiality 48 G4-39 Chair is executive officer Inge G. Thulin, Chairman of the Board and 6 SDG 16 Chief Executive Officer G4-21 Aspect boundary outside Materiality 48 Corporate Governance 86 G4-22 Effect of restatement of information About Report 204 G4-40 Nomination and selection process for board Corporate Governance 86 SDG 5, 16 3M Company Board of Directors G4-23 Report significant changes in the scope and No significant changes to applicable Nominating and Governance aspect boundaries operational boundaries, scope, or Committee Charter measurement methodology. G4-41 Conflicts of interest avoidance for board Corporate Governance 86 SDG 16 Stakeholder Engagement G4-42 Governance body’s role in development of Corporate Governance 86 values, mission statement, etc. G4-24 List of stakeholders engaged Stakeholders 72 G4-43 Measures to improve board’s understanding of Corporate Governance 86 G4-25 Basis for stakeholder identification Stakeholders 72 Sustainability impacts G4-44 Evaluation of board with respect to Corporate Governance 86 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholders 72 Sustainability impacts Nominating and Governance Committee Charter G4-27 Key topics of concern raised by stakeholders Materiality 48 G4-45 Board’s role in identification and management of Corporate Governance 86 SDG 16 Sustainability risks Report Profile G4-46 Board’s role in reviewing organization’s risk Corporate Governance 86 management for Sustainability risks Enterprise Risk 94 G4-28 Reporting period About Report 204 G4-47 Frequency of the board’s review of Corporate Governance 86 G4-29 Date of most previous report About Report 204 Sustainability risks G4-30 Reporting cycle About Report 204 G4-48 Highest governing body’s role in reviewing Corporate Governance 86 report and material aspects G4-31 Contact point for questions About Report 204 G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns Corporate Governance 86 to board G4-32 In accordance option About Report 204 G4-50 Nature and number of concerns reported This information is considered Business to board Confidential. G4-33 External assurance for report About Report 204 External Assurance Statement 220 G4-51 Remuneration policy for board Compensation 114 Proxy Statement, page 29 and 56 210 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 211 About Report | GRI Index GRI Connections GRI Connections GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* G4-52 Process for determining remuneration of board Compensation 114 G4-EC7 Development and impact of Communities 64 SDG 2, 5, 7, 9 Proxy Statement, page 31 infrastructure investments G4-53 Stakeholders’ views sought for board Compensation 114 SDG 16 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, Communities 64 SDG 8, 10, 17 remuneration policies Annual Report, 10-K including extent G4-54 Ratio of annual compensation for highest Proxy Statement, page 70 G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Supplier spend by location is considered SDG 12 paid individual versus median Business Confidential. G4-55 Percentage increase of compensation The ratio of Chief Executive Officer pay EC Environment for highest paid individual to other positions is not a labor indicator currently tracked and disclosed. Our practice is to set pay targets at all levels, from the Chief Executive Officer on down, based on competitive external market data. GRI Connections G4-56 Organization’s values, principles Corporate Code of Conduct 98 UNGC GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN and standards Principle 10 Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* SDG 16 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight and volume Due to the diversity and complexity of G4-57 Mechanisms for seeking advice on Corporate Code of Conduct 98 UNGC manufacturing of 3M’s products and organizational integrity Principle 10 associated materials portfolio, this data is not SDG 16 collected (by weight/volume) and aggregated to the extent it would indicate relevance at a corporate level. G4-58 Mechanisms for reporting concerns about Corporate Code of Conduct 98 UNGC unethical behavior Principle 10 SDG 16 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are Due to the diversity and complexity of recycled input materials manufacturing of 3M’s products and associated materials portfolio, this data is not collected (percent of recycled materials) and EC Economic aggregated to the extent it would indicate relevance at a corporate level. G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Climate and Energy 156 UNGC GRI Connections 2017 Metrics 226 Principle 7, 8 GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN SDG 7, 8, 12, Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* 13 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2017 Metrics 226 SDG 2, 5, 7, G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of Climate and Energy 156 UNGC 3M Interactive Analyst Center 8, 9 the organization 2017 Metrics 226 Principle 8 SDG 7, 8, 12, 13 G4-EC2 Financial risks due to climate change Climate Change and Energy 156 SDG 13 Annual Report, 10-K, page 11 G4-EN5 Energy intensity Climate and Energy 156 UNGC 2017 Metrics 226 Principle 8 G4-EC3 Coverage of benefits plan obligations Employee Programs 118 SDG 7, 8, 12, Annual Report, 10-K, pages 89-100 13 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government 3M does not receive significant financial G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Climate and Energy 156 UNGC assistance from the government. For some 2017 Metrics 226 Principle 8 information about tax holidays and the U.S. SDG 7, 8, 12, 13 research and development credit, refer to Note 9, Income Taxes, in Annual Report, 10-K, pages 86 to 90. G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of Climate and Energy 156 UNGC products and services Principle 8, 9 SDG 7, 8, 11, G4-EC5 Ratio of entry level wage by gender 3M sets and administers compensation based 12, 13 compared to local minimum wage on external market competitiveness without regard to gender. G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Water 152 UNGC 2017 Metrics 226 Principle 7, 8 G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired This information is considered Business SDG 6 from local community Confidential. 212 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 213 About Report | GRI Index GRI Connections GRI Connections GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* G4-EN9 Water sources significant affected Water 152 UNGC G4-EN22 Total water discharged by quality 3M 2025 water goals are focused on water by withdrawal Principle 8 and destination conservation and community engagement. SDG 6 The 3M Business Conduct requirements and the Environmental Policy require compliance with all applicable jurisdictional laws and G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled Water 152 UNGC regulations, including those on water and reused Principle 8 SDG 6, 8, 12 discharge. G4-EN11 Operational sites near protected or high Water 152 biodiversity areas G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and Raw Materials 144 UNGC disposal method 2017 Metrics 226 Principle 8 SDG 3, 6, 12 G4-EN12 Significant impacts on biodiversity Environmental Management 138 Water 152 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills​ Environmental Management 138 UNGC Significant impacts on biodiversity would be 3M did not have any significant spills in 2017 Principle 8 discussed in our Annual Report, 10-K . SDG 3, 6, that met the GRI definition of reportable in the organizations financial report (due to resulting 12, 14 G4-EN13 Habitats protected Communities 64 UNGC liabilities). Environmental Management 138 Principle 8 Supply Chain 168 SDG 6, 14, 15 G4-EN25 Weight of hazardous waste 2017 Metrics 226 The 3M Business Conduct requirements and G4-EN14 Endangered species habitats near Water 152 the Environmental Policy require compliance operational sites 3M conducts environmental assessments of with all applicable jurisdictional laws and our operational sites, whereby biodiverse areas regulations, including those on hazardous may be identified. Where applicable, a public waste transportation. database search is completed, which includes a wetland database. Site visits also identify rivers, creeks, potential wetlands, etc. that are G4-EN26 Water bodies affected by organization's 3M conducts environmental assessments of on or near the facility being assessed. water discharges our operational sites, whereby biodiverse areas may be identified. Where applicable, a public database search is completed, which includes G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions Climate and Energy 156 UNGC a wetland database. Site visits also identify 2017 Metrics 226 Principle 7, 8 rivers, creeks, potential wetlands, etc. that are SDG 3, 12, 13, on or near the facility being assessed. 14, 15 G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts Innovation Management 188 UNGC G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions Climate and Energy 156 UNGC of products 3M Product Safety, Quality, and Stewardship Principle 7, 2017 Metrics 226 Principle 7, 8 Principle 8, 9 SDG 3, 12, 13, SDG 6, 8, 12, 14, 15 13, 14, 15 G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions Climate and Energy 156 UNGC G4-EN28 Percentage of products and packaging Raw Materials 144 UNGC 2017 Metrics 226 Principle 7, 8 materials that are reclaimed Innovation Management Principle 8 SDG 3, 12, 13, SDG 8, 12 14, 15 G4-EN29 Fines for non-compliance with Environmental Management 138 UNGC G4-EN18 GHG consumption intensity Climate and Energy 156 UNGC environmental regulation 2017 Metrics 226 Principle 8 2017 Metrics 226 Principle 8 SDG 8, 16 SDG 13, 14, 15 G4-EN30 Environmental impacts of transporting Climate and Energy 156 UNGC G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions Climate and Energy 156 UNGC products and members of workforce 2017 Metrics 226 Principle 8 2017 Metrics 226 Principle 8, 9 SDG 11, 13 SDG 13, 14, 15 G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures Environmental Management 138 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone depleting substances Climate and Energy 156 UNGC and investments by type​ Principle 7, 8 SDG 3, 12 G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers screened using Suppliers 168 UNGC environmental criteria Principle 8 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant Climate and Energy 156 UNGC air emissions​ Principle 7, 8 SDG 3, 12, G4-EN33 Negative environmental impacts in the Suppliers 168 UNGC 14, 15 supply chain and actions taken​ Principle 8 SDG 15 G4-EN34 Number of grievances about This information is considered Business environmental impacts Confidential. 214 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 215 About Report | GRI Index HR Human Rights LA Labor Practices and Decent Work GRI Connections GRI Connections GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* G4-HR1 Investment agreements and contracts that Corporate Code of Conduct 98 UNGC G4-LA1 Employee hires and turn over Employee Programs 118 UNGC include human rights clauses Investment agreements are subject to Principle 2 Principle 6 3M Business Conduct Policies and Guidelines SDG 5, 8 G4-HR2 Employee training on human rights Human Rights 106 UNGC G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Employee Programs 118 SDG 8 Principle 1 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention after parental leave Employee Programs 118 UNGC G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination and This information is considered Business Principle 6 corrective action Confidential. SDG 5, 8 G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers in which the right to Corporate Code of Conduct 98 UNGC G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational Employee Programs 118 UNGC freedom of association may be violated Human Rights 106 Principle 3 changes Principle 3 Suppliers 168 SDG 8 SDG 8 3M Supplier Responsibility Code G4-LA5 Workers represented by management-worker Health and Safety 130 SDG 8 G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers with risk of Corporate Code of Conduct 98 UNGC health and safety committees child labor Human Rights 106 Principle 5 Suppliers 168 SDG 8, 16 G4-LA6 Type and rates of injury, lost days, Health and Safety 130 SDG 3, 8 3M Supplier Responsibility Code work-related fatalities 2017 Metrics 226 G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers with risk of Corporate Code of Conduct 98 UNGC G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk We are always taking steps to protect our SDG 3, 8 compulsory labor Human Rights 106 Principle 4 of diseases related to their work most important asset – 3M employees. Our Suppliers 168 SDG 8 innovations are only possible with the minds, 3M Supplier Responsibility Code talent, and commitment of all of our employees worldwide, so we put a lot of thought and effort G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Human Rights 106 UNGC into keeping them safe and healthy. Our Safety organization’s human rights policies Principle 1 and Health Policy applies to all 3M operations. SDG 16 G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in This information is considered Business G4-HR8 Indigenous rights violations To the best of our knowledge, there were no UNGC agreements with trade unions Confidential. incidents reported to Compliance and Business Principle 1 Conduct Department related to the rights of Indigenous people in 2017. G4-LA9 Average hours of training per employee Employee Programs 118 UNGC Although 3M tracks some training hours, it is Principle 6 not consistent globally. 3M believes indicators SDG 8 G4-HR9 Number and percentage of operations that have Human Rights 106 UNGC that align results of the people with success of been assessed for human rights Principle 1 the company are direct indicators of successful development programs. G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers screened using Suppliers 168 UNGC human rights criteria​ Principle 2 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and Employee Programs 118 SDG 8 lifelong learning G4-HR11 Negative human rights impacts in the supply Suppliers 168 UNGC chain and actions taken​ Principle 2 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular Employee Programs 118 UNGC performance reviews Principle 6 G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights This information is considered Business SDG 5, 8 impacts filed Confidential. G4-LA12 Employees by category for diversity indicators Diversity and Inclusion 76 UNGC Employee Programs 118 Principle 6 SDG 5, 8 G4-LA13 Remuneration of men to women by 3M sets and administers compensation based UNGC employee category on external market competitiveness without Principle 6 regard to gender. SDG 8, 10 G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers screened using Supplier 168 SDG 5, 8, 16 labor practices criteria 216 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 217 About Report | GRI Index GRI Connections SO Society GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* G4-LA15 Negative labor practices impacts in the supply Supplier 168 SDG 8, 16 chain and actions taken​ GRI Connections GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN G4-LA16 Grievances about labor practices This information is considered Business Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* Confidential. G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with local Communities 64 UNGC community engagement, etc Principle 1 PR Product Responsibility G4-SO2 Operations with significant impact on local communities Environmental Management Raw Materials 138 144 UNGC Principle 1 Water 152 Climate and Energy 156 GRI Connections Suppliers 168 GRI Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) Page Disclosure to UN Human Rights 106 Element Description or Direct Answer (PDF) Level Initiatives* G4-SO3 Percentage of operations assessed for Corporate Code of Conduct 98 UNGC G4-PR1 Percentage of product categories for Innovation Management 188 risks related to corruption Be Honest Principle 10 which health and safety impacts are Product Safety, Quality, and Stewardship SDG 16 assessed/improved Principle G4-SO4 Communications and training of Corporate Code of Conduct 98 UNGC G4-PR2 Non-compliance concerning health and Corporate Code of Conduct 98 anti-corruption policies Be Honest Principle 10 safety impacts of products Innovation Management 188 SDG 16 Product Safety, Quality, and Stewardship G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and Corporate Code of Conduct 98 UNGC Principle actions taken Principle 10 SDG 16 G4-PR3 Organization's procedures for Corporate Code of Conduct 98 SDG 12 product labeling Innovation Management 188 G4-SO6 Value of political contributions by Corporate Governance 86 UNGC Product Safety, Quality, and Stewardship country and recipient​ Corporate Code of Conduct 98 Principle 10 Principle Lobbying and Political Activities Principle SDG 16 Advertising and Product Representation Principle G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior Significant legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices G4-PR4 Number of incidents for non-compliance Significant non-compliance with labeling would SDG 16 would be discussed in our Annual Report, 10-K. with labeling be discussed in our Annual Report, 10-K. G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines Environmental Management SDG 16 G4-PR5 Results of customer satisfaction surveys This information is considered Business Significant fines would be discussed in our Confidential. Annual Report, 10-K. G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products​ Innovation Management 188 G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers screened for Suppliers 168 Product Safety, Quality, and Stewardship impacts on society Principle Advertising and Product Representation Principle G4-SO10 Negative impacts on society in the This information is considered Business supply chain and actions taken Confidential. G4-PR7 Non-compliance concerning marketing Significant non-compliance concerning market communications communications would be discussed in our G4-SO11 Grievances about impacts on society This information is considered Business Annual Report, 10-K. Confidential. G4-PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding 3M respects customers' right to privacy: see breaches of customer privacy 3M Global Internet Privacy Policy. Significant Disclosure Levels non-compliance concerning substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer Full Partial Not Disclosed *United Nations Global Compact Principles *United Nations Sustainable Development Goals privacy would be discussed in our Annual Report, 10-K. G4-PR9 Significant fines for non-compliance with Significant fines for non-compliance with SDG 16 provision and use of product provision and use of product would be discussed in our Annual Report, 10-K. 218 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 219 About Report | Assurance Statement INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Assurance Introduction and objectives of work Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. (Bureau Veritas) was engaged by 3M Corporation (3M) to conduct an independent assurance of its 2018 3M Sustainability Report (the Report). This Assurance Statement applies to the related information included within the scope of work described below. The intended users of the assurance statement are the stakeholders of 3M. The overall aim of this process is to provide assurance to 3M’s stakeholders on the accuracy, Statement reliability and objectivity of the information included in the Report as described in the scope of work. The assurance process also evaluated 3M’s management of sustainability in accordance with the principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. The information that was assured and its presentation in the Report are the sole responsibility of the management of 3M. Bureau Veritas was not involved in the drafting of the Report. Our sole responsibility was to provide independent assurance on its content. Scope of work 3M requested Bureau Veritas to include in its independent assurance the following:  Data included in the Report for the calendar year 2017 reporting period as shown in the attached Summary of Assured Information;  Appropriateness and robustness of underlying reporting systems and processes, used to collect, analyze and review the data subject to the assurance process; and  Evaluation of the Report in accordance with the Assurance Standard AA1000AS (2008)1 Type 2 assurance. Excluded from the scope of our work is any assurance of information relating to:  Text or other written statements associated with the Report;  Activities outside the defined assurance period; and  Financial data and data reported that are not included in the Summary of Assured Information. Methodology Bureau Veritas undertook the following activities during the assurance process: 1. Interviews with relevant personnel of 3M (including managers and staff members at the corporate and site level); 2. Review of internal and external documentary evidence produced by 3M; 3. Audit of performance data presented in the Report including a detailed review of a sample of data; 4. Visits to manufacturing sites located in Cottage Grove, MN; Aberdeen, SD; and Stafford Springs, CT; 5. Remote data reviews for manufacturing sites located in Gendorf, Germany; Tuas, Singapore; and Sumaré, Brazil; 6. Visit to 3M headquarters office located in Maplewood, Minnesota; and 1 Published by AccountAbility: The Institute of Social and Ethical Accountability 220 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 221 7. Review of 3M data and information systems for collection, aggregation, analysis and  With corporate staff support, plants are developing project plans that have quantified internal verification and review. expected results to meet overall reduction goals with respect to waste and water. This provides additional support to the planning for achieving goals. The work was planned and carried out to provide a moderate level of assurance and we believe it provides a sound basis for our conclusions.  3M continued its commitment to considering sustainability in the development of new products by conducting life cycle assessments to determine water consumption and GHG emissions from new products compared to existing products used for the same purpose. Our findings  Control of emissions of high global warming potential compounds from manufacturing On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above: processes is continuing to evolve to reduce process-related GHG emissions.  Nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the reviewed information within the  Community giving is aligned with core organizational values to improve lives with a focus scope of our verification is not materially correct. on education, community and the environment. 3M provides community support through various engagements in the community. Corporately, the 3M Foundation provides funding  Nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the reviewed information is not a to charitable organizations. 3M also makes in-kind donations. fair representation of the actual environmental and health and safety data for calendar year 2017.  It is our opinion that 3M has established appropriate systems for the collection, Statement of independence, impartiality and competence aggregation and analysis of quantitative data, including energy use, direct and Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company that specializes in Quality, indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, water consumption, waste quantities and Health, Safety, Social and Environmental management with over 180 years history in disposition, injury and illness rate, lost day rate, severity rate and number of providing independent assurance services, and an annual 2017 revenue of 4.69 Billion Euros. environmental violations. No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with 3M, its Directors or A summary of data within the scope of assurance for 2017 is attached. Managers beyond that of verification and assurance of sustainability data and reporting. We have conducted this verification independently and we believe there to have been no conflict of interest. Bureau Veritas has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to Adherence to the AA1000 Accountability Principles maintain high ethical standards among staff in their day-to-day business activities. Based on the work undertaken during this assurance process, we are of the opinion that 3M The assurance team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over environmental, adheres to the Accountability Principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness as social, ethical and health and safety information, systems and processes, has over 20 years discussed below. combined experience in this field and an excellent understanding of Bureau Veritas standard Inclusivity methodology for the Assurance of Sustainability Reports. Based on discussions with 3M, their processes appear to be inclusive of stakeholders. In 2016, 3M commissioned a third party provider to update their materiality assessment and has since been using that assessment to identify and engage stakeholders. Some of the Attestation: stakeholder groups that 3M has identified to include in their sustainability processes include 3M employees, customers, non-governmental organizations, investors and the public. Materiality 3M updated their materiality assessment in 2016. The Chief Technology Officer serves a John A. Rohde Lead Verifier Candice Derks, Technical Reviewer leadership role for the company's Science, Technology and Sustainability (STS) committee, Senior Project Manager Technical Director which consists of a small group of key 3M leadership that continues to consider the materiality Sustainability and Climate Change Services Climate Change Services of sustainability issues. Background information on the STS can be found in the 3M proxy statement: http://s2.q4cdn.com/974527301/files/doc_financials/2017/Annual/2018_3M_Company_Proxy. pdf Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. Responsiveness Denver, Colorado 3M receives questions regarding sustainability from customers, investors, non-governmental April 30, 2018 organizations and others through various channels. The company has guidance for responding to customer inquiries on sustainability issues and uses this guidance for responding to other groups as well. Responses to surveys are coordinated by the corporate sustainability group. Each business group also has sustainability leads who assist with responding to stakeholders. Key Observations for 2017  Data systems at 3M allow for consolidation and review of environmental, safety, and energy data at the corporate level for reporting.  Plants in water stressed areas have developed water plans and 3M is working to continue to improve the plans through standardization and working with regional groups. 222 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 223 f Assured Information Summary of Assured Information Summary of Assured Information Summary of Assured Information rting Year 2017 Reporting Year 2017 Reporting Year 2017 Reporting Year 2017 M Company 3M Company Summary Summary Summary Summary ofofAssured ofofAssured Assured 3M Company Information AssuredInformation Information Information 3M Company Reporting Reporting Reporting ReportingYearYear Year 2017 Year 20172017 2017 3M3MCompany 3M Company 3MCompany Company MetricsMetrics Waste Energy Demographic Metrics Units Units UnitsValue Value Value AirEnergy Emissions Demographic Metrics Waste Metrics Metrics Metrics Units Units Units Units Value Value Value Value Air Emissions Waste MetricsMetrics Metrics Energy Units Units UnitsValue Value Value AirEnergy EmissionsMetricsMetrics Units Units Value Value Total Global Full‐time Equivalent % of Total Total Global Full‐time Equivalent % of Total % of Total Zero Landfill Total Energy Use (Absolute) Total Number 28% 29,600,000 MMBTUsSites 91,500 Total Energy Absolute Zero Scope Use Landfill(Absolute)(Direct) 1 Emissions MMBTUs Metric CO2eNumber TonsTotal 29,600,000 3,960,000 91,500 28% Absolute Zero ScopeLandfill 1 Emissions Total Use (Absolute) Metric Tons Energy (Direct) CO2eMMBTUsSites 3,960,00028% 29,600,000 ScopeUse Total Energy Absolute (Absolute)(Direct) 1 Emissions MMBTUs Metric Tons CO2e 29,600,000 3,960,000 (Headcount) Manufacturing (Headcount) Manufacturing Sites Manufacturing Demographic Demographic Demographic DemographicMetrics Metrics Metrics Metrics Units UnitsUnits Units Value ValueValue Value Waste Waste Metrics Waste Waste Metrics Metrics Metrics UnitsUnits Units Units Value Value Value Value Energy Energy Energy Energy Metrics MetricsMetrics Metrics Units Units UnitsUnits ValueValue Value Value Emissions AirEmissions Emissions AirAir Air Metrics Emissions Metrics Metrics Metrics Units UnitsUnits Units ValueValue Value Value Waste Total Total Disposed: Total Global Total Global Global Full‐time Global Landfill, Full‐time Total Treatment Equivalent Equivalent Full‐time Full‐time Equivalent Global Equivalent Employees andat Year‐End Absolute Scope Waste 2Global TotalDisposed: Employees Location‐based at%Year‐End %ofofTotal Treatment Landfill,Emissions % %of Total andof Total Total Number Total Scope Disposed: Absolute Waste 2 Location‐based Treatment and Landfill,Emissions Absolute ScopeUse 2 Location‐based Emissions MWh 00 Total (Absolute) Energy Use (Absolute) Metric Total Total Tons Total Number Total Number MWh Number Number Total Number 159,000 91,500 91,500 91,500 91,500 92,400Zero 8,670,000 Zero ZeroLandfill Landfill Total Zero Energy Landfill Landfill Use (Absolute) MWh Metric Tons CO2e Metric Tons 28% 28% 28% 28% 1,880,000 92,400 8,670,000 159,000 Total Total Total Total Energy Energy UseEnergy Energy Use(Absolute) (Absolute) Use TotalUse (Absolute) (Absolute) Energy Metric MMBTUs Use (Absolute)MMBTUs Tons MMBTUs MMBTUs CO2e Metric Tons MWh 1,880,000 29,600,000 29,600,000 159,000 29,600,000 29,600,000 Absolute 8,670,000 Absolute Absolute ScopeScope Absolute Scope Total 1 1Scope Energy Emissions 1 1Emissions Emissions (Direct) (Direct) Emissions (Direct) (Absolute) Metric (Direct) Metric Metric Tons Tons Metric Tons CO2e TonsCO2e CO2e CO2e Metric 3,960,000 Tons CO2e3,960,000 3,960,000 8,670,000 3,960,0001,880,000 Incineration (Headcount) (Headcount) (Headcount) (Headcount) (Headcount) (Headcount) (Indirect)Incineration (Absolute) Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing SitesSites Sites Sites (Indirect) Incineration (Absolute) (Indirect) Total Total Global Global Employees Employees Year‐EndYear‐End atatIncineration at at Waste Disposed: Absolute Scope 2 Market‐based Emissions 0 Total Waste Total Global by Total Employees Global Disposal FuelTotal Oil Employees Type,Number #1, Year‐End Year‐End Metric Tons #2, #6Part‐Time Employees TotalNumber Number Total Total TotalNumber MMBTUs Number Total Number 45,100 92,400 92,400 92,400 92,400 1,130,000 Waste Waste 2,330Incineration Disposed: Disposed: Waste Absolute Total Landfill, Landfill, Disposed: Scope Fuel OilLandfill, Total Waste Treatment 2Number #1, by Treatment Treatment Landfill, Market‐based #2, #6 Disposal and Treatment Part‐Time and andEmissions and Employees Metric Metric Type, Incineration MMBTUs Metric Tons Tons Metric Tons Tons Total Metric CO2e Number 159,000 Tons 1,130,000 159,000 159,000 159,000 1,650,000 2,330 45,100 Total Total Total Energy EnergyWaste Energy TotalUse by Energy Disposal Use (Absolute) Use(Absolute) TotalUse (Absolute) (Absolute) Fuel Type, Oil Incineration #1, #2, #6 Metric MWh MWh Tons MWh MWhMetric CO2eTons MMBTUs 1,650,000 8,670,000 8,670,000 8,670,000 45,100 8,670,000 Absolute Absolute 1,130,000 ScopeScope Absolute Absolute Scope Scope Location‐based 2 2Absolute Location‐based Total2 Location‐based 2Fuel Location‐based ScopeOil #1, #2, Emissions #6Emissions Emissions 2Emissions Market‐based Emissions Metric Metric Metric Metric Tons TonsCO2e CO2e Tons TonsMMBTUs CO2e CO2e Metric Tons CO2e 1,880,000 1,880,0001,650,000 1,880,000 1,880,000 1,130,000 (Headcount) (Headcount) (Headcount) (Headcount) Incineration Incineration (Absolute) (Absolute) Incineration (Indirect) (Absolute) (Absolute) (Indirect) (Indirect) (Indirect)(Indirect) (Indirect) (Indirect) Absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 Market‐ Absolute Absolute Absolute Absolute ScopeScope Scope Scope Market‐based 2 Market‐based 2Jet Market‐based 2 2Absolute Market‐based Emissions andEmissions 0 Waste Total Total by Total Number Number Total Disposal Number Number Part‐Time Jet FuelType, Part‐Time TotalPart‐Time Part‐Time Employees NumberLandfilled Employees Employees Employees Full‐Time Metric Total Total Employees Tons Total Number Total Number Total Number2,330 Number MMBTUs Number 114,000 2,330 2,330 2,330 138,000 Waste 90,000Waste Absolute Waste byby Total Waste byby Disposal Disposal JetScope Fuel Total Disposal WasteType,by Disposal Type, 1Number and Scope Type, Incineration Type, 2 Market‐ Full‐Time Incineration DisposalIncineration Incineration Employees Metric Metric Type, Landfilled MMBTUs Metric Metric Tons Tons Tons Tons Total Metric CO2e Number 45,100 Tons 45,100 138,000 45,100 45,100 5,610,000 90,000 114,000 Total Total Fuel Total Fuel Waste Fuel #1, Total Oil Oil #1, Fuel by #2, Oil Disposal #1, #2, Oil#6#1, Total #6 #6Type, #2,#2, Jet #6 LandfilledMMBTUs Fuel Metric MMBTUs Metric Tons MMBTUs MMBTUsCO2eTons MMBTUs 5,610,000 1,130,000 1,130,000 114,000138,000 1,130,000 1,130,000 Total FuelEmissions Scope 1EmissionsScope 2 Market‐ Metric Metric Metric Tons Tons Tons MetricCO2e TonsCO2e MMBTUs CO2e CO2e Metric Tons CO2e 1,650,0005,610,000 1,650,000 1,650,000 1,650,000 138,000 based Emissions (Indirect) based Emissions (Indirect) (Indirect) (Indirect) (Indirect)based Emissions (Indirect) (Indirect) Percentage of Female Employees Total to Tons Percentage of Female Employees to Total AbsoluteAbsolute Absolute Absolute ScopeScope Scope Scope 1 1and and and 1Propane 1Scope ScopeandScope Scope 2 2Market‐2 Market‐ Market‐ 2 Market‐ 00 Total Hazardous Total Number TotalNumber TotalNumber Full‐Time Number Full‐Time PropaneWaste (Absolute) Full‐Time Full‐Time Employees Employees Employees Employees Total Metric Total Total Number Total Number Number MMBTUs Number % 90,000 90,000 43,800 90,000 90,000 177,000 Waste 34.7 Waste Waste byby Total by Disposal Disposal Waste Total Propane Disposal by Scope Disposal Type, Type, Total 3 GHG Type, Type, Landfilled Landfilled Landfilled Landfilled Emissions Hazardous Waste Metric Metric (Absolute) (Upstream) Metric Tons Tons Metric MMBTUs Tons Tons %CO2e Metric Tons 114,000 177,000 114,000 114,000 114,000 9,340,000 34.7 43,800 Total Scope Fuel Total Jet TotalJet Jet3Jet Total GHG Total Fuel Fuel Fuel Emissions Hazardous Total Propane (Absolute) MMBTUs (Upstream) Waste Metric MMBTUs Metric Tons CO2e MMBTUs MMBTUs Tons MMBTUs 9,340,000 138,000 138,000138,000 43,800177,000 138,000 Total Total Scope 3 GHG Emissions Metric Metric Metric Metric Tons CO2e Tons TonsCO2e (Upstream) TonsMMBTUs CO2e CO2e Metric Tons CO2e 5,610,0009,340,000 5,610,000 5,610,000 5,610,000 177,000 Employees Employees basedbased based based EmissionsEmissions Emissions Emissions (Indirect) (Indirect) (Indirect) (Indirect) Percentage of Female Employees in 00 TotalPercentage Percentage Percentage Percentage Nonhazardous of of Female ofofFemale Female Employees Female Percentage Total GasolineWaste Employees Employees and Diesel totoTotal ofEmployees Female (Absolute) toto Total Total Total Employees %%Metricin Tons %% MMBTUs% 187,000 34.7 34.7 34.7 34.7 29.1 Total 155,000 Total Total Total TotalHazardous Gasoline Hazardous Hazardous Category Hazardous Waste 1Waste Total and Diesel Waste Waste ‐ Purchased (Absolute) (Absolute) (Absolute) Nonhazardous (Absolute) Goods Waste and Services Metric Metric (Absolute) MMBTUs Metric Metric Tons Tons Tons Tons %CO2e Metric Tons 43,800 43,800 155,000 43,800 43,800 6,570,000 29.1 187,000 Category Total Total TotalTotal Total Propane Propane 1PropaneNonhazardous ‐ Purchased Propane GoodsWaste Total Gasoline (Absolute) and Services and Diesel Metric MMBTUs MMBTUs Metric Tons MMBTUs MMBTUs CO2eTons MMBTUs 6,570,000 177,000 187,000155,000 177,000 177,000 177,000 Total Total Scope TotalScope Total ScopeGHG Scope 3 3GHG Total Gasoline Emissions GHG 3Emissions Emissions 3 GHG Category and ‐(Upstream) 1Emissions (Upstream) Purchased Diesel (Upstream) (Upstream) Metric Goods andMetric Metric TonsCO2e Metric Tons Services Tons CO2e Tons MMBTUs CO2e CO2e Metric 9,340,000 Tons CO2e 9,340,000 9,340,000 9,340,000 155,000 6,570,000 Employees Employees Employees Employees Management Positions Management Positions TotalPercentage Percentage Percentage ofofFemale Percentage Female of of Female Female Employees Employees Employees inin in in Metric Tons Employees 00 Total Diverted Waste (Absolute) CoalEnvironmental Management %%System%% MMBTUs 306,000 29.1 29.1 29.1 29.1 Total Total TotalNonhazardous TotalNonhazardous 0 Total Nonhazardous Category 2 Environmental Coal Nonhazardous ‐Waste Waste Total Capital Waste Waste Waste (Absolute) Diverted Goods Management (Absolute) (Absolute) (Absolute) (Absolute) System Metric Metric MMBTUs Metric Metric Tons Tons Tons Tons CO2e Metric Tons 187,000 187,000 187,000 0306,000 187,000 436,000 Category Total Total Total 2Gasoline Total Total Gasoline Gasoline ‐ Capital Waste Gasoline and and TotalGoods Diverted and Diesel and Diesel Diesel Diesel Coal (Absolute) Metric MMBTUs MMBTUs Tons MMBTUs MMBTUs CO2e Metric Tons MMBTUs 436,000 155,000 155,000 306,000 Category 155,000 155,000 Category 0 Category Category 1 1‐ Purchased Total ‐1Purchased ‐ Purchased 1 Category Goods ‐ Purchased Coal 2 ‐ Goods Goods and and CapitalServices and and Services Goods Goods Metric Services Services Metric Metric Metric Tons TonsCO2e Tons Tons CO2e MMBTUs CO2e CO2e Metric 6,570,000 6,570,000 6,570,000 Tons CO2e 6,570,000 436,000 0 Management Management Management Positions Management Positions Positions Positions Metrics Units Value Metrics Units Value Waste‐to‐Energy Number TotalManagement SystemSpills of Significant Tons Metric MMBTUs 71,800 Category Total 3 Total ‐ FuelGas Natural Number and Energy Related Spills MMBTUsTotal Number of Significant 15,700,000 0 Category 3 ‐ Fuel and Energy Related Waste‐to‐Energy Metric Tons Metric CO2eTons 631,000 Category 3 ‐ FuelGas and Energy Related 00 Environmental Environmental Management Environmental Management Environmental Total Natural GasManagement System System System Total Number 15,700,000 0 Total Total Waste TotalWasteTotalWaste Diverted Diverted Waste Diverted (Absolute) (Absolute) (Absolute) Diverted Waste‐to‐Energy (Spills (Absolute) reported Metric Metric in 10K reporting) Metric Tons Tons Tons Metric Tons CO2e Metric Tons 306,000 306,000 306,000 306,000 71,800 631,000 Total Total Total Coal Coal Activities Coal Total CoalTotal Natural Gas MMBTUs MMBTUs MMBTUs MMBTUs MMBTUs 0 0 71,800 0 15,700,000 Category 0 Category Category Category Total 2 ‐2Capital Capital ‐Goods ‐ Capital 2 2‐ Capital GoodsNatural Goods Goods Metric Metric Metric Metric Tons TonsCO2eTons CO2e Tons CO2e MMBTUs CO2e Metric Tons CO2e 436,000 436,000 436,000 436,000 15,700,000 631,000 Metrics Metrics Metrics Metrics (Spills reported in 10K reporting) UnitsUnits Units Units ValueValue Value Value Activities Activities Total Total Number Onsite Number Total TotalNumber ofof Recycle of of Significant Significant Number & Number Reuse Significant SpillsSpills Significant ofSpills SignificantSpills Fines (Fine Metricor Tons penalty Category 4 Number ‐ Upstream of Significant Transportation (Fine or penalty Finesand Category 4 ‐ Upstream Transportation and 1,050,000 Category Category Category Category ‐ Fuel 3 3‐ Fuel 3 and Fuel ‐ Fuel ‐3and Category and Energy 4Energy Energy and Energy Related ‐Related Upstream Related Related Transportation and 00 Total Electricity Consumption Total Total Total Number Total Number Number MMBTUs Total Number 0 0 60,300 Number 0 0 11,100,000 2 Waste‐to‐EnergyTotal Electricity Waste‐to‐Energy Waste‐to‐Energy Waste‐to‐Energy Onsite Recycle Consumption & Reuse Metric Metric MMBTUs Metric Metric Tons Tons Tons Tons Total Metric CO2e Number 71,800 Tons 71,80011,100,000 71,800 71,800 60,300 1,050,000 2 Total Total TotalOnsite Total Natural Natural Natural Gas Natural Recycle GasTotal GasGas & ReuseConsumption Electricity Metric MMBTUs MMBTUs Tons Metric MMBTUs MMBTUs CO2eTons MMBTUs 15,700,000 60,300 15,700,000 15,700,000 15,700,000 11,100,000 Total Electricity Consumption Metric Metric Metric Metric Tons Tons Tons CO2e TonsCO2e MMBTUs CO2e CO2e Metric Tons CO2e631,000 631,000 631,000 631,000 11,100,000 1,050,000 (Spills(Spills (Spills reported reported (Spills reported inin reported10K 10K in 10K reporting) reporting) 10K in >$10,000) reporting) reporting) Distribution>$10,000) Distribution ActivitiesDistribution Activities Activities Activities Number Number Number ofofSignificant Number of ofSignificant SignificantSignificant Fines Fines Fines(Fine(Fine or Fines(Finepenalty orpenalty (Fineororpenalty penalty Category 4 4‐ Upstream Category Category Category 4 ‐4Upstream ‐ Upstream ‐ Upstream Transportation Transportation Transportation Transportation and and and and 00 Offsite Reuse Total Steam Total Monetary Value of Significant Consumption Metric Total Total Tons Total Number Number TotalNumber MMBTUs Fines Number Million $USD 2 2 31,600 21,220,000 2 Onsite 0.090Onsite Onsite Total Recycle Onsite Recycle Steam Recycle Category &Recycle &ReuseTotal 5Reuse Offsite& Consumption Reuse & ‐ Waste Monetary Reuse ReuseGenerated Value of Significant Metric Metric in Operations Fines MMBTUs Metric Tons Metric Tons Tons Tons Million Metric CO2e $USD Tons 60,300 60,300 60,3000.090 1,220,000 60,300 279,000 31,600 Category Total Total Total Electricity Total‐ Waste 5Electricity Offsite Electricity Electricity ReuseGenerated Consumption Consumption Consumption Total Steam in OperationsMMBTUs Metric Consumption Consumption MMBTUs Metric CO2e Tons MMBTUs MMBTUs Tons MMBTUs 279,000 11,100,000 31,600 11,100,000 11,100,000 11,100,000 1,220,000 Total Category Steam Consumption 5 ‐ Waste Generated Metric MetricTons TonsCO2eTons Tons Metric Metric CO2e in Operations MMBTUs CO2e CO2e Metric 1,050,000 Tons CO2e 1,050,000 1,220,000 1,050,000 279,000 1,050,000 >$10,000) >$10,000)>$10,000) >$10,000) Distribution Distribution Distribution Distribution 00 Offsite Total Total Recycle Total Monetary TotalMonetary Monetary Value Value Monetary Value of ofValue Significant of of Significant Environmental Significant Fines Significant Fines Liability Fines AccruedMetric Million Fines Million Tons atMillion $USD $USD Million $USD Year End Million $USD 0.090 $USD 142,000 0.090 0.090 0.090 0 Offsite Offsite ReuseReuse Offsite Offsite Reuse Category 6 Environmental Reuse Recycle Offsite ‐ Business Travel Liability Accrued Metric Metricat YearTons Metric Tons Tons Metric End Tons Million Metric CO2e $USD Tons 31,600 31,600 31,600 40,900 0 31,600 142,000 Category Total Total Total Steam 6Steam Offsite Steam Total SteamRecycle ‐ Consumption Business Consumption Travel Consumption Consumption Metric MMBTUs MMBTUs Tons Metric MMBTUs MMBTUs CO2eTons 40,900 1,220,000 1,220,000 142,000 Category 1,220,000 1,220,000 Category Category Category ‐ Waste 5 5‐ Waste ‐5Waste Generated 5 Category ‐ Generated Waste 6Generated Generated Operations in in ininOperations ‐ Business Operations Metric Metric Operations Travel Metric Metric Tons TonsCO2e Tons CO2e CO2e Tons CO2e Metric Tons CO2e 279,000 40,900 279,000 279,000 279,000 Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental Liability Liability Accrued Liability Accrued Liability Accrued Year atatYear Accrued atEnd Year End at YearMillion EndEndMillion Million $USD$USD Million $USD $USD 00 0 0 Offsite Offsite Offsite Recycle Recycle Offsite CategoryRecycle Recycle 7 ‐ Employee Commuting Metric Metric Tons Tons Metric Tons Metric Tons CO2e 142,000 142,000 142,000 142,000 332,000 Category 7 ‐ Employee Commuting Metric Tons CO2e 332,000 Category Category Category Category 6 Category 6 6‐ Business‐6Business ‐ Business Travel Travel ‐ Business7Travel Travel ‐ Employee Metric Metric Commuting Metric Tons Tons Metric TonsCO2e CO2e CO2e Tons CO2e Metric Tons CO2e40,900 40,90040,900 40,900 332,000 Water Metrics Other Metrics Health and Safety Metrics Units Units UnitsValue Value Value Other Metrics Health Water and Safety Metrics Metrics Units Units Units Value Value Value Water Metrics Other Metrics Units Units Value Value Other Metrics Units Value Customer GHG Avoidance through 3M Million Million Customer GHG Avoidance through 3M 3M employees Tons Per 100 Million Metric Customer GHG Avoidance through 3M Million Metric Tons Total Water (Absolute) UseGlobal Per 100 CubicMetric Meters 3M employees Tons 46 Global LostUseTime Incident Rate Metric TonsMillion 13 0.344 Customer 13 ‐ Downstream Category Total Water GHG Metric3M Assets through Avoidance Use (Absolute) Leased CO2e TonsMillion CubicMetric Million MetersTons <100046 13 Category Category Category Category 7 7‐ Employee‐7Employee ‐ Employee 7 Category ‐ Employee Commuting Commuting Commuting Leased Commuting Metric MetricMetric Tons Tons Metric Tons TonsCO2e CO2e CO2e CO2e 332,000 332,000 332,000 332,000 <100013 Product Use Lost Time Incident Rate CO2e (200,000 0.344 13 ProductTotal Category 13 ‐ Downstream Use Water (Absolute) Leased Assets CO2e (200,000CO2e Cubic hours) <100046 workMeters Product 13Use‐ Downstream Assets Metric CO2e Tons CO2e Health Health Health Health andSafety and andand Safety Safety Metrics Safety Metrics Metrics Metrics UnitsUnits Units hours) Units workValue Value Value Value Water Water Water Metrics Metrics Water Metrics Metrics UnitsUnits Units Units ValueValue Value Value Other Other Metrics OtherOther Metrics Metrics Metrics Product Use Units CO2e Units UnitsUnits Value Value ValueValue Sites located in Water Stress/Scarce Areas; Sites located in Water Stress/Scarce Areas; Sites located in Water Stress/Scarce Areas; Per Per100Per 100 Per 3M 100 3M 3M3Memployees employees 100 Per employees employees100 3M employees Total Volatile Organic Compound Emissions Per 100 3M employees Customer Customer GHGOrganic Volatile TotalCustomer Customer GHG Avoidance GHG GHG Avoidance Compound Avoidance Avoidance through through Emissions through through 3M3M 3M3MMillion Million Million Metric Million Metric Metric Tons Tons Tons Tons Metric Total Volatile Organic Compound Emissions waterGlobal Global Global sources Global Lost Lost Lost Time Time significantly Time Incident Lost Time Incident Global Incident Rateaffected Incident Rate Recordable Rate Rateby Incident Rate Total Number 25 0.344 0.344 0.344 0.344 Total TotalWater Water 1.16 Total TotalWater UseUse Water Global Use (Absolute) (Absolute) (Absolute) water Use Recordable (Absolute) sources Incident significantly Rate Million Million affected Million CubicMeters Cubic Million Metric by Cubic Meters Cubic Tons Meters Meters Total 46 Number 46 4646 4,50025 1.16 water sources significantly affected Metric by Tons Total Number 131325 1313 4,500 Category Category Category 1313‐ Downstream Category ‐ Downstream 1313 Leased ‐ Downstream ‐ Downstream Leased Assets Leased Leased Assets Assets Assets Metric Metric TonsCO2e Metric Metric Tons CO2e Tons Tons CO2e CO2e Metric Tons <1000<1000 <1000 <1000 4,500 (200,000(200,000 (200,000 (200,000 workhours) work work workhours) hours) hours) (200,000 work hours) (Absolute) (200,000 work hours) (Absolute) Product Product Product Product Use Use UseUse of water with water CO2e CO2eCO2eCO2e (Absolute) withdrawal of water with water withdrawal of water with water withdrawal Sites Sites located Sites located Siteslocated located in Water inWater Water in in Water Stress/Scarce Stress/Scarce Stress/Scarce Stress/Scarce Areas; Areas; Areas; Areas; Per 100 Per100Per3M Per 3M 100employees 3M3M 100 employees employees employees Work Related Fatalities Total Total TotalVolatile TotalVolatile Volatile Organic Volatile Organic Organic Compound Organic Compound Compound Emissions Compound Emissions Emissions Emissions Global Global Recordable Global Recordable Recordable Global Incident Recordable Incident Work Related Rate Incident Rate Incident Rate Rate ‐ 3M Employees Fatalities 1.16 1.16 Total Number 1.16 1.16 0 water water water watersources sourcessources sources significantly significantly significantly significantly affected affected byby by‐by affected affected 3M Employees Total Total TotalNumber Number Number Total Total Number25 Number 25 2525 0 Metric Metric Tons Tons Metric Tons Metric Tons 4,5004,500 4,500 4,500 Supplier Responsibility Metrics (200,000 (200,000 work (200,000 work (200,000 hours) work hours) work Units hours) hours) Value Supplier Responsibility Metrics Units Value (Absolute) (Absolute) (Absolute) (Absolute) withdrawal withdrawal withdrawal withdrawal ofofwater water water of of Supplierwater with with with waterwith water water water Metrics Responsibility Units Value TotalRelated Work Work Number Work Related Work ofWork Related Suppliers Fatalities Fatalities Fatalities Related ‐ 3MEmployees Fatalities ‐ 3M Related ‐Employees 3M ‐ 3MEmployees Fatalities Total ‐ 3MTotal Employees Total Total Number Total Number Contractors Total Number 85,100 Number Number Number 00 00 1 Work Total Related Number ofFatalities Suppliers‐ 3M Contractors Total Number Total Number 85,1001 Total Number of Suppliers Total Number 85,100 Supplier Supplier Supplier Supplier Responsibility Responsibility Responsibility Responsibility Metrics Metrics Metrics Metrics UnitsUnits Units Units ValueValue Value Value Cumulative Number Cumulative Number Cumulative Number TotalRelated Work Work Number Work Work Related ofWork Related RelatedSupplier FatalitiesFatalities Fatalities ‐ 3M ‐ 3M RelatedReviews Fatalities 3M ‐ 3MContractors ‐Contractors Contractors Contractors Fatalities ‐ TotalTotal Total Total Number Total Number Number since Total Number 5,790 Number Number 2008 11 11 1 Total Total Total TotalNumber Number Number Number Work ofofSuppliers Suppliers Total Related Suppliers of of Suppliers Number ofFatalities Supplier ‐Reviews Total Number Total Total Total Number TotalNumber Total Number Number Number 85,100 85,10085,100 85,100 5,790 1 Total Number of Supplier Reviews since 2008 5,790 since 2008 Cumulative Cumulative Cumulative Cumulative Number Number Number Number Work WorkRelated Work Work RelatedRelated Related Fatalities Fatalities Fatalities Fatalities ‐ Total ‐ Total ‐Number Total ‐ Total Number Number Number Total Total Total Number TotalNumber Number Number 11 11 Total TotalNumber Total Total Number Number Number of of Supplier ofofSupplier Supplier Supplier Reviews Reviews Reviews Reviews 5,7905,790 5,790 5,790 since since 2008 since2008 2008 since 2008 224 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 225 About Report | Metric Tables 3M Historical Metrics Historical Reporting Metric Metric Units RY-2002 RY-2005 RY-2010 RY-2015 RY-2017 Change % Net Sales Million $USD 16,300 26,700 29,600 30,300 31,700 94.5 Environmental Footprint Absolute Scope 1 Emissions Metric Tons CO2e 16,800,000 10,100,000 4,280,000 3,770,000 3,960,000 -76.4 (Direct) Absolute Scope 2 Location-based Metric Tons CO2e 1,540,000 1,700,000 1,940,000 1,860,000 1,880,000 22.1 Emissions (Indirect) Metric Tables Total GHG Emissions (Indexed to Metric Tons per Net 1,120 559 233 186 184 -83.6 Net Sales, Location-based) Sales (MM $USD) 2012-2016 U.S. EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 based inventory accounting is not directly comparable to 2002-2011 WRI/IPCC TAR, AR4 based GHG accounting. 2002 inventory recalculated according to U.S. EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 methodology (2.7% increase in absolute emissions over original reported value). Total Volatile Organic Compound Metric Tons 6,800 6,070 4,800 4,500 -33.8 Emissions (Absolute) Total Volatile Organic Compounds Metric Tons per Net 0.321 0.228 0.158 0.142 -55.8 Emissions (Indexed to Net Sales) Sales (MM $USD) Total Energy Use (Absolute) MMBTUs 27,900,000 26,800,000 28,400,000 29,600,000 6.09 Total Energy Use (Absolute) MWh 8,170,000 7,860,000 8,320,000 8,670,000 6.12 Total Energy (Indexed to Net MMBTUs per Net 1,320 1,010 937 935 -29.2 Sales) Sales(MM $USD) Waste Disposed: Landfill, Treatment and Incineration Metric Tons 145,000 136,000 158,000 159,000 9.66 (Absolute) Waste Disposed: Landfill, Metric Tons per Net Treatment and Incineration 6.83 5.09 5.21 5.03 -26.4 Sales (MM $USD) (Indexed to Net Sales) Starting in 2016, waste disposed and waste by disposal type does not include waste-to-energy. Total hazardous and total nonhazardous waste below includes waste-to-energy. Total Hazardous Waste (Absolute) Metric Tons 47,700 42,300 45,400 43,800 -8.18 Total Nonhazardous Waste Metric Tons 132,000 134,000 172,000 187,000 41.7 (Absolute) Total Water Use (Absolute) Million Cubic Meters 49.0 43.0 42.2 46.0 -6.12 Million Cubic Meters Total Water Use (Indexed to Net per Net Sales (MM 0.00231 0.00161 0.00139 0.00145 -37.2 Sales) $USD) Health and Safety Per 100 3M Global Lost Time Incident Rate Employees (200,000 0.594 0.364 0.321 0.344 -42.1 work hours) Per 100 3M Global Recordable Incident Rate Employees (200,000 1.85 1.56 1.22 1.16 -37.1 work hours) 226 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 227 About Report | Metric Tables Social Performance, Employees Financial Performance 2016-2017 2013-2017 2016-2017 2013-2017 Annual Five Year Annual Five Year Metric Metric Units RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 Metric Metric Units RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 Change Change Change Change % % % % Global Full-time Net Sales Million $USD 30,900 31,800 30,300 30,100 31,700 5.32 2.59 Total Number 88,700 89,800 89,400 91,600 91,500 -0.109 3.16 Equivalent Employees Operating Income1 Million $USD 6,980 7,030 7,690 9.39 Global Employee Total Number 89,600 90,700 90,400 92,500 92,400 -0.108 3.13 (Headcount) Research, Development and Million $USD 1,760 1,760 1,870 6.25 Related Expenses1 Total Number Total Number 2,580 2,560 2,520 2,390 2,330 -2.51 -9.69 Part-Time Employees Total Operating Million $USD 23,300 23,100 24,000 3.90 Expenses1 Total Number Total Number 87,000 88,200 87,900 90,100 90,000 -0.111 3.45 Full-Time Employees Net Income Million $USD 4,660 4,960 4,830 5,050 4,860 -3.76 4.29 Attributable to 3M Percentage of Female Employees to % 33.7 33.9 33.9 34.8 34.7 -0.287 2.97 Total Employees Per Share-Basic Actual $USD 6.83 7.63 7.72 8.35 8.13 -2.63 19.0 Percentage of Female Employees % 25.3 26.1 26.9 27.8 29.1 4.68 15.0 Per Share-Diluted Actual $USD 6.72 7.49 7.58 8.16 7.93 -2.82 18.0 in Management Positions Capital Expenditures Million $USD 1,670 1,490 1,460 1,420 1,370 -3.52 -18.0 Dividends Paid to Shareholders Million $USD 1,900 2,390 2,700 2,870 3,020 5.23 58.9 and Cash Interest Payments Provision for Income Million $USD 1,840 2,030 1,980 2,000 2,680 34.0 45.7 Taxes 1. Amounts for Operating Income; Research, Development, and Related Expenses; and Total Operating Expenses were reclassified back to 2015 to reflect the adoption of an accounting standard (ASU No. 2017-07, Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost) effective January 1, 2018 on a retrospective basis. Amounts prior to 2015 have not been reclassified. Community Engagement 2016-2017 2013-2017 Annual Five Year Metric Metric Units RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 Change Change % % Total Global Giving Million $USD 61.6 81.3 72.8 67.3 73.5 9.21 19.3 Total Cash Donations Million $USD 30.3 30.3 34.1 34.8 35.9 3.16 18.5 Total In-Kind Million $USD 31.3 51.0 38.4 32.5 37.6 15.7 20.1 Donations 228 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 229 About Report | Metric Tables 2016-2017 2013-2017 Environmental Performance Greenhouse Gas Metric Units RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 Annual Five Year — Metric Change Change % % Environmental Management Metric Units RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 Emissions disclosed System — Metric in previous years (2013-2014) were Scope 3, Category miscategorized as Total Number of 0 0 0 0 0 4 (Upstream Total Number Category 9; data Significant Spills Metric Tons CO₂e 1,230,000 995,000 780,000 699,000 1,050,000 Significant spill: spills included in the organization's financial statement. Transportation and does not include Distribution) emissions from Number of 2 1 0 0 2 Total Number transportation of Significant Fines Significant fine: fine or penalty over $10,000. raw materials from suppliers. Total Monetary Value Million $USD 0.0630 0.113 0 0 0.0900 of Significant Fines Calculated from Scope 3, Category 5 3M primary data Environmental (Waste Generated in Metric Tons CO₂e Insufficient data 254,000 248,000 279,000 on waste by facility Liability Accrued at Million $USD 0 0 0 0 0 Operations) size or number of Year End employees. Calculated from 2016-2017 2013-2017 Scope 3, Category 6 Metric Tons CO₂e 56,900 61,100 55,800 61,800 40,900 3M primary data on Greenhouse Gas Annual Five Year (Business Travel) Metric Units RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 business travel. — Metric Change Change % % Methodology updated to calculate values based on 3M Absolute Scope 1 Scope 3, Category Metric Tons CO₂e 5,590,000 4,390,000 3,770,000 4,140,000 3,960,000 -4.35 -29.2 employee headcount Emissions (Direct) 7 (Employee Metric Tons CO₂e 322,000 326,000 325,000 332,000 332,000 with U.S. EPA GHG Commuting) Emission Factors. All Absolute Scope historical values 2 Location-based Metric Tons CO2e 2,360,000 2,240,000 1,860,000 1,840,000 1,880,000 2.17 -20.3 recalculated. Emissions (Indirect) These emissions are Absolute Scope Scope 3, Category included in Scope 1 2 Market-based Metric Tons CO2e 1,780,000 1,650,000 -7.30 8 (Upstream, Leased Metric Tons CO₂e Included in Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions reporting. and 2, because they Emissions (Indirect) Assets) are all under 3M Total Scope 1 and operational control. 2 GHG Emissions: Metric Tons CO2e 5,920,000 5,610,000 -5.24 Scope 3, Category Market-based Accounting 9 (Downstream Metric Tons CO₂e Transportation and Total GHG Emissions Distribution) (Indexed to Net Metric Tons per Net 258 208 186 199 184 -7.54 -28.7 Sales, LocationSales (MM $USD) Scope 3, Category based) 10 (Processing of Metric Tons CO₂e Not evaluated; most of 3M's products are intermediates with many potential end uses. According Sold Products) Customer GHG to the GHG Protocol Scope 3 Calculation and Guidance, a company that produces intermediate Reduction Through Million Metric Tons products with many potential downstream applications, each with a potentially different GHG 14 13 13 Use of Various 3M CO₂e emission profile, cannot reasonably estimate the downstream emissions associated with the Scope 3, Category Product Platforms various end uses of the intermediate products. 11 (Use of Sold Metric Tons CO₂e Products) Net GHG emissions based on the categories evaluated. Due to change in boundaries, Scope 3 upstream emissions should not be compared on a year-on-year basis. Baseline reporting year has not been established for our Scope 3 emissions. Scope 3, Category Total Scope 3 12 (End of Life Metric Tons CO₂e 8,760,000 9,260,000 8,690,000 9,490,000 9,340,000 Metric Tons CO₂e Emissions (Upstream) Treatment of Sold Products) Total Scope 3 Emissions Metric Tons CO₂e All downstream categories either do not apply or are de minimis. Prior to 2015, 3M Scope 3, Category 13 Included in Scope 1 (Downstream) reported facilities (Downstream Leased Metric Tons CO₂e or Scope 2 emissions <1,000 <1,000 <1,000 leased to third parties Assets) reporting. Scope 3, Category 1 Methodology under Scope 1 and 2. (Purchased Goods Metric Tons CO₂e 6,730,000 6,830,000 6,200,000 7,120,000 6,570,000 updated to calculate and Services) values based on 3M Scope 3, Category 14 No franchises under Metric Tons CO₂e 0 0 0 0 0 spend using U.S. (Franchises) 3M financial control. EPA EEIO factors. Scope 3, Category 2 Metric Tons CO₂e 424,000 499,000 452,000 423,000 436,000 All historical values Scope 3, Category 15 No investments under (Capital Goods) Metric Tons CO₂e 0 0 0 0 0 recalculated. (Investments) 3M financial control. Scope 3, Category Partially The data reported is in accordance to the World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) 3 (Fuel and Energy included Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. Related Activities; in Scope 1 Metric Tons CO₂e 551,000 621,000 607,000 631,000 Not Including and Scope Estimated Scope 3 data uncertainty is ±50% (WRI/WBCSD, GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Scope 1 or Scope 2 2 emissions Standard, 2011). Emissions) reporting. 230 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 231 About Report | Metric Tables 2016-2017 2013-2017 2016-2017 2013-2017 Greenhouse Gas Annual Five Year Annual Five Year Metric Units RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 Waste — Metric Metric Units RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 — Metric Change Change Change Change % % % % Total Volatile Organic Compound Emissions Metric Tons 5,430 5,550 4,780 4,630 4,500 -2.81 -17.1 % of Total Zero Landfill 28.2 26.6 27.9 4.89 (Absolute) Manufacturing Sites Total Volatile Metric Tons per Organic Compounds Waste Disposed: Net Sales 0.176 0.174 0.158 0.154 0.142 -7.79 -19.3 Emissions (Indexed Landfill, Treatment (MM $USD) Metric Tons 146,000 153,000 158,000 160,000 159,000 -0.625 8.90 to Net Sales) and Incineration (Absolute) 2016-2017 2013-2017 Annual Five Year Waste Disposed: Energy — Metric Metric Units RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 Change Change Landfill, Treatment % % Metric Tons per Net and Incineration 4.74 4.80 5.21 5.33 5.03 -5.63 6.12 Sales (MM $USD) (Indexed to Net Total Energy Use Sales) MMBtus 28,700,000 29,100,000 28,400,000 29,000,000 29,600,000 (Absolute) 2.07 3.14 Waste by Disposal Metric Tons 43,200 44,200 45,200 44,800 45,100 0.670 4.40 Total Energy Use Type, Incineration MWh 8,400,000 8,850,000 8,320,000 8,490,000 8,670,000 (Absolute) Waste by Disposal Metric Tons 103,000 109,000 112,000 116,000 114,000 -1.72 10.7 Type, Landfilled Total Energy (Indexed MMBtus per Net 929 913 937 962 935 -2.81 0.646 to Net Sales) Sales(MM $USD) % Data Coverage Total Waste % 97 98 97 98 98 0.00 1.03 % of Total Electricity (Absolute) Renewable Energy 0.50 7.60 17.9 136 Use Starting in 2016, waste disposed and waste by disposal type does not include waste-to-energy. Total hazardous and total nonhazardous waste Total Fuel Oil #1, below includes waste-to-energy. MMBtus 1,490,000 1,630,000 1,330,000 1,200,000 1,130,000 -5.83 -24.2 #2, #6 Total Hazardous Metric Tons 39,400 41,100 45,400 43,800 43,800 0.00 11.2 Waste (Absolute) Total Jet Fuel MMBtus 143,000 161,000 153,000 159,000 138,000 -13.2 -3.50 Total Nonhazardous Metric Tons 153,000 164,000 172,000 180,000 187,000 3.89 22.2 Waste (Absolute) Total Propane MMBtus 138,000 192,000 170,000 190,000 177,000 -6.84 28.3 Total Waste Diverted Metric Tons 274,000 287,000 296,000 284,000 306,000 7.75 11.7 Total Gasoline and (Absolute) MMBtus 190,000 209,000 270,000 155,000 155,000 0.00 -18.4 Diesel Waste-to-Energy Metric Tons 45,700 51,900 60,000 63,400 71,800 13.2 57.1 Total Coal MMBtus 0 0 0 0 0 Total Natural Gas MMBtus 15,500,000 15,900,000 14,700,000 15,400,000 15,700,000 1.95 1.29 Onsite Recycle & Metric Tons 66,000 69,500 65,500 56,600 60,300 6.54 -8.64 Reuse Total Electricity MMBtus 10,300,000 11,100,000 10,600,000 10,700,000 11,100,000 3.74 7.77 Consumption Offsite Reuse Metric Tons 32,000 31,900 31,300 27,600 31,600 14.5 -1.25 Total Steam MMBtus 902,000 1,010,000 1,130,000 1,180,000 1,220,000 3.39 35.3 Consumption Offsite Recycle Metric Tons 131,000 134,000 139,000 136,000 142,000 4.41 8.40 Total Heating MMBtus 18,300,000 19,100,000 17,700,000 18,300,000 18,500,000 Consumption 1.09 1.09 Total Heating MWh 5,370,000 5,590,000 5,190,000 5,360,000 5,430,000 Consumption 232 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 233 About Report | Metric Tables 2016-2017 2013-2017 Water — Metric Metric Units RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 Annual Five Year Supplier Responsibility Change Change % % 2016-2017 2013-2017 Annual Five Year Total Water Use Million Cubic Metric Metric Units RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 43.3 42.5 42.2 44.8 46.0 2.68 6.24 Change Change (Absolute) Meters % % Total Water Use Million Cubic Total Number of (Indexed to Net Meters per Net 0.00140 0.00134 0.00139 0.00149 0.00145 -2.68 3.57 Total Number 107,000 95,800 98,500 88,200 85,100 -3.51 -20.5 Suppliers Sales) Sales (MM $USD) Total Number of Cumulative Number Sites located in 3,210 3,880 4,570 5,120 5,790 13.1 80.4 Supplier Reviews (since 2008) water stress/scarce areas; water sources significantly affected Total Number 22 27 25 25 25 0.00 13.6 by withdrawal of water with water conservation planning efforts 3M uses the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Global Water Tool to screen site locations for water stress/scarce levels and prioritizes conservation plan development based on internal criteria. Health and Safety 2016-2017 2013-2017 Annual Five Year Metric Metric Units RY-2013 RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 Change Change % % Per 100 3M Global Lost Time Employees 0.339 0.355 0.321 0.304 0.344 13.2 1.47 Incident Rate (200,000 work hours) Per 100 3M Global Recordable Employees 1.41 1.45 1.22 1.20 1.16 -3.33 -17.7 Incident Rate (200,000 work hours) Work Related Fatalities 3M Total Number 1 0 0 1 0 Employees Work Related Fatalities 3M Total Number 1 0 0 0 1 Contractors Work Related Fatalities Total Total Number 2 0 0 1 1 Number 234 | 3M 2018 Sustainability Report #improvinglives | 235 This has been a real eye-opening process for these kids. You can see the light bulbs go off when they realize there are people out there who do the kinds of things they want to do professionally someday. Projects like this help us, and companies like 3M and BBDO, learn how to build a partnership that exposes more kids of color in our community to this potential career field. That’s a really powerful thing. Bobby Rogers JXTA Graphic Design Lab Lead
