| Communication on Progress 1 e-Zest Solutions Ltd. Communication on Progress From January 2017 to January 2018 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Date: 15th January 2018 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that e-Zest Solutions Ltd. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Devendra Deshmukh CEO and Founder Confidential Confidential 1 | Communication on Progress 1 About e-Zest e-Zest is a SEI-CMMI Level-3, ISO 27001:2013, ISO 9001:2015 certified and PCI Compliant global IT services company providing software consulting and development services and enterprise business solutions focus areas being Microsoft Technologies, Business Intelligence, Cloud and Open Source technologies like Java, PHP. Each of these technology areas are supported by respective Centre for Excellence (CFEs) and support from Business Unit (BU) heads which help in achieving a multifaceted delivery approach. 2 Found ed in Founded in year 2000, India e-Zest has been 20 0 0 consistently delivering cutting edge technology solutions to its broad range of clients from 550 + government and not-for-profit organizations Em p loyees across the globe to fortune 500 enterprises and global product companies. Presence across geographies w it h e-Zest has been associated with 15+ Government of f ices in Ind ia, US, and Non-Profit agencies across the globe since its SA and Europ e inception out of which 11 are United Nations Agencies. 30% of our total employee strength A chieved works for UN agencies. 30 % growth last year In the years of experience, e-Zest has served 100+ industry leader clients in four continents with Client base across the globe currently 550+ software professionals on board. w it h m ajor 100% of our employees are fluent in English. b usiness f rom Ind ia, USA 10+ products which e-Zest has developed in and Europ e onsite-offshore model are acquired by Fortune 500 companies. One among them, has made it to 89 % Gartner’s Magic Quadrant, this was for a client who client ret ent ion is a leading provider of workforce optimization rat e solutions in USA, As a corroboration to our excellent customer service, our first client Miracomp, Technologies still continues to work with us. Confidential Confidential 2 | Communication on Progress 3 Description of Actions 1.1 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals e-Zest Solutions Ltd completely supports protection of Principles of Human Rights duly promoted by UN Global Compact. We are aware of our responsibility to society and are committed to support and follow the principles.  e-Zest has a strong policy in creating a stimulating work environment where employees are comfortable and content at work.  We are an equal opportunities employer and treat all employees fairly and equally. We do not discriminate on grounds of age, gender, colour, race, ethnicity, language, caste, creed, economic or social status or disability.  We abide by model standing orders prescribed by Government of India, which ensure, adherence to the basic Principles of Natural Justice during the process of handing Indiscipline.  We abide by all Laws of Land and we are not exposed to any legal action for nonconformity of any legal provisions.  Considering the nature of our business we believe the potential to become complicit in human rights abuses is limited.  We consider safety and well-being of our employees as one of our topmost priorities. We ensure that our facilities have requisite safety equipment and that sanitation is maintained all around.  e-Zest has always valued human rights and has always focused on developing a healthy work environment. Our foundations are strongly imbibed with the philosophy that a satisfied employee would deliver 110% while a dissatisfied employee will do no good to him/herself as well as the organization. To ensure the protection of the human rights of our resources e-Zest has set up a code of conduct for all the employees. Confidential Confidential 3 | Communication on Progress Implementation  Our team members are well informed and have the necessary tools to respond to workplace emergencies; first aid kits and fire extinguishers are readily available; and escape exits are clearly marked and free from obstruction.  The company conducts security risk assessments, and ensures that company security arrangements are in good shape.  e-Zest does not discriminate any candidate on the basis of Caste, Creed, Religion and Gender during process of selection or in career progression.  We believe on meritocracy and our decisions are based only on the principles of Merit.  We strongly support women empowerment and strictly follow the gender equality policy.  We offer flexible policies for women team members understanding their personal and professional responsibilities.  We have complied all guidelines and provision of Laws in respect of Prevention of Sexual Harassment Act of Government of India. We have installed strong mechanism to deal with any case of violation in this respect.  e-Zest is team members regularly participate in CSR activities and do their bit in helping the needy.  During last year we have carried out a multiple campaigns to promote CSR and our contribution as a corporation towards the society. One of these campaigns was the blood donation campaign. Confidential Confidential 4 | Communication on Progress Image 1: Blood Donation Campaigns at e-Zest Confidential Confidential 5 | Communication on Progress Women Power at e-Zest e-Zest strongly believes in empowering women and eliminating gender inequality. To support this cause we have designed organizational policies which allow women to perform in a flexible work environment and achieve their highest potential. We have a strong policy in creating a stimulating work environment where women employees are comfortable and content at work Statistics  Total number of Women employees: 205  Women comprise 36% of the total talent at e-Zest today  We strive to maintain the Male to Female ratio in different work groups as 50:50  iGPS unit, among other teams, catering specifically to UN business has a healthy 50:50 sex ratio  We have a significant number of female employees in senior management leading different groups. Following is split up of our Women employees in terms of work profile: Profile Head Count Business Analysts 8 Project / Program Managers 12 Project Coordinators 16 CXO level / Practice Heads 4 Team Leaders / Tech Leaders 8 Account Managers 6 Developers and Testers 148 Support Staff 3 Confidential Confidential 6 | Communication on Progress Some of our initiatives for Women at e-Zest Following are few of the ways in which we strive to support our women through organizational policies  All members including women have a flexible dress code policy  We offer flexible policies for women team members understanding their personal and professional responsibilities including flexible working hours which they are free to decide individually based on their workload  e-Zest employees enjoy Work From Home facility in case of certain emergencies or genuine reasons  Growth and career path for each female member is designed keeping in view her career aspirations and interest areas  We encourage our women employees to take up on-site assignments. In the past couple of years the number of women going onsite has increased by 50%  We provide the additional benefit to our women employees going on onsite assignments of providing a travel visa to their spouse/family as well  Apart from the being entitled to the 26 week paid Maternity Leave as per the Maternity Benefit Act, our female employees enjoy extended leaves or the option to Work from Home as per their comfort and convenience for a mutually agreed period of time Round-the-year Programs for our Women Employees  We conduct Women Wellness initiatives to support and encourage them  We organize special programs for women throughout the year like Women’s Day Celebrations, Cultural Competitions, Pinkathon – A Marathon specially for women, and Health Awareness Programs Confidential Confidential 7 | Communication on Progress Image 2: A still from Pinkathon  We have programs to encourage our women employees to write technical blogs, which have resulted in tremendous success. One of our female bloggers’ work has been recognized by an International University Confidential Confidential 8 | Communication on Progress SESSIONS HEADED BY OUR WOMEN LEADERS CELEBRATING OUR WOMEN EMPLOYEES ON INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S DAY FELICITATING THE CONTRIBUTIONS OF OUR POWEHOUSE WOMEN PERFORMERS Image 3: Initiatives and Programs for Women at e-Zest Solutions Safety of our Women Employees We give utmost importance to the safety of our women employees and have taken all necessary steps to ensure 100% safety.  We discourage our employees working late nights and mostly allocate day shifts to women employees. In exceptional cases if we have a women employee working late nights we ensure that special arrangement has been for the commute back home. We also ensure that she is escorted by a male colleague/team member till she safely reaches home.  e-Zest has all its women employees registered at ‘Buddycop’ – an online group on a popular messaging app which is administered by a Police Officer of the City Police, where working women, especially in IT sector join to ensure they have immediate access to the police in dire situations Confidential Confidential 9 | Communication on Progress Provisions for protection against Sexual Harassment  We have complied all guidelines and provision of Laws with respect to the Prevention of Sexual Harassment Act of Government of India. We have installed strong mechanisms to deal with any case of violation in this regard  We have an Internal Complaint Committee to address Sexual Harassment related issues  We conduct Small Group Discussions to sensitize our Team Members about provisions of Sexual Harassment Act  We have formal and informal interactions with female team members from time to time to get their feedback and listen to their grievances if any Testimonials from e-Zest Leaders “e-Zest has given me every opportunity to grow as a woman leader at every step during my 8-year long journey with them. The Leadership team has supported me when my family needed me the most & allowed me to work as per my Anjali Kondhare convenience to help maintain my work-life balance. They Programme Manager also supported me during hard times, appreciated my efforts every now and then, and celebrated my success through my journey. They not only encouraged me to be more participative, but also made me feel as a part of this family. This in turn, helped me to achieve my goals and objectives successfully.” Confidential Confidential 10 | Communication on Progress “e-Zest believes in the culture of empowering people than micro-managing. Women leaders, specially, are encouraged to take decisions, which gives a higher sense of fulfilment and ownership. The work culture is inclusive of women and Anuradha Bankar the emphasis is on collaboration & teamwork rather than BI Practice Head hierarchical reporting. Work From Home option and flexible timings makes it easy to manage our work and home priorities without stress. I feel this is one of the most important reasons that women like me can contribute and play a leadership role without stress. e-Zest operates like an extended family, cultivating a sense of belonging. Women like me in leadership roles are treated like mentors, at the same time, success is shared and celebrated as part of a collaborative accomplishment among all our employees including women at all levels” Measurement of outcomes  We have educated our Team Leaders about the Human Rights and we are all committed to ensure compliance of the same in word and spirit.  We have formed Internal Complaint Committee and we also have Whistle Blower Policy and all issues of any violation are handled efficiently and up to its logical conclusion.  As a result of our policies we did not have any legal cases, fines, rulings etc. or other relevant events to report  We did not have any safety related incidents We have so far not been exposed to any case involving violation of Human Rights. Confidential Confidential 11 | Communication on Progress 1.2 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals e-Zest completely agrees and abides by the principles related to Labour under the UN global Compact. We uphold the rights of all the team members to freedom of association and collective bargaining and are free to participate and join trade unions if they wish to. Since we maintain excellent relations with our team members, they have not felt the need to join any such unions. We adhere to the provisions of Labour Laws, which prohibits engagement of Bonded Labour and Child Labour. Implementation  e-Zest employees enjoy flexible working hours and they are free to decide individually based on their workload.  Remuneration for individual position is sufficient and employees are given increments based on the yearly performance appraisal.  Salaries/incentives are paid regularly and on time  Subsidized lunch is provided to all employees  The deductions from the Salary are strictly as per the provisions of the Law and we do not deduct any unauthorized amounts from the salary of Team Members  We have Internal Complaint Committee to address Sexual Harassment related issues.  We conduct Small Group Discussions to sensitize our Team Members about provisions of Sexual Harassment Act.  Government of India has voluntarily accepted to abide by all Principles of Human Rights. It has formulated various Labour Laws to ensure protection of Human Rights. We abide by all provisions of various Labour Laws regularly and we have not violated any provisions of the same.  We have formal and informal interactions with team members from time to time to get their feedback and listen to their grievances if any. Confidential Confidential 12 | Communication on Progress  Star performers are awarded and recognized at the quarterly town hall meeting. This meeting also gives a platform to the team to voice their ideas and opinions on a public platform.  We, as responsible Corporate Citizen, abide by all the provisions of Labour Laws of Government of India and through various Internal Audits, ensure full compliance with the same. Measurement of Outcomes  We are abiding with all Labour Laws and we are never exposed for legal action for violation of any provisions of Labour Laws. Confidential Confidential 13 | Communication on Progress 1.3 Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, policy and goals Environmental degradation is one of the major concerns for government, corporates and the people in general today. The rising, alarming deforestation has already begun to show its various ramifications in an adverse manner. e-Zest realizes the environmental challenges the world is facing today and is dedicatedly working towards saving the environment and keeping it green. In all our activities the focus is on keeping the carbon footprint to the lowest. We also understand the importance of saving energy and which has been in the veins of our organization. Implementation  We have limited our use of printer to save paper and have already implemented digital office initiative within the organization as well as our associates.  We avoid printing of hard copies/e-mails unless absolutely necessary and if a print is to be taken both sides of paper are used.  Waste is properly recycled and disposed off  For food, we have an in-house catering supplier which offers natural food and beverage products.  Our team is highly active in the environmental activities and often participates in tree plantation drives.  We have organized 3 tree plantation drives to support our environment and keep motivating our employees for their inclination towards green environment.  Team Members are encouraged to car-pool and use Public Transport for commutation.  Lights and other electrical appliances are switched off when not in use. Measurement of outcomes  The nature of eZest’s business is IT and is office based. Our operations do not have a high environmental impact. Our green initiatives are showing good results, one example being the reduction in consumption of electricity. Confidential Confidential 14 | Communication on Progress  More and more employees are getting involved in the plantation drives.  Collaborative efforts of the organization and the employees to contribute towards social cause enabled us to bring smiles on various faces by meeting out their little needs adding the initiatives to our CSR portfolio. Confidential Confidential 15 | Communication on Progress 1.4 Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals  e-Zest Solutions is compliant with the provisions of the Government of India to prevent Bribery and Corruption.  Neither do we participate nor do we support any unethical practices like Corruption or Bribery.  e-Zest is extremely focused on keeping malpractices away within as well as outside the organization.  We have never been indulged in any corrupt practices and have a policy to report any such incidence to the management immediately. Implementation Here at e-Zest have implemented the Whistle Blower Policy which encourages Team Members to share their information about any unethical work practices like Corruption and Bribery. The identities of the whistle-blower are kept completely confidential. All matters received through Whistle Blower Policy are handled confidentially and efficiently till the logical conclusion. Measurement of outcomes At e-Zest, till date, we have not had a single incident of corruption or bribery. This shows our strict adherence to ethical practices and efficiency of control mechanisms in place. Confidential Confidential 16
