HORN Rethink Quality UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018-19 Hard work & heart-felt passion Background and external stakeholders and not least throughout our organisational departments, where enBased on gumption and not least a heart-felt gagement is found through all layers. passion to succeed, Karl Nielsen and Ove Jørgensen founded HORN in 1992. We know, that our success is based on wellqualified employees, their expertise and compreThrough hard work, they managed to embed hensive material know-how –Ranging from solid HORN as an unconventional manufacturer of wood, Corian®, GetaCore®, Silestone®, Deksome of the markets best countertops -With the ton®, ceramic, granite, steel, laminate etc., and widest range of design and creative solutions. not least our GREEN COLLECTION. It is therefore most important, to secure the rights Their enthusiasm and strong technological investof all workers along our value chain, and to enaments made the company grow steadily over the ble continued personal development of our interyears, and HORN evolved from being a traditionnal employees. al Danish, family owned production company, to an international countertop-specialist, delivering some of the markets best solutions to leading Implementing Corporate Social European retailers. Responsibility We have endeavoured to create the necessary Development structures and determination to create new opportunities –And not least made CSR an elemenTo stay among the leading suppliers of quality tary part of our future vision and mission. Howevcountertops, Jakob Bressendorf joined the develer, while our internal focus on social-, environopment as CEO in 2015, with a strong ambition mental– and economical responsibility have into position the future HORN as the green solucreased, we find a need to invest further in busition, to a market known for being mostly costness development to be prepared to address fufocused. ture challenges, and continuously evolve as a responsible business. With growth comes increased responsibility in terms of production methods and employee welWe perceive this Communication on Progress a fare. Today the commitment to act responsible valuable, internal method to increase transparenand challenge our social, environmental and cy on efforts taken to implement the ten princieconomical quality is therefore becoming key ples. We intent to advance the principles within elements of HORN as a brand and business partour influence, and engage further in collaboraner. tive projects, to ensure a comprehensive organisational understanding of the principles, at all We communicate actively and public that; organisational levels. ‘Our vision is completely green!’ Social responsibility, environmental friendly-, This is an ambitious statement, and we are well quality focusedand innovative solutions are the aware, that the process towards becoming comcornerstones of our future market offerings. pletely green requires ongoing development, It is therefore with great pleasure that HORN, commitment and not least internal enthusiasm with this, our third Communication on Progress, from everyone in the organisation – Both board confirms its dedication and promotion of the UN members, who actively supports our corporate Global Compact, which constitutes a good founsustainability strategy; The management team, dation for our future work and focus on responsiwho communicate our incentives with internal ble business practices. 2 2018-19 Statement from the CEO Building legislations increasingly focus on the continuous learning, knowledge sharing and onproductions methods, subcomponents and chemgoing development and innovation, to ensure icals of the various products that are included in optimum material utilization and effective prothe final building. duction facilities, which enables us to certify prodWe are beyond satisfied with this development, ucts in compliance with international laws and as it requires, that the industry as a whole starts regulations. Whenever you meet HORN, you will working towards increased market transparency, therefore no longer se a simple promise of us which have been our objective during the last delivering quality products We deliver so much couple of years. more, and constantly challenge our self to: Our method for ensuring this development, is to Rethink Quality certify our products and productions facilities within applicable environmental– and health On behalf on HORN, I would like to thank you standards. for the interest you are showing in this report and This year we managed to extend our line of certithereby our organisation. fications with the Nordic Swan Ecolabel. We are not only proud of reaching this goal on our own Enjoy reading behalf, but also for the sake of the industry, as it –I wish you a most pleasant day! shows, that hard work and a mutual interest in improving products and production methods Jakob Bressendorf along the value chain, benefits all of us. CEO HORN Our reason for choosing the Nordic Swan Ecolabel as our latest extend to our product extension, is therefore first and foremost its holistic requirements to both chemicals, productions methods and not least its focus on protecting the employees from harmful substances and poor working environments. However, it is also important for us to work with certifications that are widely known among the end users, to enable them to make purchase decisions, where they can rest assured, that their product have went through a sustainable supply chain and do not risk damaging their overall health. I still find that HORN have a world of opportunities, and with the latest certification I know, that we have the ability to change the way the industry do business. During this year, we therefore also made a decision to reevaluate our brand promise; ‘Quality All the way’ with the question: Can’t we do more than that? We both can and will. Whereas quality within the industry is usually defined as: Price, delivery time and having a wide product range, we wish to rethink the concept by 3 GREEN COLLECTION A sustainable option for everyone conditions for the workers and their communities, child labour is banished and the protection of In 2015 HORN started the development of a colbiological systems and the preservation of wildlife lection, which were to be known as GREEN COLis uphold. LECTION. GREEN COLLECTION includes both low-price Changing the way we do business and high-end products, and is certified to ensure a healthier indoor climate and an improved proAs mentioned, we find a growing interest within duction method along the value chain. The colthe industry in doing business based on environlection is tested against harmful substances, commental beneficial specification and standards. plies with strict environmental requirements and However, the development of products, actually is produced using a limited energy consumption. fulfilling these specifications, have not had its break-through yet, with the consequence of Why? standards not being met. Because we care about the people working along We wish to influence this development, and the the value chain, the people in our own producspeed of which environmental correct standards tion facilities and the people who is going to is being implemented –Both among suppliers, make use of their new HORN countertop. customer and at a political level. We also care about how we treat the world and its limited resources And find, that we secure As our product assortment is extensive, GREEN our productions methods in the best way by getCOLLECTION is our method to increasingly inting them accredited by third part institutes. corporate more and more products into a more sustainable product line, and not least be workTried & tested ing towards ensuring market transparency. GREEN COLLECTION is tested and secured We believe that this will make a huge difference against emission of various harmful substances, by requiring more of the industry, making the to protect the general welfare amongst our cuspurchase decision transparent and not least help tomers, and actively make an effort to prevent protect end-users from harmful substances. e.g. cancer and lung diseases, which is greatly influenced by such emission. Continuous development To further ensure the sustainable element the collection hold a FSC® certification and the RainforToday GREEN COLLECTION includes both lamiest Alliance frog. This means, that no matter nate, wood and bamboo with numerous variawhere your HORN countertop originate, you are tions within various decors and designs. In 2019 guaranteed that the area of origin is working with it will continuously be our objective to extend sustainable development – E.g. improving the GREEN COLLECTION with further products. 4 5 HORN Product certifications FSC® certified Rainforest Alliance Being a countertop manufacturer, the majority of The living and working conditions (such as our procurement is wood. To ensure that none of health insurance, access to medical care and our wood-based materials is manufactured unsecurity procedures) are better for workers in cerder conditions, that may disrespect internationally tified forests than in forests without certification. proclaimed human rights, all our solid wood and While FSC® is working actively to support genchipboard procurement, and to the extent possieral forestry, Rainforest Alliance is especially foble laminate surfaces, are FSC®-certified, to take cused at ensuring sustainable livelihoods by responsibility for both the environment, animals transforming land-use practices and business and people along our supply chain. practices in tropical areas. FSC® is an international organisation that sets As we trade wood from all over the world Instandards for responsible forest management, cluding tropical areas, it has been important for supported by a broad range of stakeholders. The us to support a healthy development in these certification help protect indigenous people, areas. Rainforest Alliance is an international, maintain community relation and enhance forest non-profit organisation, working to build strong workers rights, through strict rules for chain of forest and healthy communities through collabocustody and an overall perspective of maintainration within a growing network of farmers, foring both the community and biological systems. esters, communities, scientists, governments, enAs an extension of our FSC® certification, HORN vironmentalists and businesses dedicated to conis furthermore a membership organisation with serving biodiversity. CEO, Jakob Bressendorf being elected as a We find our two forest certifications to be the FSC® board member, as we wish to work holistic best possible method to influence the industry, to with sustainability, support the promotion of the support increased demand for certified wood, mark, and contribute to a broad anchoring of and consider the health and safety of forest sustainable wood procurement throughout our workers, while looking after precious forest wildmarkets of influence. life. 6 HORN Product certifications Nordic Swan Ecolabel Indoor Air Comfort Gold The Nordic Swan Ecolabel certification ensures The Indoor Air Comfort – Gold certificate enthat GREEN COLLECTION Wood complies with sures the end-user that our certified countertop strict environmental requirements, is produced solutions, deduce even less than the strict market using a limited energy consumption, that quality specification requires. and properties are documented, that the prodThe certification method is applicable to the Euucts come from sustainable forestry and not least ropean market as a total, which in other words, that the products fulfil chemical and emission guarantee that the collection complies with all requirements that contribute to a healthier indoor current standards, laws and requirements in the climate. European market. The certification was established in 1989 by the As a further mark of quality to the Indoor Air Nordic Council of Ministers as a voluntary ecoComfort certificate, we opted for the ‘Gold’ edilabelling scheme for the Nordic countries; Dention, meaning that all certified solutions have mark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden. As went through a Factory Production Control, we perceive the Scandinavian countries to be our guaranteeing that the countertops is produced ‘homemarket’, we find this official ecolabel of the from the highest internal standards. Nordic Countries to be the most effective tool to Thereby our Indoor Air Comfort Gold certified improve our sustainable solutions – and thereby products comply with requirements to VOC emisenable consumers and professional buyers to sion from among others; BREEAM, BREEAMchoose the environmentally best goods and serNOR, LEED, M1 including criterias from private vices. Working with the Nordic Swan Ecolabel certification labels, such as the European Ecohave been an important part of HORNs developlabel; The flower and the international, Germent towards becoming more sustainable and man; Blaue Engel . implementing a holistic agenda, as it certifies the It is our ambition to ensure that all our products entire product’s life cycle and the environmental hold an indoor air certification to protect our end problems that may arise along the way. -users from any potential harmful chemicals. 7 Denwood by HORN Becoming a ‘green’ company Besides being a recipient of residual products, Denwood works in cooperation with municipaliOur current consumption patterns are unsustainties and jobcentre's to help people who, for variable, and we produce too much waste. ous reasons, have a reduced working capability This pattern were clearly seen in HORNs table to get their daily working lives back on track. top production, which for many years could send This is because we both have an environmental-, their employees home with spare wood to use in socialand economic responsibility, and believe their stove. in the value of helping other people. Luckily we have become much more aware of what it means, when we state, that we want to be A circular future a green company. Today Denwood is a integrated part of our daily Our work with GREEN COLLECTION enables us work, where we continuously extend the amount to ensure material health. However, as all delivof spare-elements and cut-offs being send to eries are designed based on the specific customDenwood to be remanufactured into new designers needs and wants, we cannot avoid spareer goods. elements and cut-offs in the production process But to throw those high quality materials in the Denwood by HORN work on a visions for a betstove, just seems a bit absurd. ter future and driven by goals to make a difference. The unsustainable solution, were the beginning Our objective is to prolong the lifetime og valuaof Denwood. ble resources while promoting optimum resource utilisation and better consumption patterns. A social responsible & sustainable Great service and professional knowledge sharing served in an unpretentious and flexible style, concept form the foundation of Denwood. The concept of Denwood by HORN is currently based on utilizing residual wood and waste products from HORN and other companies, and designing it into new products. However, Denwood by HORN is established to ensure a better use of all materials through a minimum waste approach, including a future potential of introducing a take-back solution, to ensure maximum sustainability based on the cornerstones of the paradigm of circular economy. Denwood by HORN therefore naturally has a circular economic mindset and prioritize durability and recyclability, as the core of their business philosophy with the mantra: Reduce – Reuse – Recycle In this way, the world’s resources are used optimum, and a small contribution is given to help support consumers to be more sustainable in their daily life. 8 BECAUSE WE CARE ABOUT YOU, OUR EMPLOYEES AND THE ENVIRONMENT 9 Human Rights principles HORN supports and respects the protection of internationally declared human rights. Compliance with our stated Human Rights principles in our Business Partner Code of Conduct, is an integrated part of our partner approval process, and furthermore a method for continuous supplier assessment. Progress: Assessment, due diligence & risk management In our 2017 Communication on Progress, we made it our objective to assess potential human rights impacts risk along our value chain. While FSC® help us achieve responsible supplier management when sourcing wood based materials, we found through our self-assessment process that we need a stronger focus on our natural stone programme, to ensure supplier compliance with both international declared regulations and our Business Partner Code of Conduct. Throughout our value chain we therefore made an assessment of current suppliers, and are currently in the process of eliminating potential unacceptable materials. Goals: Active dialogue We expect our Business Partners to commit to continuous improvements in all areas listed in our Code of Conduct. In the event that certain conditions do not comply, we will assess the severity and perform active risk management. However, we believe that it must be a mutual goal to grow stronger and more sustainable with our partners, therefore we first and foremost aim to work with our partners on an action plan to correct and implement improvement. With this method we take active leadership on our Code of Conduct and eliminate irregularities rather than just terminating partnerships. Note: If improvements are missing or the assessment show that the severity of the irregularity is too high, HORN will stick to the right to terminate the partnership. Labour Principles To support local community activity, we have improve our current production methods but also made an active choice to keep our business facilimprove our overall working environment –Both ities in the small Danish village; Aulum. We physical and mentally. therefore naturally comply with Danish legislation, which fulfils international conventions. Promoting responsible business fare In relation to the principles regarding labour the While we know that our success is based on our Danish legislation makes us further subject to the employees, their expertise, craftmanship and well Confederation of Danish Employers (DA). The being, we have become even more aware of exconfederation adds a comprehensive focus on ternal workers along our value chain. employment policy, occupational health and laWe source products and materials from various bour law including a strong focus on wage and regions including developing countries, and while security. However, we strive to advance our emour procurement of 100% FSC® certified wood ployees terms of employment to ensure the best ensures that we, regarding our primary materials work environment, as we are well aware that our meet strict social responsibility standards, we success is based on our employees and their indihave been looking intensely into our social revidual expertise and craftsmanship. sponsibility regarding our remaining material sourcing. Progress: Goals: Increase employee welfare This year, we aimed to take on a leadership apHealth & safety proach, and be working towards improved emWe have initiated a cooperation with the municiployee welfare, through effective management of pal of Herning, to support us with tools to imtheir overall well-being and safety. prove overall employee satisfaction, as our emInternal assessments shows, that we are chalployees wellbeing is a paramount, and we aim to lenged by the physical working environment, hold on to those competent co-workers of ours, which is characterised by heavy lifts and many by improving their general joy in work. routine embossed working positions, while external, industry assessments, show an increased risk Setting standards of dust and chemical emissions. In general, certified products set higher standards to Through our Nordic Swan Ecolabel certification the entire value chain regarding both environment, process we found, that our production facilities labour– and human rights. Furthermore, they serve comply with their strict standards in regard to as a method, to navigate through the numerous chemical and dust emission exposure. However, brand promises we meet on a daily basis. we are currently examining the market for imAs we aim to certify all products over time, we will proved extraction systems, as we are aware of also be looking increasingly into certified products the health risk associated with dust, and find, that in our supply chain, especially our future sourcing of stone based materials. Though our search, we while our levels are compliant, we can still imhave among others become aware of TFT Responsiprove current levels. ble Stone Programme, which focus on improving Regarding our internal assessed challenges, we the sourcing of natural stones, with respect to the are currently in an industry facilitated learning environment and improvement of the life of the group, which focuses on the heavy lifts associated people working in quarries and stone manufacturwith the manufacturing and delivery and various ing factories. Similar programmes exist, but to our kitchen elements, which in general is challenged knowledge TFT Responsible Stone Programme is the by a lack of appropriate equipment to handle most widely used and extensive initiative, when it non-standardised sizes and weights. comes to stone based materials. We are therefore continuously examining new We hope to be able to influence a more sustainable and improved production facilities, which can sourcing in this regard. 11 Environmental principles Within recent years, environment has become a in our Denwood by HORN products, to a degree strategic focus at HORN. where we struggle to find sufficient amounts of We find that we can do the most impact regardwaste, to supply the demand. ing the UN Global Compact environmental prinTo solve the ‘challenge’, we have been looking ciples, as our business, and industry in general, is into new material compositions and are in a diaable to influence and support a precautionary logue with interesting designers, which may help approach to environmental challenges. us find new methods to use our waste materials. Based on clear improvement, transparency and However, we are furthermore interested in upenvironmentally responsible management, we stream partnerships to increase our supply of therefore aim to reduce environmental impacts waste materials. throughout all of our operations. As a further notion regarding resource effectiveProgress: ness we still strive to create transparency in our work, and our Nordic Swan Ecolabelling certificaPartnerships & education tion support us with a third part accreditation, As our sustainable focus and product assortment that our efforts have paid of regarding our eneris new to the market, we know that we need to gy consumption in our solid wood department, encourage a change in our consumption patterns where we use less than 35% of the accepted MJ/ Both on the business to consumer market, who kg per panel. is buying new kitchen and bath interior, but especially also on the business to business market, Goals: where new building standards needs to be set. Implementing an increased focus on circularity We see that both markets is moving in a more HORN participate in various local networks with sustainable direction than previously experienced, like-minded companies who aim to increase their but are also aware, that we need to keep our fofocus on circularity. cus and involvement. We are therefore continuWe will continue our work within these to stay up ously communicating our sustainable initiatives to to date on the latest movements within sustainaour partners, and is present in numerous network ble development. groups having a sustainable and circular oriented focus. In similar matters, we will continue to seek implementation of our sustainable solutions, through Our educational programme; HORN Academy relevant projects that have a focus on communihas been initiated and has slowly taking form. cation the specific benefits of living more sustainWe communicate our Corporate Social Responsiable Both in private homes and in various inbility projects in all the academy sessions, but dustrial buildings. also plan to dedicate a whole session exclusively to communicating our current and upcoming iniRespect for the environment tiatives in this regard, including our perspective In our Business Partner Code of Conduct we ask on sustainability. our partners to, at a minimum, comply with applicable laws and regulations for environmental Resource effectiveness protection. In our 2017 Communication on Progress we notHowever, when choosing future partners we will ed, that we would continue the process of minifurther be looking into their overall environmenmizing all waste, and seek partnerships to ensure tal focus and whether they in general promote this goal. responsible environmental management, During 2018 we successfully managed to estabpolicies and –procedures, such as developing lish cooperation with various partners, interested sustainable product and process alternatives. 12 13 Anti-corruption HORN is strongly opposed to, do not accept and have zero tolerance for corruption, extortion or bribery in any form. This is our current principle – And will be in the future as well. Progress: Leadership on Code of Conduct To take on a more proactive approach to secure anti-corruption, we noted in our 2017 Communication on Progress that we needed robust commitment towards this focal point. To ensure that all our business partners support and embrace our anti-corruption standpoint, we clearly state in our Business Partner Code of Conduct, that all partners must support fair competition in all activities, as we found that our most considerable risk were sales conditions (commissions, bonuses, gifts etc.). All partners, both internal and external, therefore must uphold integrity when handling purchase– and sales projects, and act professional in the case of suspicious activities. General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) On the 25th of May 2018 GDPR became effective. With this followed a strict focus on how organisations managed private information and data processing. While HORN had no problems fulfilling the new set of requirements, the regulations derived a huge focus on how we can assure a sufficient future protection of private data, why we established a personal data policy to inform employees and customers about their rights, while forming guidelines for future efforts in this regard. Goals: Zero tolerance to bribery While our self assessment showed that our primary risk were current sales conditions, we are aware that the risk along our value chain still require considerable awareness. Among others, this means that we need to make our anticorruption and economical responsibility principle an even bigger part of our external communication, including our HORN Academy, but also that we need continuous managerial control. 14 Ending note Based on our 2017 Communication on Progress, we have summarized and defined some of our actions already taken towards the ten principles, including our goals for the coming year. As a final note, it is our ambition to incorporate a greater focus on the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, as we see this as an even more comprehensive method to continuously challenge our current business methods, and improve the integration of the UN Global Compact into our business, strategy, culture and daily operations. We commit to share this information with our stakeholders, through our communication channels. 15 RESPECT We acknowledge all individuals and respect their difference –We trust this to be the approach for general work happiness. TRUSTWORTHINESS We are loyal, honest, engaged and dedicated -We believe this make us trustworthy in all of our relationships. DEVELOPMENT We are developing our business and products in relation to future market requirements –We are certain that these will be transparent responsibility. COOPERATION We have a mutual aim to make HORN the preferred countertop solution within the industry -We know that the method for this, is cooperation both internal and external with our partners. COMMITMENT We feel, live and own the HORN identity. www.hornbordplader.com
